



Download Request: Select Items: 1501 - 2000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:27:47
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 10, 2003

LEADER AS TERRORISTS CLAIM MORE COALITION LIVES AND ATTACK RIYADH; WHY THE WEST
MUST RECRUIT IRAQI SPIES

BYLINE: MARK URBAN

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 832 words


THERE may be no easy answer to Iraq's security problems but those running the
Coalition will have to make some sweeping changes if they are to get on top of
the mounting anti-American violence in the centre of the country. The time has
come to dominate the Coalition's enemies by using Iraqis to gather intelligence
against them; to break out of a geographic way of thinking that is fast leading
to the emergence of three Iraqs - in the south, centre and north; and to
streamline a civilian bureaucracy that has failed to deliver significant
improvements in people's lives.

As I travelled around Iraq during late October and early this month, I saw a
country struggling to replace fear with some sort of normality. In most places,
most of the time, it feels like any other Middle East country - busy, vibrant
and eager for change.

But every now and then there are tell-tale signs of something else: the nervous
warning from a passer-by to watch out for bandits, an explosion rending the
Baghdad night or a column of black smoke on the horizon that announces an attack
by anti-Coalition insurgents. As American casualties mounted alarmingly, it
became clear that what field commanders yearn for is better human intelligence.
This is a familiar enough mantra in counter-terrorism - it is very hard to
quickly find good spies, and even if you do it is not a panacea. As the
weekend's bomb attack in Saudi Arabia showed, some attacks will defeat even a
well organised national surveillance effort.

Even so, the Coalition's failure to start organising a system where Iraqis might
be used to gather intelligence on the street is quite remarkable. Nobody can run
an Iraqi agent quite as well as another Iraqi or blend into the streets as
unobtrusively while conducting surveillance. One small experimental unit of
Iraqis led by CIA and MI6 operatives and codenamed the Apostles was formed
several months ago. Those involved tell me that throughout the summer the
Americans resisted all calls to switch the Apostles and the Special Operations
troops they work with away from hunting Saddam Hussein and use them instead to
counter the mounting insurgency in the centre of the country. Nonetheless, the
most significant Coalition oversight still remains its inability to find several
hundred such Iraqis and put them under American leadership.

Only now are plans to set up such a group finally bearing fruit, with a small
experimental band being created in Baghdad.

Iraq today presents a highly uneven security picture. There is relative calm in
the Shiite south and Kurdish north. However, Italians, Poles and Britons serving
in the south are loath to send troops to help out in the troubled centre.

Unless this changes, the drift towards fragmentation of the country will grow
even more pronounced.

There is also a reluctance to send companies of the new Iraqi Civil Defence
Corps from Basra or Kirkuk to Baghdad and Fallujah. Perhaps the Coalition fears
violence if Shiites or Kurds are sent on to the streets of Sunni towns but some
trial deployments of this kind are needed, both to re-distribute resources to
the places of greatest need and to underline to the new recruits that they
belong to a truly national security force.

While the Coalition fights shy of posting new Iraqi soldiers and police away
from home, those who work with them express a growing nervousness about leaving
them where they are. As Saddam himself well knew, an Iraqi must not police the
streets of his home town because he will soon find himself or his family being
threatened with murder by criminal or tribal gangs.

This intimidation is already widespread and police in some particularly tough
patches are now reluctant to enforce the law or mount patrols.

Alongside the problem of trying to bring about greater order, there is also a
need to face up to the failures of the Coalition Provisional Authority
bureaucracy that is running Iraq. Those trying to get the country back on its
feet in the provinces report that the CPA in the capital is maddeningly slow.

True, great progress has been made in reconnecting utilities - but this has been
the work of provincial officials who are both Iraqi and foreign. It is certainly
quite an eye opener in Baghdad to see the speed with which the muncipality
restores power lines or water mains.

SUCH achievements in repairing infrastructure or schools have been accomplished
with a tiny proportion of the money assigned for reconstruction. It is time to
turn the whole business over to Iraqi ministries, using Coalition people to
audit rather than manage.

To sum up: the whole project needs to use Iraqi talent more effectively and to
concentrate a little less on the Western inner game.

Much has been achieved, it is true, but even these gains will be jeopardised if
the insurgency claims so many lives that America walks away.

Mark Urban's reports for Newsnight will appear on Tuesday and Wednesday on BBC2
at 10.30pm.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                               November 10, 2003

New wave of terror attacks feared

BYLINE: Brian Whitaker

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 470 words


Fears were growing last night that a bombing which killed at least 17 people in
Saudi Arabia could herald a new wave of attacks by al-Qaida sympathisers
throughout the Middle East.

Anonymous postings on Arabic websites over the last three to four weeks have
hinted at "a wave of violence coming on quite a big scale", Saudi dissident Saad
al-Fagih said yesterday.

Mr Fagih, who runs the London-based Movement for Islamic Reform in Arabia, added
that the postings did not specify Saudi Arabia. "They mentioned big, multiple
attacks 'to harm the enemy', as they say."

His view was echoed by Richard Armitage, the US deputy secretary of state, who
arrived in Riyadh hours after the blasts. "I can't say that last night's attack
was the only or the last attack," he said. "My view is these al-Qaida terrorists
- and I believe it was al-Qaida - would prefer to have many such events."

There was little doubt in Riyadh that this latest attack was linked to al-Qaida,
but many felt that the bomb's indiscriminate targeting would damage Osama bin
Laden's cause. At least 13 of those killed were Arabs, as were most of the 122
injured, and ordinary Saudis would view the attack as repugnant because it came
during the holy month of Ramadan, said Khalid al-Maeena, editor of the Saudi
daily Arab News.

Five children were among those who died when car bombers, apparently disguised
as members of the security forces, shot their way into a housing compound in the
capital late on Saturday and triggered up to three explosions.

The attack came hours after the US had closed its diplomatic missions in the
kingdom following what it said was "credible information" that terrorists had
"moved from the planning to operational phase of planned attacks".

Simultaneously Britain warned of a high risk that western targets in
neighbouring Bahrain and Qatar could be attacked, as well as a significant risk
in Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates.

Last week, the US state department issued a warning of threats to ships and
aircraft throughout the Middle East, including the Red Sea, the Gulf, the
Arabian peninsula and North Africa.

This was followed on Friday by a statement from the homeland security
department, based on information from "a single source overseas", that al-Qaida
might attempt to hijack a commercial cargo plane.

Witnesses of Saturday night's attack at al-Muhaya housing complex near the
heavily guarded diplomatic quarter of Riyadh said one large explosion was
followed by two smaller ones.

Although residents of Saudi compounds enjoy a more westernised lifestyle than is
normal in the kingdom, al-Muhaya had no obvious American connections and its
occupants are a mixture of nationalities. "They are ordinary, middle-class
people working for companies," said Mr Maeena.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 10, 2003, Monday

Warnings failed to avert Saudi terrorist attack

BYLINE: Michael Theodoulou in Nicosia and Daniel McGrory

SECTION: Overseas news; 12

LENGTH: 468 words


Frightened British families stayed inside their homes in Riyadh yesterday,
fearful of further attacks from suspected al-Qaeda terrorists after suicide car
bombers devastated a residential compound, killing at least 17 people, including
five children, and wounding scores more.

The midnight attack in the Saudi capital came only hours after the United States
had closed all its diplomatic missions in Saudi Arabia and Britons in Bahrain
and Qatar had been given warning warned of threatened terror attacks in the oil
rich Gulf states, where thousands of expatriates live.

As Sherard Cowper-Coles, the British Ambassador in Riyadh, spoke yesterday to
survivors, who were searching through the ruins of their homes in al-Muhaya
compound, he told how the Embassy had passed on intelligence to the Saudi
authorities that al-Qaeda sympathisers were finalising plans for an attack.

"It's very frustrating that we didn't know precisely when or where they would
strike," Mr Cowper-Coles said. "Now, sadly, we do know and we have seen some of
the results."

Many of the victims were young children who had been at home while their parents
were out shopping for food at the end of the day's fast during the Muslim holy
month of Ramadan. Broken toys and childrens' clothing lay scattered among the
smouldering debris in the upmarket residential complex, which is home mainly to
middle-class Arab families. Many of them work for the Saudi royal family.

Saudi officials said that they had no doubt al-Qaeda was to blame, saying that
the suicide bombers had used the same methods as in the attacks in May on three
housing compounds in Riyadh. In those attacks 35 people died, including nine
Americans and two Britons. Diplomats believe that the death toll from that
atrocity was much higher, and say that many more were killed in the midnight
bombing at al-Muhaya than the official death toll.

Jack Straw described the attack as an act of "hideous barbarity". Foreign
companies held urgent meetings yesterday about the security of their expatriate
staff and many suggested sending women and children out of the kingdom. The
unease was also felt in other Gulf states, such as Bahrain, after the Foreign
Office gave warning of "a high threat" of attack. There are estimated to be
between 20,000 and 25,000 Britons living in the kingdom, compared with 30,000 a
few years ago.

Witnesses say two cars, thought to be stolen police vehicles, packed with
explosives, rammed their way into al-Muhaya after gunmen on a hill overlooking
the site fired on security guards. Survivors, who reported three explosions in
quick succession, said that some of the attackers were dressed in police
uniforms. The dead included Saudis, Lebanese, Sudanese and Egyptians. More
bodies are expected to be found.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               November 11, 2003

DOCS TOLD ME IT WAS A MIRACLE I DIDN'T LOSE MY SIGHT;CABBIE TELLS OF BOTTLE
TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 73 words


A TERRIFIED taxi driver today told how he thought he was going to be blinded
when thugs smashed his windscreen with whisky bottles.

His eyes were covered in shards of glass, and doctors told him it was a
"miracle" he didn't lose his sight.

The 36-year-old father of two is scared to go back on the road after being
attacked by a gang of around 18 thugs at traffic lights on Glasgow's Paisley
Road West.

FULL STORY - PAGE 11

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ATTACK: the smashed up taxi

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               November 11, 2003

Stab terror for music twins as gang attacks in street

BYLINE: By Alex Robertson

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 325 words


A TEENAGE musician was stabbed and his twin brother assaulted after a gang
chased the boys through busy streets in the east end of Glasgow.

The 15-year-old twins - who are due to sit exams next week - were targeted in
Gallowgate after rehearsing in nearby music studios.

Detectives today described the attack as "unprovoked and motiveless" and said it
may have been witnessed by Celtic supporters and shoppers.

Both schoolboys, who have not been identified, are from Mount Vernon, and were
carrying guitars and waiting on a lift home when targeted by one member of an
east end gang.

Egged on by other gang members, the thug punched one of the twins before chasing
both the boys along Abercromby Street.

The other twin was caught and stabbed, leaving both the terrified brothers in a
state of shock.

The victim, who has not been identified, only realised that he had been wounded
when he got back home and blood poured from his wound when he sat down.

He was taken to Glasgow Royal Infirmary where he was treated then released.

Police are treating the incident, on Saturday at around 6.15pm, as serious
assault and are studying CCTV images taken from Streetwatch cameras and local
shops.

Detective Constable Ross Arnott, of London Road CID, said the area would have
been busy with Celtic fans at the time of the attack.

He said: "Members of the public may remember seeing the boys, as they were both
carrying guitar cases.

"This was a totally unprovoked and motiveless attack and I'd appeal to anyone
who was in the area at the time and may have seen anything suspicious, or
recognises the description of the suspect to come forward."

The suspect is 17 to 19 years old, of heavy build with short red hair and a pale
complexion, wearing a blue Berghaus jacket with yellow flashes, blue jeans and
white trainers.

DC Arnott added: "He is definitely a local lad."

alex.robertson@

eveningtimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                   UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is York

                               November 11, 2003

Motorist in road rage attack terror

BYLINE: Dan Jones (dan.jones@ycp.co.uk)

LENGTH: 416 words

DATELINE: York


THE victim of a terrifying road rage attack today told how his attacker punched
him in the head and nearly bit his ear.

The motorist whose wife was with him during the ordeal said: "I've never seen a
man so out of control."

The violence erupted on a country lane between two North Yorkshire villages.

The victim was driving his silver Renault Megane on a single-track road when a
red vehicle started following closely. Its driver grew agitated when the Megane
slowed down to pass two cyclists safely. When the Renault driver used a passing
place so an oncoming horse and trailer could pass it triggered an unprovoked
attack.

The 42-year-old motorist on his way to lunch with friends said: "There was a
screech of brakes from behind and the man made an angry gesticulation.

"Another vehicle was coming so I waited. I could see the driver behind was
getting more agitated so I decided he should leave first." Although the victim
"feared for his safety" he could not have imagined what followed him waving the
man through.

"He got out of his car and opened my door. He pummelled blows upon my head and
ripped off my glasses having made no attempt at conversation. The only noise he
made was an animalistic roaring.

"My wife pleaded he leave me alone and he briefly stopped. But he then grabbed
me tighter raining down more blows.

"He put his mouth to my ear as if to bite. Thankfully at the last minute he
thought better of it."

The man slammed the door shut punched the driver's window several times before
returning to his car.

The attacker - casually dressed with a "weather-beaten" look - set off again in
his P-registration car but did not follow.

"I was obeying the speed limit and driving safely " added the victim. "Now I'm
concerned this man will do this to somebody else given his considerable rage."

Sergeant Jason Marchant of Knaresborough Police told people involved in such
violence to stay in their cars. He pleaded with drivers to be patient but
stressed such cases were not common.

"If you feel threatened don't leave your vehicle. If possible drive away get the
other car's details and call police."

The incident happened on Sunday between 12.20 and 12.27pm between Bishop Monkton
and Roecliffe near Ripon.

Police said no arrest has been made.

Officers want to speak to two cyclists who may have seen the incident. Phone
Knaresborough Police on 01423 505541 with information.

Updated: 11:24 Wednesday October 22 2003

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                               November 12, 2003

Terror of knife attack in subway

BYLINE: our news team (news@theargus.co.uk)

LENGTH: 163 words


A man was recovering today after he was robbed at knifepoint and left with
bruises to his neck chest and ribs.

He was attacked in a subway beneath the railway line at Aldrington station Hove
at about 11am yesterday.

Two men stopped him and demanded his wallet and mobile phone.

He fled towards Stoneham Road but was chased.

The robbers caught him up and attacked him one of the men holding a large knife
to his throat.

The victim's injuries were minor and he reported the attack at Worthing police
station two hours later.

He told police both suspects were black about 19 and 6ft tall.

The man with the knife had a diamond in his left earlobe and was wearing a red
baseball cap red hooded jacket and silver-blue jeans.

His accomplice had a small goatee beard and wore a black Nike baseball cap and a
black jacket with fur on the collar.

He spoke with a London accent.

Police are appealing for witnesses to contact them on 0845 6070999.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 13, 2003

BUSH VISIT MAY PROVOKE TERRORIST ATTACK ON UK

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 79 words


IF Bush comes to the UK next week, he will attract a serious threat of terrorist
attack in London.

We live in Kent and being downwind of the city makes some of us feel
uncomfortable. The President of the USA is supposed to be calming the threat of
serious attacks such as dirty nuclear bombs.

Can't we persuade him to postpone his visit as things are looking really bad
just now? Indeed such a move may just thwart a terrorist attack.

Tim Hopper, Faversham

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           November 14, 2003, Friday

WOMAN,50, IN RAPE ATTACK TERROR;
 TWO MEN POUNCED WHEN ILL VICTIM HAD GONE OUT FOR A WALK

BYLINE: STEPHEN HALLMARK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 288 words


TWO men pounced on a woman and raped her in a deserted Coventry street.

The woman, in her 50s, had gone out for a walk in the early hours of the morning
because she felt unwell.

The men are believed to have approached the woman from behind.

She was thrown to the ground by the pair who carried out the terrifying attack
on her in the Rotherham Road and Chesholme Road area of the city, between 1am
and 2.30am.

Her attackers were both described as white men, aged 19 to 35, with local
accents. One was about 5ft 6in and wore white trainers with a 'dash' on them.
The other man is believed to be taller. One of the offenders also wore a fitted
jacket.

After the vicious assault both men ran off towards Beake Avenue, in Whitmore
Park. It is believed they did not have a car.

The woman managed to get home to ring 999 after the attack.

DC Fiona Turnbull said: "The victim is physically fine now, but obviously she
remains very shaken by the experience."

She has so far been unable to give police any more details of the attack, and
has been unable to pinpoint the exact location.

CID at Stoney Stanton Road have launched an appeal today to trace the two men
who committed the rape on Sunday.

Officers are desperate to speak to anyone who may have been in the area at the
time. They are also carrying out house-to-house inquiries and searching the
area.

Anyone with information about either offence, should call the police on 0845 113
5000 and ask for detectives at Stoney Stanton Road police station, or they can
contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

On Wednesday this week masked men held a family of four at gunpoint in a
terrifying raid on a home in Rotherham Road.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           November 14, 2003, Friday

WOMAN'S SEX ATTACK TERROR;
 POLICE HUNT TWO MEN AFTER ASSAULT IN CITY

BYLINE: SAMANTHA CLARKE, CITY REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 269 words


TWO men pounced on a middle-aged woman and subjected her to a terrifying sex
attack as she walked home alone in the early hours of the morning.

The woman, in her 50s, was sexually assaulted on the streets of Coventry in the
Rotherham Road and Chesholme Road area of the city, between 1am and 2.30am.

Her attackers were both described as white men, aged between 19 to 35, with
local accents. One was about 5ft 6in and wore white trainers with a 'dash' on
them. The other man is believed to be taller. One of the offenders also wore a
fitted jacket.

After the vicious assault both men ran off towards Beake Avenue, in Whitmore
Park.

CID at Stoney Stanton Road have launched an appeal today to trace the two men
who committed the serious sexual assault, which happened last Sunday, November
9.

It is the second time in three days that residents of Rotherham Road area have
been shocked by violent crime on their doorsteps.

A family of four was held at gunpoint on Wednesday by armed, masked, robbers who
broke into their house wielding a handgun and double-barrelled shotgun.

The husband had a firearm held to his head as the robbers tried to force him to
hand over the keys for his Mitsubishi sports car.

Speaking yesterday about the offence, Sgt Paul Hammond said he had never heard
of a crime like it being committed in Coventry.

Anyone with information about either offence, or who may have seen what
happened, should call the police on 0845 113 5000 and ask for detectives at
Stoney Stanton Road police station. or they can contact Crimestoppers
anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Gwent

                               November 14, 2003

Woman tells of terror attack

BYLINE: Lisa Stevens

LENGTH: 766 words

DATELINE: Gwent


A GANG of youths launched a terrifying attack on a Gwent woman in which she was
punched kicked beaten taunted with a lit firework and had her hand burned with a
cigarette.

Last night the frightened woman broke down in tears as she recalled the
unprovoked attack which she says has left her scarred for life.

The woman who is in her thirties and does not want to be identified was out
walking her dog in an alleyway in Pontllanfraith when a group of around seven
youths - ranging in age from around 13 to 18 and including one girl - set upon
her in an alleyway.

The incident occurred near the Llanarth Stores at 7pm on November 7.

She was grabbed from behind and attacked. Her dog was also repeatedly kicked.

The single mother of two said: "I have never felt so scared in my whole life.

"Three of them stood in front of me while the others stood behind then they
grabbed my arm and twisted it behind my back. I thought they were going to break
it.

"They kept on kicking the backs of my legs over and over again and burnt my hand
with a cigarette.

"I just kept on screaming at them 'let me go let me go' but they wouldn't stop.

"One of the boys lit a firework and held it to my face. I just thought 'that's
it I'm going to get it'."

The woman's ordeal only ended when seeing a couple walking nearby she screamed
for help.

She said: "They must have finally got scared. The one boy just punched me in the
face and ran off."

A police spokesman said: "This was a particularly nasty attack. The woman has
been really traumatised by the events.

"We are appealing for anyone with any information to contact us."

The woman said: "I just can't sleep. Every time I close my eyes I'm back there.
I can't get it out of my head no matter how hard I try.

"I want them caught. I want to see them in the dock and brought to justice."

It is understood that gangs of youths from the Penllwyn and Trinant areas were
congregating in the nearby Islwyn Road park at the time of the assault.

Police are investigating the possibility that the offenders may have come from
these areas.

Local councillor Malcolm Parker said: "The local community have been extremely
shocked by it. Elderly people in particular are more apprehensive about walking
on their own."

But he said the local crime and reduction officer PC Wayne Roberts is currently
making headway in tackling crime in the area.

Pontllanfraith resident Kay Presley said: "There is a growing concern about
anti-social behaviour among residents.

"People are getting fed up with it all and just want something done about it
now."

The gang leader is described as white 5ft 7in tall between 17 and 18 years old
clean shaven with dark gel-styled hair and wearing a dark Umbro jacket.

The female member of the gang is described as being between 13 and 15 years old
with light brown hair styled in lots of little bunches wearing dark trousers and
a zip-up jacket.

Anyone with any information should contact Blackwood police on 01495 223 673.

going to get it'." The woman's ordeal only ended when seeing a couple walking
nearby she screamed for help. She said: "They must have finally got scared. The
one boy just punched me in the face and ran off." A police spokesman said: "This
was a particularly nasty attack. The woman has been really traumatised by the
events. We are appealing for anyone with any information to contact us." The
woman said: "I just can't sleep. Every time I close my eyes I'm back there. I
can't get it out of my head no matter how hard I try. I want them caught. I want
to see them in the dock and brought to justice." The gangs believed to be from
Penllwyn and Trinant were congregating in the nearby Islwyn Road park. Police
are investigating the possibility that the offenders may have come from these
areas. Local councillor Malcolm Park-er said: "The local community have been
extremely shocked by it. Elderly people in particular are more apprehensive."
But he said the local crime and reduction officer PC Wayne Rob-erts is making
headway. Pontllanfraith resident Kay Presley said: "There is a growing concern
about anti-social behaviour among residents. The gang leader is described as
white 5ft 7in tall aged between 17 and 18 clean shaven with dark gel-styled hair
and wearing a dark Umbro jacket.  The female member is descr-ibed as being aged
13 to 15 with light-brown hair styled in lots of little bunches wearing dark
trousers and a zip-up jacket. Anyone with any information should call Blackwood
police on 01495 223 673. Editorial comment: page 18

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The alley in Pontllanfraith where the attack took place;

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                          November 15, 2003, Saturday

TERROR ATTACK ALERT AS BUSH VISIT APPROACHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 178 words


BRITAIN'S security services have been placed on a higher level of alert amid
intelligence of an al Qaida attack, it was reported today.

The BBC reported that the "severe general" level, the second highest state of
alert,has been activated following intelligence about plans by al Qaida
supporters from North Africa.

But the report insisted that the new alert was not connected with President
Bush's visit to Britain next week.

The alert is meant for the security services and includes the police, Army and
MI5,it was said. Internal alerts of this sort are not usually made public.

The Home Office refused to comment, saying it never discusses alert levels
unless there is a specific threat.

Meanwhile Mr Bush's visit was causing anger and division today even before he
arrives.

Anti-war campaigners are planning a series of protests during the first state
visit by the American leader.

The largest will be a national demonstration next Thursday in central London,
expected to draw tens of thousands of people from across the country.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VISIT: Bush

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               November 17, 2003

Police officer in knife attack terror

LENGTH: 424 words


A POLICE officer today re-lived the moment he feared he would die when he was
attacked by a man wielding a six-inch hunting knife.

PC David Taylor said he dodged lunges to his head and fell to the ground when he
was set upon by Peter Pearson 34 of Springfield Mews Oswaldtwistle.

Today he said he could have been killed - as police said the incident although
very rare highlighted the dangers facing officers.

Pearson was convicted by jury at Burnley Crown Court trying to stab a police
officer and ordered to be detained in hospital under the Mental Health Act.

He was originally charged with attempted murder but convicted by a jury of
attempted wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm.

Pearson also admitted possessing an offensive weapon on September 17 last year.

PC Taylor has worked as an officer for just over two years.

He was in a mobile patrol unit when he recognised Pearson at a bus stop in
Blackburn Road Accrington across from the Railway pub.

"I recognised him from somewhere. I had seen his picture but didn't know if he
was wanted for something or not so I pulled over.

"Without a word of warning he pulled the serrated-edged knife from inside his
clothing and seemed to suddenly go for my neck and head.

"I managed to step out of the way so I didn't get a blow to the body but fell
over the pavement trying to dodge him.

"When I was on my back in the road he kept at me with the knife but I managed to
knock the weapon from his hand with blows from my feet.

"I thought he was trying to kill me and I just reacted part from training and
part from instinct.

"Something as unprovoked as this will probably never happen again in all my
career.

"I class it as a successful outcome because he was restrained from hurting the
public and myself."

PC Taylor eventually managed to retrain Pearson and handcuff him.

Sergeant John Kennedy an officer for 13 years said he had never heard of a
similar incident in the area.

He praised PC Taylor for his actions and added: "The officer was able to
preserve the safety of himself and innocent by-standers by establishing control
and that is testimony to his courage and professionalism."

The court was told PC David Taylor was said to have struggled with him in what
was described as a "frenzied attack".

The prosecution said it was fortunate the police officer had not been very
seriously injured. Pearson was not in court to hear the verdict psychiatrists
had advised against him appearing.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          November 19, 2003, Wednesday

SEX ATTACK TERROR FOR TEENAGER WALKING HOME

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 134 words


A TEENAGER was indecently assaulted by her man who asked for her phone number as
she walked home in Shipston, south Warwickshire.

The 18-year-old was walking along Church Street, at 8.30pm on Sunday when a man
came up to her.

A police spokesman said: "He tried to engage her in conversation and kept
pestering her for a phone number.

"She kept walking and he followed her. He pushed her against a car and
indecently assaulted her."

The young woman managed to break free and ran off.

She was shaken but not hurt.

The man said he came from London and had a slight London accent. He is white
with a stocky build, about 35 with dark, short hair.

He wore a dark, green top with pale blue trousers or jeans. Anyone with
information should phone Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 19, 2003

THE STATE VISIT POLICE LAUNCH GBP 6.5M SECURITY OPERATION AS US LEADER - AND AN
ARMY OF GUARDS - ARRIVE IN BRITAIN TO A SEA OF PROTEST AND THREAT OF TERROR
ATTACK; BUSH CIRCUS HITS BRITAIN

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan and Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4 5

LENGTH: 962 words


PRESIDENT George Bush arrived in Britain last night for his controversial state
visit amid the tightest security the country has ever seen.

As Tony Blair urged supporters to welcome the American leader and his wife
Laura, a GBP 6.5million security operation was launched by Scotland Yard to
flood London's streets with over 5,000 officers.

Fears that large numbers of protesters in the capital will try to reach the
President's motorcade have prompted police chiefs to order officers to work
14,000 shifts during the four-day visit.

The vast majority of the Yard's 2,000 officers authorised to carry firearms were
also on duty. A terrorist suspect has told police an attack is being planned by
Algerian supporters of Al Qaeda in Britain.

The clampdown led the judge in the Soham murder trial to adjourn yesterday's Old
Bailey hearing 90 minutes early because officers used for the police escort were
needed for state-visit duties.

As criticism continued over the cost of policing the trip, Scotland Yard reacted
frostily to a jibe by exminister Michael Portillo that it could not be trusted
to protect Mr Bush who is being guarded by hundreds of US Secret Service agents.

Mr Portillo poked fun in an open letter to the President, published with others
from celebrities in a newspaper. He told Mr Bush:

"Congratulations on organising your own security while in Britain.

"You may have noticed that our policemen could not protect the Royal Family from
a joker dressed as Osama Bin Laden who walked into Windsor Castle. I don't think
you could have relied on them to protect you against the real thing."

He was referring to comedian Aaron Barschak gatecrashing Prince William's 21st
party.

Conservative Central Office distanced itself from Mr Portillo, noting: "He is a
backbencher." Former Tory Cabinet minister Lord Tebbit said: "Mr Portillo
appears to be becoming increasingly eccentric."

Scotland Yard - still recovering from Monday's protest on the Buckingham Palace
gates by a 61year-old woman protester - swiftly responded to Mr Portillo's jibe.

"We can put security on that is second to none, " said Deputy Assistant
Commissioner Andy Trotter. A spokesman for the force added: "We have been
protecting the Royal Family and the Cabinet for over 100 years and if you can
name any of them who have been assassinated, you tell me."

Mr Bush was met at Heathrow by the Prince of Wales. The President and First Lady
were then flown by helicopter to Buckingham Palace.

He is first US President to stay there since Woodrow Wilson in 1918.

Police masterminding security placed officers at ports and airports to spot
known troublemakers entering Britain. There are fears activists from the
continent will turn demos into violent protests.

In a bid to avoid confrontations, Yard chiefs have allowed protesters to march
down Whitehall, past Parliament and Downing Street, despite White House demands
that an exclusion zone be enforced. Mr Bush is said to be making fewer public
appearances than any other visiting head of state in order to reduce the risk of
terrorist attack rather than to spare his embarrassment from anti-war
protesters.

Mr Blair seized on a poll that suggested 43 per cent of people welcome Mr Bush
while only 36 per cent would prefer he did not come.

The Prime Minister's spokesman said: "This is the right time for President Bush
to be visiting, a view Mr Blair believes is widely shared throughout the
country. He accepts there are those who are opposed, some strongly, and that
they have the right to make their voice heard.

But he believes the majority of people welcome President Bush, recognise the
importance of the relationship with America and note the commitment he is
showing to establishing democracy in Iraq."

Mr Bush has shrugged off the prospect of protests, saying he supports free
speech and expects the trip to be "fantastic."

Tory leader Michael Howard described the security operation as "a price worth
paying for freedom."

Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy urged protesters to "use the opportunity to leave
the President in no doubt as to the extent of public concern about the way in
which events tragically have unfolded."

London Mayor Ken Livingstone, who described Mr Bush as the "greatest threat to
life on this planet we've probably ever seen, " complained that the cost of
policing the visit would add GBP 2 to council tax.

Mr Blair is under pressure from all sides to press Mr Bush to lift tariffs he
put on steel imports into America. They affect British and European
manufacturers and risk a transatlantic trade war.

Vans: The Presidential limo will be followed by people carriers for Secret
Service agents and a military ambulance with on-board surgeon, nurses and
further blood supplies; a communications van packed with state-of-the-art
devices to record everything, while experts inside monitor satellite links.

Aircraft: Air Force One, two 747s for staff, a chartered Jumbo and a specially
converted Black Hawk helicopter.

Armoured limos: 30, mostly armour-plated vehicles form the Presidential
motorcade.

Stagecoach:

Bush will travel in a GBP 2m armoured Cadillac DeVille, known as The Stagecoach,
It sports anti-terror devices and is stocked with supplies of the President's
own blood and cans of Diet Coke.

An exact replica Stagecoach is also in the motorcade.

Security Personnel:

Bush will be escorted by 250 heavily armed secret service agents, 150 advisers
from the National Security department and a dozen sniffer dog teams.

Aides and Advisors:

The entourage will include 50 White House political aides, and 200
representatives from other US government departments, including his personal
chef and four cooks.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 19, 2003, Wednesday

DRIVER IN AIDS TERROR;
 NEEDLE ATTACK ON BUS

BYLINE: GREIG CAMERON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 188 words


A TERRIFIED bus driver is at the centre of a horror Aids scare after he was
repeatedly stabbed with a syringe.

The 47-year-old driver was targeted in a frenzied late night attack as two men
got off his coach in Edinburgh city centre.

He was stabbed six times in the arm without warning before the thugs fled into
the night.

And the driver, of Hamilton, Lanarkshire now faces an anxious wait for the
results of blood tests for hepatitis and deadly HIV.

Last night, he said: "I had no reason to believe there was going to be any
trouble.

"They seemed like normal passengers and there hadn't been any trouble
beforehand."

But Saturday's 11pm service from Glasgow ended in terror following the attack in
Edinburgh's St Andrews Square at 12.10am.

Left badly shaken by the unprovoked attack, the brave driver has already gone
back to work.

The man, who does not want to be named, added: "I have had blood tests taken and
need further checks at six weeks, 12 weeks and 24 weeks, as well as an Aids
test."

Appealing for witnesses last night, a police spokesman said: "This was a
horrific assault."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 19, 2003

Nation Is Braced For Terror Attack As Bush Flies In

SECTION: News; Politics; Others; Pg. 7 1911WESTDP3D5natio

LENGTH: 642 words


George Bush flew into Britain last night for the most controversial state visit
in British history, with London braced for riots and terror attacks.  The Prince
of Wales met the US President and his wife Laura at Heathrow Airport before they
travelled by helicopter to Buckingham Palace, where they will stay, to a private
welcome by the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh.

A £20million ring of steel has been set up to protect the President, who will
have cost taxpayers £300,000 an hour by the time he jets home on Friday.

More than 100,000 demonstrators will take to the streets tomorrow to march
against the visit and much of central London will be a no-go area.

Many protesters will come from the West, the scene of bitter confrontations
during the war against Iraq, especially near RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire.

Most campaigners will be peaceful but police are worried the event will be
hijacked by anarchists. The security services believe this could provide cover
for al-Qaeda terrorists.

Mr Blair said the voices of the ordinary people who welcomed the President
should also be heard.

"This is precisely the right time for President Bush to be visiting this country
and a view the Prime Minister believes is widely shared throughout the country,"
his spokesman said.

Former Tory Defence Secretary Michael Portillo angered Scotland Yard by saying
London's police had not been able to protect the Royal Family from "a joker
dressed as Osama bin Laden" - referring to "comedian Aaron Barschak" who
gatecrashed Prince William's 21st party at Windsor Castle. Metropolitan Police
deputy assistant commissioner Andy Trotter said: "We can put security on that is
second to none. It is equal to anywhere else in the world." The President will
today be formally welcomed by the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh at the Palace
and after making a speech on the transatlantic alliance, he will meet British
families who lost loved ones in the September 11 attacks on the Twin Towers in
New York, before a state banquet at Buckingham Palace in the evening.

The main political business of the visit will take place on Thursday when Mr
Bush and Mr Blair hold two-and-a-half hours of talks in Downing Street.

For the Government, Chancellor Gordon Brown set the tone for the visit, in his
speech to the Confederation of British Industry's annual conference in
Birmingham to speak warmly of the "shared values" of Britain and the US. "With
shared values we must also meet a shared threat," he said. "It has fallen to
this generation to fight global terrorism and rogue states." We'd pay to keep
him away The arrival of US President George Bush has caused unprecedented levels
of security. Police in London will work 14,000 shifts during the course of his
stay - with more than 5,000 officers on duty at any one time - amid fears of
disruption by protesters and terrorist attack.

A similar security operation is being mounted in Tony Blair's Sedgefield
constituency in the North East, which the President visits on Friday.

The concerns of the anti-Bush camp were voiced by London Mayor Ken Livingstone
who complained the cost of policing the visit would add £2 to the average
council tax bill in the capital.

"I think most Londoners would be happy to give £4 for him not to come," he said.

With tens of thousands of demonstrators expected to take to the streets of
London on Thursday for the main protest march, Mr Livingstone offered them his
support, while urging them to remain peaceful.

"You have the moral high ground. You are protesting against an illegal war and
occupation - and the world will be watching you. Your right to peaceful protest
will be upheld by the Greater London Authority and the Metropolitan Police
Service. But there will be no place for violence of any kind in London this
week."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 20, 2003

Bush and Blair condemn terror attacks

LENGTH: 858 words


The British prime minister and US president today united in condemnation of the
terrorist attacks in Turkey, as the death toll continued to rise inexorably even
during their joint press conference.

With 25 dead and rising, 400 injured and the British consul general missing,
there was barely any other topic of discussion during the 30-minute press
session at the Foreign Office in London.

Although there were dozens of US and British journalists in attendance, only six
questions were allowed, as both leaders began with statements expressing their
condolences - and condemnation - of the terrorist massacre.

Mr Blair said the attacks demonstrated "the evil these terrorists pose to
innocent people everywhere".

Mr Blair told the press conference: "Once again we must affirm that in the face
of this terrorism there must be no holding back, no compromise, no hesitation in
confronting this menace, in attacking it wherever and whenever we can and in
defeating it utterly."

Mr Bush added: "The nature of the terrorists is evidenced once again - we see
their utter contempt for innocent life. They hate freedom, they hate free
nations."

Mr Blair told reporters that the latest outrage emphasised the need to defeat
terrorism in Iraq and elsewhere.

He said: "Let me make it absolutely clear for our position as well: we stay [in
Iraq] until the job gets done. What this latest terrorist outrage shows us is
that this is a war, its main battleground is Iraq.

"We have got to make sure we defeat these terrorists, the former Saddam people,
in Iraq. And we must do that because that is an essential part of defeating this
fanaticism and extremism that is killing innocent people all over our world
today.

"I can assure you of one thing: that when something like this happens today, our
response is not to flinch or give way or concede one inch. We stand absolutely
firm until this job is done, done in Iraq, done elsewhere in the world."

Despite expectations, there was no concrete announcement on the British
detainees being held at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba, although two communiqués will be
issued today by the government.

Downing Street also issued reporters with a full list of all al-Qaida attacks
and their victims, pointing out that many of the casualties of the terrorist
organisation have themselves been Muslim.

Both leaders were asked about the plight of the British detainees. Mr Blair
said: "We are in discussions about this. It will be resolved in one of two ways.
Either they will be tried by the military commission out there, or
alternatively, they will be brought back here.

"It will be resolved at some point or other. It is not going to be resolved
today, but it will be resolved at some point soon."

Mr Bush said: "These are illegals picked up off of the battlefield, and they are
being treated in a humane fashion and we are sorting through them on a case by
case basis.

"There is a court procedure in place that will allow them to be tried in a fair
fashion. As to the issue of the British citizens, we are working with the
British government."

They were also challenged on the dispute between the EU and US over America's
imposition of tariffs on steel imports.

Mr Bush said: "My administration is committed to free trade. In terms of the
steel issue, it is an issue that the prime minister has brought up not once, not
twice, but three times. It is on his mind. It is also on my mind.

"And I am reviewing the findings about the restructuring of our steel industry.
The industry needs some breathing time to restructure. I am looking at the
findings right now and will make a timely decision."

On Iraq, Mr Bush told reporters that the number of US troops in Iraq would be
determined by what commanders on the ground considered necessary to secure the
country.

Mr Blair rejected any suggestion that Britain and America had brought the
attacks on themselves.

"America did not attack al-Qaida on September 11. Al-Qaida attacked America and
in doing so, attacked not just America but the way of life of all people who
believe in tolerance and freedom, justice and peace," he said. Mr Bush indicated
that he still hoped to hand over power in Iraq to a new Iraqi government next
year.

"And we are making good progress with al-Qaida," he said.

"We are dismantling the operating management one person at a time. We are in an
international manhunt."

He said that many of the victims of the attacks were themselves Muslims.

"These killers are killing Muslims and they need to be stopped and we will stop
them."

Mr Bush was asked why so many people in Britain appeared to fear or even hate
him.

He replied: "I would say freedom is beautiful. It is a fantastic thing to come
to a country where people are able to express their views." Pressed on why it
appeared that so many people in this country hate him, he said: "I don't know
that they do.

Mr Bush said freedom was "the Almighty's gift to everyone". He said it was not
America's gift to the world.

On the difference between different religions, he added: "I believe we worship
the same God."

The prime minister said if people were given the chance to have freedom they
welcomed it regardless of their religion or faith.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               November 21, 2003

UK warns of more terrorist attacks in Turkey

LENGTH: 1732 words


The Foreign Office warned today that more terrorist attacks are being planned in
Turkey and urged British citizens not to travel to any major city in the
country.

An ashen-faced Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, who was visiting the scenes of
yesterday's suicide bombings which killed 27 people and injured more than 450,
said everywhere is a target for the "ruthless fanatics" who attacked Istanbu.

A Foreign Office statement, issued overnight, said: "We have information to
suggest that further attacks may be attempted."

A spokesman declined to reveal the nature of the information which led to the
warning of further possible attacks, but a statement warned Britons against
travel not only to Istanbul, but also all of the country's other major cities,
including capital Ankara.

Terrorists linked to al-Qa'ida struck a devastating blow against Britain in the
heart of Istanbul in the worst act of terrorism in modern Turkish history.

A double suicide bombings killed at least 27 people and injured at least 450.
Two trucks crashed through barriers at the British consulate and rammed into the
HSBC headquarters. It was the first direct attack by al-Qa'ida suspects on
British interests since the war in Iraq.

The bombings reduced parts of central Istanbul to rubble and brought the city of
14 million to a standstill. People scrabbled desperately in the rubble for
survivors.

The two attacks were apparently timed to coincide with President George Bush's
state visit to London. The first sheared the facade off the Turkish offices of
the London-based HSBC bank in the financial district.

Minutes later, the second blast ripped through the British consulate, killing
Roger Short, the consul general. Another British diplomat, Lisa Hallworth, 38,
also died.

Looking grim and determined, the US President stood beside Tony Blair at a news
conference in London and vowed that the fight against global terrorism would not
be derailed by the actions of "thugs or killers". Mr Bush said: "Great Britain,
America and other free nations are united today in our grief and united in our
determination to fight and defeat this evil wherever it is found."

Mr Blair said that the latest bomb attacks showed that "this is a war, its main
battleground is Iraq". He added: "Let me make it absolutely clear. We stay in
Iraq until the job gets done."

There was little doubt that the bombings were directed at Britain, America's
main ally in the Iraq war. The attacks mirrored a double suicide bombing in
Istanbul against two synagogues last Saturday.

Mr Short received the full force of the blast, just after he arrived at his
temporary offices inside the consulate compound.

There were fears for other Britons working at the consulate and at HSBC. Graham
Carter was taken to hospital with serious facial burns. Mr Carter, a company
director from Lincoln, remembers seeing a truck smash through the consulate
gates, followed by a big explosion.

The next thing he knew, he was waking up in hospital covered in bandages.

But, just as in the synagogue attacks, the majority of the victims were Turkish
civilians who thronged the busy market streets near the British consulate or
worked in the HSBC building.

Fahrettin Calik was looking out of his office window when the consulate was
attacked. His left eye destroyed by flying glass, he now lies in an Istanbul
hospital wondering if he will lose his sight entirely. "The monster who did this
will get their punishment in hell," Fahrettin's brother Murat said.

One man staggered through the wreckage, carrying a woman's body over his
shoulder. All he could shout was "Ambulance! Ambulance!" One man wandered in a
daze, his entire face garishly red with his own blood. "I'm British,'' said
another injured man. "I can't see.''

The attacks came just days after 23 people were killed in the synagogue
bombings. The Foreign Office warned yesterday against travel to the city. There
was an unconfirmed claim of responsibility by an anonymous caller who telephoned
the semi-official Turkish news agency Anatolia, and said that al -Qa'ida and a
Turkish Muslim extremist group, the Great Eastern Islamic Raiders' Front, had
jointly carried out the attacks.

It is too early to know whether that claim is reliable, but the finger of
suspicion was already being pointed at al-Qa'ida yesterday, by, among others,
Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, who travelled to Istanbul last night to visit
the scene of the two attacks.

Mr Straw said the attacks bore "all the hallmarks of the international terrorism
operations practised by al-Qa'ida and associated organisations''.

Al-Qa'ida has committed deadlier attacks, in America on 11 September and in
Bali, but never before has the network struck three times in such quick
succession. In addition to the two Istanbul atrocities, the network led by Osama
bin Laden was blamed for an attack on a residential compound in the Saudi
capital, Riyadh, earlier this month.

Tayyip Erdogan, the Turkish Prime Minister, said: "When we look at the events of
five days ago they almost completely match today's explosions ... but it is too
early to say who did this.'' Turkish police said that yesterday's bombs were the
same type as those used in the synagogue attacks.

Mr Erdogan, an Islamist, added: "Those who bloodied this holy day and massacred
innocent people will account for it in both worlds. They will be damned until
eternity.'' The attacks also appeared to be deliberately timed close to Leilat
al-Qadir, the holiest day of the year in Islam, when Muslims believe the Koran
was revealed to the Prophet Muhammad. The day is celebrated on different nights
this week across the Muslim world.

In an eerie echo of the bombing of the UN headquarters in Baghdad three months
ago, a great pall of grey smoke hung over Istanbul yesterday. And by killing Mr
Short, the bombers appear to have succeeded in killing the most senior potential
target, just as the Baghdad bombers succeeded in killing the UN's chief
representative in Iraq, Sergio Vieira De Mello.

The attacks came in mid-morning. The first took place at the 18-storey HSBC
building in Levent, an upmarket district of modern apartment blocks and office
buildings. Witnesses described seeing a brown pick-up truck explode in front of
the HSBC tower.

What followed will haunt the memory of Istanbul for a long time. The HSBC
building was reduced to a barely standing wreckage of shattered glass and
hanging masonry. Where the pick-up truck had stood was a 9ft deep crater. Cars
parked across the wide boulevard below were smashed. A huge jet of water poured
out of the ruins into the street as workers tried to evacuate the HSBC building.
"We knew it was a bomb when an arm came flying through the window,'' said a
doctor at a clinic across the road.

Suleyman Karatas, an HSBC employee, described the scene at the bank as "a
bloodbath". Mehmet Altan was a passenger on a bus passing the bank when the
explosion went off. "I thought somebody hit our bus from the back, then I saw
black smoke rising," he said, sobbing.

"Cars were damaged all around us. I saw the charred body of a driver at the
wheel."

The bus driver, Necati Erkek, said: "After the blast, the bus doors got stuck
and passengers broke the windows to get out. There were pieces of flesh spread
all around." Two minutes later, there was a second explosion, outside the
British consulate in the historic Galata district. There were differing accounts
from witnesses: some saw a green vegetable van explode, others a white pick-up
truck.

The consulate lies in the middle of a warren of narrow streets. On the other
side of the road was the Galata fish market, which would have been packed with
shoppers and tourists.

"I heard a large bang. I thought it was an earthquake," said Adnan Akyildiz, who
was working at the consulate, referring to the earthquake of 1999. "I threw
myself out of the window. The scene was horrendous ­ the gate, the consulate,
the buildings were all demolished. Then I looked for my friends, I saw four of
the other cleaners dead; two of them were husband and wife."

The British consulate is in a street jammed at all hours of the day with cars
and pedestrians. "Of course you think about this place being a target," said Ali
Dilan, who works at a hotel near by. "I walk past there every day. But then you
think they must have precautions."

Istanbul has had its share of bombings in the past, by Kurdish, Marxist and far
-right extremist groups ­ but none was on this scale. The British consulate was
well protected, surrounded by a high perimeter wall, with a heavy metal gate
locked at all times.

Horrified reactions came from around the world. Already shaken by the attacks on
the synagogues, the Israeli Prime Minister, Ariel Sharon, said: "It is not just
Israel, this is a danger to the entire free world. There is no compromising with
terror ... This compels us to remember the need for the free world to fight the
terror."

Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, condemned the "shocking"
attacks and called for international co-operation to fight terrorism. No one
could now feel safe. "Everybody can be hit, the Red Cross, the United Nations,
the synagogues, the consulates are being hit."

Turkish army troops made a brief appearance on the streets in Istanbul,
deploying on a main highway and standing guard beside police in Istanbul. It was
an unnerving sight in a country with a history of martial law. At least a dozen
Turkish soldiers, wearing helmets and camouflage uniforms and armed with G-3
assault rifles, stood by their jeeps near the bombed HSBC headquarters but were
later withdrawn.

Weeping relatives waited at the police barricades for news. Hospitals posted
bulletins outside their gates with the names of people admitted. At Taksim
hospital, one entry read simply: "Woman, English".

The city is accustomed to disaster but life ground to a halt yesterday. Mobile
phones stopped working, rumours of more explosions swept the city, radio
broadcasts called for blood donations, schools and companies closed early. The
streets were clear of most traffic except ambulances taking the wounded to
hospitals. "It feels a bit like Judgement Day" said Mehmet Karakaya, a barber
with a shop near Beyoglu.

Source: The Independent


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 21, 2003, Friday

MARKETS: FTSE ROCKED BY THE IMPACT OF TERRORIST ATTACKS IN TURKEY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 44,45

LENGTH: 450 words


LONDON'S FTSE 100 Index put on a late rally yesterday to overcome some of the
impact of the bomb blasts in Turkey.

The Footsie closed 19.4 points lower at 4,308, after falling as much as 57
points in the wake of the attacks on the British consulate and an HSBC office.

The late recovery was helped by a resilient opening for the Dow Jones, which
achieved its first positive session for five days on Wednesday.

Traders warned that fears over further attacks could prompt a renewed bout of
uncertainty and send the Footsie back from its recent 15-month highs.

Financial stocks bore the brunt of the sell-off, although most later recovered
to near their opening marks with Barclays half a penny lower at 486.25p, HBOS
down 3.5p at 689p and Abbey National off 9p at 531p.

Insurer Royal & Sun Alliance, which had earlier been top of the Footsie risers
board with a gain of four per cent, finished 1.5p lower at 85p as the benefits
from a positive set of results were overtaken by geopolitical events.

Hotels group Hilton led the Footsie fallers as concern over the impact of events
in Turkey on the tourist industry added to the pressure caused by a lacklustre
trading update.

Hilton fell 8.25p to 199.5p, while others in the sector to struggle included De
Vere Group, which fell 13.5p to 370p, InterContinental Hotels, down 15.75p to
523.25p, and Millennium & Copthorne, off 1.75p at 298.25p.

Among blue-chip stocks making progress Argos retailer GUS rose 20p to 763p after
interim profits surged 44 per cent to a record of pounds 354 million.

National Grid Transco was another strong riser after it impressed the market
with a 19 per cent rise in underlying profits to pounds 405 million. Shares
spent some of the session in negative territory but closed 2.75p higher at 399p.

The strongest gain of the session came from mobile phone group mmO2, which
improved more than three per cent, or 2.25p, to 67.25p following a broker
upgrade. Vodafone rose half a penny to 131.75p.

Amid the global turmoil, defensive sectors such as tobacco became a safe haven
for investors as BAT rose 6p to 708.5p and Imperial Tobacco gained 3p to 1057p.

Outside the Footsie, lastminute.com's recent strong run came to an end in
spectacular fashion as shares fell 17 per cent, or 51.5p, to 248.5p following
the announcement of co-founder Martha Lane Fox's exit as managing director.

The biggest Footsie risers were mmO2 up 2.25p at 67.25p, GUS ahead 20p at 763p,
Centrica up 3.75p at 192.75p and Gallaher ahead 9.5p at 601.5p.

The biggest fallers were Hilton Group down 8.25p at 199.5p, Granada off 4p at
112.75p, BAE Systems down 6p at 170.5p and GKN off 9.25p at 265.75p.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           November 21, 2003, Friday

HILTON GROUP SHARES HIT BY NEW TERRORIST ATTACK IN ISTANBUL

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 483 words


Shares in Hilton Group fell five per cent yesterday as another terrorist
outrage, this time in Turkey, added to concerns about a fragile recovery at its
hotels, even as strong demand at its betting shops boosted profits.

Blasts rocked Istanbul, one destroying part of HSBC's headquarters in Turkey and
a second hitting the British consulate.

'We're very concerned and very saddened by this,' a Hilton spokesman said,
adding that the firm ran eight hotels with over 2,000 rooms in Turkey. The
result was that hotel and travel stocks across Europe were hit by fears of fresh
disruption to their business, following the Iraq war and outbreak of deadly SARS
disease earlier this year.

Hilton was the biggest faller on the FTSE-100 index of leading UK stocks.

Shares in rival hotelier InterContinental Hotels were also down. Hilton said
business was slowly starting to return to its stable of almost 400 up-market
hotels, but that a sustainable recovery remained elusive. 'Almost the whole of
continental Europe seems to be going through an economic malaise. Things aren't
getting any worse there, but it's not improving either,' chief executive David
Michels said.

Hilton has coped better than most in the hotel industry downturn thanks to its
Ladbrokes arm, Britain's biggest betting shop chain, which has benefited from
steps to deregulate the UK gambling industry such as the abolition of betting
tax in 2001.

The group said profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items rose 15.1 per
cent in the four months to October 31. It did not provide a precise figure.

Hotel profits fell, but like-forlike added revenue per available room (RevPAR),
a key industry measure, rose 2.0 per cent in August and 3.3 per cent in
September, having fallen 3.6 per cent in July.

Mark Brumby, an industry analyst at Oriel Securities, said he was likely to
raise his full-year profit forecast to about pounds 258-260 million from pounds
246 million due to the stronger-than-expected performance from Ladbrokes.

But he was concerned that the recovery in hotels was strongest where Hilton
manages, rather than owns, its properties.

'That's critically important for them, because the difference in profit between
a hotel they manage and a hotel that they own is substantial,' he said. The
proportion of punters' money left with Ladbrokes, or gross win, was up six per
cent in the year to date, Hilton said.

Ladbrokes was given a fresh boost on Wednesday when the Government ruled that
bookmakers could continue to operate fixed-odds betting terminals, which offer
games such as roulette and have driven industry growth in the past year, in the
face of criticism that they could exacerbate gambling addiction.

Mr Michels said Hilton was likely to add to its stable of around 3,500
fixed-odds machines over the next six months. He said: 'We'll move as quickly as
we can.'

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           November 21, 2003, Friday

WOMAN IS VICTIM OF TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 120 words


POLICE are hunting a man who smashed a 52-year-old woman's head on a wall and
indecently assaulted her.

The offender attacked his victim as she walked to shops near Castle Bromwich, in
Birmingham, causing her serious facial injuries.

West Midlands Police said the offender approached the woman as she walked past
garages in Taw Close, in the Smith's Wood area. He grabbed her by her hair and
put a knife to her back. He put a piece of cloth in her mouth, dragged her to a
brick wall and hit her face against it before indecently assaulting her.

Police said the woman was extremely traumatised by the incident which happened
on Tuesday, November 18 at around 8pm. They are appealing for witnesses.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 21, 2003

As bloodied victims were dragged from the rubble of the terror attacks in
Turkey, Scottish Socialists clapped and cheered as one of their activists in a
George Bush mask brought shame on Holyrood

BYLINE: KATE FOSTER

SECTION: ED_SC2; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 853 words



THE Scottish Socialist Party was last night threatened with suspension from
parliament after its members clapped and cheered a protester who disrupted a
debate.

The Leftwing MSPs were condemned by senior parliamentarians for applauding an
anti- war heckler who shouted slogans from the public gallery during a debate on
Iraq.

Presiding Officer George Reid furiously warned the Socialist MSPs he would ban
them from the chamber if they did it again.

His outrage was last night echoed by opposition parties.

Scots Tory leader David McLetchie said: 'This irresponsible conduct is
unbecoming of parliamentarians. I t does nothing to enhance the reputation of
the Scottish parliament.' The Socialists' actions were also condemned by the
Scottish National Party, despite an attempt by its leader John Swinney to goad
First Minister Jack McConnell on the Iraq war only hours after the bombings in
Istanbul by Al Qaeda and the Islamic militant group IBDA-C.

The Scottish parliament has no power over foreign policy yet MSPs yesterday
insisted on spending the morning debating the topic of world peace and the war
in Iraq.

Mr Reid was forced to halt business for three minutes after security guards
failed to silence heckler Kevin Williamson.

The demonstration threw proceedings into chaos as MSPs watched him shout from
behind a rubber George Bush mask and wave the U.S. flag, egged on by the
Socialists, including Rosie Kane and Carolyn Leckie.

It is understood Mr Williamson had been signed into the parliament by a
Socialist MSP.

Mr Reid said: 'I deplore members of this house applauding people in the public
gallery who are interrupting.

'I think everyone will remember that the clear dividing line on conduct in this
chamber falls between disrespectful and discourteous behaviour, which earns a
rebuke, and disorderly behaviour, which may produce sanctions.

'I want to make it absolutely clear that if we have a future case like that and
I cannot think of anything being more disorderly than members of this house
encouraging disorder in the public gallery I shall not on any future occasion
hesitate to apply the sanction, and members know exactly what I mean.' Under
parliamentary rules, Mr Reid can instruct a disruptive MSP to leave the chamber
for the rest of the day and the following one.

This happened to Socialist Colin Fox the only one of his party's MSPs absent
from the chamber yesterday when he refused to stop singing Burns' egalitarian
anthem A Man's a Man for a' That at the swearingin ceremony earlier this year.

However, the parliament can vote to suspend an MSP for a longer period if a
motion to do so is brought forward.

Labour MSP Duncan McNeil said: ' Anyone trying Mr Williamson's stunts in
Saddam's Iraq would have been tortured and killed.

'It is ironic to see the SSP abusing the very freedoms they want to deny the
people of Iraq.' Two police officers finally escorted Mr Williamson, a Socialist
Party member, from the building.

A photographer who tried to take pictures of the protest was dragged from the
press gallery by security guards.

Speaking outside the parliament afterwards, Mr Williamson said he had shouted:
'God bless my fellow war criminals in the Scottish parliament. God bless my
fellow mass murderers.

'If it wasn't for you, we would never have been able to kill those people in
Iraq and Afghanistan.' Mr Williamson, the SSP's drugs spokesman, added: 'My
comments were aimed at First Minister Jack McConnell and all those who voted to
support the Iraq war.' He added: 'Hopefully if the real George Bush ever turns
up he will be treated the same way and thrown out the door.' Mr Williamson, from
Musselburgh, East Lothian, said police had told him he would not be charged over
the incident.

MSPs were debating the Iraq war yesterday despite Britain's involvement being a
subject reserved to Westminster.

According to the parliament's rules, MSPs can discuss any subject they choose.

Mr Swinney used yesterday's First Minister's Questions slot to press Mr
McConnell on the war despite yesterday's terror attacks that left at least 27
dead and 400 injured.

Mr Swinney said: 'Would the First Minister accept it is time for a very clear
message to be sent to President Bush that all of us in this country who had deep
reservations about what has gone on expect that control of Iraq be handed over
to the people of Iraq, and security should be handed over to the UN to make sure
we can deliver the peace and security the U.S. has been incapable of
delivering?' A spokesman for the SNP later defended the question.

He said: 'Inhibiting the democratic debate would be nothing short of a victory
for the bombers.' A police spokesman said: 'A 42-year-old man was removed by
officers from the east gallery of the debating chamber on the request of
parliament security, after he stood up wearing a rubber George Bush mask, waving
an American flag and shouting anti-George Bush comments.

'He left the gallery in a peaceful manner and subsequently left the parliament.
There are no charges.'

END

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1) DISRUPTION: SCOTTISH SOCIALIST PARTY MEMBER KEVIN WILLIAMSON IS LED
FROM THE PARLIAMENT'S PUBLIC GALLERY FOLLOWING HIS NOISY PROTEST (2) ROSIE KANE:
ENCOURAGED DISRUPTION

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 21, 2003

HSBC leads fightback after terrorist attacks in Turkey

BYLINE: MALCOLM WITHERS

SECTION: B; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 528 words


SHARES that suffered most in the wake of the terrorist outrages in Turkey
rallied today, led by HSBC, up 7p to 867p, as markets steadied.

However, many companies with interests in the country - such as Aviva, down
11/2p to 4701/2p, Marks & Spencer, off 3/4p to 2741/2p, and British Airways,
down 11/2p to 2151/2p, remained under pressure.

The FTSE index stayed above the crucial 4300 mark with a slip of 2.3 points to
4305.7 in very low volume of 260 million shares.

Dealers were sitting on their hands, most having completed finetuning their
portfolios ahead of the yearend. They remain worried about political
uncertainty.

Safeway added 3/4p to 285p after the Office of Fair Trading sent supermarket
groups at the centre of the bid battle for the store chain a second draft of
undertakings they will have to sign. Sir of Wm Morrison Supermarkets, if he
signs the undertaking, will then have three weeks in which to confirm his bid.
It was his original offer of 2.9 billion in January that sparked the bidding
frenzy. Those involved in the battle - Tesco, down 31/4p to 2371/4p,
Sainsbury's, off 21/2p at 298p and Asda owner Wal-Mart also received the
documents. Insiders say agreement on a revived-Morrison bid could be
negotiated-next week with the OFT.

Lastminute.com rallied 41/2p to 253p as the shock of the departure of Martha
Lane Fox, darling of the dot com boom, subsided.

BG Group sold its 51% stake in Phoenix Natural Gas for 120 million to East
Surrey Holdings, down 7p to 3101/2p. East Surrey also bought US energy firm
KeySpan's stake in the business, the total 177.8 million deal funded by a fully
underwritten placing and open offer at 300p.

Hopes of an increased offer or white knight rescuer for Fusion Oil disappeared
as hostile bidder Sterling Energy revealed that it has won the backing of 47.5%
of Fusion shareholders. Sterling launched a hostile bid in September, offering
three-and-a-half Sterling shares for each Fusion share the oil group at 39.5
million.

AIMlisted Fusion slipped 1/2p to 371/2p and Sterling fell 1/4p to 101/2p.

Randgold Resources, unchanged at 1578p, which lost out to AngloGold in its
attempt to merge with Ashanti Goldfields, saw a bout of director share buying
and selling. Chief executive Mark Bristow and finance director Roger Williams
exercised options to buy 42,000 shares between them and then sold 74,300 to
raised $1.9 million (1.1 million).

Conveyor belt maker Fenner added 3p to 861/2p on hopes demand in China, South
Africa and Australia will replace weaker US markets. Bristol & West shot to the
top of the FTSE 350 risers with a 1.5p gain to 11.25p on the outlook for its
property bridging loan business that provides loans of up to 500,000 for up to
12 months Finsbury Food added 3p to 581/2p on hopes for its recent five-year
deal with Nestl, which comes into force in January.

It could add up to 30 million a year to Finsbury's cake sales although it is not
expected to be earnings enhancing in the first year.

Engineer Balfour Beatty fell back 13/4p to 214p as it paid 13.3 million to buy
out two PFI road projects from WS Atkins, steady at 421p.

END

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 21, 2003

HSBC leads fightback after terrorist attacks in Turkey

BYLINE: MALCOLM WITHERS

SECTION: C; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 541 words


SHARES hit by the terrorist outrages in Istanbul began a slow recovery today,
led by HSBC, up 111/2p to 8711/2p.

Aviva, Britain's largest insurer, moved ahead 21/2p to 4741/2p as it also
benefited from a hoped-for linkup with a German bank to form a joint-venture
insurance project similar to the one it has with Wells Fargo in the US.

International hotel groups rallied, led by Hilton, up 21/4p to 2013/4p as broker
Morgan Stanley raised its price target to 225p from 210p.

InterContinental Hotels rose 2p to 5251/4p.

However, there remained concern over some companies with interests in Turkey.
Marks & Spencer fell 11/4p to 274p and British Airways was 13/4p lower at
2151/4p.

Confidence gradually returned to the market despite background worries about
political and the FTSE 100 index climbed 10.2 to 4318.2.

Smith & Nephew topped the Footsie risers with a near-3% gain of 111/2p to 457p
as Goldman Sachs reiterate its outperform rating after meeting the management.

Safeway slipped 3/4p to 2843/4p after the Office of Fair Trading sent
supermarket groups at the centre of the bid battle for the store chain a second
draft of undertakings they will

have to sign. Sir Ken Morrison of Wm Morrison Supermarkets, if he signs the
undertaking, will then have three weeks in which to confirm his bid. It was his
original offer of 2.9 billion in January that sparked the bidding frenzy.

Those involved in the 11-month battle - Tesco, down 23/4p to 2373/4p, J
Sainsbury, off 11/4p at 2991/4p, and Asda owner Wal-Mart - also received the
documents. Insiders say that agreement on a revived Morrison bid could be
negotiated with the OFT next week.

Lastminute.com rallied 61/2p to 255p as the shock of the departure of Martha
Lane Fox, darling of the dot com boom, subsided.

BG Group, up 11/2p to 2741/4p, sold its 51% stake in Phoenix Natural Gas for 120
million to East Surrey Holdings, down 71/2p to 310p.

East Surrey also bought US energy firm KeySpan's stake in the business, the
total 177.8 million deal being funded by a fully underwritten placing and open
offer at 300p.

Hopes of an increased offer, or a white knight rescuer for Fusion Oil,
disappeared as hostile bidder Sterling Energy revealed it has won the backing of
47.5% of Fusion shareholders.

Sterling launched its bid in September, offering three-and-a-half Sterling
shares for each Fusion share or a part-cash alternative valuing the oil group at
39.5 million.

AIM-listed Fusion slipped 1p to 37p and Sterling fell 1/4p to 101/2p.

Randgold Resources, unchanged at 1578p, which lost out to AngloGold in its
attempt to merge with Ashanti Goldfields, saw a bout of share buying and selling
by directors. Chief executive Mark Bristow and finance director Roger Williams
exercised options to buy 42,000 shares between them and then sold 74,300 to
raise $1.9 million (1.1 million).

Bristol & West shot to the top of the FTSE 350 risers with a 11/2p gain to
111/4p on the outlook for its property bridging loan business, which provides
loans of up to 500,000 for up to 12 months.

Engineer Balfour Beatty fell 13/4p to 214p as it paid 13.3 million to buy out
two PFI road projects from WS Atkins, up 41/4p at 4251/4p.

END

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 21, 2003

HSBC leads fightback after terrorist attacks in Turkey

BYLINE: MALCOLM WITHERS

SECTION: D; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 537 words


THE slow recovery in shares hit by the terrorist outrages in Istanbul was led by
HSBC, up 131/2p to 8731/2p, with Aviva, Britain's largest insurer, rallying 1p
to 473p.

Aviva also benefited from a hoped-for linkup with a German bank to form a
joint-venture insurance project similar to the one it has with Wells Fargo in
the US.

International hotel owners were stronger too, led by Hilton, up 1/4p to 1993/4p
as broker Morgan Stanley raised its target to 225p from 210p.

InterContinental Hotels rose 11/4p early on, before reversing direction to show
a 23/4p loss at 5201/2p on worries about setbacks to tourism.

However, there remained concern over some companies with interests in Turkey.
Marks & Spencer fell 31/2p to 2713/4p and British Airways was 11/2p lower at
2151/2p.

Confidence gradually returned to the market despite worries about political
instability, and the FTSE 100 index moved ahead 10.7 to 4318.7.

Business was slow, but volume still topped 1.5 billion shares.

Smith & Nephew led the Footsie risers with gain of 151/2p to 461p as Goldman
Sachs reiterated its outperform rating after meeting the management two days
ago.

Safeway was unmoved at 2851/2p after the Office of Fair Trading sent supermarket
groups at the centre of the bid battle for the store chain a second draft of the
undertakings they will have to sign. Sir Ken Morrison of Wm Morrison, if he
signs the undertaking, will then have three weeks in which to confirm his bid.
It was his original offer of 2.9 billion in January that sparked the bidding
frenzy.

Those involved in the 11-month battle - Tesco, down 1p to 2391/2p, J Sainsbury,
up 3/4p at 3011/4p, and Asda owner Wal-Mart - also received the documents.
Insiders say agreement on a revived Morrison bid could be negotiated with the
OFT next week.

Lastminute.com rallied 11/2p to 250p as the shock of the departure of Martha
Lane Fox, darling of the dot com boom, subsided.

BG Group, up 11/2p to 2741/4p, sold its 51% stake in Phoenix Natural Gas for 120
million to East Surrey Holdings, down 71/2p to 310p.

East Surrey also bought US energy firm KeySpan's stake in the business, the
total 177.8 million deal being funded by a fully underwritten placing and open
offer at 300p.

Hopes of an increased offer, or a white knight rescuer for Fusion Oil,
disappeared as hostile bidder Sterling Energy revealed it has won the backing of
47.5% of its target's shareholders.

Sterling launched its bid in September, offering three-and-a-half Sterling
shares for each Fusion share or a part-cash alternative valuing the oil group at
39.5 million.

AIM-listed Fusion slipped 1p to 37p and Sterling fell 1/4p to 101/2p.

The international rise in metal prices, with Chinese demand still strong as
manufacturing continues to spearhead its economic surge, lifted BHP Billiton 2p
to 4373/4p while Rio Tinto improved 14p to 1380p.

Bristol & West enjoyed a 1p gain to 103/4p on the outlook for its property
bridging loans business, which provides financing of up to 500,000 for up to 12
months. Engineer Balfour Beatty improved 11/2p to 2171/4p as it paid 13.3
million to buy out two PFI road projects from WS Atkins, up 6p at 427p.

END

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Global Capital Euroweek

                               November 21, 2003

Turkish debt stays strong in  face of new terrorist attacks

SECTION: EMERGING MARKETS

LENGTH: 329 words



News of the second terrorist attack in Istanbul in six days forced the Turkish
stock market to close yesterday (Thursday) morning.

But an investor sell-off of the sovereign's international debt was restrained,
with its benchmark 2030 dollar bond losing only 2bp-3bp to finish the day at
around 124.

The death toll for the attacks had risen past 25 by yesterday afternoon. Suicide
bombers targeted the British consulate buildings and HSBC's Istanbul
headquarters. The strikes follow the bombing of two synagogues in the city on
Saturday, killing 26 and injuring more than 400.

Bankers and analysts said the attacks will not derail the country's economic
progress. Latest data show that Turkey's key economic targets for 2003 - 5% GDP
growth, 20% CPI inflation and 6.5% primary fiscal surplus - are achievable.
"This does not affect Turkey's fundamentals, and improving economic story," said
one banker.

But further attacks could undo progress made since parliamentary elections one
year ago. "It depends on whether these attacks are the start of something
bigger," said a second banker.

"In that case it could work two ways, either by radicalising Islamic factions
into further unrest and even forcing the government to become more overtly
Islamic. Or, it could encourage the EU to be more proactive in its accession
negotiations with Turkey, and bring Turkey faster into the EU fold."

The attacks should have little impact on the sovereign's immediate debt issuance
plans. Turkey has already completed its borrowing for the year, and has
prefunded around $750m towards its stated target of $4.5bn for 2004.

The sovereign had been planning a European non-deal roadshow for this week, and
had appointed four banks - BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Dresdner Kleinwort
Wasserstein and UBS - to arrange the trip.

But these plans were shelved at the end of last week after Turkey's economy
minister Ali Babacan, who would have led the roadshow, had to remain in Turkey
for meetings.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EUROW


              Copyright 2003 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 21, 2003

'A cloud of poison filled the room. I saw flames shooting into the sky';The
terror attacks in Turkey have left both victims and witnesses in a state of
shock. Billy Briggs and Damien Henderson report

BYLINE: Billy Briggs And Damien Henderson

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1131 words


THE bodies from Saturday's bomb blast had only just been buried and the suspects
rounded up when two explosions caused devastation in Istanbul yesterday.

Shattered bodies and masonry were strewn across the streets of Turkey's
commercial capital once more, in what was the country's worst atrocity in a
quarter of a century.

The remains of a human torso lay in the road about 300 yards from the HSBC Bank
headquarters, which bore the brunt of one blast in the financial hub. Mangled
cars lay charred in front of the once gleaming high-rise building.

Witnesses said one pick-up truck exploded just outside the HSBC headquarters
while another crashed into the gate of the British consulate minutes later.

"The man came, rammed into the gates," Abdulkadir Aksu, interior minister, said,
describing the consulate bombing. The attacker then "set it off, blowing himself
up".

The vehicle looked like a catering truck, with explosives placed in food
containers, police said.

Shocked bankers in white shirts and blood-soaked silk ties gathered at a park
behind HSBC. Family members wandered through the crowd, calling out the names of
the

missing.

Hasan Baskan, a hairdresser working across from HSBC, said: "The blast came from
in front of HSBC. A cloud of poison filled the room. I saw red flames shooting
into the sky."

A doctor at a nearby clinic, who rushed to the scene, added: "We knew it was a
bomb when an arm came flying through the window. I saw bits of bones and brain
littering the street."

Mehmet Altan was travelling on a bus outside the 18-storey headquarters of the
HSBC when the truck exploded. At first, he thought someone had hit the bus from
behind, but then saw black smoke rising from the devastated building. "Cars were
damaged all around us. I saw the charred body of a driver at the wheel," he
said, sobbing.

The bus doors jammed and the passengers smashed windows in a desperate effort to
escape, according to Necati Erkek, the bus driver. Outside, he saw a scene of
utter carnage, with limbs scattered among the wrecked vehicles.

Cicek, an HSBC employee, her face smeared with dried blood from a gash on her
forehead, asked: "Why is Istanbul under attack? We woke up this morning and are
now face-to-face with terror. The world is suddenly a dangerous, horrifying
place."

The second of yesterday's bombs blew a large crater in the road and sent a thick
plume of smoke over the British consulate, demolishing the perimeter wall and
entrance of the nineteenth-century Georgian building in Istanbul's shopping and
entertainment district.

Fahrettin Calik was looking out of his office window when a truck loaded with
explosives smashed through the consulate gates opposite.

His left eye destroyed by flying glass, he now lies in an Istanbul hospital
wondering if he will lose his sight entirely.

"The monster who did this will get their punishment in hell," said his brother,
Murat Calik.

Only the columns of the Caliks' dental products shop, where they have worked for
15 years, were left intact. Murat, 34, was thrown to the ground and his face
torn by falling glass shards. He later helped his brother out through the
carnage around the consulate.

"I thought it was the end of the world. It was like an earthquake," he said.

Fahrettin, 32, lay motionless surrounded by anxious family, one of seven
patients in the eye department of the German Hospital in central Istanbul.

"I heard a large bang. I thought it was an earthquake,'' said Adnan Akyildiz at
the consulate. "I threw myself out of the window. The scene was horrendous, the
gate of the consulate, the buildings were all demolished. A car was on fire.

"Then I looked for my friends. I saw four of the other cleaners dead, two of
them were husband and wife."

All, including one 38-year-old British man, were seriously hurt and in danger of
being blinded. The heads of two of them were entirely wrapped in bandages. About
30 more had already been treated and discharged.

At another nearby hospital in Taksim district, Graham Carter, a company director
from Lincoln, was unable to open his eyes because of bad facial burns.

He spoke of how he saw his fiancee, Hulya Domez, "blown to pieces" after he
brought her to the consulate to get a visa so she could go to Britain and marry
him.

"I was at the consulate gatehouse when I saw this lorry speed through the
gates," he said. "There was an explosion and I saw my girlfriend just go to
pieces in my face."

He added: "She was gone right in front of me. She was there with me, then she
was gone." The couple, who had been together for four years, had taken a 12
-hour bus journey to get to the consulate.

Eammon Lehane, an Irish pub landlord in Istanbul, was in bed yesterday morning
near the consulate when the explosion shook the surrounding area.

Still in a state of disbelief at what he had witnessed in the aftermath, he said
he knew immediately it was a bomb or some kind of terrorist attack.

"The blast was huge. I lived in Belfast for two years so I know what a bomb
sounds like," he said. "Our flat is about 120 metres away but was shielded from
the explosion by an eight-storey hotel directly in front of us. The whole room
rocked but none of the windows came in. We were lucky to be blanketed by the
hotel."

Ian Sherwood, the consul chaplain, said the consulate had been on a "very high
state of alert" when the attack happened and that security had been extremely
tight. The US consulate was moved months ago to a more secure location in
another district.

"It is all so chaotic. The main communications have been bombed, the main office
has gone completely," he said.

"Obviously, there is nothing one can really do about these cowards and suicide
bombers if they're driving close to buildings. These are huge bombs."

As with the synagogue bombs which killed 25 people on Saturday, officials said
they believed the latest attacks bore the marks of Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda
network - carefully co-ordinated and targeted suicide strikes.

Turkish police said the bombs were similar to those used in the synagogue
attacks: a mixture of common chemicals and fuel that left a foul stench hanging
in the air.

Saturday's targets were Jews and yesterday's bombs were apparently aimed at
British interests, but the vast majority of victims in both cases were Turkish
Muslims. The attackers struck as the country marked the holy month of Ramadan.

After the synagogue bombings, authorities arrested six people on Wednesday. A
court charged five with "attempting to overthrow the constitutional structure,"
which carries a sentence of life imprisonment. The sixth was charged with
"helping illegal organisations," punishable by five years in jail.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SCENE OF DEVASTATION: The British consulate building, right, and its
surroundings after the massive explosion which one witness described as being
like an earthquake or "the end of the world".  Picture: AP;Maps 'Attack sites
and ' Attacks blamed on Al Qaeda since September 11, 2001' not available on
database. Please refer to hard copy.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        The Times Educational Supplement

                               November 21, 2003

Pagers To Warn Of Terror Attacks

BYLINE: Michael Shaw and Adi Bloom

SECTION: NEWS; No.4559; Pg.4

LENGTH: 597 words


President Bush visit prompts central London police to launch emergency warning
system for headteachers. Michael Shaw and Adi Bloom report

Headteachers in central London are to be issued with pagers to warn them of
terrorist attacks and other emergencies under a plan revealed by police during
George Bush's visit to Britain.

The American president's trip disrupted several schools in the capital and
hundreds of pupils were expected to miss lessons yesterday to take part in
protests.

St George's Hanover Square primary was forced to close for a day because it is
close to the American embassy, which Mr Bush visited. School governors were
concerned that security and traffic restrictions would prevent parents picking
up pupils at the end of the day.

Six other schools in Westminster education authority could not get their hot
lunches because the catering company feared road blocks would make deliveries
difficult.

Lindsey Woodford, head of St Saviour's Church of England primary in Maida Vale,
said heads in the borough were surprised at the level of disruption.

But she said they had been placated by a last-minute meeting with senior staff
from the Metropolitan police. Police told heads that they would issue central
London schools with pagers to warn them of future disruptive events and of
terrorist attacks.

Mrs Woodford said: "All the heads at the meeting thought it was a really good
idea. The system won't just be for events like the Bush visit, it will also be
for protests, road closures, terrorist attacks -anything schools should be
warned about.

"We are not living in the safe little world we thought we were."

A Metropolitan police spokesman said the pager system was being developed in
response to growing concerns about terrorism in the capital but could not
specify when it would be in place.

A similar approach is being piloted by the City of London police force with
businesses and other organisations in the capital's financial centre.

As The TES went to press, pupils were co-ordinating collective classroom
walk-outs, with many intending to join demonstrations in Trafalgar Square
yesterday. Hannah Kuchler, 17, organised pupil action at Camden high school for
girls, in north London, and for the activist group School Students Against the
War.

She said: "The war in Iraq was the first awakening of consciousness among school
students of our generation. We're still angry about it, and about Bush's role.
This visit looks like a triumphant show by Britain and America."

Ivan Lewis, education junior minister, warned pupils that they could face
disciplinary measures if they missed lessons to protest against Mr Bush.

His warning coincided with the launch of a three-week long national truancy
sweep.

* Children have named the terror attacks on September 11 as the most violent
event they have ever seen on television. Andrea Millwood-Hargrave, of the
Broadcasting Standards Commission, interviewed several groups of children, aged
between nine and 13, about their perceptions of on-screen violence. Her findings
were presented this week during a discussion on violence in the media, hosted by
the British Academy of Film and Television Arts.

Ms Millward-Hargrave also highlighted a strong need among children to see
justice served. She said: "Justice, consequences and closure are important.

That's what September 11 has not given them. Osama bin Laden has not been
caught. Saddam Hussein has not been killed. They don't feel safe."

International 20 Another voice 22 Friday magazine 4


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 2003 TSL Education Limited

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Gwent

                               November 21, 2003

Bomb attacks: I felt terror for my father

BYLINE: Darren Evans

LENGTH: 536 words

DATELINE: Gwent


A Turkish businessman living in Newport was terrified that his elderly father
had been killed in yesterday's terrorist bombings in Turkey.

Cemil Yildiztekin's 78-year-old father Muharem Yildiztekin went to the British
Consulate just minutes before a huge bomb wrecked the building.

Mr Yildiztekin senior was visiting the consul to get a visa so he could move to
Wales and live with his son in Newport.

Mr Yildiztekin junior 44 who owns Tri-City catering equipment on Corporation
Road said: "I saw the reports of the bombs on the news and I panicked. My father
was at the consul because he was due to fly here this week. I was so shocked and
upset. I thought he must be dead.

"I tried to call him or my brother but the phones were down and I couldn't get
through. It was terrible."

After an anxious two-hour wait he eventually contacted his brother in Istanbul
who said that their father had escaped uninjured.

Mr Yildiztekin said: "He left the consul a couple of minutes before the chaos. I
was so relieved. Another two minutes and he could have been dead.

"I haven't seen him for four years. He was coming to stay with me in Newport for
Christmas maybe longer. I don't know if I can even see him now or whether he
will be able to fly over."

At least 27 people have been reported killed and over 400 injured in the two
bomb attacks on the British Consulate and the HSBC bank headquarters in
Istanbul. Rescue workers today feared the death toll would rise.

Britain's top diplomat in the city Consul-General Roger Short was among at least
14 people killed in the attack on the consulate.

Last night a visibly shaken Foreign Secretary Jack Straw visited the scene.
Today local news sources were saying that seven men were being questioned in
connection with the attacks on the consulate and HSBC bank.

Cemil Yildiztekin who has lived in Newport for a year said he and many other
Turks living in South Wales were shocked and outraged by yesterday's attacks.

"Too many people have died because of these terrorists " he said.

"Everybody is very angry and in a panic. These terrorists are targeting Turkey
because they think we are friendly with the UK and USA over the Iraq war.

"If there was no war in Iraq then this would never have happened. We are worried
because it could be Turkey today UK tomorrow."

* MEMBERS of Newport's large Turkish community spent most of yesterday watching
events unfold on television desperate for news of friends and loved ones in
Turkey.

At the Turkish community centre on Corporation Road Turks meet up to eat drink
and socialise. Emrah Polat aged 18 said: "Today has been very quiet. Usually
people play pool and enjoy themselves but today everybody just wants to watch
the news. We've all got family in Turkey so we are all worried about them."

Although there is not much support for George Bush Tony Blair or the war in Iraq
neither is there any support for the terrorists.

Mr Polat said: "We are all Moslem but these terrorists are not Moslems.

"They do not care who they kill. The do not care about race or language or
colour. Turks are moderate Moslems but these people are extremists. We need to
stop terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cemil Yildiztekin;

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Dorset

                               November 21, 2003

I stood yards from bomb attack terror

BYLINE: Jenna Weekes (jenna.weekes@bournemouthecho.co.uk)

LENGTH: 416 words

DATELINE: Dorset


A DORSET restaurateur who was staying with family in Istanbul just yards from
Thursday's terrorist attack has spoken of his horror.

Kasim Cakir 45 who runs Ottoman Kebabs in Blandford has spoken of the "terrible"
moment the house shook and described the devastation on the streets of Istanbul
resulting from one of the blasts.

He said: "I was talking to my friend and the house started shaking. There was a
big explosion - it felt like it was just next door."

At least 27 people were killed and hundreds injured after bombs ripped through
the British Consulate and HSBC's Istanbul headquarters yesterday.

Kasim said: "The British Consulate is not far from my parents' house - it is
just 500 yards away.

"I went near to the British Consulate after the explosion - most of the shop
windows were broken they wouldn't let us pass but in front of the hospital were
people wondering if their friends and relatives were alright.

"There were people crying and people with no arms and legs - it's terrible. It
is like a war here. We are all scared it might happen again. I can't explain how
frightening it was. I couldn't eat all day.

"My wife and children are at home in Blandford - my wife tried to contact me in
the morning but the phone lines were down."

Since the attack Kasim has been to the local hospital and offered to give blood
to help those injured in the explosion. He plans to return to Blandford on
Wednesday.

Back home Dorset's Turkish community feared for the safety of friends and
relatives.

Ishmal Gunduz 21 has lived in Boscombe with his immediate family for the past 13
years but frantically tried to contact his aunts and uncles in Istanbul when
news broke of the latest terrorist attack.

He said: "You can't know if everyone is all right when there are bombs going
off."

Turkish students at Bourne-mouth's many language schools were also reeling from
the attack which is thought to have been masterminded by Al-Qaida.

The attackers blew up two pick-up trucks carrying explosives in apparently
co-ordinated attacks just minutes apart.

David Jones of ETC Language School in Bournemouth said: "The attack on HSBC was
very close to one of our local agents but thankfully they are all okay.

"We have around six students here from Turkey and most of them are from
Istanbul. They haven't had a chance to contact family there yet.

"It is a worrying turn of events.

"A number of people in Bournemouth will be concerned I'm sure."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARNAGE: The scene in the courtyard of the British Consulate in
Istanbul after the explosion;

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 21, 2003, Friday

AL-QAEDA BOMBS KILL BRITONS;
 BLAIR DEFIANT AFTER TERRORISTS ATTACK BRITISH CONSULATE AND HSCB BANK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 473 words


TONY BLAIR vowed yesterday that Britain would not flinch in the face of
terrorism, after massive bombs tore through two British targets in Istanbul,
killing at least 27 people, including the Consul General, his personal assistant
and another Briton.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw last night flew into the city, after explosions
wrecked the Turkish headquarters of the London-based HSBC Bank and the British
Consulate, leaving more than 450 people injured.

The blasts - the worst terror attacks in Turkish history - came five days after
the weekend synagogue bombings in the city killed 23, and appeared designed to
coincide with the state visit of US President George Bush to Britain.

The Foreign Office's travel advice on Turkey was tightened to warn against
travel not only to Istanbul, but also all of the country's other major cities,
including capital Ankara.

Yesterday's targets were 'clearly selected because of their connection to
Britain', stated the advice.

And it added, 'Responsibility for the attacks has been claimed by the Turkish
militant group IBDA-C, jointly with al Qaeda.

'We have information to suggest that further attacks may be attempted.

Mr Straw flew to Istanbul to view the blast scenes for himself and speak to
those who had been injured and bereaved. Speaking at the scene of the consulate
blast, he condemned those responsible as 'fanatics filled with hatred'.

Amid a scene of utter devastation, he said: 'These people are full of hatred,
they are fanatics. These attacks are attacks on the whole of humanity.

'I am afraid, as we have seen before in the history of terrorism, we have to
fight terrorism and not allow it to defeat us. I know we stand united with the
Turkish people in that.'

The Queen sent a message saying she was 'deeply shocked' at the attacks and
expressed her sympathy to 'all caught up in these evil acts of terrorism'.

And the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Rowan Williams, who visited Istanbul and
met the Consul General Roger Short earlier this week, spoke of his 'shock and
grief'.

Scotland Yard announced it was sending 16 Anti-Terrorism Branch officers to aid
the investigation.

At a joint press conference at the Foreign Office, Mr Blair and Mr Bush
denounced the killings and pledged that the attacks would not undermine their
commitment to the reconstruction of Iraq.

'In the face of this terrorism, there must be no holding back, no compromise, no
hesitation in confronting this menace, in attacking it wherever and whenever we
can and in defeating it utterly,' the Prime Minister said.

'I can assure you of one thing: that when something like this happens today, our
response is not to flinch or give way or concede one inch. We stand absolutely
firm until this job is done, done in Iraq, done elsewhere in the world.'

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                               November 22, 2003

World alert on cars of death terror attacks: Al Qaida linked group claims it
killed British consul

BYLINE: Luke Harding and Helena Smith in Istanbul, Owen Bowcott and Giles Foden

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 711 words


The heightened threat of suicide bombings was last night forcing UK embassies
around the world to re-evaluate their defences against what an al-Qaida
statement described as its "cars of death".

The explicit warning of fresh "martyrdom operations" was published as police in
Istanbul detained seven suspects in connection with the devastating blasts at
the British consulate and the HSBC bank.

All are understood to be Turkish passport holders.

Two of them, tentatively identified by the Turkish media as Azad Ekinci and
Feridun Ugurlu, were close friends of Mesut Cabuk and Gokhan Elaltuntas, the men
who carried out the suicide bombings of two synagogues in Istanbul last
Saturday.

Ekinci, who fought in Chechnya and Bosnia, and Ugurlu, who trained in camps in
Pakistan, reportedly hired the cars used in the synagogue attacks.

All four came from Bingol, in south-eastern Turkey and had connections to an
Islamist paramilitary group renowned for killing liberal opponents.

Lessons about where barriers should be placed in future will now be studied by
the security officers in every mis sion around the world. The device which
levelled two buildings in the Istanbul consulate is understood to have contained
at least 225kg (500lb) of explosives. Because of constricted road space near the
consulate, a protective concrete block had been placed inside the main gates,
close to the consulate offices.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "We have instructed all departments,
particularly those in the region, to review security practices . . . Balancing
the operational requirements (of the diplomatic mission) against risks is very
difficult."

In Tehran meanwhile, the vulnerability of the embassy there was again
underscored when a fire bomb was thrown at the back gate of the large walled
compound. No one was hurt in what was the fifth attack in four months.

A Whitehall source warned that because al-Qaida had struck British interests
abroad rather than at home did not imply Britain was safe.

The intelligence services and Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch have advised
that an al-Qaida atrocity in the UK is a matter of when, not if. "We share that
sentiment", said the source. "We can do our very best, but it is difficult. We
must be prepared for it."

The foreign secretary, Jack Straw, who inspected the ruined HSBC building
yesterday and met the widow and elder daughter of Roger Short, the murdered
British consul general, said the bombings were evidence of a "global threat" to
the civilised world. "We who represent the civilised world are facing a global
threat, and we have to deal with it in a global way."

One leading Turkish commentator last night said he believed al-Qaida had
targeted Istanbul because it was the ultimate "symbolic city" that bridged the
east and west, Islam and Christendom.

"The attacks send a message to the Islamic world that those countries which
reform and acquire democratic values, like Turkey, will be a target of Islamic
radicalism," Hussein Bagdi, a security expert at the Middle East Technical
University in Ankara, said.

A group close to the heart of al-Qaida yesterday claimed to have assassinated Mr
Short. The Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigades posted a statement on its website saying
it targeted him because he was the "mastermind of the British policy in Iraq,
Turkey, Syria and Iran because of his extensive experience in . . . combating
Islam".

In what amounted to a highly unusual apology to Muslim victims, the statement -
outlining Operation Islamic Iron Hammer, a sarcastic reference to the US
military clampdown on guerrillas in Iraq - said: "We admit that the cars of
death that targeted the British bank were put in an inappropriate place, which
caused some casualties among innocents." But it promised further "cars of
death".

A London-based Arab magazine said yesterday that al-Qaida had vowed to carry out
a major attack by February, and to strike in "the heart of Tokyo" if Japan sent
troops to Iraq. The weekly al-Majalla said it had received an email from a
little known al-Qaida member, Abu Mohammed al-Ablaj, in which he said the group
planned a "big operation" before early February. The authenticity of the email
could not be verified.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 22, 2003, Saturday

Terror attacks force Britain into retreat

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin in London and Daniel McGrory in Istanbul

SECTION: Overseas news; 1

LENGTH: 755 words


Dozens of embassies may be closed, moved or fortified

BRITAIN'S 233 embassies and consulates face being fortified, relocated or closed
in the wake of Thursday's suicide bombing attack on the Istabul consulate.

Within two hours of that attack, the Foreign Office sent telegrams to every
mission ordering an urgent review of security arrrangements.

Senior FO officials yesterday admitted that they had received no warning of the
Istanbul bombings, and could no longer rely on "intelligence-led" defence. They
spent much of yesterday considering how to protect embassies in the hearts of
capital cities against the threat of suicide bombers.

The Foreign Office has already decided that terrorist threats make it impossible
to move back into the old British Embassy in Baghdad. A new building is being
prepared inside the coalition's high-security compound.

Within two hours of the explosions in Istanbul, all 233 British embassies, high
commissions and consulates received a Foreign Office telegram ordering a
security check. Emergency measures could include installing concrete blocks to
stop lorry bombs, as well as having British troops replace local security
guards. Some missions already have armed protection from the Royal Military
Police.

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, speaking as he toured the scene of the
devastation in Istanbul, said: "Everybody is now a target. With these ruthless
attacks that we now face, everywhere is a target."

Three UK citizens were among the 27 people killed by terrorists linked to the
alQaeda network in the attack on the British Consulate and the HSBC bank. The
dead included Roger Short, the 58-year-old Consul-General.

Government sources yesterday confirmed that there had been no intelligence of an
increased risk in Istanbul, even though two synagogues had been attacked by
suicide bombers five days earlier. Mr Straw has called an investigation into
security arrangements.

Yesterday, the Abu Hafz al-Masri Brigades, the al-Qaeda affiliate that has
claimed responsibility for the synagogue attacks, boasted that it had
deliberately hunted British targets. A message on its website described Mr Short
as the "mastermind of British policy in the region".

A Foreign Office source said: "These bombs have changed our perspective because
this is the first time British interests have been deliberately targeted in this
way." The Government has increased spending on security at diplomatic missions
by 350 per cent in the past three years. But the safety of staff still depends
heavily on intelligence-based warnings.

Sir Michael Jay, the Foreign Office permanent under-secretary who began a review
of the Diplomatic Service in January, yesterday held a series of meetings on the
subject.

British diplomats would be loath to retreat behind the high walls and suburban
locations of their American counterparts. But at least four British diplomatic
staff are understood to have pulled out of Iraq recently. Other embassies
regarded as high-risk include that in Sanaa, the capital of Yemen, the original
home of Osama bin Laden's family. There were also reports that a bomb had been
thrown at the British embassy compound in Tehran yesterday.

Although the review will consider the overall contribution each mission makes to
Britain's strategic objectives, aides acknowledge that some embassies will be
put at risk by security issues. "It may be that extra spending to counter
terrorism will tip the balance against some of them."

Turkish security forces made a number of arrests yesterday. After talks with Mr
Straw, Abdullah Gul, the Turkish Foreign Minister, said he was sure that police
would shortly identify the terrorists who, he claimed, were trained by al Qaeda.

Security sources in Istanbul say that between seven and eleven people are
believed to be in custody. The two men suspected of driving the lorries, each
packed with 500lbs of explosives, are the same figures whom the Turkish
authorities had accused of planning the synagogue attacks.

Police had claimed that Azad Ekinci and Feridum Ugurlu slipped out of Turkey
just before two of their relatives carried out last Saturday's atrocity. Senior
officers believe they returned to mount Thursday's attack.

The first of the funerals of the victims of Thursday's attack took place
yesterday, though plans are still being made to return Mr Short's body to
Britain.

Istanbul bombs, pages 4-7

David Shankland, page 29

Simon Jenkins, page 30

Letters, page 31


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               November 23, 2003

Travel: Istanbul no-go after terrorist bomb attacks

BYLINE: Gemma Bowes

SECTION: Observer Escape Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 338 words


Tour operators have stopped selling city breaks to Istanbul following Thursday's
terrorist attacks which killed at least 25 people and left more than 400
injured.

At the time of going to press, The Foreign Office was advising against all but
essential travel to Istanbul and warning of a 'high threat' of terrorism else
where in Turkey. Tourists were warned to be vigilant.

The Association of British Travel Agents estimated there were around 100 UK
package holidaymakers in the city at the time of the attacks. Two bombs exploded
at the British Consulate-General and the HSBC bank's headquarters causing
multiple casualties. The attacks followed the bombing of two synagogues on 15
November which killed 23 people and wounded more than 300.

Cresta Holidays has contacted 10 passengers due to fly to Istanbul in the next
seven days and offered them the opportunity to postpone their holidays or choose
alternative destinations. One passenger currently in the city has decided to
continue his holiday and returns to the UK tomorrow.

Senior product manager Ian Ackland said it was too early to tell how much impact
the bombings would have on tourism to Istanbul. 'It depends how long it's off
sale for. If it's a long time it will have a huge impact, if it's just for a few
weeks then I think travellers will return quite quickly,' he said.

A Thomson spokeswoman said that those due to go are being offered refunds or
alternative destinations. 'We've cancelled all trips until December,' she added.

A Travelscene spokeswoman said: 'Two people arrived after the bombs had gone
off, but they only booked accommodation with us so we are not responsible for
flying them home.' The company is offering refunds or alternative destinations
to 10 customers due to travel before December.

Until further notice, the British Consul in Turkey will not be able to provide
the full range of services. The FO advises people planning to travel to Turkey
to go to www.fco.gov.uk or call 0870 606 0290 for advice.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                               November 23, 2003

HOW TERROR HIT HOME;WHILE BUSH AND BLAIR MET, AL-QAEDA SENT A BLOODY MESSAGE ;++
YOU ARE ENGAGED IN A BLOODY WAR WITH PEOPLE WHO LOVE DEATH AS MUCH AS YOU LOVE
LIFE + SO PREPARE YOURSELF FOR WHAT IS COMING ++;As Bush and Blair met in London
amid demonstrations, al-Qaeda operatives planned their own protest - vicious
terrorist attacks on British interests abroad. Now it is not a question of if
they will attack us again but when

BYLINE: By Investigations Editor Neil Mackayand Diplomatic Editor Trevor Royle

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1410 words


THE message to Tony Blair is now crystal clear: Britain is a primary target for
al-Qaeda. British citizens and interests at home and abroad are now in the
middle of the main battlefield in the "war on terror".

After hitting a British bank and diplomatic mission in Turkey last week, al
-Qaeda has promised to continue the war against America's principal ally
wherever and whenever it can. It is not a question of "if" an attack happens, it
is a question of "when". This direct threat is being taken very seriously by
MI5, Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad and MI6.

For Britons, the world changed last week with the suicide attacks on the British
consulate and HSBC bank, but hints that the times were changing had been around
for some time. On November 12, 18 Italian police died along with nine Iraqis
when forces loyal to Saddam Hussein attacked a police station. The war on
America's European allies was intensifying.

Then, a new front was opened up by al-Qaeda with suicide attacks blowing up two
Jewish synagogues in Istanbul, killing 23 people. On Thursday, the fight was
brought directly to UK civilians. Among the 27 dead in suicide attacks in
Istanbul were the British consul-general Roger Short, his personal assistant
Lisa Hall and Nanette Kurma, a Scot.

Britons were targeted again on Friday when the Iraqi resistance fired rockets
from donkey carts hitting three targets, including the two hotels in Baghdad
which houses British journalists and business contractors.

Al-Qaeda is now targeting ordinary UK citizens. Our friendship with America, and
our primary role as the US's adjutant in the invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq,
mean innocent Britons are now just waiting their turn as possible casualties on
the front line.

As al-Qaeda said in its most recent statement: "As for the tails of America -
especially Britain, Italy, Australia and Japan - who did not understand what was
said by Sheikh Osama bin Laden before Ramadan when he threatened martyrdom
operations would not stop inside and outside America, if they do not understand
words, then the cars of death will make them understand."

The statement said: "Here now are the cars of death reaping the souls of the
allies of the tyrant of the era every day ... in Turkey today, the vanguards of
the Abu Hafez al-Masri brigade (an arm of al-Qaeda) targeted the British consul,
Roger Short, because of his extensive experience in combating Islam and because
he is considered the mastermind of British policy in the region ... our cars of
death struck the consulate building ... and by the grace of God, he was killed.

"As for the British bank headquarters, this is a bastion of the British economy,
and let Britain and its people know that its alliance with America will not
bring it prosperity or security."

The statement claimed sorrow for the deaths of "innocents" and called on Muslims
"not to go near the diplomatic, economic or military headquarters of the US and
its allies; for our very real war, which will begin soon, will have no
boundaries and will show no mercy towards the tyrant of the era and his allies".

There is terror now on all sides. Defences are being strengthened at British
embassies around the world and dozens of missions, particularly in Muslim
countries, are hastily reviewing security in the wake of Thursday's Istanbul
suicide attacks.

Barriers were erected, roads closed and police patrols stepped up in Berlin,
Paris and Athens, and many embassies received urgent instructions, marked
"Deskby", signifying that they are the second highest order of priority, telling
them to up anti-terrorist procedures.

In Berlin, German security forces blocked access to the British embassy and the
ambassador's residence, while in Athens roads around the British and American
embassies were closed. In France, police increased patrols around British
diplomatic missions and corporate interests.

The US and UK have warned their nationals against travel to Turkey. The Foreign
Office travel service said: "We have information to suggest that further attacks
may be attempted." Britain is at a much greater risk overseas than the US. After
September 11, US diplomatic buildings often moved out of city centres into
suburban areas, which are much easier to defend. UK missions stayed put and so
remain an easier target.

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, said during his visit to the ruined HSBC
building in Istanbul: "I'm afraid to say that with these ruthless fanatics who
we now face, everywhere is a target."

Diplomatic officials say more attacks are expected at home and abroad. Sir John
Stevens, the Metropolitan Police commissioner, is fearful of an "imminent
attack" in London and has put officers on the highest state of alert. "The only
way to go up one notch is when there is a specific threat and people are on
their way to commit acts of terrorism," he said. Admiral Sir Alan West, the
First Sea Lord, added: "I cannot imagine there will not be an event in the UK."

In Istanbul, there is anger at the British government but sympathy for the
British people. Many Turks blame Blair for making the world a more dangerous
place. But the danger isn't just for Turkish people suffering the fallout of
British foreign policy, or for innocent British nationals caught up in the
backlash against the US and UK while overseas; for ordinary British men, women
and children, the danger is on our doorstep .

Last autumn, terrorists in London tried to buy half a tonne of the toxic
chemical saponin, with the aim of killing thousands. The plot was uncovered when
the supplier, Amersham Biosciences, became suspicious of the large amount
requested.

It is believed the terrorists wanted to use the drug to mix with ricin, a highly
potent toxin. Saponin enhances the transmission of molecules through cell walls,
and could have been used to make ricin smeared on surfaces in public places more
effective.

Traces of ricin were found in a flat in north London during a police raid in
January. Four people have been charged with possession of articles of value to
terrorists and with being concerned with the production and development of a
chemical weapon.

Security chiefs are sure that there are sleeper cells in the UK. Al-Qaeda
specialises in co-opting Islamic extremists living in countries like Morocco,
Turkey and Indonesia and assisting and advising them in carrying out attacks
against Western interests. Don't forget that London has long been dubbed
"Londonstan" by French intelligence because it is seen as a harbour for Islamic
extremists.

America has also confirmed that there are new indications that al-Qaeda is
plotting attacks against US interests overseas, and further attacks at home are
not ruled out. The CIA's Terrorist Threat Assessment Centre has sent out an
advisory that there is "increased chatter" among terror cells and the US
Department of Homeland Security warns that aviation could be used in new
attacks.

Eliza Manningham-Buller, the director-general of MI5, is sure that an imminent
threat is posed to the UK. The Sunday Herald has seen some of the minutes of a
meeting on national security, during which she made some chilling comments about
the risks now facing the UK.

"Renegade scientists have co-operated with al-Qaeda ... we are faced with the
realistic possibility of some form of unconventional attack. That could include
a chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear attack ... it will only be a
matter of time."

What would be the result of such an attack in the west? General Tommy Franks,
who led the US military invasion of Iraq, said that if the US was hit by a
weapon of mass destruction that inflicted large casualties, the American
constitution would be suspended in favour of a military dictatorship.

If terrorists used a WMD, Franks said "the Western world, the free world, loses
what it cherishes most, and that is freedom and liberty we've seen for a couple
of hundred years in this grand experiment that we call democracy ... It means
the potential of a weapon of mass destruction and a terrorist, massive,
casualty-producing event somewhere in the Western world - it may be in the US -
that causes our population to question our own constitution and to begin to
militarise our country in order to avoid a repeat of another mass, casualty
-producing event.

"Which, in fact, then begins to unravel the fabric of our constitution."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Target Britain:al-Qaeda suicide bombers marked the Bush-Blair summit by
destroying the British consulate, above,and the London-headquartered HSBC bank,
left, in Istanbul. On the same day they launched a mortar attack from a donkey
cart at the Sheraton Hotel, Baghdad, home to British and foreign journalists and
business people Photographs: EPA, Reuters, Joe Raedle/Getty;The British
consul-general Roger Short, who died in the Istanbul bombings

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               November 23, 2003

LEADER COLUMN; BRITAIN MUST ACT ON THESE TERROR ATTACK WARNINGS

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 204 words


Could this week's terrorist atrocities at the British Consulate and HSBC
headquarters in Istanbul have been avoided? This is the question Foreign Office
officials must answer as this newspaper reveals that the department was warned
by intelligence agencies twice that Al Qaeda had these targets in its sights.

With the British Consulate undergoing refurbishment work, it was an easy target
for terrorists. Yet the consul general Roger Short either ignored, or did not
know about, the warnings from the CIA and Mossad. The Americans moved their
staff out of their consulate as a result of similar intelligence advice while
the British simply appear to have carried on as normal in their makeshift and
very vulnerable offices. This shows a worrying breach of security for a nation
that has long been near the top of the list of targets for the fanatical
terrorist network.

Events in Istanbul this week show that every British interest abroad is now a
potential terrorist target. The Foreign Office must be looking at tightening
security at all its overseas departments. That means responding swiftly and
decisively to intelligence warnings of the sort that appear to have been given
before the Istanbul bombing.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 24, 2003

Barschak gets 28 days for 'comedy terror' attack on artist

BYLINE: ROBERT JOBSON

SECTION: C; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 409 words


AARON BARSCHAK, the man who gatecrashed Prince William's 21st birthday party,
was today jailed for 28 days.

The self-styled "comedy terrorist" was sentenced at Oxford magistrates' court
for hurling paint over Turner Prize-nominated artist Jake Chapman.

The 37-year-old was convicted last month of causing criminal damage and a
district judge warned him he could face prison for the "publicity stunt".

Barschak, from Golders Green, denied the charge and claimed he was "creating a
work of art" by splattering red oil paint over Mr Chapman and the floor and
walls of the Modern Art museum in Oxford as he shouted: "Viva Goya."

An exhibition at the gallery by Mr Chapman and his brother, Dinos, called The
Rape Of Creativity, featured grotesque cartoon heads superimposed on a series of
etchings by the Spanish painter.

Barschak told police he was " collaborating" with Mr Chapman and wanted to enter
photos of the 30 May incident in the Turner Prize.

He told police that the paint symbolised blood.

When asked in court why he had thrown the paint, he replied: "I would rather you
say I painted rather than I threw the paint.

"It's an improvement on Mr Chapman's painting and it's an improvement on the
wall.

"In the same terms as an artist putting string around a Rodin, in the same terms
as the Chapman brothers doodled on the Goyas, I decided to paint him and
anything else that was around."

Judge Brian Loosley had found the stand-up comedian guilty after a one-day trial
on 30 October, telling him: "I may well want to pass a custodial sentence to
reflect my displeasure."

He added: "This was not the creation of a work of art but the creation of a
complete mess."

Former publ ic school boy Barschak has a history of hijacking public events.

He prompted a major overhaul of royal security in June when he managed to
infiltrate Prince William's party while dressed as Osama bin Laden.

The Chapmans' adaptations of Goya's Disasters Of War etchings are currently on
display at Tate Britain in the Turner Prize exhibition.

The damaged painting, which was not part of the series, is still in storage.

After finding Barschak guilty, Judge Loosley said: "This is a serious offence of
wanton destruction of a work of art. I feel that this was a publicity stunt and
not a genuine attempt by you to create a work of art."

Barschak has also been ordered to pay 300 towards the prosecution costs.

END

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                               November 24, 2003

Police want new powers to deal with aftermath of terror attack

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 638 words


Britain's most senior policeman yesterday called for increased powers to deal
with the aftermath of a terrorist attack.

Sir John Stevens, commissioner of the Metropolitan police, said it was
"absolutely essential" for officers to have the ability to direct the public
amid the chaos of a terrorist attack in Britain.

The government's civil contingencies bill allows the police to order
evacuations, confiscate property and animals without compensation, ban
demonstrations and travel, and impose curfews. The powers would need renewal
after 30 days.

Sir John said that in the event of an attack "we absolutely need those powers to
move people around, get them to safe areas, basically for the public safety".

He added: "Those are absolutely essential, we live in an incredibly dangerous
world. You just have to look at what happened in New York, Bali and recently
Istanbul, it is a dangerous world. We are actually under attack from
international terrorists who are incredibly sophisticated. Fortunately they
haven't got through to London or this country as yet."

But speaking on Sky News's Sunday with Adam Boulton programme, Sir John said the
threat of terrorism must not be allowed to disrupt people's normal lives.

"We have got to make sure it is business as usual as far as we possibly can," he
said.

Despite growing fears prompted by last week's explosions in Istanbul, police and
security forces say all reasonable precautions are in place.

Britain remains on "severe general", the second highest of seven states of alert
and the authorities cannot move to a higher state of alert unless they have
information of an imminent attack.

Surveillance of key sites, both overt and covert, has been stepped up and armed
officers are visible at ports and airports.

Privately some officers say there are dozens of potential suicide bombers in
this country. Recent intelligence reports estimate that there are between 30 and
60 individuals who are a possible threat. But the bigger worry is the
possibility that many potential terrorists are operating in Britain without
having previously come to the attention of the police.

Today London Resilience, the emergency coordination group of ministers, police
officers and members of the emergency services will discuss, among other things,
the most appropriate response to the state of alert. But the level of planning
is already the subject of political controversy.

Patrick Mercer, the Conservative spokesman on homeland security, claimed this
weekend that the US is taking the terrorist threat far more seriously than
Britain.

Mr Mercer said the only London building apparently taking the terror threat
seriously was the US embassy, which has been ringed with concrete barriers and
metal fencing. "We don't see any of our great iconic targets being protected in
the same way."

He called on the government to do more to make the public alert, "therefore
creating in almost everybody who has got a set of eyes and ears. . . a set of
intelligence nodes."

But the call for more physical security was rejected by the home secretary,
David Blunkett. Speaking on the BBC's Today programme, he said: "It's very good
intelligence that actually saves you in the end, not massive concrete blocks
around every piece of British territory abroad or for that matter all our iconic
buildings. We have police, and we have security where it's appropriate

"We get criticised for pulling those police out of the neighbourhoods and
communities so we've got to get a balance here between common sense. It won't be
people standing about waiting for suicide bombers that will save us, it will be
very, very good intelligence."

Mr Blunkett said he would only announce specific high level warnings if it would
help people protect themselves.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           November 25, 2003, Tuesday

'COMEDY TERRORIST' JAILED FOR ART ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 277 words


Self-styled 'comedy terrorist' Aaron Barschak was yesterday jailed for 28 days
for throwing paint over a Turner Prizenominated artist.

Barschak, who sparked a review of Royal security after gatecrashing Prince
William's 21st birthday party at Windsor Castle, was sentenced at Oxford
Magistrates Court for the attack at a gallery in the city in May this year.

The 37-year-old from Golders Green, north London, had denied the charge of
criminal damage saying he was 'creating a work of art' by hurling red paint over
artist Jake Chapman and his painting, the floor and walls of Modern Art Oxford.

But District Judge Brian Loosley had dismissed this as a blatant publicity
stunt.

Mr Loosley said Barschak had not helped himself by refusing to pay compensation,
estimated at some pounds 605, and saying he would only do a community punishment
order on his own terms. Barschak who had sat outside eating a tube of Smarties,
and dressed in a shabby suit, purple tie and with a bright red bowler hat with
the top roughly cut out, came into court barefoot and was immediately told to
take off his 'hat'.

His barrister Ian Sen agreed with the judge that his client had not really
helped himself, saying himself that he should be 'dealt a short, sharp, shock'.

But Mr Sen said Barschak had not really taken in how serious prison could be.

'It may open the defendant's eyes,' he said.

'It might make him see sense, yes,' said Mr Loosley.

An exhibition at the gallery by Mr Chapman and his brother, Dinos, called The
Rape of Crea-tivity, featured grotesque cartoon heads superimposed on a series
of etchings by the Spanish painter Goya.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                               November 25, 2003

G2: Real lives: After the bombs: Maureen Freely grew up in Istanbul. After
Fridays terrorist attacks she caught the first plane back and found the city
bloodied but defiant

BYLINE: Maureen Freely

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2105 words


When the bomb exploded outside the synagogue in the old Istanbul neighbourhood
of Galata 10 days ago, my brother Brendan was in his flat around the corner.
When the bomb went off outside the British consulate five days later, he was on
his way to his favourite chicken shop outside the fish market opposite the
consulate entrance. If he had left a quarter of an hour earlier, he would no
longer be with us.

My parents were on their way to buy a new refrigerator that morning. They were
heading for the mall just a hill or two inland, across the street from the HSBC
Bank. Had they left 10 minutes earlier, they would have been standing in traffic
next to the truck carrying the bomb.

My friend Nakiye was meant to have been at a meeting in the Renault building,
also just across from the HSBC. She was leaving her office when she got a call
that pushed the meeting forward half an hour. If she had not caught that call,
she would have been outside the bank at the time of the blast.

Outside the bank is a metro station. My father's colleague Yannis had just come
out of it and was a few hundred yards away when the bomb went off. Meanwhile, on
the other side of the city, my 22-year-old niece was boarding the same metro
line. She had spent the evening with her best friend, who lives a few hundred
yards from the consulate. The friend had tried to talk her into taking the day
off work. If she had, they would probably have witnessed the bombing from their
favourite haunt, the old Greek wine bar across the street from the red
guardhouse that flanked the entrance to the British consulate and is now a pile
of rubble.

This might sound a set of strange coincidences, but they are not. All the bombs
that went off in Istanbul last week were in busy neighbourhoods that hundreds of
thousands of people pass through daily. Most of them might be Turkish Muslims,
but Istanbul has always been a city of many religions and cultures. A large
percentage of the country's Turkish non-Muslims are concentrated in these same
areas, as are the city's many thousands of foreign residents and the many
hundreds of foreign-owned businesses. The area around the British consulate is
teeming with other consulates. There are three churches and a mosque within a
few hundred yards. There is no way of targeting foreigners without targeting
Turks in these crowded streets and no way of protecting them either. This is
presumably why the Foreign Office has advised all British nationals to stay away
from the city until further notice, and why almost everyone I know in England
thinks I was crazy to fly home on the first plane.

I am glad I did. I am glad, most of all, because I have learned, once again, not
to trust what I see on television. Especially if I am seeing a place I think I
know. My family moved to Istanbul when I was eight, and have lived there almost
continuously since, so every pile of rubble I saw on television last week was a
building ripped from my past. There was the Greek delicatessen where we bought
our butter and our bacon when I was little. There was the consular residence,
where my own children used to play. There was the chapel where my best friend
was confirmed. There was the hospital where my father had his hip operation last
summer. But now it was what Bush was calling the new front in his war on terror.
I felt physically ill, and I felt worse every time a well-meaning person asked
me if my family was safe. "Well that's all right, then," they would say. Oh no
it is not, I wanted to say. It is not all right at all.

Radio 4 and the broadsheet comment pages reflected my pessimism. A bridge
between east and west had been destroyed, said one. It was only a matter of time
before the west pulled out entirely. I had heard all about the new draconian
security measures: the truck now blocking the gate to the American-owned Robert
College, where my brother-in-law teaches; the armed guards and sniffer dogs
outside the malls, the banks, the supermarkets, and just about anything with a
foreign-sounding name; the blockades around the building that was, until a few
months ago, the US consulate, and has now become the temporary headquarters for
the British. So I was expecting to find the streets empty and most of the city's
10 million residents cowering behind closed doors.

Indeed, there was a great hush in the arrivals lounge. For the first time ever,
I did not have to queue for a visa. But once we had left the airport, it was
hard to see any sign of a crisis. The streets were clogged with traffic and
people shopping for the holiday that begins today. The shores of the Bosphorus
were lined with fishermen and a procession of large, slow-moving families
enjoying the unusually fine weather. The restaurants and cafes were doing a
brisk business, and every few hundred metres there was a florist overflowing on
to the pavement to meet the seasonal demand.

In my brother's neighbourhood, which was ankle deep in broken glass a week ago,
the glaziers have been working so hard that there is a joke rumour going around
that they were the masterminds behind the bomb. Now all but a few of the windows
have been replaced, bar the ones on the mosque next door to the synagogue. The
buildings across the street have lost their fronts and been condemned. But the
lighting store next to them is open for business.

My brother says that the shopkeepers on the street were out with their brooms
within minutes of the explosion. It was the residents who got the wounded to
hospital. He saw no official presence for two hours.

They are very much in evidence now. Those with homes or businesses in the
affected areas must leave their identity cards with the police manning the
barricades. Anyone who stops to look at the damage can expect to be filmed by a
man who may or may not be an innocent journalist. It is all very subtle, and
very calm. The shopkeepers in the fish and flower markets near to where the
entrance to the British consulate stood until last Thursday do not want to talk
about the bomb any more. They would rather sell me a string of red peppers or
talk me into a pair of wonky glasses and a monster mask. Like my friends, they
see staying at home behind closed doors as a form of defeat. They are determined
to get life back to normal as soon as possible, no matter what.

This was Istanbul's September 11. They thought they were safe from the war on
terror because they thought all Muslims were brothers. Now they know otherwise,
and are unified in their condemnation of the terrorists, who cannot be "true
Muslims". The fact that the terrorists staged this attack in the last days of
Ramadan has added to their outrage. But no one is in any doubt why the city has
become a terrorist target. How its residents respond to their new status depends
very much on how much support they get (or fail to get) from the allies who
dragged them into this. As one shopkeeper put it, "Surely, now that we have
suffered this, the EU must open its arms to us." If it doesn't, or if the US
gives the impression, as it has sometimes done in the past, that it is taking
Turkey's "sacrifice" for granted, the sense of betrayal could be huge.

But right now, everyone's mind is on the present, on trying to survive. By that
I do not mean that people are avoiding danger, but that they are quite adamantly
refusing to let danger change the way they live. And God only knows they have
had practice. In the past three years, they have been playing this game so much
they have hardly had time to breathe. Begin with the earthquake, in which the
official death toll was 18,000 but may well have been twice that. Continue with
the crippling recession, which has yet to ease, and the crimewave that has
followed in its wake. Even so, this has remained an exemplary city. To visit
Istanbul over the past few years has been to see friends look after each other
in ways that we in the privatised west have long forgotten. According to the
local code of conduct, the most dangerous thing is solitude, the next worst
thing is to sit at home behind closed doors. The worse things get, the more
important it is to go out with your friends and do whatever you have to do to
laugh adversity away.

Two winters ago, when the recession was really beginning to bite, my friend
Nakiye and I went out to an all-night dancing club. At least half the people
there had lost good, secure jobs. When the owner put on an insipid Turkish pop
song entitled "I'm deep in a depression" they all jumped to their feet and did a
communal belly dance.

When Nakiye and I met on Sunday, the fog that had been sitting over the city
earlier in the day suddenly cleared, and it was much in the same spirit that we
went out to a fish restaurant on the Bosphorus to watch the sunset. No one else
wanted to discuss "the events" any more than she did but their relatives and
their mobile phones had other plans. Everyone at the table spoke of the stream
of anxious calls they had been getting from dear ones currently abroad, urging
them to get out on the first plane.

This sort of thing is easy to shrug off, perhaps, if you are Turkish and
Istanbul is your home. It is trickier for those of us who have roots in this
city but carry foreign passports. It would be hard to understand this from the
sort of coverage we receive in Britain. As my childhood friend Becky says, "They
just don't get the point." Because Istanbul is not another Riyadh, where
foreigners jet in for two or three years to service foreign interests, to live
in separate compounds. It has been the opposite of Riyadh since the days of
Byzantium. There were large and commercially significant European concessions -
Venetian, Genoese, British, and French - and many of their descendants remained
in the city throughout the Ottoman Empire. There were 100,000 Greeks in the city
right up until the Cyprus crisis in 1964. About a third of the girls in my
secondary school were Greek, Armenian, and Jewish. The last time I went to my
sister's (Catholic) church I heard a service in which children sang Christmas
carols in 17 languages.

Bogazici University, where my father still teaches, has been a Turkish
institution since the early 1970s, but for a century before that it was an
American college for Turks. When we arrived 43 years ago, most of the faculty
was still American and more than a few of them had come here because, like my
father, they dreamed of a world beyond McCarthy, 50s conformity and cold war
paranoia. We did not lock ourselves up in expatriate isolation; we were part of
the city and we still are.

The gulf that divides the east from the west is something we think about a great
deal but we do not see it reflected in our everyday lives. Istanbul is more
cosmopolitan than it has ever been. Millions have either worked in Germany and
other parts of Europe and still have families there. Any family that can afford
it makes sure that they give their children a chance to spend time studying
abroad. Since the earthquake, eased relations with Greece haveopened the way to
an array of cultural and educational exchange programmes. The economic links
between the two countries are also growing, as have the links with countries in
the former eastern bloc.

When I was a child, Istanbul was an enchanted but neglected cold war outpost.
Over the past decade, I have watched it become the hub for all the regions that
surround it, a city neither eastern nor western but both at the same time. It
still is, but for how much longer?

As we sit drinking coffee around the corner from the British consulate, gazing
calmly at yet another high-sided vehicle that could be carrying 500lbs of cheap
explosives, my brother has difficulty keeping up the front. No matter how hard
he tries, his memories of the first and nearest bomb keep crowding into his
mind. The worst part was seeing the dead in the street and recognising their
faces. He tells me about the disembodied hand he saw sticking out of a mound of
broken glass. He can't help wondering if this was the hand that detonated the
bomb that killed his neighbourhood. "It's not just politics," he says. "They're
attacking our way of life."

He is determined to stay, he tells me. All the other Istanbullus-from-elsewhere
I know are telling me the same thing. The city is in a bad and dangerous place
right now, stuck as it is between two armies of fundamentalists. The nearness of
these bombs makes it feel as if they are closing in. But it has also made us
remember what we treasure about this city, and why we are not going to give it
up without a fight.


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 25, 2003

'Comedy terrorist' Barschak jailed for paint attack

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 518 words


Aaron Barschak, the self-styled "comedy terrorist", was jailed for 28 days
yesterday for throwing paint over a Turner Prize-nominated artist.

Barschak - who sparked a massive review of royal security earlier this year
after gate-crashing Prince William's 21st birthday party - was sentenced at
Oxford magistrates' court for the attack at a gallery in the city in May this
year.

The 37-year-old from Golders Green, north London, had denied the charge of
criminal damage, saying he was "creating a work of art" by hurling red paint
over artist Jake Chapman and his painting, the floor and the walls of Modern Art
Oxford.

However, district judge Brian Loosley dismissed this as a publicity stunt. Mr
Loosley said Barschak had not helped himself by refusing to pay compensation,
estimated at (pounds) 605, and saying he would only do a community punishment
order on his own terms.

"It's a serious offence and I have no option other than to send you to prison,"
he said.

Barschak - who had sat outside eating a tube of Smarties, and was dressed in a
shabby suit, purple tie and with a bright red bowler hat with the top roughly
cut out - came into court barefoot and was immediately told to take off his
"hat".

His barrister Ian Sen agreed with the judge that his client had not really
helped himself, saying himself that he should be "dealt a short, sharp, shock".

However, Mr Sen said Barschak had not really taken in how serious prison could
be.

"It may open the defendant's eyes," he said.

"It might make him see sense, yes," said Mr Loosley.

An exhibition at the gallery by Mr Chapman and his brother, Dinos, called The
Rape of Creativity, featured grotesque cartoon heads superimposed on a series of
etchings by Goya.

Barschak told police he was "collaborating" with Mr Chapman and wanted to enter
photos of the May 30 incident in the Turner Prize.

However, Mr Loosley had said at the time: "This was not the creation of a work
of art but the creation of a complete mess."

Public school-educated Barschak has a history of hijacking public events and
made the headlines in June when he managed to infiltrate Prince William's party
while dressed as Osama bin Laden.

Mr Loosley said he was jailing him as Barschak had no obvious income "other than
what the newspapers are silly enough to pay you on various occasions" to pay a
fine or compensation.

"You have shown absolutely no remorse for what you did and you made it clear you
will carry on carrying out such publicity stunts."

He said if Barschak behaved himself he could be free within 14 days, but warned
he would be back to complete the rest of his term if he pulled another such
stunt immediately on release.

Barschak shouted from the dock for a chance to speak but was denied by the
district judge.

Barschak's parents Fred and Miriam said their son would have to abide by the
court's decision.

Mrs Barschak said: "Laws must be obeyed, from the prime minister to the humblest
person. He shouldn't have done what he did."

Mr Barschak said simply: "The law has taken its course."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               November 25, 2003

'Comedy terrorist' jailed for paint attack;

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 160 words


SELF-STYLED "comedy terrorist" Aaron Barschak received a 28-day jail sentence
yesterday for hurling paint over Turner Prize-nominated artist Jake Chapman.

The would-be comic (right), who notoriously gatecrashed Prince William's 21st
birthday party earlier this year, was sentenced at Oxford Magistrates Court for
the attack at a gallery in the city.

He was convicted last month of causing criminal damage and a district judge
warned him that he could face prison for the "publicity stunt."

The unfunnyman denied the charge and claimed that he had "created a work of art"
by splattering red paint over Mr Chapman and the floor and walls of Modern Art
Oxford.

But district judge Brian Loosley found Mr Barschak guilty after a one-day trial
on October 30, telling him: "I may well want to pass a custodial sentence to
reflect my displeasure."

He added: "This was not the creation of a work of art, but the creation of a
complete mess."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004

               Copyright 2003 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               November 26, 2003

Terrorist attacks in Turkey 'imminent'

LENGTH: 422 words


Further terrorist attacks in Turkey were described yesterday as "imminent" by
the Foreign Office as Britons were urged to avoid travelling to major cities in
the country.

The warning came as nine people appeared in court in Istanbul in connection with
the twin suicide attacks on British targets which killed 30 and injured more
than 450.

The suspects, who were detained as suspected accomplices to the suicide bombers,
were charged with membership of an illegal organisation which carries up to five
years in prison. As authorities continued their investigations, the Foreign
Office said that intelligence had been received suggesting further terrorist
attacks in Turkey. Travel advice to Britons was revised to warn against all but
the most essential travel to major Turkish cities. "We have information to
suggest that further attacks may be imminent in Istanbul and Ankara," it read.

Three Britons were killed in the bombings last Thursday, including the consul
general Roger Short, after the British consulate and HSBC Bank were targeted.
The attacks claimed their latest victim yesterday when Hulya Donmez, 27, died
from serious head injuries. Her British fiance Graham Carter, 34, from
Lincolnshire, is in a critical condition. As officers from the Metropolitan
Police's Anti-Terrorist Branch assisted their Turkish counterparts with the
investigation, London remained on a state of high alert.

Andy Trotter, the Metropolitan Police's Deputy Assistant Commissioner, disclosed
yesterday that a number of intended terrorist strikes in the capital had been
foiled.

While he said that the discoveries had led to a number of "significant arrests",
he urged members of the public to remain "alert but not alarmed". "We have most
definitely foiled attacks on London," he said. Referring to fears that the
victory parade of England's World Cup Rugby squad may be targeted by terrorists,
he added: "We will do everything we can to facilitate their tour around the
centre of London and to make sure it is a joyous but safe event."

The sporting world was also reconsidering its schedule. Chelsea's Champions
League match against the Turkish team Besiktas, which is due to take place in
Turkey next month, is to be moved to a neutral venue.

Uefa, the governing body of European football, is also planning to switch the
away fixture of the tie between the Italian side Juventus and Galatasaray. A
Uefa cup tie in Izmir, involving the Spanish side Valencia, will also be moved.

Source: The Independent


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          November 26, 2003, Wednesday

TERROR WAR ATTACKED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 65 words


CRICKETER turned politician Imran Khan last night launched a stinging attack on
the US-led war on terror,accusing George Bush and Tony Blair of lacking
leadership. Speakingat the Oxford Union, former Pakistan captain Mr Khan said
western leaders had led a series of events which had "exacerbated" the situation
rather then remedied it. He branded Mr Blair as "subservient" to Mr Bush.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          November 26, 2003, Wednesday

COPS FOIL TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 139 words


TERROR strikes on London have been foiled, police claimed yesterday.

But the Met's deputy assistant commissioner warned the public to remain on the
alert.

Andy Trotter said there had been a number of "significant arrests".

He would not reveal details of the operations.

Trotter said all precautions were being taken around big events such as the
England rugby victory parade and the State Opening of Parliament.

British anti-terror officers are working with Turkish police to track down the
terrorists behind the attacks which killed 30 people in Istanbul five days ago.

A Turkish court yesterday charged nine people with belonging to or helping an
illegal organisation.

BOMBING victim Hulya Donmez, 27, who was at the British consulate with her
English fiance to get a visitor's visa, died yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING: Andy Trotter

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 26, 2003

Britons 'face imminent terror attack in Turkey'

BYLINE: DAVID WILLIAMS

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 349 words


BRITONS were warned yesterday of 'imminent' attacks by suicide bombers in the
Turkish cities of Ankara and Istanbul.

The Foreign Office issued the alert after new intelligence of attacks despite a
wave of arrests by anti-terror police in Turkey.

More than 50 people have been killed and 800 wounded in four suicide bombings in
Istanbul in the past fortnight. Two were specifically aimed at British targets.
The warn-

ing came hours after Turkish police seized computer hard drives from Internet
cafes in the town of Bingol, 600 miles south- east of Istanbul, where three of
the four suicide bombers were based.

It is feared the 'suicide cell' includes more potential bombers. Two men said to
have masterminded spying missions on the British Consulate and HSBC's Istanbul
office prior to the car bomb attacks are still on the run.

More than 300 British companies have bases in Ankara and Istanbul.

Security officials say they believe as many as 1,000 Al Qaeda-trained militants
are sheltering in Turkey.

The attacks on the British targets - whose victims included Consul General Roger
Short and his personal assistant Lisa Hallworth - followed bombings at two
Istanbul synagogues on November 15 that killed 25 people. DNA tests have
apparently confirmed the identity of the consulate bomber as Feridun Ugurlu, 27,
who is said to have bought the vehicles used in the synagogue attacks.

Security has been tightened at British embassies worldwide.

In its warning to Britons, the Foreign Office said yesterday: 'We have
information to suggest that further attacks may be imminent in Istanbul and
Ankara. We urge you to be vigilant in all parts of the country, especially in
the vicinity of potential terrorist targets.' Hulya Donmez, 27, the Turkish
woman wounded in the consulate while seeking a visa to visit the UK with her
fiance, Graham Carter from Lincoln, died yesterday. Her death brings the total
of fatalities from last Thursday to 31.

Mr Carter, 34, remains in hospital with facial burns but doctors expect him to
regain his eyesight.

END

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 26, 2003, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACKS IN TURKEY IMMINENT'

BYLINE: DANIELLE DEMETRIOU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 417 words


FURTHER TERRORIST attacks in Turkey were described yesterday as "imminent" by
the Foreign Office as Britons were urged to avoid travelling to major cities in
the country.

The warning came as nine people appeared in court in Istanbul in connection with
the twin suicide attacks on British targets which killed 30 and injured more
than 450.

The suspects, who were detained as suspected accomplices to the suicide bombers,
were charged with membership of an illegal organisation which carries up to five
years in prison. As authorities continued their investigations, the Foreign
Office said that intelligence had been received suggesting further terrorist
attacks in Turkey. Travel advice to Britons was revised to warn against all but
the most essential travel to major Turkish cities. "We have information to
suggest that further attacks may be imminent in Istanbul and Ankara," it read.

Three Britons were killed in the bombings last Thursday, including the consul
general Roger Short, after the British consulate and HSBC Bank were targeted.
The attacks claimed their latest victim yesterday when Hulya Donmez, 27, died
from serious head injuries. Her British fiance Graham Carter, 34, from
Lincolnshire, is in a critical condition. As officers from the Metropolitan
Police's Anti-Terrorist Branch assisted their Turkish counterparts with the
investigation, London remained on a state of high alert.

Andy Trotter, the Metropolitan Police's Deputy Assistant Commissioner, disclosed
yesterday that a number of intended terrorist strikes in the capital had been
foiled.

While he said that the discoveries had led to a number of "significant arrests",
he urged members of the public to remain "alert but not alarmed". "We have most
definitely foiled attacks on London," he said. Referring to fears that the
victory parade of England's World Cup Rugby squad may be targeted by terrorists,
he added: "We will do everything we can to facilitate their tour around the
centre of London and to make sure it is a joyous but safe event."

The sporting world was also reconsidering its schedule. Chelsea's Champions
League match against the Turkish team Besiktas, which is due to take place in
Turkey next month, is to be moved to a neutral venue.

Uefa, the governing body of European football, is also planning to switch the
away fixture of the tie between the Italian side Juventus and Galatasaray. A
Uefa cup tie in Izmir, involving the Spanish side Valencia, will also be moved.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 26, 2003, Wednesday

MORE TURK TERROR ATTACKS 'IMMINENT'

BYLINE: MARK ELLIS, FOREIGN EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 177 words

HIGHLIGHT: DEAD: Tragic Hulya


MORE terrorist attacks may be "imminent" in Istanbul and Ankara, the Foreign
Office warned yesterday.

The alert came as nine suspected accomplices of suicide bombers who killed 56
people in four attacks in Istanbul were charged with membership of an illegal
organisation.

They include relatives of the bombers who came from Bingol in south east of
Turkey.

Thirty one people died in twin attacks on the British consulate and HSBC HQ in
Istanbul last week.

Five days earlier, 25 people died in two attacks on synagogues. Warning against
all but essential travel to Turkish cities, the Foreign Office said: "We have
information to suggest further attacks may be imminent."

The fiancee of a British survivor of the consulate bombing died yesterday. Hulya
Donmez, 27, had been on life support. Her boyfriend Graham Carter, 34, of
Grantham, Lincs, is in hospital with face burns.

Chelsea's Champions League match with Besiktas and Galatasaray's clash with
Juventus have been moved to venues outside Turkey because of rising security
fears.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          November 26, 2003, Wednesday

TERROR-ATTACK BIDS 'FOILED'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 50 words


POLICE have foiled a number of intended terror strikes on London, a senior
officer said yesterday.

The Metropolitan Police's Deputy Assistant Commissioner Andy Trotter would not
say when or who had been involved in the 'significant' arrests but urged people
to remain 'alert but not alarmed'.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               November 27, 2003

Police seek elderly driver who may have witnessed indecent assault by two
teenagers;Sex attack terror as woman jogs along canal bank

BYLINE: By Gordon Thomson

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 351 words


A WOMAN suffered a sex attack as she jogged along a city canal bank.

She had been running along the bank in Maryhill when she was indecently
assaulted after being approached by two teenage boys.

The attack happened near Lochburn Road around 3pm on Sunday and detectives are
anxious to trace an elderly man who may have spotted the culprits after the 23
-year-old managed to scream for help.

A police spokesman said: "The attack happened in a pretty isolated area. The
woman was jogging near a canal towpath between Lochburn Road and Ruchill Street.
Two teenage boys were walking in the opposite direction.

"She passed them and one of them must have doubled back, grabbed her from behind
and indecently assaulted her.

"The woman screamed and the two teenagers ran off. But there was a man either
getting into or out of a car parked nearby. We believed his attention was drawn
by the jogger's screams.

"We really would like to speak to him. He could have information vital to our
inquiries. We would ask him to contact us in complete confidence."

The suspects are aged around 16 or 17. One was about 6ft tall and slim with
short hair and was wearing a distinctive shirt with black and white horizontal
stripes, dark jogging bottoms and white trainers.

The other was about 5ft 7in tall and slim with short, blond hair. He was wearing
a black jacket and light coloured tracksuit bottoms.

Detective Constable Cameron Ramsay of Maryhill CID hopes any witnesses will get
in touch.

The attack comes as police step up their hunt for the hit-and-run killer of
another jogger.

Kathleen Meighan, 27, was left fatally injured two weeks ago on Blairbeth Road,
Ruther-glen, South Lanarkshire, after being hit by a car. She died in hospital.

Hundreds of posters have been distributed in the area and roadblocks were set up
three days ago in a bid to bring the driver to justice.

Police are especially keen to speak to the driver of a dark-coloured Jaguar.
They say he may have witnessed the incident and could hold vital information.

gordon.thomson@

eveningtimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ATTACK SCENE: the woman was jogging on canal bank

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 29, 2003, Saturday

BRICK TERROR;
 MUM HURT IN ATTACK ON CAR

BYLINE: DAWN KNIGHT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 210 words

HIGHLIGHT: INJURY: Mrs Govett


A MUM driving her two children suffered serious injuries after she was hit in
the face by a brick thrown through her windscreen.

Rosemarie Govett, 41, lost control and swerved off the road, smashing through a
hedge and into the garden of a house.

Her daughter, 11, and 13-year-old son who were in the back of the car suffered
minor injuries and shock.

Rosemarie was in a serious condition in hospital last night.

The attack, on Thursday evening, is the third in a week on the A28 at
Bethersden, near Ashford, Kent.

Percy Bingham, 74, who lives nearby, said the girl raised the alarm: "She came
running up to the house and said that her mummy had been hurt.

"We took her in and comforted her and called the ambulance. The children were
very brave."

John Govett, the victim's ex-husband, said yesterday: "Rosemarie has terrible
injuries. I have no idea what would make someone do this. I appeal for anyone
who knows anything to come forward."

A police spokeswoman said: "On Tuesday a brick went through the window of a bus
up the road and a car was attacked on November 18. No one was hurt."

In March, lorry driver Michael Little, 53, died after he was hit by a rock on
the M3 in Surrey. A man of 19 was charged with murder.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               November 30, 2003

WAR ON TERROR TURKISH ATTACK IS REMEMBERED; VILLAGE GATHERS TO MOURN BOMB VICTIM
NANETTE

BYLINE: By Meg Milne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 562 words


HUNDREDS of mourners yesterday bade a sad farewell to a Scots grandmother killed
in a terrorist attack in Turkey.

Nanette Kurma, 41, died when a bomb destroyed the British Consulate in Istanbul
two weeks ago.

The interpreter was among 28 people who died when suicide bombers targeted her
building and the nearby HSBC bank.

She had been planning a visit back to Scotland for the birth of her third
grandson when the terror attack took place.

More than 200 people packed Schaw Kirk, in Drongan, Ayrshire, for an emotional
service. A Saltire was draped around the coffin of Mrs Kurma, who had lived in
Turkey after marrying Turk Feza Kurma.

Her grieving husband, whom she met in 1988, was among the congregation along
with her three children, Jillian, Sandy and Laura.

During the service, the Rev Paul Russell told the congregation not to seek
vengeance over the tragedy. He said: "In an evil terrorist atrocity such as this
we naturally feel anger towards those responsible.

"We are right to feel the need for justice, yes, but for retaliation, no. That
is nothing but the way of bitterness and the destruction of our own humanity.

"Although Nanette lived in Turkey, she never lost touch with her native Drongan.
As an interpreter at the British Consulate she was an efficient worker who loved
helping people, the bereaved and homeless. She was a loving friend, daughter,
sister and mother. She was quietly courageous and very warm towards others."

Mrs Kurma was one of three Britons among the dead when terrorists attacked the
consulate.

Consul General Roger Short and his personal assistant Lisa Hallworth were also
killed.

During the service, the minister thanked Foreign Secretary Jack Straw and local
politicians for their help and support.

A printed message in the Order of Service also read: "The family here are united
with all those mourning the effects of this tragedy in Turkey and elsewhere.

They wish to send their thoughts and prayers at this time to the families in
Turkey at their time of sadness."

Mr Straw was represented at the funeral by Foreign Office Minister Baroness
Symons of Vernham Been and Sir Michael Jay, Permanent Under Secretary and Head
of the Diplomatic Service.

Several other high ranking officials and civil servants from Turkey and London
also travelled to Drongan for the service.

As the mourners filed out of the service, a grief-stricken elderly woman
collapsed and was helped from the church. Mr Kurma was supported by members of
the family as he followed the coffin at the end of the service.

A statement from the Foreign Office said staff shared in the family's grief and
were keen to express their condolences.

It said: "Nanette was a valued and long serving member of the Consular staff in
Istanbul, in a job dedicated to helping members of the public in distress.

"She did this with professionalism and humour. She will be missed as a public
servant and a wonderful person."

The Foreign Office is now warning UK citizens against travel to all of Turkey's
cities after 28 people were killed and 450 injured in the bombings on November
20.

Meanwhile, Turkish police have arrested a man they say ordered a bomb attack on
an Istanbul synagogue earlier this month.

The suspect was arrested with a false identification while trying cross the
border into Iran.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            December 1, 2003, Monday

PUB ATTACK MAN 'WAS UNBALANCED';
 COURT TOLD OF TERROR DRIVE ON M6

BYLINE: STEPHEN HALLMARK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 326 words


A MAN who punched another in the face in a Coventry pub was caught two days
later driving erratically on the M6, a court was told.

When Paul Harratt, 26, of no fixed address, appeared at Coventry Crown Court,
recorder Nicholas Paines was told the defendant had unbalanced his mind by
taking drugs at Glastonbury Festival three years ago.

Harratt, who had been in custody for four months, admitted assault, aggravated
vehicle taking and driving without insurance.

He was sentenced to a 12-month rehabilitation order and banned from driving for
a year.

Dave Pearson, prosecuting, said Harratt had been abusive in an Earlsdon pub
before turning to a customer and pestering him for beer.

He said: "In the next second the defendant punched the victim in the face and
split his lip. It was witnessed by off-duty policemen who called the police."

While on bail for that offence, the court heard, Harratt went to his mother's
house in Coventry and took the keys to her Fiat Bravo, before driving off to the
M6.

Mr Pearson said: "Police spotted him driving dangerously and again saw him at
the Keele services. He drove up the hard shoulder, had a narrow miss and then
undertook an HGV and coach. When stopped he told the police he was an expert
driver, but they disagreed."

Stuart Baker, in mitigation, said that police chasing Harratt on the motorway
realised that he was driving erratically because he was mentally disturbed.

He said: "My client's problems started at the Glastonbury Festival in 2000 when
he took a significant amount of various drugs, and from then onwards he has had
problems. Cannabis makes things a lot worse for him. My client needs help - he
committed these offences when in poor mental health."

Mr Paines said Harratt might never have developed mental instability "if he had
not been at the cannabis", but admitted that he had no powers to stop him
smoking it because it was not a Class A drug.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                December 1, 2003

We've foiled four terror attacks, reveals Mayor

BYLINE: ROSS LYDALL; JUSTIN DAVENPORT

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 426 words


POLICE and security services have foiled four attempts by terrorists to bomb
London, according to Ken Livingstone.

The Mayor said of the threats to the capital in the wake of the September 11
attacks: "We have intercepted four attempts that were under plan to actually
cause mayhem and take life in this city."

It was only due to increases in police that the terrorists had been stopped, he
said.

"It is a constant and enormous effort on the part of the police to ensure that
these people do not get through," Mr Livingstone said. "Of course, inevitably,
someone will get through, as we saw in the long history of terrorism relating to
Ireland. But so far, because we've had that extra policing resource, we've been
able to prevent that."

He refused to give further details of the foiled attacks, saying that some cases
were due to come before the courts.

He said: "If you look at all these times when there is a swoop and people are
arrested, you have never heard anything about it because I think they are only
just about to come to trial.

Some may never come to trial - they will just be interned, permanently
detained." In the past Scotland Yard Commissioner Sir John Stevens has said the
police and security services have foiled several terror attacks that were "about
to happen" but refused to go into details.

These are believed to include the arrest of the gang in Wood Green allegedly
trying to use the poison ricin to carry out an attack.

In February the Government deployed troops around Heathrow amid fears of
terrorists planning to use a missile to bring down a jet.

Meanwhile today detectives are applying for an extension to continue questioning
Al Qaeda suspect Sajit Badat who was seized in Gloucester last week on suspicion
of plotting a terror attack. A small quantity of explosives was found at the
address.

Detectives are investigating possible links to shoebomber Richard Reid who tried
to detonate explosives in his shoes on a flight to Miami.

Elsewhere, six men arrested by Sussex police under antiterrorism legislation
remained in custody. The men, of North African origin, were detained by officers
investigating a cheque and credit card fraud. Their arrests were unrelated to
the questioning of Badat.

Mr Livingstone's comments contain the first detail of possible terrorist attacks
on London. While he has no operational control over the Met, he is briefed on
key issues. He is also deputy chair of the London Resilience forum set up to
protect the capital from terrorists.

END

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                December 2, 2003

Chemical terror attack rumours 'irresponsible' - Met

BYLINE: Local London Reporter

LENGTH: 117 words


E-mail rumours that the Metropolitan Police Commissioner is warning of a
terrorist attack on London have been dismissed by Scotland Yard today.

The e-mail which could have circulated to thousands of people across London
speaks of 'an imminent chemical terrorist attack'.

According to a Met spokesperson the warning - purporting to be from Sir John
Stevens - is 'not genuine'.

No such warning has been issued by the Metropolitan Police Service, the
spokesperson said.

Whilst London is at a heightened state of alert it is irresponsible to issue
bogus warnings of this nature and causing unnecessary fear and alarm.

The origins of the mail are under investigation by the Met.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                December 3, 2003

Pit bull terror attack

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 224 words



A PACK of pit bull terriers killed a woman, then savaged friends searching for
her.

Jennifer Brooke, 40, was found in a barn in Elbert County, near Denver,
Colorado. She was airlifted to hospital but died of her injuries. Police later
shot the three dogs and have not yet decided whether to charge their owner.

Lynn Baker, one of those injured while looking for Miss Brooke, said: 'It's like
those dogs had no soul. '

Winnies's love bid

A LOVE letter from Winston Churchill to his first sweetheart, Pamela Plowden,
fetched 77,675 at auction yesterday a record price for any of the wartime
leader's writings.

The seven-page document was written in Calcutta in March 1899 while Churchill
was serving in the Indian Army. He confesses how he desperately wishes his
situation allowed him to marry. The letter was bought by a private collector at
Christie's in London.

Fawlty flies high

IT only ran for 12 episodes but John Cleese's Fawlty Towers still exerts such a
magnetic pull it has topped a poll of the most requested TV programmes and
films.

Another BBC production Only Fools and Horses came second while the sci-fi series
Blake's 7 also from the 1970s was third.

Top film in the British Film Institute's online archive of clips was The Wicker
Man, starring Edward Woodward, in 7th place.

END

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                December 3, 2003

Car sex attack terror ordeal

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 378 words


A MIDDLE aged woman was subjected to a terrifying sex attack after accepting a
lift from two men in Barnsley.

Two men in a dark coloured Ford Mondeo picked up the 49-year-old woman on
Thurnscoe Lane in Great Houghton near the junction with Norfolk Road.

The man in the rear seat then indecently assaulted her and a violent struggle
broke out. It ended when the car stopped and she was pushed from the vehicle.

The traumatised woman was found by a motorist lying in an unlit area of Houghton
Road, between Great Houghton and Thurnscoe.

She suffered bruising and was taken to Barnsley hospital for injury and
hypothermia checks.

The incident on Sunday evening has parallels with the death of Stephanie
Hammill, aged 20, who was apparently abducted in a car early on Saturday morning
near Wakefield.

Her body was found lying on a road moments after she and her boyfriend James
Garland, aged 22, flagged down what they thought was a taxi.

The dark coloured saloon sped off with Stephanie before Mr Garland could get in.
She is later believed to have got out of the car and was standing in the middle
of the road when she was struck by a vehicle travelling in the opposite
direction.

DC Paul Dickinson said he had sent a report on the Great Houghton incident to
West Yorskhire detectives investigating Stephanie's death.

He added: The 49-year-old woman had been drinking in Great Houghton and was on
her way home to Thurnscoe when the Mondeo pulled up. It was raining heavily. The
driver gave her the impression he knew her and she climbed in.

She is extremely traumatised by the incident, very angry and upset with herself.
She put up a violent struggle before being pushed from the car. She may have
lain unconscious for a short while before being found by a passing motorist.

We have conducted house to house enquiries and we are exploring a forensic
angle. We are also appealing for witnesses. This was a sinister attack and this
pair may strike again.

The driver was white, aged in his 40s, and had dark hair. The passenger was
white, in his early 20s, and had fair hair cut in a basin style. He was clean
shaven, medium build and about 5ft 8ins. He had a swallow tattoo on the back of
his hand. He wore a light coloured fleece.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                December 4, 2003

FEARS OF CHRISTMAS TERROR ATTACKS BRING HIGH-PROFILE RESPONSE FROM POLICE; ARMED
COPS PATROL OUR STREETS

BYLINE: By John Chapman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 278 words


ARMED police will patrol the streets over Christmas and New Year in a
high-profile response to terror threats, it was announced yesterday.

Although there is no specific threat, officers in the West Midlands and in
Manchester will take part in operations.

A force spokesman for West Midlands Constabulary said it would be deploying
armed officers on foot patrols around Birmingham city centre.

He warned that as part of the campaign to maintain public safety, roads may be
closed and buildings evacuated. He asked members of the public to be patient.
"The force constantly reviews both intelligence that is gathered, and its
contingency plans for any incidents that may occur, " he said.

Officers may also be deployed at other sites across the West Midlands and road
checks are on the cards.

News of the armed patrols came a day after three men from Dudley were arrested
under the Terrorism Act during a series of raids.

Detective Chief Inspector Ellie Bird said: "There is no specific threat to the
West Midlands but we recognise that there is a possibility of terrorist action
against the UK." Armed police will also be seen walking the streets of
Manchester. A spokesman for Greater Manchester Police said: "We will be running
a high visibility operation on the approach to Christmas to deter terrorism.

"The tactics will be continually reviewed against the national and international
terrorism situation."

A Scotland Yard spokesman said armed officers are already on London streets.
Other provincial forces, including West Mercia, and Avon and Somerset, said they
would maintain vigilance, with swift access to "armed resources".

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 4, 2003, Thursday

RAPIST'S REIGN OF TERROR;
 EXCLUSIVE BEAST ATTACKS TWO WOMEN WITHIN DAYS

BYLINE: ANN MOONEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 172 words


THOUSANDS of female students are afraid to walk the streets alone after a
suspected serial rapist attacked two young women in one week.

The brute assaulted a 19-year-old student from the Cork Institute of Technology
in the Bishopstown area of city in the early hours of last Thursday.

She was on her way home from a student ball in Jury's Hotel when she was dragged
down an alley known locally as School Lane as she walked along Magazine Road,
close to University College Cork.

The man demanded money but after she handed it over he dragged her to waste
ground and raped her.

However, it has now been revealed that another woman was subjected to a similar
type of assault nearby a few days earlier but managed to get away.

The victim, a rugby player, had handed over her purse when the man, in his early
20s, tried to sexually assault her.

A Garda source said yesterday: "We do not want this man to strike again. Any
student who is going home late at night should make sure that they are not on
their own."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 4, 2003, Thursday

Armed police to deter Christmas terror attacks

BYLINE: Stewart Tendler and Daniel McGrory

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 498 words


ARMED police are to patrol Birmingham and other towns in the West Midlands to
deter a terrorist attack on shoppers, it was announced yesterday.

Other urban police forces said that they were keeping a constant watch on MI5's
threat assessments to see if they also need armed patrols.

West Midlands Police said there was no specific threat to the region, but there
is a heightened alert throughout Britain. The force is deploying marksmen from
its 70-strong firearms unit.

MI5 and Scotland Yard believe there are a number of cells of Islamic militants
operating independently.

In Birmingham specialist officers on foot patrol will be armed with sidearms and
9mm carbines and wearing body armour. Police hope they will act as a deterrent,
keeping watch on the shopping crowds.

The armed officers will be backed up by roadblocks and vehicle checks. Some
roads may be closed and buildings evacuated.

Last year Greater Manchester Police mounted high- profile patrols under the
codename Operation Reassure. But the force said yesterday that while there were
no plans to repeat the operation, security would be reviewed.

Police forces serving Newcastle, Leeds, Edinburgh and Glasgow are also
monitoring events. In London the Metropolitan Police said there was currently no
intelligence on places, events or people to prompt a new warning to the public,
but further security measures had not been ruled out. A spokesman said: "We will
take whatever action is necessary." In the City of London, the corporation has
announced that it is extending the security zone and new closed-circuit cameras
are in position on Thames bridges leading from the City.

Meanwhile, as detectives continued to question 14 people held on suspicion of
links to terror groups, anti-terrorism officers said more arrests were expected
in a drive to target militant Muslim groups.

Noureddinne Mouleff, 36, an Algerian from Eastbourne in East Sussex, appeared at
Bow Street Magistrates' Court in London accused of raising funds for terrorism
under section 57 of the Terrorism Act 2000. He is also accused of opening a
number of bank accounts under an assumed French identity.

The court was told that Mr Mouleff and other, unnamed suspects are alleged to
have attempted to defraud high street banks of £75,000. Prosecutors told the
court that during a search of Mr Mouleff's flat, police allegedly found £800
hidden in a cushion.

Mr Mouleff, who is unemployed, spoke only to confirm his name and address. He
was remanded in custody to appear next week at a preliminary hearing at the Old
Bailey.

Police are still questioning five suspects arrested in Eastbourne last week.
Four men were being held in London while searches continued at addresses in
South London. In Cambridge two women aged 18 and 20 are among six people being
questioned.

Four men held in raids in Walsall, Dudley and Luton are also still being held in
operations separate from the other police raids.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            December 5, 2003, Friday

FAMILIES COME FACE TO FACE WITH 9/11 ACCUSED AT TRIAL;
 SISTER OF PILOT KILLED IN TERROR ATTACKS PLEADS FOR MAXIMUM SENTENCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 602 words

HIGHLIGHT: TESTIFIED: Debra Burlingame with a photo of her brother Charles


A WOMAN, whose brother was the jetliner pilot killed before hijackers crashed it
into the Pentagon on September 11, appealed to a German court yesterday to give
an accused conspirator the maximum sentence if he is convicted.

New Yorker Debra Burlingame was one of four relatives of 9/11 victims who
travelled to Hamburg to testify in the trial of Moroccan Abedelghani Mzoudi.

They were seeking to bolster the prosecutions case by speaking about their
losses.

Ms Burlingames brother, Charles Burlingame, died just short of his 52nd
birthday.

He always wanted to do the right thing, and he was slaughtered like an animal,
she told the five-judge panel.

In view of the nature of the crimes the defendant is accused of aiding and
abetting, I respectfully ask that, if he is convicted, he be sentenced to the
maximum penalty available, 15 years. That is less than two days in prison for
each victim.

More than 20 Americans have formally joined the prosecution as co-plaintiffs
against Mzoudi, only the second 9/11 suspect to stand trial anywhere.

He is accused of more than 3,000 counts of accessory to murder and membership of
a terrorist organisation for allegedly giving logistical aid to the three
suicide hijackers who lived and studied in Hamburg.

More than two years after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon, prosecutors said the relatives testimony is important to illustrate
the attacks human cost.

Its a very technical trial, and I think its important to add a face to the case,
said lawyer Sven Leistikow, who represents two of the relatives testifying.

As Joan Molinaro, of New York, told of how her firefighter son Carl Molinaro
died while saving people from the World Trade Center, a woman wept in the public
gallery wept.

I have watched my son die hundreds of times from the tapes on TV, she said.

I still yell for Carl to run faster and I still search the faces in the crowd
and hope this time he will get out but he never does.

Deena Burnett, whose husband Tom fought with hijackers on United Airlines Flight
93 in a struggle that crashed the airliner in rural Pennsylvania and prevented
the terrorists from reaching their destination, could not stop herself from
crying as she told how his death had affected their three young daughters.

I hear them talking to their dad by whispering to him at night, said Burnett, of
Little Rock, Arkansas.

They stick crayon drawings to helium balloons and watch them drift up to heaven
with their childrens belief that an angel will take them to Tom.

Bostons Dominic Puopolo was the first in his family to learn his mother, Sonia,
had died in one of the flights that hit the World Trade Center and recalled the
devastating duty of having to tell his father and siblings.

He said that day he swore to make sure people understood what the attacks meant
to individuals.

Ive found myself stuck in a moment I cant get out of in my desire to participate
in processes like this here today to see justice is brought to people of this
world who defend their cowardly acts and hide behind a religion of peace.

Mzoudi, 30, is accused of providing logistical support to the Hamburg al-Qaeda
cell that included suicide pilots Mohamed Atta, Marwan al-Shehhi and Ziad
Jarrah.

Prosecutors say he took care of financial transactions when cell members were
out of the country, and helped conceal them from authorities when they were back
in Germany.

Mzoudi denies the charges. His attorneys have argued that, while he was close to
the members of the cell, he was unaware of their plans.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                December 5, 2003

CRIME: Family's terror in arson attack

LENGTH: 453 words


TERROR struck in a city street when arsonists torched a house in the early hours
of today. A wheelie bin had been pushed against the front door of the property,
in Chelveston Way, Westwood, and set alight at 3.50am. As flames spread, the
occupants - a 50-year-old woman and her eight-year-old son - were woken by their
smoke alarm. Terrified, the woman thought she had left her Christmas lights on
in her lounge. But, when she dashed downstairs, she saw flames comining under
the front door. The mother, who declined to give her name, ran back upstairs and
woke her son. She then led him downstairs and into the back garden, before
running back into the house to call the fire brigade. The mother then filled a
bucket of water and threw it against the inside of the front door. By this
point, the flames had caught a net curtain and were threatening to engulf the
hall of the house. Finally, after several buckets of water, she managed to
extinguish the flames. Today, the woman said she had been left badly shocked.
Earlier this year, there was a string of fires in the Westwood area. The mother
said: "Both my son and I were shaking. "We were lucky we had a smoke alarm to
wake us up".

 "I had heard about the other fires, but I had no idea I would be targeted, and
there's no reason why I should have been. Now I'm worried in case it happens
again".

 Arsonists also tried to torch the house next door to the woman's, where a young
family was asleep. Again, a wheelie bin was pushed against the front door, but
the flames went out before any damage could be done. Both houses remained
cordoned-off this morning, so police forensic officers could search for
evidence. Acting Detective Superintendent Dick Harrison said: "This was reckless
and irresponsible, to say the least. "If the fire had spread to the rest of the
house, people's lives would have been put in serious risk. "It's more by luck
than judgement that they weren't hurt. "Whoever has done this needs to be caught
and any information about the arsonist needs to be passed to us".

 Link to other fires not established POLICE have said it is too early to tell if
the arson attack is linked to the other fires on the Westwood estate which took
place over the summer. But acting Detective Superintendent Harrison added:
"Whatever time of day or night, arson is an extremely stupid, idiotic and
reckless thing to do".

 Sub Officer Peter Burton, of Dogsthorpe Fire Station, who was among the crews
called to the blaze, said: "If it hadn't been for the smoke alarm in the lady's
house, there could have been a fatality".

 ? Anyone with information about the fire should call police, on 01733 563232.
Cambridgeshire Police Crimestoppers

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                           © 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                December 5, 2003

Jewel thieves' terror attack on top lawyer

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

LENGTH: 491 words


By Bruce Smith


A TOP lawyer was grabbed by three masked men who tore her diamond engagement
ring from her finger and threatened to kick her head in.


The terrifying attack on Marilyn Stowe took place outside the Family Law Unit of
the Graham Stowe Bateson practice which she heads in Selby Road, Halton, Leeds
at 5pm on Wednesday.

The raid fulfilled a police tip-off in June that criminals were after the ring.
The information led to police giving the nationally-known matrimonial law expert
vital advice which she says proved invaluable in protecting herself.

Police had predicted attackers were likely to strike as she got into her
Mercedes coupe in the rear car park and warned her not to offer violent
resistance but to keep a calm relationship with any assailants.

I am so grateful for that police advice. Without it and our staff things might
have been much worse.

Mrs Stowe had planned how to deal with a potential robbery. She was usually
accompanied to her car by a colleague, but on Wednesday her colleagues were busy
and she decided not to bother them.

As soon as I got to my car I saw these three men exactly where I thought they
would hide and thought 'this is it'. They had balaclava masks with holes cut for
their eyes, were dressed in black and were crouching, she said.

I started screaming to draw attention as I knew my office was full of people. I
ran to Selby Road, but I heard them behind me and one put his hands around my
face with his gloves and knocked me to the ground.

Reward

I said 'take the ring' and two of them began pulling at it. I didn't want my
wedding ring stolen or my finger broken so I took the engagement ring off.

The third man shouted 'kick her head in'. I put my handbag up to shield my face
and they grabbed it and at that point half our staff came running out.

Leading the rescue party was receptionist Joanne Galley with solicitors, Olav
Bahlmann, Frank Idelenburg, Paul Hirst and Dawn Barraclough.

Joanne saw me and came running, screaming at the men. I shouted to her to leave
them. But she chased after the three and grabbed hold of one of them, but when
he turned around he was brandishing a brick, said Mrs Stowe.

The raiders got away with her distinctive ring which has a platinum-set 5ct
emerald cut diamond and two shoulder diamonds and her black leather bag
containing £ 300 cash, Louis Vuitton wallet, her mobile phone and other
valuables. A reward may be offered for information leading to the conviction of
the robbers.

Mrs Stowe suffered a sprained ankle, bruised arms and side and a swollen knee.

Det Insp Mick Jackson, said all three robbers were white and believed to be aged
in their late teens or early 20s. They wore short black jackets, dark clothing
and thick gloves. One had a broad Yorkshire accent.

This was a very frightening robbery and I appeal to anyone who has any
information to ring Killingbeck CID on 0113 2413659.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           December 6, 2003, Saturday

INTELLIGENCE FEAR OF TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 40 words


COUNTER terrorism officials said today they were increasingly fearful of a
Christmas terror attack on America. Some officers said the level of intelligence
'chatter' was similar to that just before the strikes on September 11, 2001.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                December 6, 2003

WOMEN BLAMED FOR TERROR ATTACK WHICH MAIMED 150 AT RUSH HOUR; SUICIDE BOMBER
KILLS 40 ON TRAIN

BYLINE: From Will Stewart in Moscow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  51

LENGTH: 368 words


WOMEN bombers yesterday killed at least 40 people and wounded 150 more in a
devastating terrorist attack on a train in southern Russia.

The Kremlin has vowed to find the "animals" who planned the horror.

"The earth will burn under their feet, " said interior minister Boris Gryzlov.

Blame was immediately put on Chechen separatists. The timing was calculated to
cause maximum impact, coming ahead of tomorrow's Russian parliamentary
elections.

The powerful explosion tore one of the carriages in half. The roof collapsed and
windows were blown out, leaving bodies strewn around the wreckage. As many as 28
died at the scene.

The blast came at around 8am in a rush-hour attack 750 miles south of Moscow and
close to the Chechnya region. The head of the former KGB secret service said
three women and one man were behind the outrage. Two women jumped out of the
moving train shortly before the explosion and one, who was directing the
operation, was seriously injured, said Nikolai Patrushev during a
hastily-convened meeting with President Vladimir Putin.

"We also found fragments of a man with grenades around his legs, meaning that he
was a suicide bomber." A bag with 22lbs of plastic explosive was found near the
bomber's body.

For Putin the train attack is the latest reminder that his harsh crackdown on
rebels in Chechnya is failing to prevent bombings aimed at innocent civilians.

The train blast was "an attempt to destabilise the situation in the country on
the eve of parliamentary elections", he warned. "These criminals won't be able
to accomplish anything."

He said "international terrorism" was a "serious threat" to the country.

Gryzlov, who leads a pro-Putin party in tomorrow's nationwide poll, vowed: "We
will find those who have committed this terrorist act.

"The earth will burn under their feet. These animals will never feel safe
anywhere." But many believe Russia will have to strike a deal with the rebels.

Russia has recently criticised Britain for given political asylum to a Chechen
rebel leader who the Kremlin wishes to see tried on terrorism charges.

It is believed up to 30 female suicide bombers have been trained for attacks.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                December 7, 2003

NAVY FRIGATES SHADOW LINERS AS SAS PREPARES TO REPEL ATTACK ON QM2; TERROR GUARD
FOR CRUISE SHIPS

BYLINE: Additional reporting by Jack Gee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 843 words


WARSHIPS are shadowing cruise liners to prevent them being attacked by suicide
bombers using fishing boats packed with explosives.

The war against terror has been widened to give the Royal Navy the task of
protecting thousands of passengers on liners and other merchant shipping.

Navy chiefs fear the launching of the new Queen Mary 2 on January 8 at
Southampton could provide supporters of Osama Bin Laden with the high-profile
stage for a major terrorist outrage.

Last night security sources said elite forces with the Special Air Service and
the Special Boat Squadron have been preparing for an attack on the Queen Mary.

A source said that detailed plans of "every nut and bolt" on the Queen Mary 2
had been given to the Army and Navy.

Both the SAS, which protects ships while they are docked, and the SBS would have
been given the layout of the ship and allowed to rehearse a terrorism attack on
board the Queen Mary and other major cruise liners.

"If the ship was ever attacked, the guys would know how to remove secret panels
and get on board undetected and take out the terrorists" said the source. "They
know the layout down to every rivet. By the time the terrorists knew what was
happening they would be dead."

The Al Qaeda bombing of the USS Cole warship in Yemen in October 2000, which
blasted a 40 sq ft hole in the ship's hull, killing 17 sailors and injuring 39,
showed how effective maritime terrorism can be. A year ago Al Qaeda terrorists
launched a seaborne bomb attack against the French supertanker Limburg off
Yemen, killing eight people and causing extensive damage.

The 150,000-ton Queen Mary 2, which can carry 2,620 passengers, is the biggest
cruise liner ever built.

Tragedy struck the vessel last month when 15 people died and 32 were hurt after
a gangway gave way at St Nazaire, France, where the ship is being built for
owners Cunard.

Other cruise holiday operators are increasing security after a shock warning
that a major attack could be planned for Christmas, the season when the leisure
boats enjoy their biggest business boom.

Admiral Sir Alan West, First Sea Lord and Chief of Naval Staff, has warned
shipping bosses: "Ships are getting larger; they can carry 3,000 passengers.
Think of the Queen Mary 2. Somebody saying 'Let's do some damage' would be
looking at her.

"One of our defence missions is to ensure the security of British civilians
worldwide and cruise ships, these islands of wealth, are extremely attractive
terrorist targets. These are things that are worrying us and we are putting a
lot of effort into it.

Maritime counter-terrorism is something we are looking at very closely."

Sir Alan made his comments at the annual dinner of the Passenger Shipping
Association, which heard that for the first time more than one million Britons
will take a cruise next year. He said the popularity of taking a cruise is
surging, with 28 new ships being launched this year and next.

A Royal Navy spokesman said last night: "There is a heightened awareness of the
worldwide terrorism threat to shipping. This was highlighted by the attacks on
the Achille Lauro and USS Cole.

"We also live in a world where passenger ships are built in larger and larger
numbers and it doesn't take a rocket scientist to work out they too are at risk.

"One could almost say that merchant shipping is a soft target, a natural
terrorist target. The Royal Navy has a duty to protect any ship that comes under
attack and one of the reasons the British Navy is deployed worldwide is to have
a policing presence at sea.

"If there was a defined threat to a cruise ship we would take steps to protect
it. We can provide 24-hour-aday airborne and surface surveillance. Our prime
target is small boats that look like fishing boats but in reality are packed
with explosives, like the one that attacked the USS Cole."

Union officials at Saint Nazaire say they have heard reports of a terrorist
threat. But management say they are confident that security has been treated as
a maximum priority on the new liner.

If a fire broke out - as would certainly occur in a terrorist explosion - 8,000
fire extinguishers could be monitored and controlled from the bridge, just like
the ship's 1,000 fireproof doors.

Philippe Kasse, spokesman for the Alstom shipyard, said: "Cunard will have all
the security systems aboard the Queen Mary 2 that are installed and operated by
airlines.

"We just cannot be too careful. But Cunard and its passengers can be confident
that this is the safest boat ever built. That covers all aspects of safety and
security including protection against terrorists."

Alstom has installed high-tech surveillance systems that enable security staff
to keep the entire ship under constant observation. This equipment, the most
modern aboard any boat in the world, enables every move of a suspect terrorist
among the crew to be tracked.

Sir Alan's alert comes after American government officials revealed that sea
ports are vulnerable to terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Carmarthen Journal

                               December 10, 2003

Bottle Attack Victim'S Terror

SECTION: News; Courts; MagistratesCourt; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 265 words


A Glanaman teenager struck a girl on the face with a bottle during an unprovoked
attack at an Ammanford nightclub, local magistrates heard.  Sophie Lianne
Williams, aged 18, of New Ceidrim Road, also punched Branwen Mair Ebsworth
believing she had been flirting with her boyfriend.

Crown prosecutor Rhian Milledge said Miss Ebsworth was lying down across seating
as she was tired when a man approached and asked her name.

"Miss Ebsworth received heavy blows on the forehead," she said. "She was struck
with a bottle causing a cut." Miss Ebsworth was then punched on the face whilst
talking to bouncers.

"She was in a state of shock from the earlier incident," Miss Milledge added.
"Miss Ebsworth had a one inch cut on her forehead and experienced pain and
discomfort." Miss Milledge said the following day Miss Ebsworth felt light
headed and dizzy and was given pain killers following hospital examination.

Miss Milledge said the assault had left Miss Ebsworth traumatised and she was
now frightened to go out in Ammanford.

Mike Reed, defending, said it was a nasty incident.

He added: "Sophie Williams' boyfriend told her that a girl had been flirting
with him. She hit Miss Ebsworth with a glass and punched her.

"Miss Ebsworth had too much to drink. She is remorseful and has learned a
lesson." Williams admitted assault. Magistrates adjourned sentencing until
December 17 for reports.

Magistrates' chairman, Don Hinchcliffe, told her: "The attack was vicious and a
weapon was used.

"It is fortunate the victim only sustained minor injuries.''

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2003 Carmarthen Journal

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          December 10, 2003, Wednesday

FIVE KILLED IN MOSCOW BLAST;
 NEW FEARS OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: SARA THOMAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 474 words


A WOMAN suicide bomber blew herself up near Moscow's Red Square yesterday
killing five bystanders and raising fears of a new wave of terror attacks in the
heart of the Russian capital.

Officials said the nearby State Duma -lower house of parliament -may have been
the intended target and the bomb probably detonated prematurely.

Chechen separatists are suspected as they frequently use women as suicide
bombers.

Police fanned out across Moscow in search of a second woman suspected of
involvement in the attack,and warned that she too might also be carrying
explosives.

Moscow Mayor Yuri Luzhkov said that two women -possibly the suicide bomber and
her accomplice -appeared lost before the blast and asked a passer-by for
directions to the State Duma,located nearby,across Moscow's most elegant
shopping street.

Moments later a woman was blown up outside the exclusive National Hotel.

"Evidently, the bomb went off by accident," Luzhkov said.

"The National Hotel was not the place where the suicide bombers had planned to
stage the explosion."

The attack came two days after Russian parliamentary elections and shortly
before President Vladimir Putin addressed a meeting at the Kremlin, which is
visible from the National Hotel.

The blast left the Russian capital on edge. People in Moscow were already
jittery after a suicide attack in July and last year's Chechen rebel
hostage-taking raid on a Moscow theatre. This year alone, nearly 300 people have
been killed in Russia in bombings and other attacks blamed on Chechens.

Luzhkov said security cameras near the hotel picked up footage of the suicide
bomber, a woman dressed like so many others in the capital in a light-coloured
coat and carrying a purse.

He said the purse was rigged with explosives and that she also was wearing an
explosive belt packed tightly with metal balls.

Moscow police spokesman Yevgeny Gildeyev said the bomb contained about 2.2
pounds of TNT.

The blast occurred near a Mercedes car that was parked on the pavement.

It shattered windows in the hotel,leaving white curtains billowing in the wind.

Bodies and body parts were strewn about, including a head and a headless female
body. Nearby was a black briefcase that authorities thought might contain more
explosives.

Besides the dead, twelve people were injured and admitted to hospital,five of
them in grave condition, said Lyubov Zhomova, the spokeswoman for the Moscow
medical directorate.

No group claimed responsibility, but past attacks have been blamed on rebels
from the breakaway republic of Chechnya. Forty-four people were killed when a
suicide bomber attacked a train in southern Russia last week.

Russian forces have been bogged down in Chechnya since 1999, when they returned
following rebel raids on a neighbouring Russian region.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The scene outside the National Hotel near Moscow's Red Square where the
car bomb exploded

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Derbyshire Times

                               December 11, 2003

Terror attack in park

LENGTH: 279 words


Detectives are urging women to be on their guard after a female dog walker was
pounced upon and punched in the face in a terrifying daylight attack. Detectives
are urging women to be on their guard after a female dog walker was pounced upon
and punched in the face in a terrifying daylight attack. The woman, in her 20s,
was walking through Grassmoor Country Park when she was grabbed around the waist
and dragged to the floor by a grey-haired man. She struggled against her
attacker, and her dog bit the man's leg, before he punched her in the face and
fled the scene - leaving her with facial injuries. Det Insp Gary Goacher said:
"This was a nasty assault and not something we would expect to happen in a park
in broad daylight. The woman kicked out against her attacker who then punched
her in the face, causing swelling and bruising to her right cheekbone. "We do
not know what motivated this attack but we would now ask women to be vigilant
and think carefully about their personal safety, especially if they are alone".

 Police are now appealing for anyone who may have information about the attack
to come forward. Det Insp Goacher added: "This is a popular park and are sure
there must have been other people around at the time. We would ask anyone who
can help to get in touch".

 The attacker is described as being white and in his late 40s. Police found a
navy sports coat at the scene of the assault, which happened at the main gates
to the park. * Anyone who has any information about the incident, which happened
on Tuesday, December 2, at around 1pm, should contact Chesterfield police on
(01246) 220100 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                           © 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                               December 11, 2003

UK forces suspected in Irish atrocity: Report into 1974 bombings, which killed
33 people, says not fanciful to see British complicity in loyalist terror
attacks

BYLINE: Angelique Chrisafis Ireland correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 486 words


The British government today faces further questions about the controversial
role of its intelligence services in Northern Ireland after an Irish report
found "grounds for suspecting" that its security forces helped loyalist
paramilitaries to bomb the Irish Republic.

Four car bombs ripped through Dublin and Monaghan on May 17 1974 killing 33
people in the worst atrocity of the Irish troubles.

Last night an independent report by the retired supreme court judge Henry Barron
found it was "neither fanciful nor absurd" to suggest members of the security
forces in Northern Ireland could have been involved in the bombings "given the
number of instances in which similar illegal activity has been proven".

The Barron report concluded that the material he saw did not suggest the
involvement of senior members of British intelligence. He said the loyalist
paramilitaries who planted the bombs, including members of the Ulster Volunteer
Force, were capable of acting alone.

However, the report did not rule out the involvement of individual members of
the British army, the Royal Ulster Constabulary or the Ulster Defence Regiment.
The RUC and the UDR were likely to have been aware of preparations for the
bombings before the paramilitaries crossed the border.

The report said that on the basis of his three-year investigation, he had not
found that the bombings were officially or unofficially sanctioned by the
British authorities in Northern Ireland.

He said: "Ultimately a finding that there was collusion between the perpetrators
and the authorities in Northern Ireland is a matter of inference . . . Unless
further information comes to hand, such involvement must remain a suspicion. It
is not proven."

The report was critical of the Irish government of the day, saying it did not
show sufficient interest in the Irish police investigation of the bombings,
which was flawed. British intelligence and Special Branch may have hampered that
investigation in order to protect their own relationship with paramili taries
"in the interests of securing further information".

Two families of victims of the Dublin bombings stormed out of a press conference
while the Irish parliament's justice committee were presenting the report. A
solicitor for the O'Neill and the O'Brien families said: "There is nothing in
the conclusion of this report that is new. The only way these matters can be
dealt with is in public."

The justice committee will now take a month to examine the lessons learnt from
the report and consider whether to launch a public inquiry.

Paul Murphy, the Northern Ireland secretary, last night called the bombings an
"act of obscene evil". He insisted the British government had cooperated fully
in handing over documentation to the inquiry.

Human rights groups and family members had earlier questioned British readiness
to cooperate with the report.


LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                            December 12, 2003 Friday

Attack terror relived

BYLINE: LAURIE COOMBS

LENGTH: 315 words


A SHOPKEEPER told today of his horror after he was punched in the face by
raiders.

The 45-year-old, who does not wish to be named, says he is living in fear after
the attack at the Spar shop in Measham Road, Oakthorpe. He is now installing
security cameras and a panic button at the store to deter further attacks.
Police fear the raiders may strike again and are appealing for witnesses to come
forward with information.

The incident happened at 8.30pm on Saturday when two men entered the shop. The
owner was punched in the face and grabbed by the scruff of the neck by one of
the raiders who ordered him to open the till. He said: "One man was behind me
and the other just punched me in the face for no reason. I said: 'Leave me alone
- take what you want, there's money in the till'." "Of course I was scared - I
still am. This is the second time we have been raided since May." He managed to
break free and ran out of the shop, alerting passers-by who chased the
empty-handed pair. The men ran off toward School Street and the Gate Inn pub
before escaping their pursuers. DC Mick Felicient of Coalville police said:
"This man has been left traumatised by what has happened but, fortunately for
him, he was able to get away. "He is a well-respected man in Oakthorpe and his
neighbours chased the men off and drove around the village looking for them. "We
believe the offenders could be local and hope that someone will come forward
with information before they strike again." The raiders were white and between
20 and 30. One was 6ft and spoke with a local accent. He was of medium build and
had heavy stubble. The second was 5ft 8in, of medium build and had a round face.
Both were wearing green parka coats with fur hoods pulled over their heads.
Anyone with information should telephone DC Mick Feliciant on 0116 222 2222 or
Crimestoppers, which is free and anonymous, on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2003 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                               December 12, 2003

Police foiled major terror attacks in UK, Met claims

BYLINE: Rosie Cowan Crime correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 521 words


Intense efforts by British security forces have prevented major terrorist
attacks which could have resulted in mass murder in the UK, Scotland Yard said
yesterday.

Police chiefs insist that they now have a better understanding of the global
threat than ever before, and unprecedented international cooperation. But they
admit that it is extremely difficult to fight, because of its complexity,
fluidity and resilience.

Of the 500 people arrested in Britain under the anti-terror laws since September
11 2001, 90 have been charged with terrorist offences, 100 with other crimes,
and 50 handed over to the immigration service.

In the past few weeks 23 people have been arrested, of whom six were charged
with terrorism and seven with other criminal offences; four were referred to
immigration; and six freed without charge.

Peter Clarke, the Metropolitan police deputy assistant commissioner in charge of
counter-terrorism, said the past year had seen an unparalleled level of police
investi gation into terrorists, their supporters and sympathisers, and the
arrests and charges reflected a whole gamut of activity, from the "export" of
suicide bombing to financing terrorists.

But he said that the more the police delved the more they uncovered the "breadth
and depth" of the terrorist networks, their fluidity and mobility - thanks to
use of forged identification - and their resilience, in that if some members
were arrested others simply took their place.

A senior Metropolitan police source who spoke on condition of anonymity said he
believed there could be hundreds of al-Qaida supporters in the UK, and that
terrorists were actively choosing targets in Britain rather than using it as a
logistical and financial support base.

Asked how close the UK had come to a suicide bombing, he said: "Closer to the
point of attack than we would wish, from a professional perspective. There is no
doubt the activities we've interrupted have prevented this occurring."

He said the hallmark of the new terrorism was "destruction and mass murder" and
the main differences from the experience of Irish terrorism were that the
bombers were prepared to die and that its global nature made "precision
intelligence" much harder.

He admitted that there was a "vulnerability" around the Christmas season, but
said the security forces could not afford to let their guard down at any time.

He refused to comment on potential targets, but said the police had mounted an
operation at Heathrow in February because of the threat of a direct attack on an
aircraft, and remained concerned about that possibility.

He described a complex net of geographical and historical connections across the
globe, to north Africa, the Middle East and south-east Asia, and back to those
involved in the wars in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Chechnya and Bosnia.

He described a loose system with al-Qaida at the top, capable of carrying out
"high impact, truly murderous" attacks, such as 9/11; organisations with obvious
al-Qaida links; and semi-autonomous groups and individuals involved in combat in
previous conflicts.


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                               December 14, 2003

Plans for aftermath of terror attackplaying 'Russian roulette' with lives;Fire
report says 'training failure' and lack of equipment for terror emergency may
have potentially 'catastrophic outcomes'

BYLINE: By Neil Mackay Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1155 words


A CHEMICAL, biological or nuclear incident in Scotland would result in the
needless deaths of many members of the public and the emergency services because
Scottish fire brigades are too poorly equipped and inadequately trained to cope.

The Scottish Fire Service's ability to respond to such an incident is attacked
in an internal health and safety report, passed to the Sunday Herald, which says
"Russian roulette" is being played with the lives of the public.

It reveals that brigades don't have the right equipment to de-contaminate
civilians and save lives in the event of a terrorist incident such as a chemical
gas attack in a public area such as the Glasgow Underground or tourist areas
such as Edinburgh's Old Town.

In the worst case scenario, large numbers of firefighters could be wiped out
within minutes of attending the scene of a terrorist incident because they know
so little about the procedures needed.

The report was prepared by the Scottish Fire Brigades' Union (FBU), which claims
that politicians and brigade chiefs put pressure on fire crews to attend rescue
missions in the event of a terrorist attack even though the equipment they were
supplied with was inadequate. Politicians and fire chiefs also failed to ensure
firefighters were adequately trained. Yet the FBU say the Scottish Executive
made political capital out of falsely claiming the country's emergency services
were prepared for terrorist acts.

The FBU yesterday described the Executive's actions as "obscene" and opposition
MSPs want Justice Minister Cathy Jamieson called to account for boasting earlier
this year of "significantly enhancing'' the capabilities of the fire service to
deal with terror attacks.

The FBU's health and safety chief Alex Macleerie visited the four Scottish fire
brigades which have been supplied with a Mass Incident Unit (MIU) for dealing
with terrorist attacks - Lothian and Borders, Grampian, Strathclyde and Central
- to assess how safe the equipment was for firefighters and how well-trained
they were in its use.

Macleerie says a series of vital items were missing from the MIU in Strathclyde.
There was only one mass decontamination structure on board when there should
have been two; there were only two, rather than three, 6000 litre mass
containment dams; there were no containers for the detergent solution used to
wash down contaminated people and there was no proper chimney for the hot water
heater.

Macleerie's report added: "It was abundantly clear that the crews were not
adequately trained on the contents and requirements of the vehicle." Senior
officers told him "they had little or no training or knowledge of the subject at
all". Macleerie says in his report: "It is a scenario I find totally
unacceptable, if not extremely dangerous."

When asked how they would respond to a chemical attack by terrorists, the
firefighters made fatal errors. Only two out of 11 were able to say that they
should be no closer than 400 metres to the centre of the attack. Some said they
would go as close as 50 metres - a course of action which would have resulted in
most of the brigade dying at the scene.

Some firefighters didn't know how to adequately clean contaminated victims and
hadn't been trained in the latest gas suits, which firefighters must use at
incidents. Firefighters said they had only received between four and 14 hours
training on the MIU, which Macleerie described as "a clear indication of a
training failure".

The FBU inspectors found similar problems with MIUs, training and equipment in
Lothian and Borders and Central brigades. Grampian brigade, which unlike the
other three has not yet declared that it is operationally ready to deal with
terror attacks, is at a far more prepared stage. Macleerie says in his report:
"The question must be asked as to why other brigades have not acted as
Grampian?"

The FBU now wants MIUs "removed from service until such times as it can be
demonstrated that they are sufficiently ready to respond in a safe and
professional manner the situation at the moment is playing Russian roulette with
the safety of employees and members of the public. It is unacceptable to lull
employees and members of the public into a false sense of security."

The report concludes: "There was an apparent overwhelming rush by certain
brigades to declare themselves 'prepared', no doubt to coincide with the second
anniversary of 9/11. The decision taken to go 'on line' with their respective
mass decontamination equipment has the potential to lead to further catastrophic
outcomes."

Earlier this year, Jamieson, who has responsibility for the fire service, said:
"To meet the new level of terrorist threat that the events of September 11 have
demonstrated now exists, the Executive has significantly enhanced the
capabilities of the fire service, in particular on mass decontamination this
required significant additional equipment, training and supporting
infrastructure in order to ensure that the fire and rescue service was
adequately prepared to provide an effective response in the event of an
incident."

Kenny Ross, secretary of the Scottish FBU, said "huge political pressure" was
placed on fire authorities to get MIUs up and running for the second anniversary
of September 11. He claimed that, when the FBU and firefighters raised concerns
about safety and training with chief officers, some staff were threatened with
dismissal.

Nicola Sturgeon, the SNP's justice spokeswoman, said the FBU report was "pretty
horrifying", adding: "This amounts to a huge failure, both political and
managerial." Sturgeon said that Jamieson's comments about the fire service were
"clearly false and the minister should make an urgent statement to parliament to
outline what steps are being taken to rectify this situation" and called on her
to take fire chiefs to task over their "abject failure".

Dennis Davis, HM Inspector of the Scottish Fire Service said it was a ''priority
of the Executive to ensure that the bringing into use of this equipment occurred
as soon as possible. We make no apology for the speed with which we acted. The
public would expect nothing less."

He added that the FBU's concerns have not been ignored and that all the brigades
involved have been contacted and he has "been reassured that all the necessary
steps have or are being taken to meet any justifiable concerns".

Jamieson said she "completely rejected the allegation that the Executive has
failed to take this issue seriously".  However, she did say that she "took very
seriously any sugg-estion that there are problems".

context

The United Kingdom is currently on its second highest state of alert. Since
September 11, Western governments have repeatedly promised the public that they
would substantially beef up the ability of emergency services to deal with
terror attacks on the home front.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Emergency services members conduct a simulated terrorist attack in
London that Scotland would have difficulty dealing with Photograph: Sean Dempsey

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 14, 2003, Sunday

Does this link Saddam to 9/11? A document discovered by Iraq's interim
government details a meeting between the man behind the September 11 attacks and
Abu Nidal, the Palestinian terrorist, at his Baghdad training camp. CON COUGHLIN
reports

BYLINE: By CON COUGHLIN

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1492 words

For anyone attempting to find evidence to justify the war in Iraq, the discovery
of a document that directly links Mohammed Atta, the al-Qaeda mastermind of the
September 11 attacks, with the Baghdad training camp of Abu Nidal, the infamous
Palestinian terrorist, appears almost too good to be true.

Ever since four hijacked civilian jets devastated the United States' eastern
seaboard on September 11, 2001, there have been any number of reports
circulating Western intelligence agencies suggesting that Saddam Hussein's Iraq
had close links to al-Qaeda.

Most of the claims relate to meetings between al-Qaeda and Iraqi intelligence to
discuss co-operation on matters such as funding, training and equipment. Prior
to the discovery of the document published today by The Sunday Telegraph, the
most controversial report related to the suggestion that Atta had met Ahmed
Khalil Ibrahim Samir al-Ani, a senior Iraqi intelligence officer, in Prague in
April 2001.

But while both President Bush and Tony Blair have dropped numerous hints that
they believe there was a significant level of co-operation between Saddam and
al-Qaeda, their respective intelligence agencies have actively sought to
downplay the significance of the relationship, especially the suggestion that
Saddam was in any way involved in the September 11 attacks. To this end
America's Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), with the backing of Britain's MI6,
have poured scorn on Atta's Prague meeting.

However, the tantalising detail provided in the intelligence document uncovered
by Iraq's interim government suggests that Atta's involvement with Iraqi
intelligence may well have been far deeper than has hitherto been acknowledged.

Written in the neat, precise hand of Tahir Jalil Habbush al-Tikriti, the former
head of the Iraqi Intelligence Service (IIS) and one of the few named in the US
government's pack of cards of most-wanted Iraqis not to have been apprehended,
the personal memo to Saddam is signed by Habbush in distinctive green ink.

Headed simply "Intelligence Items", and dated July 1, 2001, it is addressed: "To
the President of the Ba'ath Revolution Party and President of the Republic, may
God protect you." The first paragraph states that "Mohammed Atta, an Egyptian
national, came with Abu Ammer (an Arabic nom-de-guerre - his real identity is
unknown) and we hosted him in Abu Nidal's house at al-Dora under our direct
supervision. We arranged a work programme for him for three days with a team
dedicated to working with him . . . He displayed extraordinary effort and showed
a firm commitment to lead the team which will be responsible for attacking the
targets that we have agreed to destroy." There is nothing in the document that
provides any clue to the identity of the "targets", although Iraqi officials say
it is a coded reference to the September 11 attacks.

The second item contains a report of how Iraqi intelligence, helped by "a small
team from the al-Qaeda organisation", arranged for an (unspecified) shipment
from Niger to reach Baghdad by way of Libya and Syria. Iraqi officials believe
this is a reference to the controversial shipments of uranium ore Iraq acquired
from Niger to aid Saddam in his efforts to develop an atom bomb, although there
is no explicit reference in the document to this.

Habbush writes that the successful completion of the shipment was "the fruit of
your excellent secret meeting with Bashir al-Asad (the Syrian president) on the
Iraqi-Syrian border", and concludes: "May God protect you and save you to all
Arab nations."

While it is almost impossible to ascertain whether or not the document is
legitimate or a clever fake, Iraqi officials working for the interim government
are convinced of its authenticity, even though they decline to reveal where and
how they obtained it. "It is not important how we found it," said a senior Iraqi
security official. "The important thing is that we did find it and the
information it contains."

A leading member of Iraq's governing council, who asked not to be named, said he
was convinced of the document's authenticity. "There are people who are working
with us who used to work with Habbush who are convinced that it is his
handwriting and signature. We are uncovering evidence all the time of Saddam's
dealings with al-Qaeda, and this document shows the extent of the old regime's
involvement with the international terrorist network."

This is the second document published by this newspaper that appears to
highlight Saddam's links with al-Qaeda. Earlier this year The Sunday Telegraph
published details of another Iraqi intelligence document that indicated Saddam's
regime was attempting to set up a meeting with Osama bin Laden, the al-Qaeda
leader, who was then based in Sudan.

Intelligence experts point out that a memo such as that written by Habbush would
of necessity be vague and short. "Trained intelligence officers hate putting
anything down in writing," said one former CIA officer. "You never know where it
might turn up."

Certainly the memo's detail concerning Mohammed Atta and Abu Nidal fits in with
the known movements of the two terrorists in the summer of 2001. Abu Nidal, the
renegade Palestinian terrorist responsible for a wave of outrages in the 1980s,
such as the 1985 bomb attacks on Rome and Vienna airports, was based in Baghdad,
under Saddam's personal protection, for most of his career.

Having briefly relocated to Libya, Abu Nidal returned to Baghdad at some point
in early 2001. At the time it was assumed that Saddam had lured the Palestinian
terrorist back to help the Iraqi leader plan a number of terrorist attacks aimed
at destabilising American plans to remove him. In particular, Saddam wanted Abu
Nidal to revive his network of "sleeper cells" in Europe and the Middle East to
carry out a new wave of attacks. During 2001 Abu Nidal lived in a number of
houses in the Baghdad area, including a spacious home in the al-Dora district
where he is reported to have met Atta.

The relationship between Abu Nidal and Saddam, however, quickly turned sour,
mainly because - as The Sunday Telegraph reported at the time - the ageing
Palestinian leader was reluctant to accede to Saddam's request to train al-Qaeda
fighters in sophisticated terrorist techniques.

Abu Nidal was murdered in August 2001, although the Iraqis tried to claim that
he had committed suicide. Habbush appeared at a hastily arranged press
conference in Baghdad in an attempt to persuade the sceptical Arab media that
Abu Nidal had taken his own life after Iraqi investigators had uncovered a plot
to assassinate Saddam.

Although Western intelligence agencies have attempted to trace Atta's movements
in the months preceding September 11, there remain several periods during which
his precise whereabouts are unknown. Having moved to Florida from Hamburg in
2000, Atta is known to have made at least two trips from the US to Europe in
2001.

In early January he flew to Madrid for a few days. His next confirmed trip was
to Zurich in early July. In between, American investigators have concluded from
a detailed examination of Atta's credit cards and phone records, that he spent
most of the spring and early summer of 2001 in Florida, interspersed by
occasional domestic trips. The only confirmed sighting of Atta during this
period, however, was on April 26 when he was pulled over for a traffic violation
in Florida.

This traffic offence, taken with other evidence collated by FBI agents, is one
of the reasons that CIA officials have discounted the report that Atta met an
Iraqi intelligence officer in Prague earlier in the month (the Czech authorities
claim Atta was in Prague on April 8). Yesterday the New York Times reported that
Ani, who was taken into US custody last July, had told American interrogators
that he had not met Atta in Prague.

"The Prague meeting does not appear very convincing," said Lorenzo Vidino, a
terrorism analyst at The Investigative Project, a non-profit organisation that
investigates international terrorism, in Washington. "But even if that meeting
did not take place you have to remember that Atta used a large number of aliases
when he travelled. It is not inconceivable that Atta slipped out of the US
undetected sometime in the first half of 2001."

The US Congressional report into the September 11 attacks states that Atta used
16 to 17 known aliases, although American intelligence experts concede that
there may have been others.

It is entirely conceivable, then, that Atta secretly made his way to Baghdad to
undertake training with Abu Nidal a few months before the September 11 attacks.
But as long as Saddam and his senior intelligence operatives remain at large, it
is impossible to assess just how much they knew about, and were involved in, the
planning and execution of the September 11 atrocities.

Con Coughlin is the author of Saddam: The Secret Life (Macmillan)
[PS]News: [ES]

Focus:

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 14, 2003, Sunday

Russia calls on the Cossacks to ride again - this time in Ladas As a wave of
terror attacks sweeps the country, Russia's warrior caste, the Cossacks, are
reviving their role as guardians of the south, reports Tom Parfitt in Moscow

BYLINE: BY TOM PARFITT

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 805 words

EYES ABLAZE, Oleg Tishenko runs a finger down the pitted blade of a 19th-century
sabre.

"We are ready to fulfil our historic duty," he says, making a slash through the
air. "We have never been afraid of anyone. It is genetically impossible for a
Cossack to experience fear. We must protect the borders of the motherland."

Here on Russia's fringe in the Caucasus, a rebirth is taking place. Under threat
from Chechen terrorists, Russia has called on its "untamed horsemen" - the
Cossacks - to resurrect their historic role as defenders of its southern
frontier.

Once members of the most feared fighting force in the world, the Cossacks' very
survival was threatened after the Bolshevik revolution in 1917. Many sided with
the White Army and were driven into exile. Suppressed in the Soviet era, they
quietly began a revival in the early 1990s.

Now, worried by the rising number of terrorist strikes near Chechnya, President
Vladimir Putin is backing a new law that will formalise the Cossacks' security
role.

Last week, the interior ministry drafted more than 3,000 Cossacks to maintain
security during parliamentary elections in Stavropol, which borders Chechnya. It
followed the suicide bombing of a train in the region, in which 44 people were
killed, two days before the poll. A second explosion in Moscow on Tuesday left
six dead.

The armed Cossacks, these days riding in Lada cars with blacked-out windows
rather than on white chargers, patrolled streets, polling booths and railway
stations. For many, their presence was a welcome boost to Russia's hapless
police force, the "militsiya" - although some ethnic minority groups were
nervous of the roaming units.

There are more than 600,000 registered Cossacks in Russia, many descendants of
the mustachioed warriors of the Steppes who lived for centuries in
semi-autonomous clans between the Black and Caspian seas. They have preserved a
fierce pride in their fighting prowess and strong Orthodox faith.

About 20,000 serve in the armed forces, but thousands more are members of
loosely defined defence units and volunteer patrols. "What we need is official
status," said Mr Tishenko, 38, a sotnik (lieutenant) who lives at Novopavlovsk,
a small town 900 miles south of Moscow. "That would bring us funding, pensions
and support for our families."

The government is backing his calls. Boris Gryzlov, the interior minister,
announced last month that new legislation to strengthen the Cossacks' security
role would be pushed through the State Duma by autumn next year. "The potential
of Cossacks who have always served Russia faithfully must be fully used by the
state," he said.

Mr Tishenko's sabre, or shashka, is a museum piece, but the town's Cossack
headquarters is geared up for active service. The Cossack community is setting
up a security firm and patrols its land on horseback.

Chechnya, from where militants launch terrorist attacks on the rest of Russia,
is just a few miles down the road. "The authorities need more vigilance to catch
the Chechen infiltrators," said Mr Tishenko. "We can provide that."

Further north in Mineralniye Vodi, ataman (chieftain) Oleg Gubenko greets
visitors at a desk surrounded by Orthodox icons and a portrait of Tsar Nicholas
I. Mr Gubenko, a descendant of the legendary Zaporozhian Cossacks who wrote a
mocking letter to the Turkish Sultan in the 17th century calling him "a swine's
snout and a mare's backside", was one of a few elite troops drafted into a new
Cossack battalion in the Russian Army in 1996.

The battalion lasted only a few months after a fierce but controversial campaign
in Chechnya. "That was a high point for us," said Mr Gubenko, 36. He dismissed
suggestions that creating purely Cossack units could inflame tensions among the
patchwork of Russia's Caucasian nations, many of them Muslims.

"Chechens, Dagestanis, Ingush, Cherkessians - we've lived with them all and
absorbed their traditions. We respect the mountain peoples and they respect us."

Others remain sceptical that the Cossacks can suppress the fondness for pogroms
and drunken rampages that led Napoleon to call them "a disgrace to the human
species". During the first international Cossack congress in Novocherkassk
earlier this year, for example, one angry ataman branded immigrants in southern
Russia "weeds and locusts", saying it was necessary "to jump in and scare them a
bit".

Yet at the Cossack Cadet School in Stavropol, new recruits are taught to be
patriotic, not racist. Founded last year, the school has 600 pupils - almost 200
of them girls - aged 11 to 17.

Under glowering portraits of Russia's famous generals, the pupils, all Cossacks,
learn the history of their ancestors.

"We have a tradition of protecting the motherland," said Aleksei Milaslavskiy,
16. "Whatever the country asks of us, we must do it."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 15, 2003, Monday Edition 1

Terror attack fear over plan for flats

BYLINE: By Sarah Knapton, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 434 words


   A Riverside development is under threat because of fears it could be used to
launch a terror attack.

Navy top brass are objecting to plans for 76 flats at Albert Edward Dock, North
Shields, because they would be too close to warships mooring at the nearby Tyne
Commission Quay.

Tyneside North MP Steven Byers also raised security concerns about the proposals
which planners are recommending for approval.

Some 365 letters of complaint were received by the North Tyneside Council after
Miller Homes applied to build the apartments.

Mr Byers told the council: "There have been terrorist attacks since outline
permission was granted.

"The development overlooks the Tyne Commission Quay which is one of the few deep
water berths on the east coast available for the navy, foreign naval vessels and
for lay-by use.

"Security issues must now be paramount and high-rise buildings overlooking
vessels is a matter of concern and should justify refusal of the application."

The Ministry of Defence wrote to planners saying: "From a security point of view
the proximity of the development to the quay would pose a threat to warships.

"Tyne Commission Quay is the only berth capable of accommodating large ships on
the east coast and security issues should be properly taken into account before
permission is granted."

Port of Tyne say the Royal Navy could even be forced to evacuate people from the
flats when sensitive ships are at dock.

But the scheme has been recommended for approval in a report by planning officer
Jacqueline Palmer.

Ms Palmer said: "The more extensive concerns raised by local residents and the
occupiers and users of nearby land are noted but these largely relate to matters
which go to the principle of the development and which do not therefore present
justifiable grounds on which to resist this proposal at this stage."

Residents are also concerned the Ministry of Defence will bypass the port for
future visits if the flats are built.

Phil Walton, chairman of the Royal Quays Marina action group, said: "We can't
afford to have these ship pass us by next time they're in the region. The amount
of interest they generate and tourism they provide to the region mustn't be
overlooked.

"I don't think in this day and age the Ministry of Defence will take risks when
it comes to its vessels. The fleet will just be sent to Edinburgh instead."

Residents also say the development will block light and views, is out of keeping
with the area and would exacerbate car parking problems. Ms Palmer's report will
be heard at Thursday's planning committee meeting.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 15, 2003, Monday

SADDAM CAPTURED: TERROR ATTACKS ARE NOT OVER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 50 words


THE capture of Saddam is unlikely to stop terror attacks on coalition forces in
Iraq, it was feared last night.

US forces had hoped his supporters would give up the campaign, knowing he would
never return to power.

But experts warned his arrest could drive Iraqis to fight even harder.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           December 16, 2003, Tuesday

TERROR FOR FAMILY AS ARSONISTS ATTACK HOME

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 90 words


A TERRIFIED family called Rugby fire crews out after arsonists set fire to the
flat next door to them.

Crews were called out to Siddaway House, near Hollowell Way, Brownsover, at
10.30pm yesterday after neighbours saw the front door of the flat had been set
on fire.

Crews spent about 20 minutes putting out the blaze.

Sub officer Paul Haywood said it was a potentially dangerous attack.

He said the fire caused relatively little damage - but if it had spread into the
flat it could have been a very different story.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 16, 2003

Westerners 'at risk of Saudi attack';Envoy concedes counter-terror measures are
flawed

BYLINE: Ian Wilson Chief Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 640 words


A SENIOR British diplomat has admitted UK citizens living in Saudi Arabia are
being put at risk from terrorist attack by inadequate security.

The alert follows a 12-day visit by anti-terrorist officers from London to
schools and compounds in Riyadh, Jeddah and the kingdom's eastern province.

The Metropolitan Police visit began days after suspected al Qaeda terrorists
killed 17 people and injured 122 last month by driving an explosives-laden car
into a compound for Arabs and Muslims in Riyadh.

The attack bore the hallmarks of suicide bombings in May on three compounds for
westerners in the Saudi capital which killed 34, including two Britons, and
injured 200.

The British consul has said counter-terrorism measures are flawed and in some
cases effectively reduced, with reasons ranging from use of untrained security
guards to an absence of expert security guidance and "lack of resources/money".

Ken Neill's notice concedes that it is "impossible to guarantee protection
against large vehicle-borne devices accompanied by terrorists willing to
commit".

However, while stressing the anti-terrorist branch made positive comments, he
acknowleged best practice against the threat was not always followed.

Almost all 26,000 UK expatriates in Saudi Arabia live in compounds, where
security includes checks under cars.

John Lyons, the MP for Strathkelvin and Bearsden, who fought for the release of
Sandy Mitchell, a Scot accused of car bombings that killed a fellow Briton,
described the admissions as a matter of concern. He added: "I will pursue issues
with Jack Straw, the foreign secretary."

It emerged yesterday that anti-terrorist officers were in Saudi to speak to
authorities over car bombings which saw expatriates, including Mr Mitchell,
arrested amid claims of a turf war over bootleg alcohol. They are now widely
believed to be the work of al Qaeda.

Mr Mitchell has been interviewed on their return, with police now set to
question four other Britons who said they were tortured into confessing to the
attacks before being released in August.

The interviews are linked to an inquest due next year into the death of
Christopher Rodway, from Salisbury, when a bomb exploded under his car in Riyadh
in November, 2000.

Mr Mitchell, formerly of Kirkintilloch, near Glasgow, said yesterday he was told
by the anti-terrorist branch: "You are not a suspect. The Saudis have not
produced a sliver of evidence against you. They gave no credible evidence to
link you or the others to these crimes."

He is expected to announce later this week that he was tortured after tests at
the Parker Institute in Copenhagen, a world leader in treatment of torture. The
tests are said to corroborate claims he was beaten with iron bars and axe
handles to extract a confession.

A second detainee, James Cottle, flew to Copenhagen last night and will also
attend Friday's press conference to reveal plans for legal action against the
Saudis. They want apologies, declarations of innocence and damages.

Ron Jones, 50, an accountant originally from Hamilton, is seeking (pounds) 2.2m
from the interior ministry and a lieutenant-colonel after being held for 67 days
in 2001.

In his notice, Mr Neill said: "Overall, the advisers were impressed by the
commitment and application of resources dedicated to improving the security of
compounds, schools and other sites.

"It was clear to them that everyone concerned, whether residents, staff or
security personnel, had made concerted efforts."

However, he stressed it was impossible to guarantee protection because compounds
are not built to withstand large, close-range explosions. It was also "essential
to keep under constant review the methodology used by terrorists in order to
ensure that sound security counter-measures are in place".

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 16, 2003, Tuesday

TERROR OF ACID ATTACK AT PUB;
 24 DRINKERS ARE BURNED

BYLINE: RICHARD SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 290 words

HIGHLIGHT: BURNS: Victim of acid attack; INJURIES: Woman in hospital


AN acid attack at a pub left 24 people needing hospital treatment for burns,
police said yesterday.

Detectives said a woman went in to the pub and threw a corrosive substance over
drinkers. The injuries were mainly to faces, hands and arms and from inhaling
fumes.

The majority of victims have been released from hospital but four people,
including a 25-year-old suspect, are still being treated for burns.

Managers at the pub declined to comment. The owner of the free house, who did
not want to be named, said: "I think it happened on the dance floor but none of
the bar staff saw anything."

The attack was at the Inkerman pub in the St Paul's area of Bristol in the early
hours of Sunday.

Police said a woman had been arrested. The suspect was a seriously ill in a
specialist burns unit but her condition was not life threatening. She will be
questioned later when she recovers.

A witness said the landlady had been celebrating her birthday at the
balloon-decorated pub. She claimed the suspect had been involved in an argument
earlier in the evening.

She said: "She has lived round here all her life but has had a rough time
lately.

"I have heard she carried acid to protect herself."

Avon Ambulance Service NHS Trust said paramedics took two people with
superficial acid wounds to Bristol Royal Infirmary after a 999 call at 1.33am on
Sunday.

Another 20 people made their own way to the hospital suffering from the effects
of the substance.

Sixteen people were treated for minor injuries and were discharged within 24
hours.

Four with more serious wounds were transferred to the specialist burns unit at
Frenchay Hospital. The injured who agreed to be pictured did not want to be
named.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               December 17, 2003

OLD BROTHERS ATTACKED IN ISLE TERROR

BYLINE: James McNamara

LENGTH: 421 words


TWO elderly brothers were in hospital last night after being viciously attacked
in their home on a peaceful Irish island.

Bachelors Jimmy and Neilly Sugrue, both in their 80s, were THRASHED, TIED UP and
ROBBED of their life savings.

A gang of four men burst into their home on Valentia, Co Kerry, in the early
hours of yesterday.

Jimmy, who sleeps downstairs, was first gagged with masking tape and tied to a
chair.

The raiders then made their way upstairs to assault Neilly.

Stagger

The callous thugs cut telephone wires to the farmhouse before entering the
building.

It was only when one of the brothers managed to free himself and stagger to a
neighbour that the alarm was raised at around 5am.

The Sugrues were taken to hospital where they are suffering from trauma and
injuries following the attack - in which a large amount of cash was taken.

Their condition is not thought to be life-threatening.

The sickening incident has appalled the peaceful community which has never
experienced anything like it. Lighthouse keeper Richard Foran said: "It was one
of the great things of living around here - that you could live in peace."

A pal of the brothers, 83-year-old John O'Sullivan said they were "the real old
stock".

Last night cops were hunting for the gang who were in their late 20s and early
30s.

They believe the men travelled by car to the island before the attack which took
place between 1am and 4am.

The brothers' farmhouse is at the bridge end of the island which connects
Valentia with the mainland.

It overlooks Great Skellig Island, a world heritage site.

It is believed the gang entered the house through a workshop at the rear.

Officers were yesterday waiting to take statements from the brothers when they
are well enough. Meanwhile, they are making house-to- house calls.

Supt Pat O'Sullivan, of nearby Cahersiveen, condemned the "despicable crime".

Vigilant

And he reminded elderly people not to let anyone in their home unless the
visitor has proper ID.

Anyone with information is urged to call gardai in Cahersiveen on 066 9472111.
Age Action Ireland also urged old people to stay on the alert.

Spokesperson Paul Murray said: "The fact that this evil incident happened coming
up to Christmas highlights the need for all communities to be vigilant on behalf
of older people, and for older people to take precautions against being cheated
and robbed."

He also urged people not to keep large amounts of money in their homes.


LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 19, 2003

Blunkett defends anti-terror laws in face of fierce attack from Privy Council
members

BYLINE: Catherine Macleod Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 439 words


DAVID Blunkett yesterday defended the laws which allow terrorist suspects to be
de-tained without trial after strong criticism from a senior parliamentary
committee.

Reviewing the anti-terror legislation established in the wake of the September
11 attacks, MPs and peers on the Privy Council review committee demanded that
the internment of foreign nationals should end "as a matter of urgency" and
argued that the detention of suspects without trial would only increase "the
risk of a miscarriage of justice".

The committee acknowledged the difficult balancing act involved in fighting
terrorism while protecting the rights of individuals, but admitted the current
powers "do not meet the full extent of the threat" since they applied only to
foreign nationals.

According to the report, "nearly half" of international terror suspects were
British citizens.

The committee, chaired by Lord Newton of Braintree, a former Tory cabinet
minister, condemned officials for their failure to find alternative ways of
dealing with the 17 people who have been interned under the powers contained in
part four of the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act.

The report said: "We consider the shortcomings . . .  to be sufficiently serious
to strongly recommend that the part four powers which allow foreign nationals to
be detained potentially indefinitely should be replaced as a matter of urgency."

It spoke of "finding alternative ways of dealing with them (such as finding
evidence that would support a prosecution)".

Mr Blunkett insisted his first duty as home secretary was to "to protect the
citizens of the United Kingdom", and maintained the act was a key element in
that.

He promised to consider the recommendations and agreed to comply with the
committee's demand that the whole of the act would be considered by parliament
when it comes up for renewal. However, he has already ruled out any reduction in
his powers.

"These were not powers I assumed lightly," he said. "I have never pretended that
they are ideal, but I firmly believe that they are currently the best and most
workable way to address the particular problems we face."

He said he failed "to see how the public would be adequately protected by
electronic tagging, as the committee has recommended".

Patrick Mercer, shadow minister for homeland security, said the report
highlighted serious defects in the operation of the act.

Shami Chakarabarti, director of the human rights group, Liberty, said: "The home
secretary must now release or charge the detainees, who have been imprisoned
only on the grounds of his suspicion."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DAVID BLUNKETT: First duty "is to protect UK citizens".

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 19, 2003, Friday

Blunkett fury as Privy Councillors attack terror laws

BYLINE: Richard Ford and Daniel McGrory

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 754 words


David Blunkett clashed last night with a powerful committee of parliamentarians
after they demanded that he scrap a key part of the Government's anti terrorism
laws.

The Home Secretary rounded on the committee and issued a warning that their
proposal would leave the country at greater risk of attack by al-Qaeda
terrorists.

Within minutes of the committee publishing a review of the operation of
draconian emergency laws passed after September 11, Mr Blunkett dismissed its
key recommendation.

He said he would be "failing in my duty" to protect the public if he abandoned
the internment powers for foreign nationals suspect of terrorism.

"I am not convinced that the current threat leaves us with any option but to
continue to use these powers," he said. "I believe that I would be failing in my
duty of public protection if the Part 4 powers were removed from the armoury of
measures available to protect the United Kingdom from specific terrorist
threats."

The Home Secretary also dismissed another proposal from the committee which said
that foreign terror suspects could be tagged rather than detained. "I fail to
see how the public would be adequately protected by electronic tagging, " he
said.

Members of the committee were surprised at the speed and tone of Mr Blunkett's
reaction to their 121-page report. They had expected what was described as a
more "measured response" in January.

But the forthright demand for an end to internment without trial for foreign
national terror suspects, could lead to a rebellion by Labour MPs and in the
House of Lords when the committee's findings are debated in February.

The committee of Privy Councillors called for the abolition of the power to
allow the indefinite detention without charge or trial of foreign nationals who
cannot be deported. It said the internment of foreign nationals should end as
"matter of urgency" because it increased the risk of a miscarriage of justice.

The report also said that the current powers "do not meet the full extent of the
threat" facing the UK as they only applied to foreign nationalis.

It also disclosed that "nearly half" of international terror suspects in whom
the security services and police are interested are British nationals.

Lord Newton of Braintree, a former Conservative Cabinet Minister, criticised
officials for failing to find alternative way of dealing with 17 foreign
nationals who have been certified as international terror suspects. Two have
voluntarily left the country, and 14 are in jail and one in hospital.

The measures, which were widely criticised by human rights campaigners, are
contained in the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001.

The committee's report said: "We consider the shortcomings...to be sufficiently
serious to strongly recommend that the Part 4 powers which allow foreign
nationals to be detained potentially indefinitely should be replaced as a matter
of urgency."

The committee's alternatives to internment included removing the "self-imposed
blanket ban" on phone tapping evidence in court, in a bid to increase
prosecutions.

It also recommended that instead of indefinite detention suspects could be
monitored through electronic tagging and only being allowed to use certain
telephones and banks.

They also said that it was unsatisfactory that the law allowed detainees to
leave Britain at any time which amounted to " exporting terrorism".

The attack on a key element in the anti-terror law comes as foreign governments
are also criticising the Government. Their complaint is that they have been
given no access to the detainees.

Investigators from Spain, Germany and Italy are desperate to question Abu
Qatada, who they claim is a pivotal figure in cells they have under arrest in
their own countries.

Their requests to question him and some of the other suspects directly have been
rejected by the Government. Investigators in Spain who named Abu Qatada as "the
spiritual leader of al-Qaeda in Europe", say their own terror trials are
hindered by Britain's refusal to let them interrogate the cleric. The Jordanian
Government has sentenced him to life imprisonment for his role in planning a
bombing campaign to coincide with the the millenium celebrations and cannot
understand why Abu Qatada is not extradited. In spite of holding most of the
terror suspects for many months, the men are providing the security services and
police with little intelligence on terrorist activity in the United Kingdom.


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               December 20, 2003

Terrorised mum vows to defy her attackers;
 'This is my home and I won't let them ruin my Iife''This is my home and I won't
let them ruin my Iife'

BYLINE: By Kim Kellynewsdesk@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 454 words


A DEFIANT Co Antrim woman who was subjected to a savage assault in her own home
has today said she will not give in to the callous thieves who brutally beat and
terrorised her and plans to return to her Lisburn home in time for Christmas.

The woman who asked only to be identified by her first name - Patricia - was
asleep at her home at around 5am on Thursday morning when three knife-wielding
masked men kicked down her solid oak front door, burst into her bedroom and
demanded money.

The mother of two was dragged downstairs from the bedroom of her isolated Pond
Park Road home where a horrifying hour-long assault took place.

The men repeatedly beat Patricia around the head and face, demanded money and
vodka and ransacked the house.

The men became increasingly frustrated when they were told there was no money on
the premises and the violence escalated.

They gagged and bound the terrified woman who tried to escape from the house
twice but was dragged back by the gang and trapped in her living room.

Patricia repeatedly attempted to offer the men credit cards and her car but the
men refused to leave without money and threatened to cut the head off her pet
dog.

The intruders left with just £40 leaving the distressed woman to flee her home
in the dark wearing just her nightclothes and attempt to raise the alarm at a
nearby nursing home.

Despite her horrific injuries Patricia is adamant that she will return to the
family home.

"I refuse to be a victim," said Patricia who suffered two broken cheekbones and
serious eye injuries.

"This is my home and I am not going to let these people ruin my life. How dare
they come into my house and do this.

"My priority is to get things back to normal for Christmas and to have these
violent thugs locked up.

"During the attack I asked one of the robbers if he had a mother, I want people
to look at my face and see what someone's son has done to me.

"If I had been elderly I would have been killed, one man in particular was
extremely violent and seemed to be getting a thrill from hitting me round the
head. He thumped my head again and again as he walked around looking for
valuables.

"This man has to be caught, he is going to kill someone and he will almost
certainly do this again. Old people are at risk until these people are caught."

One man has already been charged in connection with the incident and with two
other attacks - one of which was a hatchet attack at the Lisburn home of
pensioner Eddie Green.

However, police are still seeking two other men involved in the brutal attack.
Detectives can be contacted at Lisburn Police Station or by using the
Crimestoppers freephone number 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               December 21, 2003

ROW AS PRIVATE FIRM TELLS POLICE HOW TO STOP ATTACKS; TERROR GUIDE FURY

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 382 words


EVERY police officer and security guard in Britain is to get a pocket guide to
preventing terrorist attacks.

However, the information has been drawn up by private security experts because
the Government has failed to act.

Security industry insiders are furious that they have had to battle to convince
ministers that frontline officers need to know how to respond in the event of an
Al Qaeda "spectacular" in Britain. They are still locked in talks with the Home
Office to obtain funding for their plans, even though they will cost just a few
thousand pounds.

Opposition MPs want the new anti-terrorism guides to be used to inform the
public about what suspicious activity to look for. The guides tell security
guards and police to contact the anti-terrorist hotline if they spot people
showing an interest in access gates, the position of security cameras and
vehicles and people who keep returning to the same location.

They are also urged to be on their guard for short-term lets on flats paid for
in cash, computers moved into otherwise empty properties and delivery of garden
materials or large plastic containers.

Suicide bombers can be identified by their deep concentration or a wire or
toggle protruding from a bag.

People spotting suspicious characters are urged not to alert them but to inform
the anti-terrorist branch.

Mike Welply, chief executive of the Joint Security Industry Council (JSIC),
said: "We are keen to get this out to the 138,000 police officers and 500,000
security operatives.

"It will have the Association of Chief Police Officers' stamp on it to show it's
genuine."

TransConsult, a firm providing dangerous goods security advisors to the
transport industry, has had to seek help from the US government to train its men
in anti-terrorism awareness because the British Government refused.

It is also working with the Scotland Yard anti-terrorist squad SO13 to find ways
that truckers can be part of a terrorist early warning network.

Tory Homeland Security Minister Patrick Mercer said:

"TransConsult and JSIC have got to be commended but the Government has failed
again."

Alec Hayden, of TransConsult, said:

"We will work with whichever agencies we can but we have been ignored by the
Department of Transport."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               December 22, 2003

US raises alert level over threat of terror attack

BYLINE: By Andrew Gumbel in Los Angeles and Nigel Morris

LENGTH: 459 words


The United States raised its terrorist threat level to "high" last night,
indicating the possibility of attacks which Tom Ridge, the director of Homeland
Security, said could "rival or exceed what we experienced on 11 September".

Mr Ridge said there had been an increase in the volume of intelligence reports
and he cited renewed concerns about the use of aircraft as weapons. "We continue
to hear ... the interest in using aircraft as a means of attack," he said. In
the colour-coded scheme that his department devised, the threat went from yellow
to orange, the second highest level.

The alert has an impact on law enforcement agencies, including those who carry
out security checks at airports.

But Mr Ridge said Americans should not alter their holiday travel plans. He said
the increased "chatter" picked up by intelligence agencies had "no connection"
with the capture of Saddam Hussein on 13 December. He said he had heard about a
report that a female suicide bomber might be planning an attack in New York, but
said that he had "no independent confirmation" to corroborate the story.

In Britain, Tony Blair is planning to capitalise on Libya's agreement on Friday
to surrender its weapons of mass destruction by trying to persuade Iran and
Syria to follow suit. British officials are to step up efforts in the new year
to argue that the nations should give up plans to develop illicit weapons in
return for closer links with the West.

Relations have warmed recently with Iran, which agreed last week to allow United
Nations inspectors access to potential nuclear sites. Britain has said that it
believed the Tehran regime would co-operate, but stressed that Iran would be
judged on its actions rather than its words. There were also concerns that Iran
might still possess chemical and biological weapons.

Syria, which has been accused by the United States of supplying Saddam with
arms, has failed to sign up to international agreements on chemical and
biological materials.

The Foreign Office said Syria was "another country of interest to us" and the
Government was pressing it to ban such materials as soon as possible.

Libya agreed yesterday to allow snap UN nuclear arms inspections. The Prime
Minister, Shokri Ghanem, said economic progress was more important than arms. He
said: "We are turning our swords into ploughshares and this step should be
appreciated and followed by all other countries."

But Britain said that the situation in Iraq might have prompted the move. Geoff
Hoon, the Defence Secretary, said: "We showed after Saddam Hussein failed to
cooperate with the United Nations that we meant business and Libya, and I hope
other countries, will draw that lesson."

Source: Independent


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 22, 2003, Monday

Archbishop attacks terror detention

BYLINE: By Jonathan Petre Religion Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 482 words

THE Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Rowan Williams, issued a warning yesterday that
the detention of terrorism suspects without trial could alienate moderate
Muslims.

Dr Williams told a Sunday newspaper that the indefinite imprisonment of suspects
in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and Belmarsh prison in south London could send out the
wrong message.

The Archbishop, one of the leading opponents of the Iraq war, has made building
bridges with other faiths a high priority, and has been alarmed by some of the
anti-terrorism measures introduced by Britain and America. During the war, he
hosted a three-day summit of Christian and Islamic scholars in Qatar to improve
understanding, and last week he met members of the Iraqi ruling council and the
Iranian ambassador.

The Archbishop told The Sunday Times that the treatment of nine British Muslims
held in Cuba and 14 men detained in Belmarsh and a Buckinghamshire prison made
it more difficult to persuade Muslims to exercise tolerance.

"These make it harder to encourage and give the right message to those moderate
Muslims like our visitors from Iraq, who are very keen to establish
constitutional principles of religious toleration in what will certainly be a
Muslim state," he said.

"If we want to persuade moderate Muslims to sign up to toleration and pluralism
of the right kind, anything that gives the impression that we are targeting
Muslims is problematic. We have a lot of ground to make up."

He was also critical of the French government's move last week to ban Muslim
headscarves in schools.

"A number of Christians have said that they want to be on side with Muslims in
fighting this particular one," he said. "The dogmatic secularism of the French
government is becoming very provocative and very destructive. The argument in
favour of keeping religious symbols is that there is no such thing as a neutral
public space in which everybody has to put aside that which makes them
distinctive."

He said that his efforts to reach out to other faiths did not dilute
Christianity. "You can hold out a hand of friendship without in any sense
compromising belief or truth," he said. "There is theological debate here which
is real and deep because we share some history and therefore can discuss it."

Dr Williams, who was consecrated Archbishop in February, has spent much of his
first year attempting to cope with the bitter civil war within his Church over
homosexuality.

In a Christmas message released this month to the worldwide Anglican Church, Dr
Williams described the past year as a time of great uncertainty and disturbance
in the Church.

He said: "Before becoming preoccupied with our neighbour's failings, we must in
the presence of the Christ child look first to our own birth and death; to where
we see the centre and the edge; to how we find God's centre, not just the centre
of our own concerns and anxieties."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Eastbourne Herald

                               December 22, 2003

TREK BOUNCER BLINDED AFTER TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 412 words


A TREK bouncer was left temporarily blinded after a vicious attack by a drunk
student. Doorstaff were involved in a confrontation with three people who were
angry at not being allowed into the nightclub. Matthew Huntly, a 20-year-old
student, let rip with a tirade of foul-mouthed abuse before punching the doorman
in the face. Kevin Harlow, a bouncer familiar to regulars at the nightclub, was
assaulted and has needed specialist treatment. Huntly, who used to live in Firle
Grange but is now at university at London, was charged with assault and
harassment. He was prosecuted for assaulting a police officer when he was a
teenager. He initially denied attacking Harlow but changed his story when he was
shown CCTV footage. Laura Turner, prosecuting, said the problems began at around
11pm on August 31 when doormen Kevin Harlow and Andrew Weedon stopped Huntly
from coming into the club. He verbally abused both bouncers and returned soon
after with two friends. Miss Turner explained, 'Huntly said:'You think you're
big, you think you're hard, don't you? 'I could have you in that alleyway any
time.' After the attack Mr Harlow told the police, 'I could see him looking at
me, and then all of a sudden I saw his right fist coming towards my face. 'I
then felt a sharp pain and lost vision in my left eye.' Other staff rushed to
his aid and Huntly was detained until police arrived. Mr Harlow was taken to the
DGH for treatment to cuts to his and his nose. He has blurred of vision and
problems with his eye for two months, but is not thought to have suffered any
permanent damage. Alice McCarney, defending, said the incident was fuelled by
drink, but Huntly was facing up to his problems with alcohol, and wants to
become an MP. She told the court, 'He can't clearly remember what happened but
he accepts his behaviour was totally unacceptable. 'He has a Jekyl and Hyde
personality when he has been drinking and he has said he will never go near the
nightclub again. 'He is currently studying at University College London and his
long-term ambitions is to move into investment banking or property development.
He is also very interested in politics and said he would like to become an MP.'
Magistrates decided not to jail Huntly but instead sentenced him to pay £750
compensation to Harlow and to work 80 hours community service. He was also order
to pay £87 towards the cost of the trial, and was placed under a 12 month
Community Rehabilitation Order.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                           © 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               December 22, 2003

U.S. on high alert for terror attacks;Threat of another al Qaida strike
'greatest since September 11'

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 452 words


THE US was on high terror alert today with the warning the threat of an attack
was greater now than at any time since the September 11 atrocities.

Intelligence reports said Osama bin Laden's terrorist network was trying to find
holes in US aviation security and could again use hijacked planes as weapons
over the festive period.

The US Government raised the national threat level to orange, the second
-highest.

Since May, the level had been at yellow, or an elevated risk, and in the middle
of the five-colour scale.

Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said: "Extensive and considerable
protections have been, or soon will be, in place all across the country.

"The Government will stand at the ready 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to
stop terrorism during the holiday season and beyond."

Ridge cited reports that "extremists abroad" were anticipating attacks that
would rival or exceed the scope of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

The Government elevated the threat level after US intelligence agencies
"received a substantial increase in the volume of threat-related intelligence
reports".

"These credible sources suggest the possibility of attacks against the homeland
around the holiday season and beyond," said Ridge.

"These strategic indicators, including al Qaida's continued desire to carry out
attacks against our homeland, are perhaps greater now than at any point since
September 11."

A senior intelligence official said last week analysts were particularly
concerned about the threat of September 11-style attacks, in which terrorists
would use hijacked planes.

Ridge said "recent reporting reiterates al Qaida continues to consider using
aircraft as a weapon. They are evaluating procedures here and abroad to find
gaps in our security posture that can be exploited."

He said security was being stepped up at airports, border crossings and ports.

He also warned Americans to report anything suspicious, such as packages, and to
prepare or review personal emergency plans.

But Ridge urged Americans not to disrupt holiday travel plans.

"America is a country that will not be bent by terror or broken by fear," he
said.

He said officials did not see a connection between the capture of Saddam Hussein
and the heightened security alert.

The threat level was last raised to orange on May 5. Authorities reported at the
time receiving intelligence on possible terror attacks in the US related to
bombings in Saudi Arabia and Morocco that killed dozens of people. The threat
level was returned to yellow 11 days later.

Meanwhile, Australia said it was reviewing its security level but had no
immediate plans to raise its vigilance.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SECURITY WARNING: an armed guard protects Capitol Hill in Washington
after America was put on a high terror alert

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               December 22, 2003

US moves to high terror alert: Washington Credible evidence of attack to rival
9/11

BYLINE: Julian Borger

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 747 words


The Bush administration yesterday put the United States on a high state of
alert, saying it had picked up credible intelligence of a possible terrorist
attack "that could either rival or exceed" September 11.

The homeland security secretary, Tom Ridge, did not give details of the expected
nature of a potential attack, but mentioned "significant concern" that aircraft
could be used again.

Homeland security officials said there was also concern about the possible use
of chemical, biological or radiological weapons.

It is the first time in seven months that the US has issued an orange alert -
the second highest status after red - and Mr Ridge said the threat was "perhaps
greater now than at any point since September 11 2001".

He made the announce-ment, raising the alert status from yellow, after a
"substantial increase" in the volume of "chatter" among suspected terrorists
being picked up by US intelligence. "We continue to hear . . . the interest in
using aircraft as a means of attack," he said.

The threat level has never reached the red alert. This would mean a terrorist
attack is either imminent or under way.

In Britain, a Home Office spokesman said the US warning had no bearing on
Britain's own state of alert, which has been at "heightened readiness" for
weeks.

"This is a matter for the Americans," the spokesman said. "We are not changing
the threat level." The spokesman said that under the current "real and serious"
threat, the public should remain "alert but not alarmed". There would be
warnings if necessary to protect safety.

US officials said it was impossible to tell whether the currently threatened
attack would be aimed at US or allied interests abroad or against US territory,
but Americans were warned that extra security precautions would be taken at
airports around the country, lengthening holiday queues.

"Extensive and considerable protections have been or soon will be in place all
across the country," Mr Ridge said at a hastily arranged news conference. "Your
government will stand at the ready 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to stop
terrorism during the holiday season and beyond."

The security alert status has vacillated between yellow and orange since the
code was established last year. However, it was the first time US officials had
compared the scale of a possible attack to the devastation wrought on New York,
Washington and Pennsylvania by al-Qaida.

Individual cities also outlined additional measures. New York detailed extra
police patrols to cover bridges, tunnel, landmarks and "signature buildings"
such as the stock exchange. Chicago asked federal authorities to change flight
paths over the city centre during the alert.

Mr Ridge warned Americans about the possibility "in the coming days and weeks"
of "attacks that could either rival or exceed what we experienced on September
11".

The choice of language appeared aimed at catching the attention of a public that
has been suffering from "alert fatigue".

The last time the threat code was raised to orange was May 20, after a string of
suicide bombings in Saudi Arabia and Morocco, blamed on al-Qaida. The raised
alert lasted 10 days.

It was unclear last night whether the decision to raise the state of alert was
connected to a broadcast on Friday on the Arabic television network al-Jazeera.
The station aired an audio tape of a statement attributed to Ayman al-Zawahiri,
Osama bin Laden's deputy and an Egyptian-born al-Qaida strategist.

"We are still chasing the Americans and their allies everywhere, even in their
homeland," Mr al-Zawahiri said on the tape.

In the past, such broadcasts have preceded al-Qaida attacks, and US intelligence
officials believe they could be used as a signal to al-Qaida cells around the
world, or as an attempt to gain credit for later attacks.

Evan Bayh, a Democratic member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, told CNN
yesterday: "The greatest risk is probably abroad, but they would like nothing
better than to have an attack here at home."

Richard Myers, the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, told America's Fox
television: "If they could cause another catastrophic event, a tragedy like
9/11, if they could do that again, if they could get their hands on weapons of
mass destruction and make it 10,000, not 3,000, they would do that, and not just
in the United States but in any of the free world or any peoples that treasure
their freedom. "


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 22, 2003

America on high alert for terror attack;Risk 'is worst since 9/11'

BYLINE: Billy Briggs

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 577 words


THE US government raised its terror alert status to the second highest level
yesterday, and warned that terrorists could use aircraft in attacks to "rival or
exceed" those of September 11, 2001.

Tom Ridge, the US homeland security secretary, said intelligence suggested the
threat of a strike was greater than at any time since the attacks on the World
Trade Centre and Pentagon two years ago.

Information indicated that extremists were still interested in using aircraft
for attacks, he said.

"Extensive and considerable protections have been, or soon will be, in place all
across the country," said Mr Ridge.

"Your government will stand at the ready 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to
stop terrorism during the holiday season and beyond."

In response to intelligence that Osama bin Laden's terrorist network was trying
to find weaknesses in US aviation security, Washington raised the threat level
from yellow, indicating elevated threat, to orange, high threat.

The five-step colour system was last raised to orange on May 5 when the
authorities reported receiving intelligence that pointed to possible terror
attacks in the US related to bombings in Saudi Arabia and Morocco that killed
dozens of people.

The threat level was returned to yellow 11 days later. The lowest two levels,
green and blue, and the highest, red, have not been used since the system was
put in place in early 2002.

As a result of the change in threat level, all federal departments and agencies
have put in place action plans and stepped up security at airports, border
crossings, and ports, Mr Ridge said.

He also sought to reassure Americans about the warning, and urged them to use
common sense and report anything suspicious, such as packages, and to prepare or
review personal emergency plans.

Mr Ridge urged Americans not to disrupt holiday travel plans. "America is a
country that will not be bent by terror. America is a country that will not be
broken by fear," he said.

He said officials did not see a connection between the capture of ousted Iraqi
leader Saddam Hussein and the heightened security alert.

This latest warning comes a week after a senior intelligence official said
analysts were particularly concerned about the threat of September 11-style
attacks using hijacked airliners.

On Friday, the Arabic television network al Jazeera broadcast a new statement
from Ayman al-Zawahri, Osama bin Laden's deputy. The CIA believes the tape is
authentic.

"We are still chasing Americans and their allies everywhere, even in their
homeland," said the voice on the tape.

Some statements from al Qaeda leaders are later regarded as preludes to attacks
- others simply propaganda.

Gen Richard Myers, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, said that officials
were trying to determine whether increased terrorist chatter detected in recent
weeks was an aberration or something more serious.

"There is no doubt, from all the intelligence we pick up from al Qaeda, that
they want to do away with our way of life," he said yesterday after returning
from a trip to Iraq and Afghanistan. "And if they could use another catastrophic
event, a tragedy like 9/11, if they could get their hands on weapons of mass
destruction and make it 10,000, not 3000, they would do that."

The State Department last week recommended that its non-essential diplomatic
personnel as well as diplomatic families leave Saudi Arabia.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 22, 2003, Monday

US RAISES ALERT LEVEL OVER THREAT OF TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: ANDREW GUMBEL IN LOS ANGELES AND NIGEL MORRIS

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 455 words


THE UNITED States raised its terrorist threat level to "high" last night,
indicating the possibility of attacks which Tom Ridge, the director of Homeland
Security, said could "rival or exceed what we experienced on 11 September".

Mr Ridge said there had been an increase in the volume of intelligence reports
and he cited renewed concerns about the use of aircraft as weapons. "We continue
to hear ... the interest in using aircraft as a means of attack," he said. In
the colour-coded scheme that his department devised, the threat went from yellow
to orange, the second highest level.

The alert has an impact on law enforcement agencies, including those who carry
out security checks at airports.

But Mr Ridge said Americans should not alter their holiday travel plans. He said
the increased "chatter" picked up by intelligence agencies had "no connection"
with the capture of Saddam Hussein on 13 December. He said he had heard about a
report that a female suicide bomber might be planning an attack in New York, but
said that he had "no independent confirmation" to corroborate the story.

In Britain, Tony Blair is planning to capitalise on Libya's agreement on Friday
to surrender its weapons of mass destruction by trying to persuade Iran and
Syria to follow suit. British officials are to step up efforts in the new year
to argue that the nations should give up plans to develop illicit weapons in
return for closer links with the West.

Relations have warmed recently with Iran, which agreed last week to allow United
Nations inspectors access to potential nuclear sites. Britain has said that it
believed the Tehran regime would co-operate, but stressed that Iran would be
judged on its actions rather than its words. There were also concerns that Iran
might still possess chemical and biological weapons.

Syria, which has been accused by the United States of supplying Saddam with
arms, has failed to sign up to international agreements on chemical and
biological materials.

The Foreign Office said Syria was "another country of interest to us" and the
Government was pressing it to ban such materials as soon as possible.

Libya agreed yesterday to allow snap UN nuclear arms inspections. The Prime
Minister, Shokri Ghanem, said economic progress was more important than arms. He
said: "We are turning our swords into ploughshares and this step should be
appreciated and followed by all other countries."

But Britain said that the situation in Iraq might have prompted the move. Geoff
Hoon, the Defence Secretary, said: "We showed after Saddam Hussein failed to
cooperate with the United Nations that we meant business and Libya, and I hope
other countries, will draw that lesson."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           December 22, 2003, Monday

U.S.FEARS OF TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 92 words


THE US was on a state of high alert today with the warning that the threat of a
terror attack during the holidays was "greater now than at any point" since
September 11 2001.

The warning came yesterday as the US government raised the national threat level
to orange, the second-highest.

Security Secretary Tom Ridge said: "We will stand at the ready 24 hours a day,
seven days a week, to stop terrorism during the holiday season and beyond."

Terrorism experts believe al Qaida is still considering using hijacked aircraft
as weapons.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               December 23, 2003

Petrol bomb terror attack on family

LENGTH: 241 words


A WOMAN and two children were terrified when a petrol bomb was thrown through
the window of their home.

Police said the incident at 2.15am on Monday could have killed someone and have
appealed for witnesses to come forward.

Police and fire crews were called to Norfolk Grove Church where the missile set
fire to the kitchen. Inspector Graham Keyte said there had been an earlier fire
on the doorstep of the house next door but it was unclear why the family had
been targeted.

"A petrol bomb was thrown through the window. It was a bottle with petrol in it
with a rag in the end.

"The rag was lit but the bottle didn't smash otherwise there could have been
tragic circumstances.

"There were no injuries. The woman heard the window smash and went downstairs to
find the bomb in her front room."

Police made house to house inquiries and further inquiries will be made. "We
recovered a number of items and our crime scene investigators will be going to
examine the scene said Insp Keyte. Leading firefighter Chris Fogarty, of
Hyndburn fire station, said: The petrol bomb didn't work properly so it could
have been a lot worse. Luckily there is just minor damage to the room."

Insp Keyte added: "There was an empty property next door and someone lit a fire
in the front doorway at 12.15am. Neighbours rang the fire brigade but it was
just a little fire and I think it was out by the time the fire crew arrived."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Carmarthen Journal

                               December 24, 2003

Bottle Attack Terror

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 51 words


In an article in the Journal on December 10 headlined 'Bottle attack victim's
terror', a statement made by solicitor Mike Reed should have read: "Miss
Williams (and not as we reported Miss Ebsworth) had too much to drink. She is
remorseful and has learned a lesson." We apologise for the error.


LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2003 Carmarthen Journal

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 24, 2003, Wednesday

WARNING OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: ANDY RUDD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 113 words

HIGHLIGHT: FEARS: John Stevens


PEOPLE should be on guard against terrorism over Christmas, Metropolitan Police
Commissioner Sir John Stevens said yesterday.

He said: "The threat is different in terms of suicide attacks. The activity and
the actual threat has taken a quantum leap since September 11. Everyone needs to
know that.

"The hard work to prevent terrorist attacks over the last year has been
successful but we must not be complacent. We must be vigilant," Sir John added.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the security level in the UK was raised
six weeks ago "for good reason".

Scotland Yard said 3,000 police will be on duty in London for New Year - 500
more than last year.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               December 28, 2003

SPY PLANE'S FIND PUTS LINER AT RISK; QM2 IS TOP TARGET FOR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE by GORDON THOMAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 288 words


THE GBP 540 million Queen Mary 2 is now the world's top terrorist target at sea.

A spokesman for Cunard, QM2's owner, confirmed: "We have received reports of a
threat."

Fears grew after a US air force spy plane discovered that scores of acoustic sea
mines had disappeared from a highsecurity naval base in North Korea.

US intelligence services believe the mines may be on board Osama bin Laden's
armada of 28 ships now being hunted on the high seas by warships of several
countries.

The mines are fitted with devices which allow them to drift just beneath the
surface and home on to a massive target like the 150,000-ton liner.

The US SP-3 spy plane was on a surveillance flight to check North Korea's
nuclear programme.

South of the country's capital, Pyongang, the aircraft's multi-cameras spotted
that mines inside an open pen at the naval base of Nampo had disappeared since
the last flight.

QM2 - berthed in Southampton waiting to be launched by the Queen in the New Year
- is already guarded by the SAS.

Special Boat Services frogmen check its sleek blackpainted hull.

A Cunard spokesman said: "We have received reports of a threat. While we cannot
discuss its nature, we are totally satisfied with our security precautions."

But intelligence chiefs are less sanguine after the capture of Ahmad Belai
alNasheri, al-Qaida's chief of naval operations. He was carrying a 180-page
manual that listed "targets of opportunity like large cruise liners" sailing
from Britain and America.

"The QM2 fits al-Qaida requirements. It is spectacular in size and prestige, "
said a senior intelligence source in London.

The liner will carry 2,620 passengers on its maiden voyage on January 12.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 Express Newspapers

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Eastern Daily Press

                               December 29, 2003

The holiday industry is looking to bounce back in 2004 after two years blighted
by terrorist attacks, war and health scares.

BYLINE: BATSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 531 words


The holiday industry is looking to bounce back in 2004 after two years blighted
by terrorist attacks, war and health scares.

Spain, France, Greece and the United States are still the favourite destinations
for Brits, but some newer venues are starting to emerge such as Croatia and New
Zealand, says the Association of British Travel Agents.

The top 10 places visited by UK holidaymakers are:

1. Spain - including its islands, took top spot from France in 2002, with
500,000 Brits taking their breaks there for a mix of seaside sun and single
persons' fun.

2. France - still number one for day-trippers and shoppers, city break takers
heading to Paris, and skiers, while the Disney resorts remain a big draw for
families.

3. Greece - the 2004 return of the Olympics to their spiritual homeland has seen
a big investment in infrastructure, ready for a massive influx of new visitors.

4. USA - number one long haul destination, after two years of post 9/11 decline.
Florida remains first choice, but New York, California and New England are also
popular.

5. Italy - culture vultures flock to Rome, Venice, Verona and Florence, but
there are also beautiful islands, lakes and mountains for sightseers and skiers.
Extra no-frills flights have increased choice and value for traveller.

6. Irish Republic - holidaymakers seeking a quiet and relaxed pace of life head
to County Kerry and the West Coast, while Dublin's fair city remains number one
city-break destination for stag and hen parties wanting to sample the "craic."

7. Netherlands - mainly sold as a short holiday destination with Amsterdam, the
Hague and Maastrict on the agenda, but also teamed up with visits to neighbour
Belgium and the medieval cities of Bruges, Ghent and Antwerp.

8. Portugal - another country being boosted by a major sporting event this year.
Hosting football's 2004's European Championship will swell summer visitors, and
get people exploring beyond the usual Algarve family holiday hot spot.

9. Turkey - terrorist attacks have cast a shadow over what promised to be a very
successful year for a country where the pound will go a long way in a country
offering dramatic coastlines, water sports and bags of history.

10. Cyprus - a popular winter and summer destination, with Larnaca, Limassol and
Paphos the biggest resorts, as well as the clubbing capital of Ayia Napa. It is
also a popular venue for weddings.

New destinations growing in popularity are:

New Zealand - Twin islands with stunning scenery, ranging from hot pools and
geysers to alpine glaciers and fjords, whose profile has been heightened by the
Lord of the Rings films which were shot there.

Croatia - A pictureseque part of the old Yugoslavia which has thrown off its
"worn-torn" image as growing numbers discover the Italian-style resorts of
Dubrovnik and Split.

Bulgaria -Another country offering value for money, as well as great coastlines,
good skiing and lively cities, mostly concentrated on the Black Sea Coast.

Tasmania - The atmospheric island off South East Australia offers trekking
through the wilderness of Cradle Mountain as well as one of the most beautiful
beaches in the world, Wineglass Bay.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2004

                   © Copyright 2004 Eastern Daily Press (EDP)

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               December 29, 2003

Armed guards plan for UK flights: Warning of major terrorist attack in Saudi
Arabia

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 803 words


Fears of a major terrorist attack on British interests intensified last night
after the government said it was taking the unprecedented step of deploying
armed sky marshals on flights between the UK and America.

The move, which will see plainclothed officers mingling with passengers, follows
the heightened state of alert in the US and coincided with a government warning
yesterday that terrorists could be in the final stages of planning an attack in
Saudi Arabia.

In a joint statement the transport secretary, Alistair Darling, and the home
secretary, David Blunkett, said the introduction of armed officers was "a
responsible and prudent step" and that the sky marshals would be deployed "where
appropriate".

The BBC said the air marshals could be deployed as early as today. A Home Office
spokeswoman said: "I cannot contest what a Home Office source has told the BBC.
We can't confirm precise timings for security reasons."

Last week the US homeland security department raised the national alert to its
second-highest level, code orange, following reports that terrorists were
planning to hijack a French airliner and use it as a missile against a US city.

Air France cancelled several transatlantic passenger flights after officials
passed on "credible" security threats involving passengers scheduled to fly to
Los Angeles from Paris.

Last night Mr Blunkett said: "The last few days have seen the United States
increase their general threat and security levels and what we are proposing is a
proportionate and appropriate level of response at a time when the threat to
both our countries and around the world remains real and serious."

But the British Airline Pilots Association (Balpa) reacted angrily to the plans.

"Our view has always been that putting sky marshals on planes is the worst thing
you can do - we don't want guns on planes," said the general secretary, Jim
McAuslan.

"What they should be doing is investing in security on the ground. Our advice to
pilot members is that if they are not comfortable with arrangements they should
not fly."

The organisation's chairman, Captain Mervyn Granshaw, said the announcement had
come out of the blue. "Pilots are fed up with security initiatives being dreamt
up at the Department of Transport without any consultation at all with pilots,"
he said. However, some security experts welcomed the move. Professor Paul
Wilkinson from the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at
St Andrews University, said al-Qaida operatives still wanted to target civil
aviation. "These measures are sensible given the genuinely higher level of
threat that we are all facing," he said.

"We are facing a much more severe terrorist problem and that calls for more
stringent measures than we have been using in the past." He said security
measures at many airports were still not tight enough, making on-board security
particularly important. "It they are letting people through who might try to
carry out suicide hijackings the danger to people on the ground as well as in
the air is enormous."

British Airways and Virgin, which have both expressed concern about the
introduction of sky marshals in the past, last night refused to comment on the
proposals, referring all questions to the Department of Transport.

Plans to introduce armed officers on UK passenger planes were first mooted last
year following a review of in-flight security measures.

Despite the move, Mr Blunkett said Britons should not be afraid to fly. "I can
assure the travelling public that if we believed it was not safe for them to
travel or fly, we would say so," he said. "What we are proposing are some
sensible additional security measures."

On Thursday Australia said that armed sky marshals would guard some Qantas
flights between Australia and Singapore, and may be put on flights to the United
States. Australia has posted armed undercover security officers randomly on
domestic flights since the September 11 terror attacks. Officials say British
aviation security has been high since the attacks on the US in 2001.

In February this year troops and tanks were deployed at Heathrow airport after
police warned that al-Qaida might attack the airport.

Last year Mr Darling said that the marshals would be specially trained, armed
officers. Last year's announcement followed a review earlier in the year of
in-flight security measures in which airlines were consulted.

A BA spokesman said at the time: "We are working closely with the government to
make sure these plans do not jeopardise on-board safety and to ensure that the
correct procedures are in place should deployment be necessary."

BA also stressed that it "recommended robust safety measures on the ground as
the priority".

Background, page 6


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 29, 2003, Monday

Saudi Britons fear new terror attack plot

BYLINE: David Charter and Michael Theodoulou

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 147 words


TERRORISTS are thought to be in the final stages of planning an attack on
Westerners in Saudi Arabia, the Foreign Office said last night.

The 25,000-strong British community was said to be in a state of fear after the
heightened security alert followed warnings against all but essential travel to
the kingdom.

One British businessman in his early 30s said: "It is an unpleasant feeling,
like you are public enemy No 1. Because they are white and how they dress,
Westerners stick out like a sore thumb."

Security at compounds housing Western expatriates has been stepped up since more
than 30 people, including two Britons, died in a triple suicide-bomb attack in
May. Terrorists killed 18 people in a compound last month.

Saudi authorities recently intercepted a vehicle laden with explosives
understood to have been targeting another compound in Riyadh.


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Gwent

                               December 29, 2003

OAP tells of attack terror

BYLINE: Lisa Stevens

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: Gwent


AN Ebbw Vale pensioner attacked in his own home after answering the door to
masked raiders posing as carol singers says he feared for his life.

The 70-year-old was left with cuts and bruises to his lip right eye the top of
his head his arm and ribs after the incident last Monday night.

The pensioner who was too frightened to be named told the Argus that he thought
he wouldn't survive the attack.

He said: "One minute I was answering the door to Christmas carol singers and the
next two masked men were forcing me to the ground.

"As I was lying there I remember thinking that it was all over."

The attempted robbery happened at about 9.30pm in the Badminton area of Ebbw
Vale when the pensioner heard a woman singing carols outside his front door.

When he opened the door two masked men burst into his house and began attacking
him.

They repeatedly punched and kicked him while demanding to know where he kept his
savings.

"They asked me to show them where I hid my money " he said. "But I don't keep
any cash in the house.

"I told them all I had was the money in my pocket. They grabbed the coins from
my pocket and threw them to the ground."

He added: "It has made me feel less safe. I'm thinking about installing some
kind of security lighting in the corner where the robbers were hiding.

"But I haven't let it spoil my Christmas. For my children and grandchildren's
sake I've just put it out of my mind.

"How can these robbers do something like that and then go home and sit there as
normal?"

The two men are described as about 5ft 10in of stocky build and wearing
balaclavas and dark clothing.

The woman is described as being aged between 30 and 40 years 5ft 7in of a thin
build with dark shoulder-length hair and thin features.

The trio were seen leaving the area towards Newtown in a dark blue Renault Clio
car.

Anyone with information is asked to call Ebbw Vale police on 01495 350999.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           December 30, 2003, Tuesday

MERSEYSIDE PREPARED FOR TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 152 words


A SQUAD of paramedics is fully trained and equipped to deal with any major
Merseyside terrorist attack.

A total of 110 Mersey regional ambulance staff were hand-picked to learn skills
needed to treat people struck down by biological or chemical warfare.

The staff are one of an elite band of teams from across the country who will be
drafted in to deal with a terrorist attack.

The paramedics have now completed their training and are on call 24 hours a
day,carrying a special red alert pager. They haveamajor incident support van
filled with a vast array of drugs to fight the effects of chemicals such as
deadly nerve agents. It will be used alongside a large decontamination unit
which helps clean and treat people caught in a chemical or biologicalattack. A
smaller decontamination tent has also been created which will be sent to the
site of an attack to deal with the first casualties.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               December 30, 2003

Comment & Analysis: Living dangerously, but what other option is there?: Britain
faces a terrorist attack and ministers cannot ignore that threat

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 994 words


Even at the time, Tony Blair's message to the nation was arrestingly sombre. "I
cannot recall a time," he said on the first day of 2003, "when Britain was
confronted, simultaneously, by such a range of difficult and, in some cases,
dangerous problems."

Inevitably, Blair singled out the mounting international crisis over Iraq in his
next breath. But Iraq, which looms so large in retrospect, by no means
monopolised his gloomy survey of the year to come. The intelligence flowing
across his desk pointed to a continuing threat of attack by al-Qaida, Blair went
on. The lack of progress in the Middle East peace process had the potential to
wreak havoc too. And then there was North Korea.

Twelve months ago, all this struck some observers as needlessly pessimistic.
Politically, it seemed a bit too gloomy and disjunctive. At the end of 2002,
most people in this country were again optimistic about the future, ICM
reported. The economy seemed buoyant. Few people thought they were in much
danger from terrorism.

Yet 12 months later, Blair's apprehensive message seems closer to the mark.
Today, sombre warnings chime more closely with the current national mood.
Indeed, if Blair were to reissue last year's message this week to mark the dawn
of 2004, few would think that he had called it seriously wrong.

Britain's role in the invasion of Iraq has been a catalyst in creating this
change. Yet we need to beware of looking at everything through that unique
prism. Blair's serious misjudgment over Iraq should not be made to bear too much
of the weight of explanation for the wider new pessimism. Opponents of the war
may need to be reminded that public opinion currently approves of the invasion
by nearly two to one.

As 2003 draws to its close, it is surely al-Qaida, rather than the repercussions
of Iraq, that casts a darker shadow over Britain's future. If the mass of
intelligence flowing across the prime minister's desk pointed to a continuing
terrorist threat a year ago, then how much truer is that statement today? We are
a target, Blair said a year ago. Well, we are no less of one today. The threat
from al-Qaida is real, he went on. That threat is no less real now. There is no
such thing as 100% security against a serious enemy, he added. That is also
every bit as true now as then.

Since 9/11, most western governments have operated on the assumption that their
countries will be a target some time. This is not mere general prudence. It is
cold-eyed and urgent realism. In the past few weeks alone, al-Qaida and its
allies have mounted two assassination attempts on Pakistan's leader and have
carried out a pair of devastating missions in Istanbul. We know they have the
means and the motives. We must assume they merely await their opportunities.

It is only a matter of time before some flaw in our own defences allows an
attack to take place in Europe that is as devastating as those that occurred in
Istanbul. Ministers say it is beyond doubt that Britain will one day be a
target. How far this would be a consequence of Blair's pro-American policy over
Iraq is an inevitable question, but recent terror-related cancellations of Air
France transatlantic flights imply that Osama bin Laden is no respecter of
individual national stances on the war.

Exactly where and how such terrorism will come to Britain is unknowable. That it
will come here somehow is surely not. Planes are the most obvious means, as 9/11
itself and the shoe-bomber Richard Reid have proved. But planes are not the only
means. Talk of a Bin Laden plan to hijack the new Queen Mary 2 on its maiden
voyage may be so much silly season hype, but it is not inconceivable. The
carnage in the 1917 Halifax harbour disaster stands as a permanent reminder that
a ship bomb in a crowded harbour has to be taken very seriously in a world in
which piracy is so widespread and so easy.

No one who flies to a place like Saudi Arabia can be unaware of the risks they
currently run. Last night's car bomb in Riyadh was a fresh reminder that these
can be dangerous places for people from open societies. The Mail on Sunday's
claim that the Saudis have arrested two terrorists planning a suicide attack on
a BA jumbo in Riyadh has not been confirmed, but it is a disturbing straw in the
increasingly threatening wind.

This forms the all too credible background to the decision by the government to
deploy sky marshals on selected passenger flights across the Atlantic and on
some other routes. The decision has been denounced by the pilots' union as
dangerous, and mocked by some commentators as too headline grabbing. Yet if, as
most of us want, the planes are to be kept flying in the face of the terrorists'
fanatical determination to bring them down, then what are governments supposed
to do? It is all very well complaining that the transport secretary, Alistair
Darling, is making life more dangerous in the air. In some ways, he may be. Yet
if a suicide hijack succeeds, killing hundreds of people, the first question
that will be asked is why stronger measures were not taken to protect the
victims.

Questions of this kind mark the difference between the lives that ministers and
the rest of us live. Most people give these risks only occasional and passing
attention. To us, the thought that we may all be murdered in our beds is remote.
To hapless ministers, it is a serious possibility for which they must try to
prepare, and for which they will be held accountable when it occurs.

In 2004, there is a greater likelihood than at any time since 1945 that large
numbers of civilians will be the victims of an act of pitiless aggression. Most
of us deal with this fear by ignoring it. For a Blair or a Darling, there is no
such luxury. Just occasionally, perhaps, we should have the humility to see the
awfulness of the world that they inhabit, and which they strive so unavailingly
to control.

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           December 30, 2003, Tuesday

ISRAEL ON ALERT FOR NEW YEAR'S EVE TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 237 words


ISRAELI intelligence officials have information that militant groups are
planning a major 'non-conventional' attack on New Year's Eve, possibly targeting
holy sites, kindergartens, apartment buildings and hospitals, security officials
said in Jerusalem yesterday.

Police have been told to prepare for three possible scenarios: an air or
sea-based attack or a ground assault involving several simultaneous suicide
bombings.

Senior intelligence officials know which of the three scenarios is most likely,
but are reluctant to share the information with police officers to prevent
leaks, the officials said.

The warnings are connected to Israel's killing of a senior Islamic Jihad
militant in the Gaza Strip on Christmas Day.

Following the air strike, Defence Minister Shaul Mofaz said the death had
prevented a 'mega-terror attack', but security officials said the warnings are
still relevant.

Meanwhile, Jewish settlers yesterday vowed to oppose Israeli Prime Minister
Ariel Sharon's order to dismantle four unauthorised West Bank outposts, warning
of large- scale resistance.

Sharon signed the evacuation order on Sunday, a move that his justice minister
called encouraging but only the start of a wider push to remove the outposts.
Only one of the four, Ginnot Arieh, is inhabited.

Israel is required to dismantle more than 100 West Bank outposts under the
US-backed 'road map' peace plan.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 31, 2003, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACK PLANS HIT BY TROOPS SHORTAGE;
 PRIVATE SECURITY FIRMS WOULD BE DRAFTED IN TO HELP IN EVENT OF ANY

BYLINE: PAUL WAUGH DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 537 words


MINISTERS WERE accused last night of failing to prepare Britain for an 11
September-style terrorist attack after it emerged that the police and the Army
lack enough specialists to cope with such an atrocity.

The Independent has learnt that police chiefs are so short of experts that they
plan to use private security companies, such as Group 4, in the event of an
attack. The Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) has reached a
"gentleman's agreement" with the private sector to get enough manpower to deal
with nuclear, biological or chemical (NBC) strikes.

At the same time, plans to set up specialist Territorial Army (TA) units to cope
with such attacks are way behind schedule because troops are serving in Iraq.

Official figures show the so-called Civil Contingencies Reaction Forces (CCRF)
are at 70 per cent strength, some 2,000 troops short of ministers' target. The
CCRF, which are due to be fully operational by today, were originally scheduled
to be ready by December last year but the wars in Iraq and in Afghanistan led to
delays.

Patrick Mercer, the Tories' spokesman on homeland security, said that the lack
of preparedness for the Army and the police should be a cause of "shame" for
ministers. "It is outrageous that our police forces are so stretched that they
have to come to a gentleman's agreement with firms such as Group 4 to provide
emergency cover our citizens deserve as of right," he said.

A specialist police group set up to co-ordinate reaction to terror attack, Acpo
Terror and Associated Matters, has decided that extra manpower is vital. The
idea was drawn up by Assistant Commissioner David Veness, the Metropolitan
Police's counter-terrorism chief.

Companies such as Group 4 would provide low-level decontamination facilities,
allowing soldiers to tackle the most dangerous work. An Acpo spokesman refused
to comment on details of agreements with the private sector, but he said:
"Police work closely with the private security industry ... to agree ways we can
operate to our mutual benefit. Private security officers provide a valuable
level of protection for a huge range of facilities across the UK."

The state of readiness of the CCRF has long been a worry for Army chiefs -
territorials are signed up for operations in Iraq almost as soon as they are
fully trained to deal with NBC contamination. Adam Ingram, the Armed Forces
minister, has recently disclosed in a written Parliamentary answer that the
units are only at 70 per cent strength.

Ministers indicated last year that reserve forces are to be used because the
Government does not want domestic terrorism threats to "tie up" troops that may
be needed abroad.

A spokesman for the MoD told The Independent no further figures were available
to add to Mr Ingram's assessment. But he said: "Recruitment is going very well
and we expect to be announcing full operational capability very soon."

w Britain recently received intelligence indicating the possibility that
terrorists may take over British aircraft, American officials suggested
yesterday. The information was passed on to UK-based airlines and some responded
by putting armed security personnel on some flights to the US.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                January 1, 2004

Oil workers flee after saudi terror attack

BYLINE: Nick Coligan

SECTION: News; People; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 627 words


More than 100 westerners are to be evacuated from Saudi Arabia over the next few
days following a terrorist attack which saw a father-of-four from Stoke-on-Trent
gunned down.  Michael McGillen, aged 52, was one of two Britons shot dead at an
oil refinery on Saturday when terrorists burst into the offices of global oil
engineering company ABB-Lummus and opened fire, leaving six people dead.

Mr McGillen, of Hillfield Avenue, Trent Vale, was working for Stone-based
Cana-Tex, a sub-contractor of ABB-Lummus. The other Briton who died was last
night named as 44-year-old Michael Hardy, of Kent.

Now around 90 employees of the firm and 30 family members are to be evacuated
from the Middle East state following the massacre in the city of Yanbu on the
Red Sea coast, in which two Americans, an Australian and a member of the Saudi
national guard also died.

Saudi interior minister, Prince Nayef, said he believed al-Qaida were
responsible for the attack but it had yet to be confirmed.

Today, Cana-Tex Engineering placed a statement on their website. It said:
"Cana-Tex Engineering Ltd, of Stone, is shocked and saddened by the terrorist
attack that took the life of Michael 'Mick' McGillen in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia
early Saturday morning.

"Mick was a valuable member of our team and leaves behind a great many
colleagues and friends worldwide.

"No matter how far from home his work took him, Mick was first and foremost a
family man, we urge everyone to respect his family's wishes for privacy during
this most difficult time." The five westerners killed were working on a project
to revamp an oil complex co-owned by Exxon Mobil and Saudi company SABIC. ABB
spokesman Ron Popper said: "The ex-pat workers were given the option to stay or
leave. They have all opted to leave. The evacuation is taking place over the
next few days." He said the majority of the employees were American, although
some Britons were among those leaving, and that more than a dozen members of
Houston-based ABB had gathered at a private meeting in a hotel to work out the
departure details.

ABB also said last night that it was providing assistance to relatives of Mr
McGillen and Mr Hardy.

Gary Steel, a member of ABB's executive committee, said: "We are shocked and
saddened by the tragic loss of life and injuries sustained by ABB-Lummus
employees and Saudi nationals in this incident. We are doing what we can to
support their families at this very difficult time." Mr McGillen's long-term
partner Linda Shepherd, aged 56, told of her family's devastation in a statement
released through her sisters Margaret Ball and Gill Stott outside the couple's
home on Sunday.

The statement said: "Mick has worked for many years as a field project manager
in the engineering industry, including four years in Saudi.

"His death and the tragic circumstances surrounding it leave Linda, his partner,
and a large extended family devastated.

"We would like to thank everyone for their kind thoughts but the family would
like time to grieve and come to terms with their loss." The armed men burst into
the refinery offices early on Saturday morning and were reported to have shot
randomly at employees. They tied the body of one of the American victims to the
back of their car and dragged it down the street, past pupils at a high school.

Three of the four gunmen - thought to be Saudi brothers - were killed outside
the city's Holiday Inn. The fourth died later. One of the attackers was believed
to be on Saudi Arabia's list of most-wanted terrorists in connection with last
year's suicide attacks in the capital Riyadh.

The Foreign Office is now urging against all but essential travel to Saudi
Arabia.

nick.coligan@thesentinel.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            January 02, 2004, Friday

Bishop joins attack on 'dangerous' terror law

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 179 words

ANOTHER bishop has joined the chorus of senior Church of England figures
attacking the Government's anti-terrorism measures.

The Bishop of Lichfield, the Rt Rev Jonathan Gledhill, suggested that the
decision to jail 14 terrorist suspects in Britain without trial could have
severe consequences.

The bishop said in his New Year message: "In our own country we appear to have
abandoned one of the cornerstones of our liberty - habeas corpus.

"It is good that our security services are vigilant and trying to keep one step
ahead of violent crime. But the danger is always that we become the evil we
deplore."

He complained of the willingness of politicians to exploit "easily-identified
hate figures" such as Saddam Hussein.

The detention of the 14 suspects has already been condemned by several leading
churchmen, including the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Rowan Williams.

He compared the fate of the men, held under new legislation aimed at foreign
terrorist suspects who cannot be deported, with the treatment of Guantanamo Bay
detainees.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 3, 2004

Saturday Review: Bunker mentality: Alfred Hickling on a thriller of gas attacks
and terrorist hijackings: Due Preparations for the Plague by Janette Turner
Hospital 401pp, Fourth Estate, $ :17.99

BYLINE: Alfred Hickling

SECTION: Guardian Saturday Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 729 words


It is an ill wind that blows Janette Turner Hospital's books along. Her last
novel, Oyster , traced the implosion of a mysterious cult in the Australian
outback and featured a memorable evocation of the foetid atmosphere that settles
over remote parts of the author's native Queensland: "a sort of mephitic fog,
moistureless and invisible, like an exhalation of the arid earth itself".
Queenslanders have a name for this suffocating air: "we call it the Old
Fuckatoo".

The Fuckatoo comes to roost in this new novel as well; though instead of a
parched, Australian wind, this time it takes the form of a pall of poisoned gas.
The prime agent of evil in this story is a slippery international terrorist
codenamed Sirocco - evocative, as he proudly reminds his victims, of "the desert
wind which scorches as it blows".

"Plagues come and go," Hospital writes. "They mutate and return in different
forms." According to this novel, our present plague is terrorism. A former
medieval scholar, Hospital suggests that the current attitude to terrorism
mirrors the incomprehension and vulnerability felt by medieval communities in
times of blight. To emphasise her point, her plot revolves around an airline
hijack codenamed Operation Black Death, which climaxes in a grisly parody of the
Decameron

The great post-9/11 literature is probably still waiting to be written: in the
meantime we have dubious ventures such as Richard Curtis's tasteless
appropriation of the final phone messages from the hijacked planes in Love
Actually , as well as the grotesque use of similar monologues which Hospital
employs here. Towards the end of the novel, 10 hostages are removed from the
flight and incarcerated in a bunker in the Middle East. The chamber is pumped
full of sarin and mustard gas, and the hostages supplied with masks and clothing
sufficient to protect them for 24 hours. Instead of waiting for a slow and
agonising death, one by one the hostages remove their masks and deliver a
monologue in the three minutes or so available to them before they expire.

I found this utterly specious: not simply because the espionage plot it hinges
on relies on spectacularly outdated intelligence ("only we ourselves are
producing high-octane anthrax of the kind a terrorist would need, though we are
keeping a sharply watchful and deeply nervous eye on Iraq"). The greater
incongruity is that half the condemned speakers play no other part in the novel,
being introduced to us only minutes before their demise, while the other half
have elaborately engineered reasons for being there. This morbid anthology is
the central feature of the book, yet it is only half-connected to the highbrow
thriller constructed around it.

Clearly, Hospital would like us to draw parallels with Boccaccio (the recorded
testimony of the hostages is known as the Decameron tape). But Boccaccio
understood the need for light and exuberance as an antidote to darkness, whereas
Hospital's tone is unremittingly bleak. She is very partial to cumbersome
metaphors of foreboding: "he seemed soldered to doom", "kettledrums of death",
"she felt as if she were carrying a virus of bereavement". One might wish to
quibble that a virus may be fatal, but death itself is not contagious.

The mixture of metaphors becomes no clearer when Hospital switches to prophetic
mode: "From Sodom and Gomorrah to Nagasaki we walk with alchemists and gods . .
. We are Zeus of the thunderbolts, and we are the survival and decontamination
experts. We may not yet have learned how to make a heaven on earth . . . but we
are specialists in making that other world spoken of in the Gospel of Mark a
place where their worm dieth not, and their fire is not quenched." It isn't
clear why both Zeus and St Mark crop up in the same paragraph, other than to
prove that Hospital can spin heavy, periodic cadences that sound mightily
portentous.

The convenient shorthand for Hospital is to refer to her as the Australian
Margaret Atwood; but there is an innate stateliness, not to mention a wicked
strain of wit, in Atwood's prose that you will not find in this dark, fatalistic
book. I suppose dire times call for dire narratives; but the best way to avoid
the plague is to steer clear of it altogether.

To order Due Preparations for the Plague for £15.99 plus p&p call Guardian book
service on 0870 066 7979.


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 3, 2004

Fears Of Terrorist Attack Grounds Second Ba Flight

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 986 words


A British flight destined for Washington was grounded for a second day running
yesterday amid heightened fears of an imminent terror strike on the American
capital.  One expert claimed the decision had been taken because of fears of a
September 11-style attack on Washington, with another suggesting "intelligence
chatter" of an airborne attack had been circulating for some time.

British Airways made the announcement barely two hours before flight BA223 was
due to leave Heathrow yesterday and after its 300 passengers had begun checking
in.

High-level intelligence sources in the US passed information to the British
Government and the decision was taken to cancel the flight. It was the second
time the flight had been grounded in the UK - on Thursday it was also pulled
after the airline received "security advice" from the UK Government.

On New Year's Eve the same flight from London, which had 264 people on board,
had got to Washington Dulles International Airport but had then been kept on the
runway for three hours after landing to allow security officials to board the
plane and question passengers.

The Boeing 747 had been escorted into Dulles by two US F-16 fighter jets and was
taken to a remote corner of the airport.

Washington and other major airports across the US have been on Orange Status,
the second highest state of alert, since before Christmas.

Yesterday's flight was cancelled at 1.15pm - two hours and 10 minutes before
take-off. Passengers, who were still being checked in, were confused.

William Mallett, 38, his wife, Cathy Lewis and their one-year-old son, Jack,
from Ashford, Middlesex, were making their way through passport control as the
announcement was made.

Mrs Lewis said: "The staff said they wouldn't be checking us in unless there was
a very good chance the flight would go." Mr Mallett, a transport consultant
living with his family in Arlington, Virginia, said he was nervous about the
safety warnings. But he added: "I have been telling myself that if they are
paying attention to this flight in particular, that is a good thing.

"It means there is more likely to be a problem when they are not paying
attention to the flight. But I am still nervous." A spokesman for BA said
yesterday: "Following the latest advice from the UK Government, British Airways
cancelled flight BA223 from London Heathrow to Washington due to security
reasons." The airline then tried to get passengers who had already been checked
in on to other flights.

BA operates three services from Heathrow to Washington each day and the two
other flights and other transatlantic services went ahead as normal.

A spokeswoman for BAA, which operates Heathrow Airport, initially said: "It is
that particular flight that there are issues with, not the passengers." However,
she later retracted the statement, saying: "It is a general security issue. In
terms of whether it is confined to the passenger manifest or not, you'll have to
speak to BA." Defence expert Paul Beaver said the situation was "highly
unusual". "The intelligence is very, very precise, which is why this one flight
has been cancelled," he said.

"We have got intelligence, I am told, that there was a plan to take the aircraft
and destroy it over Washington or fly it into something. Washington is the
definite target.

"There is good and precise intelligence that there is more than one al-Qaeda or
al-Qaeda-like group operating against the US. One is based in central America
and the other is based in Europe - in London or Paris." The EU and the US signed
a formal agreement before Christmas in which passenger records on flights were
shared. These records and information are all checked before passengers enter US
airspace.

Yesterday it emerged that US authorities were also acting on specific
intelligence information - and not just suspicious names on the passenger list -
when they boarded the BA jet on New Year's Eve.

However, they found no evidence of terrorism. "We had concerns with individuals
on the flight, but threat reporting information led us to make the decision to
have the flight escorted," a national security official said.

Chris Yates, aviation security editor of Jane's Transport, said yesterday that
"chatter" about an airborne terrorist attack had been circulating for weeks.

He said: "There has been a body of intelligence, a lot of intelligence chatter
over the last few weeks, seeming to suggest that terrorists may be interested in
seizing an aircraft and using it as a weapon of mass destruction. How specific
that intelligence is - that is conjecture." Last night, British Airways
cancelled today's flight from Heathrow to Riyadh for security reasons.

Flight BA263 was due to leave Heathrow at 1.35pm, arriving in the Saudi capital
at 10.55pm local time.

The airline said the return flight BA262, which was due to leave Riyadh on
Sunday, has also been cancelled.

A Government team, led by the Department for Transport, is working closely with
the Saudi authorities, the airline said.

A BA spokesman said: "On Wednesday the UK Government advised the airline not to
operate the flight for security reasons.

"The decision to operate next Monday's flight to Riyadh will be kept under
review throughout the weekend. Other flights across the British Airways network
are expected to operate as normal tomorrow." An Aeromexico flight from Mexico
City to Los Angeles was also cancelled after US authorities refused to allow it
to land. Flight 490 was halted after Homeland Security officials said they were
concerned it might be a safety risk. Mexican officials later found no evidence
of a threat.

Last week's Government announcement that armed air marshals would travel on
British services to the US is also thought to be linked to increased security
fears in the US, where commercial services already have armed guards.


LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 0301WESTDP3B4fears

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            January 4, 2004, Sunday

FEAR IN THE SKIES: THREAT ASSESSMENTS - US IS GROUNDING AIRCRAFT DUE TO SPECIFIC
INTELLIGENCE' OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: RUPERT CORNWELL IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 548 words


The US government has rejected international complaints that it had made
mistakes in ordering cancellations and delays to more than a dozen international
flights in the past fortnight, insisting the decisions were justified by
"specific intelligence" indicating the possibility of terrorist attacks.

It was clear yesterday that the information on which these extraordinary actions
were taken had in every case originated with US intelligence agencies. They
focused not so much on the movements of suspect individuals but on identified
threats to specific routes and even specific flights, all of them - with the
exception of British Airways' cancelled flight to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia - with US
destinations.

Three routes have been under especially intense scrutiny: Mexico City to Los
Angeles, Paris to Los Angeles, and London to Washington. But doubts over the
quality of intelligence have multiplied after it emerged that, on the six
cancelled Air France flights to Los Angeles, three of the passengers whose names
came up on US security "hit lists" were a child, an elderly Chinese woman and a
Welsh insurance agent. Nor has a single person been arrested or detained.

Nonetheless, Bush administration officials were unrepentant yesterday. According
to Asa Hutchinson, deputy secretary of the Homeland Security Department, such
drastic action would be taken only on the basis of specific intelligence, "and I
think we've made some really good decisions". Giving a glimpse of the
ever-present nightmare of a repeat of 11 September 2001, The New York Times
yesterday reported an Oval Office meeting between President Bush and Tom Ridge,
the Secretary for Homeland Security, on 22 December, a day after the
colour-coded terror alert had been raised to level orange, and just before Air
France suspended flights between Paris and Los Angeles.

"Would you let your son or daughter fly on that plane?" Mr Bush is said to have
asked, after a discussion of intelligence suggesting terrorists might be on
board. "Absolutely not," Mr Ridge replied. "Well," the President said, "neither
would I." Within hours the French government had agreed to cancel the flights.

In fact, the French have been relatively restrained in their reaction. The
demands from Washington had been "legitimate", Nicolas Sarkozy, the Interior
Minister, said after the embarrassing misidentifications had become public. "In
a time of tension and risk, I prefer the principle of precaution," he added.
That, most certainly, is the basic approach of the Bush administration ahead of
the approaching election campaign, with the knowledge that another successful
attack on US soil could cause the President huge political damage.

The ultra-cautious US approach carries a separate, if more subtle, danger closer
to home. The flight cancellations, combined with a heightened terror alert, have
merely made an already edgy population even more jittery.

"Our city is on the front line of the war on terrorism," the mayor of Peoria in
distant Arizona told National Public Radio, reflecting the national mood. The
aviation turmoil, moreover, hardly bears out assertions from the Bush
administration that the Iraq war and the capture of Saddam and various al-Qa'ida
leaders have made the US a safer place.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            January 5, 2004, Monday

LETTER: ISRAEL ATTACKS TERRORISTS

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 262 words


SIR - I refer to the article on peace campaigner Dave Rolstone, who found
himself under fire from Israeli soldiers. Israeli soldiers do not 'attack'
refugee camps unless they have sound intelligence that wanted terrorists are
hiding there, or because terrorist activity was initiated from there.

Because the Jewish religion places high value on human life the Israel defence
forces do everything in their power to try to prevent injury or death to
innocent people but, as we all know, in war this is not always possible. We also
know that the terrorists often hide behind their women or hide out in civilian
homes, knowing our soldiers are reluctant to risk harming the innocent. This has
often caused heavy casualties among our own soldiers. Nowhere was this more
evident than in Jenin, where the Palestinians initially claimed 500 dead. After
an inquiry, only 52 dead Palestinians could be accounted for, most of them
wanted terrorists whose bodies were booby-trapped with explosives. Thirteen
Israeli soldiers lost their lives trying to prevent further Palestinian
injuries. If we had acted as the Americans are now doing in Iraq, where they now
have their own Intifada, there would be many more dead Palestinians and those 13
Israelis would be alive today.

Mr Rolstone should come to Israel and visit the families whose loved ones have
been killed by suicide bombers. Hatred for Israel and threats to continue the
bloodbath are heard daily in the Arab street. Where is your voice, Mr Rolstone?

MADELEINE LEWIS

Rehovot, Israel (ex-Cardiffian)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                January 5, 2004

TEENS IN BURGLAR ATTACK TERROR

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

LENGTH: 305 words


BY PETER LAZENBY



SIX teenage students were held up by masked gunmen in a violent house robbery.

The two thugs smashed their way into the terrace house in Grove Park Lane,
Harrogate and threatened the six young people shortly before 9pm yesterday. The
six were attacked with pepper spray.

One of the thugs had what is now thought to have been an imitation hand gun.

The two demanded wallets, cash and DVDs from the six young occupants of the
house, said a spokesman for North Yorkshire police.

Two of the occupants were assaulted though their injuries were not serious.

All six suffered from the effects of an irritant spray discharged by the
attackers, said police. They stole property and the two people left the scene.

One of the youngsters in the house raised the alarm at 8.58 pm.

A young man said two males had entered the house in Grove Park Lane. They went
in through the front door. They threatened them with what is believed to be an
imitation gun. One of them sprayed the occupants.

Some of the youngsters required hospital treatment but police could not say how
many. They are believed to have been discharged after treatment.

Police cordoned off the house and made door-to-door inquiries.

The house remained cordoned off today awaiting the arrival of forensic
scientists.

We will be doing searches of the area and of the premises in daylight, said the
North Yorkshire police spokesman.

One of the robbers was said to be 5ft10ins to 6ft tall, well built, wearing a
long, black jacket, jeans and white trainers.

The other was about 5ft8ins, slim, and wore a navy blue top with a white logo on
the front. No vehicle was seen.

Police want anyone who was in the Grove Park Lane area who may have seen
something at about 9pm yesterday to ring them on 01423 505541 ext 3334.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                January 6, 2004

Terror of doorstep attack victim

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 288 words


A MAN was brutally attacked on his own doorstep by a vicious mob - who
detectives believe targeted the wrong address.

The 38-year-old suffered three broken ribs and a punctured lung after being hit
on the head and kicked about the body by a gang of up to five hooded men.

Neighbours on Derby Street, Heeley, Sheffield, heard shouts and bangs and ran
out of their flats to find the man slumped in his hallway.

He was taken to the Northern General Hospital, where he will remain for at least
another three days while fluid is drained from his lung.

Police said today the man did nothing to provoke the attack - and was probably
the victim of mistaken identity.

Acting Det Sgt Mark Fathers, of Woodseats CID, said: This man is totally
innocent and I think whoever did this has mistaken the door to his flat for
another one. I think they have got the wrong address.''

The attack comes less than two months after an almost identical assault, at the
same flats.

A man was attacked in his own living room by three masked raiders who burst in
and beat him with baseball bats after he answered the front door to his balcony
flat.

But detectives do not believe the two incidents are linked.

The latest victim, who lives alone, was watching television at 11.25pm on Sunday
when a group of four or five men started banging on his door.

They were shouting the name of a woman, and demanding she come to the door.

When the man went to tell the mob the woman did not live at the address, he was
pushed backwards into his hallway and assaulted.

At least two neighbours who came out of their flats to find out what was going
on spotted the men climbing into a silver Vauxhall Cavalier before speeding
away.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 7, 2004

Unlimited new powers for Army in terror attack

BYLINE: HUGH DOUGHERTY

SECTION: A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 768 words



THE Army and police will be given virtually unlimited powers in the event of a
terrorist attack under government plans unveiled today.

Officers would be allowed to seal off any area the Government suspects could be
the focus of an attack. Exclusion zones could be enforced by shooting to kill.

Permission would be given for the summary arrest of terror suspects and
detention without charge. Authorities would also be able to order mass
evacuations and take over trains, buses and airports.

The new powers could also be deployed during natural or manmade disasters such
as train crashes, flooding or a repeat of the 2001 foot-and-mouth outbreak.

The Civil Contingencies Bill is one of the most sweeping pieces of emergency
legislation ever framed in Britain and will give ministers more power than ever
before.

By declaring a state of emergency they will be able to suspend the normal
workings of Government and law in the area affected - or even across the whole
of Britain. Temporary legislation could be put in place without parliamentary
approval to allow ministers to order any sort of action by police, military or
civil service.

If approved by Parliament, the Bill would mean that a repeat of the September 11
attacks in Britain would be dealt with in a radically different way from the
approach taken by authorities in New York.

That city's mayor, Rudolph Giuliani, had to use his normal powers to deal with
the attack - but in Britain police could order people to leave the zone affected
at gunpoint, and take over the public transport system to get them out.

They could also set up an exclusion zone around the target site for an unlimited
time, and shoot anyone trying to approach it.

The arrest and detention of suspects-could be carried out without the normal
limitation of needing reasonable grounds of suspicion to bring charges.

Home Secretary David Blunkett has claimed the Bill is "nothing draconian" and
simply an updating exercise to bring emergency legislation into the 21st
century.

But the scope of the powers has put the Government at the centre of a row over
the potential for them to be abused, possibly even used to create a
dictatorship.

Concerns centre on the definition of an emergency being extended to include
threats to "political, administrative or economic stability". A joint
parliamentary committee of MPs and peers set up to look at the plans said they
had "potentially dangerous flaws".

Committee chairman Lewis Moonie, a former minister, said: "In defining emergency
powers, the Government has come up with a one-size-fits-all Bill for every
possible scenario.

"We are concerned that as a result the draft Bill does not provide-adequate
safeguards to protect-against the misuse of emergency powers.

"In the wrong hands, it could be used to undermine or even remove legislation
underpinning the British constitution and infringe human rights."

Civil rights group Liberty warned the powers were "extraordinarily wide" and
swept aside basic human rights.

They could even be used against political protests or computer hackers, the
group said. It is the second time the Government has been warned it is opening
the way for dictators by changing legislation.

Last autumn senior judges warned their independence was under threat and
England's second most senior judge, Lord Justice Judge, said: "There are nasty
people out there and there is no guarantee that because we are Great Britain
none of them will ever, ever come to power."

WHAT WOULD HAPPEN

A massive exclusion zone would be set up and patrolled by armed police with
permission to kill anyone trying to enter the zone

The Territorial Army could be called in to help control the perimeter of the
zone and would have permission to carry their SA-80 assault rifles

If there was a chemical, biological or radiological attack, vast swathes of
central London would be closed off Office workers would be ordered out and
residents told to collect only essential belongings. A ban on cars could be
imposed to clear roads

Main train terminals would become boarding points for the evacuation of what
could be hundreds of thousands of people. Buses would clear the area

Casualty centres would be set up at every main hospital and police command posts
at strategic points

The Government, including Tony Blair, would first be housed in secure bunkers
under Whitehall, then taken to bunkers in the Home Counties

The Stock Exchange would shut but the priority would be to have it and the money
markets back within days

END

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                           January 7, 2004 Wednesday

CIVIL RIGHTS ROW AS TERRORIST ATTACK PLAN UNVEILED

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; News

LENGTH: 95  words



HIGHLIGHT: The Civil Contingencies Bill will be published today, BBC Radio
Four's Today    ...


The Civil Contingencies Bill will be published today, BBC Radio Four's
Todayprogramme reported this morning.The Bill gives central and local
government, health authorities and othersextra powers to deal with a terrorist
attack or other emergencies.Last year, an all party parliamentary committee
criticised the draft Billfor giving government ill-defined powers that could
threaten civilliberties. Lewis Mooney, Labour chairman of the committee, told
theToday programme he hoped the government had taken these concerns on boardin
drafting this final version of the Bill.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2004 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           January 8, 2004, Thursday

MINISTERS GIVEN NEW EMERGENCY POWERS Anti-terrorist personnel taking part in in
a simulated terrorist attack at Bank Underground Station in the the City of
London in September last year

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 286 words


Government Ministers are to be given major new powers to deal with terrorist
attacks and other civil emergencies under legislation published yesterday.

The Civil Contingencies Bill, drawn up in response to the September 11 attacks
on the US, effectively gives Ministers the power to by-pass Parliament and issue
urgent orders in the event of an emergency.

These could include measures to bar public access to sensitive sites, evacuate
danger areas, deploy troops, requisition property, ban public gatherings or set
up a special court to deal with a disaster.

Civil liberties campaigners welcomed the Government's decision to back down on
key details of the Bill after they warned it was open to abuse.

Ministers will not be allowed to declare a state of emergency because of threats
to the 'political, administrative or economic stability' of the country,
something proposed in the Bill's initial draft last June.

A joint committee of MPs and peers set up to scrutinise the Bill warned last
year that this would allow a future Government to invoke emergency powers simply
to protect its own existence.

An emergency is now defined more tightly as 'an event or situation which
threatens serious damage to human welfare, the environment or the security of
the United Kingdom or a place in the United Kingdom'.

This could still cover a wide range of disasters from a terror outrage to major
flooding, catastrophic storms, outbreaks of animal or human diseases, oilspills,
disruption of fuel supplies or even a serious attack on the Internet.

Cabinet Office Minister Douglas Alexander said the Bill would streamline civil
protection procedures to meet the challenges of the 21st century.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 8, 2004

Stock up for terror attacks

BYLINE: HUGH DOUGHERTY

SECTION: A; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 514 words


HOUSEHOLDERS should put aside emergency supplies of food in case of a chemical
attack by terrorists, the Government said today.

The advice comes after ministers unveiled sweeping new powers to deal with a
terrorist operation.

For the first time, ordinary citizens have been told to prepare for the doomsday
scenario of an al Qaeda strike.

The advice comes in the wake of the Civil Contingencies Bill, which will allow
ministers to seal off the sites of terror attacks or potential targets, evacuate
hundreds of thousands of people on commandeered buses and trains and enforce any
exclusion zone. Police will also be authorised to shoot to kill.

The key advice is summed up as "go in, stay in and tune in".

Ministers want the public to stay indoors and out of the way of the emergency
services and listen to radio or television for announcements.

The details have been posted on the Government's main antiterrorism website
www.ukresilience.info. It tells homeowners they should stock up on tinned food
and bottled water, batteries and a torch. Businesses have been urged to draw up
contingency plans and to consider secondary sites to relocate key staff.

Special Branch and MI5 officers have held talks with some of Britain's biggest
companies to help them prepare for a potential attack.

Specific guidance has been issued to the financial sector, which is seen as the
most vulnerable because it is concentrated in the City and Docklands - both
prime terror targets.

Companies have been told to consider remote IT facilities that could operate in
the event of an attack, and to draw up disaster recovery plans.

In an emergency in London, Mayor Ken Livingstone would have the main
responsibility for keeping the public informed.

The advice is the first to be issued since the Cold War's "protect and survive"
campaigns.

EMERGENCY ACTION PLAN

AT HOME

Your home might lose access to power, water and the telephone. Store items you
may need to use such as a torch, bottled water and ready-to-eat food.

Keep a radio so you can listen to news bulletins. A windup radio is ideal
because it will never run out of power.

Have blankets and duvets to keep warm in case there is a power cut.

In the event of a major emergency, go in, stay in, and tune into the radio or
television.

Obey any instructions given by the police or other authorities, especially those
given via television.

AT WORK

Draw up contingency plans for an attack and practise office evacuations.

Bomb shelters can be a good way of saving your employees' lives. If you identify
a suitable part of the building to construct one, make sure its structure would
survive a blast and has equipment to communicate with the outside world.

If there is an attack, evacuate everybody immediately unless told not to by
police.

Prepare your building for flying glass.

Install antiblast curtains or fit antishatter film to windows.

Consider setting up a second site you can evacuate to in order to keep your
business working with a skeleton staff.

END

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bedford Today

                                January 9, 2004

Masked robbers in terror attack

LENGTH: 329 words


Staff forced to ground as gang escapes with stash Masked raiders smashed their
way into a Wootton store in a terrifying early morning armed raid on Thursday.
The offenders attacked an employee at the One Stop shop and forced him and the
manager to lie on the ground before escaping with cash and cigarettes. Police
said the robbery bore the hallmarks of a well-planned hold-up and urged anyone
who may have seen anything suspicious to come forward. The thugs burst into the
premises in Cause End Road around 6.30am as the staff prepared to open. Wielding
what appeared to be a pickaxe, they smashed through the front door, sprayed the
shop worker in the face with a mystery substance and assaulted him, causing
minor head wounds. The injured man and manager were then made to lie on the
floor by the balaclava-clad robbers, who grabbed their haul and fled the scene
with the tape from the CCTV system. They were spotted escaping in a five-door
dark-coloured car left outside the shop with the tailgate open. Police, who
described the heist as "cold and calculated", are keen to speak to anyone who
may have seen the incident or the car as it left. They also believe the pair may
have "cased" the shop before striking and want to hear from witnesses who may
have seen two men acting suspiciously in or around it. One of the robbers, who
spoke in a deep authoritative voice, is described as 5ft 7ins to 5ft 8ins tall,
well-built, aged in his late 20s and wearing a light cream jacket. His
accomplice was a similar height or slightly shorter, in his mid to late 20s and
of medium build. A police spokesman said: "This was a cold and calculated attack
on two people and seems to have been well-planned. "The manager and assistant
did what they should have done and complied with the offenders but it could have
been mich worse".

 Anyone with information can contact Det Sgt Gary White in confidence on 01234
275179, or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                January 9, 2004

Girl's terror attack by bull terriersGirl's terror attack by bull terriers

LENGTH: 535 words


A YOUNG girl today told of the moment of terror when she was savaged by two
Staffordshire bull terriers as she walked near her home.

And today the 11-year-old victim's parents praised two men who fought the
animals off -- and demanded that the dogs be put down.

Police were today considering a prosecution against the owners for not being in
full control of dangerous dogs but said the animals may not be put down.

Samina Talaty was walking to the mosque near her home in Dickens Street
Blackburn with her two-year-old sister Fatima and a friend when the dogs
attacked her at around 4.30pm on Wednesday.

She suffered puncture wounds to both thighs and will be scarred for life.

The pupil at Audley County Infant School said: "It was very frightening. They
were circling us and I had a feeling they were going to attack me but I though
if I ran they would chase me.

"I started to scream and one jumped up and the other bit me. My legs are very
painful.

"I want to say thank you to the men who saved me. If they had not been there
both of my legs would be gone."

Police said the animals appeared to have escaped from another house in Dickens
Street when the front door was left open. Zahid Varachhia of Sidco Mini Market
in Walter Street and Sajid Mahmood of Copperfield Street kicked the dogs away
from the three girls.

Sajid said the incident was "awful" and added: "The young girl was just lying
there with two dogs biting her leg. She was very distressed shouting and
screaming." Zahid Varachhia said: "I really don't want a fuss making of this we
just did what anybody would have done."

Samina's father Umar 40 said: "We would really like to thank them because it
could have been much worse. It is a good job they were there and I thank God.

"This has scared all the children and ours have lost their confidence now and
are frightened about going out.

"They are really traumatised and I don't know how they will cope. Samina's
wounds are not a pretty sight and the doctors have said the scars will be there
for life.

"We want to see these dogs put down so it doesn't happen again."

Samina was taken to Blackburn Infirmary after the attack but was allowed home.
She will have to return every two days to have the wounds redressed.

Umar who owns A2B Taxis in Dickens Street and his wife Shamim 31 have three
daughters Samina Farheen nine and Fatima two.

Shamim said: "Farheen woke up three or four times in the night talking about the
dogs and crying." Inspector Steve Haworth of Blackburn Police said: "Without the
actions of these two men what could have happened to this young girl does not
bear thinking about."

He said officers were considering a prosecution against the owners of the dogs
and the dogs would be destroyed in line with legislation if inquiries showed a
previous offence.

The 1991 Dangerous Dogs Act created a new offence of being an owner of a dog of
any type or breed which is dangerously out of control in a public place.

The courts also have the power to destroy the animal if they feel it is a danger
to public safety. but regularly allow them a chance to be retrained after an
first "offence."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           January 10, 2004, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS ARRESTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 178 words


SWISS police have arrested eight people in connection with terror attacks on
Westerners in SaudiArabialast May in which a Warrington girl narrowly
escapeddeath.

Erika Rowe, 15, suffered severe facial injuries when suicide bombers targeted
the complex in the Saudicapitalof Riyadh where she lived with her family.

Her father,Chris, threw her into a cupboard with his wife, Erika's stepmother,
as bullets flew around their building.

Those arrested,all non-Swiss, are being held on suspicion of providing
logistical support to a criminal organisation, police said in a statement.

The arrests were part of a coordinated nationwide operation that included
searches of homes in a number of locations across Switzerland from Geneva to
Zurich and the interrogation of about 20 people.

The string of bombings on Western residential compounds in Riyadh on May 12 has
been linked to al-Qaida.

Twenty-six people and nine assailants werekilled.

The police statement said the arrests were a result of an investigation that
began soon after theattack.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 12, 2004

Arrested terror suspect 'was planning suicide attack'

BYLINE: BEN TAYLOR

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 248 words


A SUSPECTED Islamic terrorist planning a suicide bomb attack in the UK was
arrested in the run-up to Christmas, it emerged yesterday.

The man, an Algerian, is believed to have been held in a police raid in the
North of England.

He had apparently left his mother and sister suicide notes in which he said he
planned to 'martyr' himself.

When searched, the asylum seeker was found to have shaved off all his body hair
a common practice among Islamic suicide bombers, who believe this cleanses them
before entering heaven.

Mohammed Atta leader of the September 11 hijackers appeared to have instructed
all 19 of his fellow suicide hijackers to shave in this way.

Scotland Yard would neither confirm nor deny the arrest took place last night.

But notes recovered in the raid are said to have included the words: 'I hope you
treat me as a hero and a martyr.' The man is understood not to have been charged
with any terrorist offence.

He is accused only of unrelated possibly immigration matters.

Police sources continue to insist the country remains on a high state of alert
because of a possible terror attack. Fears were heightened earlier-this month
when a British Airways flight from Heathrow to Washington was delayed over
several successive days following concerns over the passenger list.

It later emerged that security services across the world had been hunting a
suspected Afghan fanatic capable of detonating a so-called 'mini bomb'.

END

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           January 13, 2004, Tuesday

ARMED ROBBERS IN ATTACK ON JEWELLER MOMENTS OF TERROR: The two men in Sylvesters
Jewellers in Kenilworth, where staff were ordered to lie on the floor and
(right) one of the men points a gun. Police are appealing for any witnesses who
saw suspicious activity in the town.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 155 words


THESE are the men wanted for questioning by police after a gunpoint raid at a
Kenilworth store at the weekend.

Three members of staff were ordered to lie on the floor during the robbery at
Sylvesters Jewellers in Talisman Square on Saturday at 5.20pm.

The pair escaped with rings, pendants, bangles and diamond bracelets, although
no overall value can be given.

The first man who entered the shop is about 6ft 3in, wearing blue jeans, white
trainers and a dark-coloured top. He was carrying a gun in his right hand and
had a carrier bag in the other hand.

His accomplice is shorter, slim to medium build, wearing a dark fleece jacket
with panels on the side. He wore a red-hooded top over his head and carried a
gun in his left hand.

Det Sgt Andy Smith is urging witnesses who were in Kenilworth late on Saturday
afternoon to call 01926 415000 voicemail 10271, or the CrimeStoppers hotline on
0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           January 13, 2004, Tuesday

BOMB POLICE SEARCH HOME;
 WIRRAL HOME RAIDED OVER TERROR ATTACK ON LOYALIST

BYLINE: JENNY WATSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 274 words


A MERSEYSIDE house was today being searched for explosives in connection with a
terror bomb attempt on an associate of Johnny "Mad Dog" Adair.

Police raided a property in Moreton, Wirral, at 5.30pm yesterday, and maintained
a heavy presence throughout the night.

A whole street was cordoned off for several hours and residents were asked to
leave their properties while teams of forensic officers moved in.

Several vans surrounded a terrace house in Fairmead Road.

The search was ordered after a man was arrested at Manchester Airport in
connection with a bomb found under the car belonging to convicted loyalist
Johnny Adair in December.

The device, which was planted underneath a car but spotted before exploding, was
described as a targeted attack on Northern Ireland Loyalist John "Fat Jackie"
Thompson.

The car had been parked in his drive when the bomb was planted before being
discovered at 7.20am on December 17.

It followed the arrest of associates of Adair, including his son Jonathan and
wife Gina in a series of drug raids at five addresses in Bolton and a hotel in
Lancashire.

Greater Manchester police today refused to comment on whether the man arrested
at the airport lived or was staying at the house on Fairmead Road. Several
houses on the street were evacuated while officers carried out an initial
search.

But residents were let back into their homes as the search focused on one
house,cordoning it off with police tape.

Inspector Phillip Haworth of Greater Manchester police confirmed that the house
was being searched as part of their investigation into the Bolton bomb attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEARCH: The property in Moreton,Wirral, was cordoned off

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          January 14, 2004, Wednesday

PENSIONER ATTACKED IN CAR HIJACK TERROR;
 ELDERLY MAN BEATEN UP OUTSIDE HOME IN SECOND SUBARU ROBBERY

BYLINE: DEAN VALLER TARGET: A Subaru Impreza, similar to the ones involved in
the two robbery incidents.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 418 words


A COVENTRY pensioner was repeatedly punched and kicked outside his home before
two robbers stole his pounds 25,000 car.

The 72-year-old was opening a gate to park his black Subaru Impreza in the drive
of his home in Stoke Green, Stoke, at about 6.25pm on Monday when he was
attacked.

It follows a similar incident in Allesley where robbers attacked a couple, stole
a Subaru Impreza, but had to abandon it when an anti-hijacking device was
activated.

DC Pete Stokes, of the robbery team at Stoney Stanton Road police station, said
the crimes were not being linked, but warned car owners to be vigilant.

In Monday's attack, one of the men walked up behind the pensioner, and said,
"give me your keys".

In an ordeal lasting a couple of minutes, DC Stokes said the pensioner was held
round the neck by one man while the other punched him several times in the head.

He was also kicked around his legs until he gave up the keys and the attacker
got in the car, briefly setting off the alarm.

The other man then let go of the pensioner, ran after the car and got in the
passenger side, before the vehicle was driven away.

DC Stokes said the pensioner was bruised on the face and shaken up, but
otherwise uninjured.

His attacker is white, slim, about 5ft 8in, wearing dark clothing, and aged
between 20 and 25.

The pensioner said the man holding him was a similar age, stocky and wearing
dark clothing. He could not make out his race.

DC Stokes said anyone in the Binley Road, Stoke Green or Barras Lane area at
about 6.30pm on Monday, who saw an Impreza being driven by two men, should get
in touch.

The earlier incident in Larkfield Way, Allesley, occurred at about 6pm last
Thursday, when a man was punched in the face and his wife suffered arm injuries
when they were attacked by three robbers.

Three men opened the woman's car door and dragged her out. Her husband,
following in his van, leaped out to help, but was punched in the face.

The robbers drove off but the anti-hijacking device kicked in and the car was
found a few hundred yards away in Parkhill Drive.

DC Stokes said the Impreza was an attractive vehicle because of its high
performance and was valuable to sell on. Criminals used it as a getaway car.

Phone police at Stoney Stanton Road on 024 7653 9863.

FAST FACTS ABOUT THE SUBARU IMPREZA WRX STi UK

Launched: 2002 Top speed: 151 mph Sprint time: 0-62 mph 5.2 sec Engine: 2.0,
16v, 265 bhp Price: pounds 24,815 Insurance group: 20

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Evening Gazette

                          January 14, 2004, Wednesday

THUGS LAUNCH TERROR ATTACK ON BUS

BYLINE: MIKE UNDERWOOD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 390 words


A gang of thugs smashed a bus window and left a passenger in fear during a
mindless attack on Teesside.

Mike James, 39, of Bassleton Court, Thornaby, was the only passenger aboard
Arriva's 16b service when four yobs attacked at the Safeway supermarket stop in
Ingleby Barwick last night.

He said they hurled threats and abuse at both him and the driver after being
ejected for having no tickets.

Mr James said the driver threatened to call the police and turned the bus around
but instead of heading for safety, he drove back past the youths.

One threw a rock at the bus window where Mr James was sitting - it caved in,
moments after he had moved seats.

The clerical assistant today called on bus operator Arriva to give drivers
better guidelines on dealing with dangerous situations.

Mr James said: "After they were shouting abuse at us, I think the driver should
have driven well away from the area rather than going back past them.

"I feared for my safety. I don't scare easily but I was concerned when they
threw a rock at the window and the driver didn't put his foot down.

"As soon as the rock hit he stopped the bus near the gang. I couldn't believe
it. He should have driven us both to a safe distance away."

Iain McInroy, operations director for Arriva North-east, confirmed the attack
had happened but could not confirm the details.

He said: "A window on an Arriva bus operating on service 16b was broken after
youths threw a stone at the vehicle at Safeway, Ingleby Barwick.

"Arriva places safety at the heart of everything we do and I would urge anyone
with information to contact the police so that those responsible can be caught
and prosecuted."

The operator said all its drivers have to stay on their specified routes, and at
Safeway the same road is used to enter and exit the site.

All Arriva drivers are advised to contact the police in situations where a
vehicle is damaged or they believe they, or customers, could be at risk.

Mr James reported the incident to Cleveland Police after the bus was a safe
distance away.

Mr James described the 'ringleader' of the gang as aged in his mid-teens, white,
with brown bushy hair.

A Cleveland Police spokesman said: "We are aware of the incident and are
investigating.

"Extra attention will be paid to that area."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Gazette Media Company Ltd

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                January 16, 2004

THE September 11, 2001, terrorist attack on New York was a major blow to
Landround, like many other travel companies.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 61 words



THE September 11, 2001, terrorist attack on New York was a major blow to
Landround, like many other travel companies. Since then they have battled to
recover the lost ground. But they have succeeded and are now ready to challenge
bigger companies in the competitive world of travel promotions. KEVIN FEDDY
charts the upward progress of the company . . .

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Manchester Evening News

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                January 16, 2004

French court fines firm over terrorist attack deaths;

SECTION:  Pg. 2

LENGTH: 177 words


A FRENCH court fined a shipbuilding company more than GBP 500,000 million over
the death of six of its employees in a car bombing two years ago in southern
Pakistan.

The engineers and technicians for state-run Direction des Constructions Naval
(DCN) were among 14 people - 11 French workers and three others - who were
killed in the May 8 2002 attack in the Pakistani port of Karachi.

The Court of Social Affairs in the western town of Saint-Lo ordered the company
to pay the victims' families a total of 765,000 euros (GBP 543,000). The
families of six victims took part in the suit.

"The bombing was only made possible through the inexcusable error of the DCN in
Cherbourg, " the court said in its final ruling, referring to the city where the
company is based.

Defence lawyers said that DCN would appeal against the ruling.

At last month's hearing, leaders of the left-wing CGT union said that the
company had received evidence of threats by Islamic extremists in Pakistan, but
it failed to take the proper precautionary measures.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           January 17, 2004, Saturday

Who will cover me against a terrorist attack? On the case

BYLINE: Answer by GILL CHARLTON

SECTION: Travel; Letter to Travel: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 431 words

Are there any insurance companies that will give full cover for any injuries and
costs incurred as a result of a terrorist attack? I have a policy that appears
to exclude terrorism claims, but the exclusion does not apply in the sections
covering medical expenses, hospital benefit and personal accident, unless such
losses are caused by nuclear, chemical or biological attack.

The Association of British Insurers says it is a matter of phoning around to
find out if anyone provides full cover. The Foreign Office says that its
consulates have a contingency fund to assist people caught up in an attack, but
I am not sure whether this means that it gives financial assistance to Britons
where travel insurance does not cover everything.

Which are the best companies to approach for a quote?

R Whitaker, Bournemouth, Dorset

Traditionally, travel insurance did not provide cover for acts of terrorism,
lumping it in with the general exclusion for acts of war, civil disturbances and
other hostile acts. Most insurers still do not provide any cover, but a few
enlightened companies have introduced limited cover for customers involved in an
unexpected terrorist incident. This applies only in countries that are not on
the Foreign Office's no-go list.

Direct Travel Insurance provides cover for medical expenses, personal accident
and hijack and mugging in the aftermath of a terrorist attack. "When we
introduced terrorism cover, we looked at what was really important to people,"
said a spokesman. "We don't cover cancellation or curtailment of the holiday
because airlines or tour operators normally take care of that. And we don't
cover baggage, loss of money or legal advice, although we will look at these on
a case-by-case basis."

Annual worldwide cover with Direct Travel (01903 812345, www.direct-travel.
co.uk) costs pounds 51 for an individual; pounds 72 for a family. Norwich Union
(0800 092 7197, www.norwichuniondirect.co.uk) provides similar terrorism cover.
Its worldwide annual policy, bought online, costs pounds 67.64 for an
individual; pounds 112.74 for a family.

Last September, the Foreign Secretary did announce a package of support for all
British victims of terrorist attacks and their families. Help includes payment
for flights for two relatives to the site of the incident, their accommodation
expenses, repatriation of bodies, immediate medical expenses of those injured,
and the cost of returning the luggage of those killed or injured.

British consulates very rarely give financial assistance when British nationals
get into trouble abroad.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 17, 2004, Saturday

TEEN GIRLS' TERROR AFTER GUN ATTACK

BYLINE: FIONA WYNNE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 123 words


TWO teenage girls were left traumatised after a gunman fired two shots through
their sitting room window.

Suzanne Symth, 16, and her 13-year-old sister Miriam were watching TV in their
home in Ballon, Co Carlow, when the window was shattered last Saturday.

Their father John Smyth said: "My only consolation is that they weren't hurt.
But the girls and my wife are deeply traumatised by it all.

"This is a murder attempt, the most despicable of acts, carried out by cowardly
scumbags."

Suzanne and Miriam were the only people in the house when the incident happened
at 9.15pm.

Garda Michael McKenna said: "This is a cowardly, despicable act and the person
or persons who did this can only be described as thugs."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           January 20, 2004, Tuesday

POSTIE ATTACK TERROR;
 ALSATIAN BIT EARLOBE

BYLINE: BY LOUISE WARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 271 words


A POSTIE'S earlobe was left hanging off when she was bitten by a dog while
delivering letters.

Jacqueline McAloon, 36, was attacked by an Alsatian when the owner returned home
with the animal on a leash.

The dog went for her, ripping her ear as she met them at the garden gatein
Husband Place, Dunfermline.

The man offered to take her to hospital but a shocked Jacqueline crossed the
road to her own home where her husband Peter took her to hospital.

Jacqueline said: "The dog was barking at me as I walked past and I tried to get
out of the way of it because it was quite frightening.

Blood "Because it was on the lead, I thought the owner had control over it and,
as I walked past, it just lashed out at me.

"It happened so quickly that it's a bit of a blur.

"At first, it just felt like a nip. It was when I saw all the blood pouring out
that I realised it wasmore serious.

"My husband said to me, 'Your ear's just about off.' "But I think I was in shock
at the time. A few hours later, when Istarted to calm down, I could feel the
pain properly and it hurt really badly.

"The bottom of my earlobe is almost sliced off and the doctors can't stitch it
up at the moment in case of infection. They gave me a course of antibiotics."

Three months ago, Jacqueline also needed hospital treatment when another dog bit
her on the arm as she delivered mail.

Alex Skinner, of the Communications Workers Union, said: "Thiswas a very serious
incident. We will probably try to make a claim for damages against this
individual."

Police said a report wouldbe sent to the procurator fiscal.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCKED: Postie Jacqueline; SCARRED: Jacqueline's earlobe was left
hanging off

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                January 20, 2004

Terror attack on night of mayhem

LENGTH: 472 words


A YOUNG pregnant woman enjoying a night out with her boyfriend was set upon by
balaclava-clad armed robbers wielding hammers.

Police say the unprovoked attack on the couple walking home in Rawtenstall was
just one incident on a night of robbery and mayhem.

Officers say they had earlier robbed shops in West Yorkshire and Rochdale twice
before returning to Rochdale for a final robbery after the Rawtenstall attack.

The four men believed to be responsible are being hunted by police after leaving
a trail of destruction across East Lancashire West Yorkshire and Greater
Manchester

The young couple's ordeal began as they walked home from a night out in
Rawtenstall town centre to celebrate the man's 23rd birthday on Thursday January
15.

As they walked down Bury Road away from the town centre they were approached by
a group of men in a T-reg green Subaru estate.

It pulled up alongside them and one of the occupants hurled abuse at the couple
before the car drove off went round the roundabout at the junction with
Haslingden Road and returned in their direction.

The car then pulled up and three men got out all pulling on balaclavas before
one of them produced a hammer.

Two men then launched at the man attacking him with fists feet and the hammer
while the third man punched and kicked the 19-year-old mum-to-be.

After putting up what police described as 'a good fight' the male victim was
then subjected to a further beating after he refused to let go of one of his
attackers.

Leaving the couple lying in the road the men return to the car before the Subaru
was driven at speed within inches of the man's legs.

The car was then seen to drive off in the direction of Haslingden Road.

DS Andy Gilbert of Rawtenstall police said: "This couple have been very very
lucky. They like us are shocked at the level of random violence. It was
unprovoked extreme and could have led to much more serious injuries."

The pair were taken to Burnley General Hospital where they were both treated for
cuts and bruises while the woman was treated for minor head injuries. They are
recovering at home.

DS Gilbert added: "We believe the attackers had earlier carried out a robbery at
a shop in Brighouse West Yorkshire and two more in Rochdale. After this attack
we believe they then returned to Rochdale for the fourth robbery of the night.

"They stole cash cigarettes and alcohol during these raids and they appeared to
be random robberies. Regarding the assault we are hopeful that someone might
have seen something. We also want to hear from a woman who rang us with the
car's registration number."

The Subaru stolen from the Wythenshawe area of Manchester was spotted at all
five incidents. Anyone with information is asked to contact DS Gilbert on 01706
237442.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          January 21, 2004, Wednesday

SELLAFIELD TERROR ATTACK WOULD COST ULSTER LIVES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 140 words


THOUSANDS of lives are at risk in Ulster if terrorists attack the Sellafield
nuclear reprocessing plant, it has been claimed.

An attack or accident at the plant in Cumbria will lead to a aalethal trail of
death across Northern Ireland, Down councillors have been warned.

The claim has been made by Green Party councillor Raymond Blaney who brought
forward a special motion asking the Secretary of State, Paul Murphy, to attend a
public meeting of the council to outline what emergency measures are in place to
protect people in Northern Ireland.

The tragic events of September 11 have added a new dimension to the case of
Sellafield, Mr Blaney told the council.

He said 21 tanks of radioactive material, stored just 60 miles from Belfast,
would have a deadly impact if released either deliberately or accidentally.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Century Newspapers Limited

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            January 23, 2004, Friday

UDA ATTACKS ARE NOT ACCEPTABLE;
 KENNEDY BLAMES TERROR GROUP FOR VIOLENCE AT WARDERS' HOMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 250 words

HIGHLIGHT: NO CEASEFIRE: Jane Kennedy


THE Ulster Defence Association cannot seriously be considered to be on
ceasefire, Security Minister Jane Kennedy said last night.

At a meeting with the Ulster Political Research Group, which speaks on behalf of
the loyalist paramilitary organisation, she blamed the UDA for recent hoax bombs
across Belfast and attacks on prison officers' homes.

She said the meeting was an important opportunity to remind those who have
influence with paramilitary organisations of just how clearly and directly the
activities of those groups are viewed by Government and Ministers.

"We will work with those who want to engage in democratic politics but there can
be no place for paramilitary activities," she said.

"The recent attacks on the homes of prison officers or the hoax bombs, at
schools and elsewhere in the city, and criminal activity - none of that is
acceptable."

Ms Kennedy said the UPRG accepted that such activity undermined it.

"They wanted to speak to me specifically about the situation at Maghaberry
prison and we discussed that."

Frank McCoubrey of the UPRG described the meeting as constructive.

"Obviously, a lot of the time was taken up with what had happened in more recent
times in relation to the prison.

"It was touched on about the attacks on people's homes. The UPRG and the prison
spokes- persons for our group have come out and clearly said that attacks on
anyone are wrong.

"We put our cards on the table - it was an open and honest meeting."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Century Newspapers Limited

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 23, 2004, Friday

Vaccine factory planned for terror attack

BYLINE: Richard Ford, Home Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 314 words


A GOVERNMENT-OWNED factory to produce huge amounts of vaccine for distribution
after a chemical or biological terrorist attack is being planned, the Home
Office disclosed last night.

The move follows concern that existing arrangements would not be capable of
handling the scale of manufacturing required in the event of a infectious
disease outbreak.

Details of the secret plan emerged last night when the Home Office responded to
a Commons select committee report on anti-terror measures. The document also
disclosed that an existing government list of chemicals and biological agents
that could be used in terror attacks was "unsatisfactory". Ministers are
considering "extending the range of organisms that should be included", it said.

The business plan for the vaccine factory has been produced, but after
discussions with the Ministry of Defence, health officials are looking at "wider
UK requirement" before proceeding.

The options for the vaccine production facility will be ready by April, when
ministers will make the decision on whether to press ahead. The Government has
already invested £30 million in the National Biomanufacturing Centre under
construction at Speke on Merseyside, which is due to open in 2005. A further £20
million is being invested in a nearby vaccine manufacturing plant being built by
a pharmaceutical company, Chiron Powderject.

The report also confirmed that government scientists had begun work on a second
generation protective suit for emergency services personnel.

But the Home Office rejected accusations by the Commons Science and Technology
Select Committee that it had been excessively secret and that David Blunkett,
the Home Secretary, had obstructed its examination of work carried out to deal
with a "dirty bomb" terror attack.

The Home Office said: "The Government strongly rejects this criticism."


LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 28, 2004

I'd lost the will to live during terror of rape attack, says woman, 52

BYLINE: CHARLIE BAIN

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 701 words


A VICTIM of a suspected serial rapist described yesterday how she was attacked
at knifepoint then told: 'By the way, you weren't a bad ride.'

The woman told a court that during her ordeal she had lost the will to live and
expected to be killed.

Thinking she had nothing to lose she tried to get away from her attacker, but he
pulled her back, marched her into long grass with a knife to her neck and raped
her.

She sobbed yesterday as she recalled how she was walking her two dogs on
Wimbledon Common, South-West London, in August 2002 when she was bundled to the
ground.

Desperately, she called out for her dogs to protect her, but they did not come.

The woman, a mother who was 52 at the time of the attack, was giving evidence at
Maidstone Crown Court in the trial of railway worker Antoni Imiela, who is
accused of raping eight women and children.

The prosecution allege she was his fifth and oldest victim.

She told the court she was attacked on a grass pathway after taking her dogs for
a midday walk.

'Out of the blue, this person slammed into the back of me and grabbed hold of
me,' she said.

'One arm was around my neck, which literally took my breath away.

He said, "Don't scream and you won't get hurt. I don't want to **** you, I just
want to touch you".' When she yelled for her dogs, the man produced a knife.

'He put a knife to my eyes and said, "See this?" and then he put it to my neck
and said, "Feel this? It's a knife. I'm going to use it on you if you do
anything like that again".

'He said, "If anyone sees us, they'll just think we're lovers and we've just had
a lovers' tiff".' As she was marched along the man asked if she was a virgin.

'I just said, "I'm 52" and I could feel he was surprised. I thought he might let
me go, but he didn't.

'I thought about my family. All the time I was aware that in one second, he
could press the knife into my neck. I thought, "If you are going to kill me,
just kill me".' She said her attacker then put his hand down her T-shirt and
complimented her on her breasts. This triggered her bid for freedom.

'I knew by this point he was going to rape me and I thought he was going to kill
me, so I thought I had nothing to lose. I don't know where I got the strength,
but I just pulled away. I said, "You are going to have to stab me, because I'm
going". And I got away, but for hardly any time at all.' The man grabbed her
from behind and threw her on to the grass.

After pulling her T-shirt over her head he began slashing the top of her
trousers with the knife and she thought he was probably slashing her as well.

He then raped her.

She said: 'I'd really lost the will to live at this point. I could feel him
getting agitated and angry and I thought he would take his anger out on me.

He yelled at me, "Relax, relax". It seemed to go on for ever.' Afterwards, she
said, he bound her feet with her bra and told her: 'Don't move for five minutes
or I'll come back and slit your throat.' His parting words were: 'By the way,
you weren't a bad ride.' The woman said she was so terrified that when she tried
to tell two passers-by what had happened she couldn't say the word rape.

'I still can't say the word,' she added.

Earlier, the court heard from a woman who was stalked by a man driving Imiela's
dark blue Citroen Xantia just six days before the attack.

She said she was walking to a bus stop in Twickenham, South-West London, when a
motorist passed her five times and started flashing his lights at her.

She ran into a Shell garage where she dialled 999 and gave police the car's
number plate.

The court heard that the one she gave matched that of the defendant.

Imiela, 49, a married father of one from Appledore, Kent, denies nine counts of
rape against three girls under 16 and five women. One of the women was allegedly
raped twice.

The charges relate to attacks in Kent, Surrey, South-West London and
Hertfordshire, which he allegedly carried out between November 2001 and October
2002.

He also denies the kidnap, indecent assault and attempted rape of a ten-year-old
girl in Birmingham in November 2002.

The trial continues.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Broadcast

                           January 29, 2004 Thursday

Terrorist attack on financial systems at heart of new show

SECTION: ARTICLE; Commissioning

LENGTH: 177  words



HIGHLIGHT: The critically acclaimed 'doomsday drama'      The Day Britain
Stopped is set for a return to BBC2 after the channel's controller, Jane Root,
commissioned a follow-up from Wall to Wall,      writes Leigh Holmwood.


This time, the 90-minute special, working-titled      The Day Britain Stopped 2
, is expected to look at the consequences of a successful terrorist cyber attack
on the world's financial systems.Indie Wall to Wall plans to mix archive footage
with dramatic reconstruction to simulate what could happen in the event of such
an attack.Co-commissioned by head of current affairs Peter Horrocks, the show is
produced by Simon Finch and directed by Gabriel Range, who are also the
co-writers. Leanne Klein executive produces. Filming is due to begin next month,
with transmission expected in the autumn.The order follows the success of The
Day Britain Stopped, which featured the knock-on effects of transport gridlock
in the UK, culminating in an air disaster. It originally aired in May last year,
pulling in 4.2 million viewers - one of the channel's highest ratings for a
factual offering last year - and was repeated on 18 January.Wall to Wall's
earlier hypothetical drama documentary, BBC2's      Smallpox 2002 , was also
successful, pulling in 3.5 million viewers.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Broadcast


                            Copyright 2004 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                January 29, 2004

TERROR: Woman attacked in bed, court told

LENGTH: 420 words


A WOMAN attacked her ex-boyfriend's lover with a knife as she lay in bed, a
court heard. Former professional boxer Gary Barron was in bed with his partner,
Barbara Palmer, in the early hours of August 17 last year when Nicole Whittlesey
(29) walked into the room. Peterborough Crown Court was told that Whittlesey -
who dated Mr Barron for about two years - grabbed an ashtray and attempted to
hit Miss Palmer with it. Mr Barron told the court that he dived across the bed
to stop Whittlesey attacking Miss Palmer. He said: "The light came on, and she
(Whittlesey) was standing a few feet away from the bed. "I rolled over Barbara
and got between them. "If I had been a second later, she would have been hit
around the head. "I picked Nicole up and threw her out of the bedroom".

 The court was told that Whittlesey then went to the kitchen, grabbed a 12in
knife, and returned to the bedroom where she attempted to stab Miss Palmer. Mr
Barron said: "She ran towards the bedroom with the knife and shouted at Barbara
to get out of the bed. "She thrust the knife forward and it cut Barbara's hand
and stuck in the headboard".

 Mr Barron said that, following a scuffle, he forced Whittlesey outside the
house and restrained her, while a lodger called the police. The attack is
alleged to have taken place at Mr Barron's five-bedroomed detached house, in
Eye, near Peterborough, at about 4am. Mr Barron told the court that he and
Whittlesey had had a volatile relationship. He said they had both been
unfaithful during the two years they were together, and that they often argued.
Greg Perrins, defending, said that Mr Barron was a very controlling person, and
that he pestered Whittlesey with text messages and phone calls after they split
up. He also said the fact that Mr Barron was jailed for two years in 1994 for
importing cannabis, after denying the charge, showed he had a history of lying
in court. Whittlesey, of Cawood Close, March, denies wounding with intent to
cause grievous bodily harm. The trial continues. Injuries necessitated
operations, jury hears GARY Barron told Peterborough Crown Court that he and his
partner Barbara Palmer were very shaken by the attack. He said: "It was
terrible. Barbara and I even broke up for a few days because we were under so
much pressure. "Barbara had to have operations on her hand, and it was possible
that she could have lost the use of it. "She (Whittlesey) tried to kill my
girlfriend. We are damn lucky we are not here today on a murder charge".


LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Worcestershire

                                January 29, 2004

Woman attacked by cat flap terror

BYLINE: BECKY HAYES (bh@nqmids.co.uk)

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: Worcestershire


A FELINE war of terror has been waged on a disabled woman from Stourport who was
hospitalised by an unprovoked attack by an unknown cat - in her own home.

Grandmother of two Linda Meredith was in the bedroom of her Burlish Park house
at about 2.15pm on Saturday when a cat - which has spent the last nine weeks
terrorising her and her pets - pounced on her clawing a large chunk of flesh
from her leg.

Now police and the RSPCA have told the petrified cat lover - who passed out
following the terrifying ordeal and needed stitches - that nothing can be done
about her beastly attacker because she does not who know where it is from or who
it belongs to.

She believes the cat - which scratched her hand when she was locking her cat
flap nine weeks earlier and has also attacked her pet cat dislocating its
shoulder - entered her property through her cat flap.

Now despite sealing her cat flap and locking her doors she is living in fear and
is frightened the same brutal beast will pounce on her if she leaves the house
or could attack a child.

"I'm a cat lover and wouldn't see any harm to anyone's cats but I'd shoot this
one if I could - I'm utterly terrified of it " the traumatised victim of
Claerwen Avenue said.

"The nursing staff were horrified when they saw it and said if it had attacked a
child then it would have needed immediate surgery."

She said: "I was sat on the bed making a fuss of my cat when all of a sudden she
started growling and then I looked down at the bottom of the bed and saw this
great big cat.

"I got up from the bed and said 'out' and it just stared at me and growled at me
then went up on its two hind legs and spat at me. All of a sudden it then jumped
at the top of my left leg and I managed to knock him off and it was still
growling and when I looked down at my trousers I saw they were covered in
blood."

The 57-year-old who is diabetic and registered disabled after having an abscess
removed from her stomach four years ago then tried to fend off her assailant
with a wicker chair - only to be attacked again.

"I was trembling because I was in such a state and it took me about ten minutes
to push it down stairs but as I got to the bottom and opened the front door I
let go of the chair and it sprung on me again and tore a chunk from my leg."

She eventually managed to get out of the house locking the feline fiend inside
but by the time her neighbours came to help the cat had disappeared.

Ms Meredith said: "My neighbours couldn't believe the state of my leg so they
took me to hospital and the nurses couldn't believe a cat had caused such
injuries.

"Afterwards we went around the houses and one neighbour said it had terrified
her three cats but no-one knows where it came from.

"There are children on this cul-de-sac who play outside and I'm worried that if
it got hold of one of them then it would be terrible."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: linda Meredith with her pet cat Puss was attacked by an unknown cat in
her own home - and fears the feline fiend may strike again.;

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                January 30, 2004

SECURITY TIGHTENED AMID FEARS OF MORE TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: News; Other; Armedforces; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 341 words


Security was massively tightened in the Afghan capital yesterday as
investigations continued into the apparent suicide attack that killed British
soldier Private Jonathan Kitulagoda.  The attack is thought to have been carried
out by a suicide bomber, who was said to have driven a taxi carrying explosives
up to the British soldiers' Land Rover.

It coincided with a suspected suicide attack just east of Kabul, near a German
military base, that injured five people, and both came just days after a man
with artillery or mortar rounds strapped to his body blew himself up in front of
a Canadian jeep, killing one soldier.

A spokesman for Islamic extremists the Taliban claimed they were behind both
killings, and that the militia planned more bombings in Afghan cities.

Taking no precautions, British peacekeeping forces switched to armoured cars,
police mounted extra foot patrols and checkpoints, and undercover officers were
sent into the city of three million in a bid to catch anyone preparing a third
strike.

At Camp Souter, the British base in eastern Kabul, troops held a memorial
ceremony for Pte Kitulagoda.

Commanders and diplomats joined about 150 soldiers to hear readings, prayers and
tributes from Pte Kitulagoda's friends in a sombre private gathering, said
Captain Tom Smith, a military spokesman.

Seven US troops died yesterday when an arms cache near the city of Ghazni, 60
miles south-west of the capital exploded. It was not immediately clear if the
explosion was an accident or triggered deliberately.

Meanwhile, the US military renewed their pledge to catch the Taliban's leader
along with terrorist Osama Bin Laden. A spokesman said: "We have a variety of
intelligence and we're sure we're going to catch Osama bin Laden and Mullah Omar
this year." Bin Laden, chief suspect in the September 11 massacre that sparked
the invasion of Afghanistan two years ago, and the ousting of he Taliban regime,
is widely believed to be hiding somewhere along the mountainous Pakistani-Afghan
border.


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                January 31, 2004

Raiders terrorise elderly in two attacks;
 How many more pensioners must suffer before these brutal attacks are stamped
out?How many more pensioners must suffer before these brutal attacks are stamped
out?

BYLINE: By Paul Dykes and Gary Grattannewsdesk@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 561 words


POLITICIANS and community leaders were today asking how many more vulnerable
Ulster pensioners will be attacked in their homes before tough measures are
taken to bring the thugs to justice.

Last night, three more elderly people were subjected to frightening ordeals in
the sanctity of their own homes - and in one incident in Carryduff a victim in
his 70s had a pillow pushed in his face and a handgun held inches from his head
as intruders threatened to kill him.

The new horrors come just three weeks after three other elderly people fell
victim to ruthless criminals without consciences.

Three weeks ago the Belfast Telegraph ran a front page editorial urging that
"this cancer be rooted from our society", and demanding action from the
authorities.

Then we reported that the issue was top of the agenda at meetings of District
Policing Partnerships across the province. And today that still firmly remains
the case.

Belfast councillor Jim Rodgers, chairman of the Belfast District Policing
Partnership, who called for a specialist police task force earlier this month to
investigate attacks on the elderly, said he was disappointed by the response he
got from the PSNI.

Mr Rodgers said he sent a letter to the Chief Constable Hugh Orde suggesting the
move, but had received "an appalling" response from a staff officer.

"The public won't accept this sort of response on such a major issue. There
needs to be a taskforce."

A PSNI spokeswoman said today that police are taking crimes against older people
very seriously, and are working to reduce them alongside all instances of crime.

"While an attack against an older person causes alarm and fear, it must be
emphasised that crimes against older people are actually down," she said.

"Police have taken steps to address fear of crime through events which provide
crime prevention advice.

"This followed an initiative in south Belfast in December that provided valuable
advice to older residents on home security matters.

"Police cannot address the issue of crimes against older people on their own.
That is why we have appealed to the wider community for help."

A couple in Lough Moss Park, Carryduff, who are both in their 70s, were duped
into opening their door at about 11.30 last night and four men burst in.

One brandished a large screwdriver, while another carried a handgun.

The elderly man was held in the living room while his wife was forced to the
ground in the hallway.

Police say he had to listen helplessly as the men demanded money from his wife.
The man was then taken into a bedroom, had a pillow put over his head and a
handgun aimed closely at his head while a further demand for money was made.

Police said the gang ransacked the house before escaping with the contents of
the man's wallet.

The woman suffered an injury to her head during the savage assault.

And at 9.30 last night a four-man gang burst into the home of an 82-year-old
woman on the main Portadown to Armagh road.

One man grabbed the startled woman by the face in her kitchen while demanding
her pension book.

The gang then forced her into a chair and continued demanding cash, before
dragging her into a bedroom.

The shocked woman, who suffered bruising to her face, had to raise the alarm at
a neighbour's house as her phone had been pulled out.


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           January 31, 2004, Saturday

TURKEY 2004 It may border Iraq and have suffered terrorist attacks recently, but
its coastline, culture and value for money make it irresistible to Britons, says
Fred Mawer

BYLINE: By Fred Mawer

SECTION: Travel; Skiing: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 7751 words

To say that the past year has been challenging for tourism to Turkey is an
understatement. First, there was the war in Iraq. Even though the shared border
is hundreds of miles from the nearest resorts, bookings to Turkey virtually
dried up in the build-up to, and during, the war.

Then, in November, there were several horrific terrorist bomb attacks in
Istanbul. Targets included the British consulate and the headquarters of HSBC
bank, and the Foreign Office says that they were "clearly selected because of
their connection to Britain". Initially it advised against travel to Turkey's
major cities and although this advice has since been dropped, the FO is still
saying that there is a high threat from terrorism in Turkey. There again, you'll
read similar warnings on the FO's website in the section covering the United
States.

Yet despite all this, Turkey's appeal is proving remarkably resilient. Bookings
bounced back after the war - to such a degree that the tourist board claims more
Britons visited the country in the first 10 months of 2003 than in the same
period in 2002. Moreover, tour operators are saying that, aside from breaks to
Istanbul, the bombs in November appear to be having a negligible effect on
bookings for this year.

It's easy to see why Turkey continues to be so popular. The country, including
its Westernised resorts, feels more exotic than other Mediterranean
destinations. Its long, scenic south-west coast has a concentration of classical
ruins that surpasses any other holiday region in Europe. And, perhaps most
importantly, Turkey is cheap - particularly compared to countries that use the
euro, which is so strong against the pound.

According to Thomas Cook, a package at a four-star all-inclusive hotel in Turkey
costs about the same as at a three-star all-inclusive in Spain. Day-to-day costs
are also low. A meal for two in a simple kebab restaurant should cost less than
pounds 12, and a couple should be able to have a blow-out dinner in a fish
restaurant, with wine, for pounds 25- pounds 30.

The quality of accommodation, especially self-catering and small hotels offered
by the more upmarket Turkey specialists, continues to rise. One specialist,
Simply Travel, reckons that five years ago only half of the properties on its
books would have had air-conditioning; now they all do.

Unless otherwise stated, prices in this report are for the cheapest week in
June, and for the most expensive two weeks in the summer peak, per person,
including flights.

Protecting yourself

If your tour operator, travel agent or airline goes out of business, you may
lose your money - unless you have taken steps to protect your holiday. Package
holidays involving a flight must legally be protected under the ATOL scheme (020
7453 6424, www.atol.org.uk), which also offers a useful consumer helpline.
Protection for other holidays may be offered under one of the following schemes:
ABTA (020 7637 2444, www.abta.com); AITO (020 8744 9280, www.aito.co.uk);
Federation of Tour Operators (www.fto.co.uk); or PSA (020 7436 2449,
www.psa-psara.org).

Smaller operators may be protected by the Travel Trust Association (0870 889
0577, www.traveltrust.co.uk). If not, make sure your tour operator has insurance
or similar back-up in place. If you are in any doubt about where you stand, ask
the travel company to explain how you are covered, and double-check with the
relevant organisation.

Accommodation-only agents may not offer financial protection, so it's a good
idea to pay with a credit card, which normally allows you to claim from the card
issuer if the agent collapses.

GETTING

THERE

By scheduled flight

Prices below were quoted in mid-January for the cheapest return fares, including
taxes, flying June 12-26/July 24-August 7, unless stated otherwise.

British Airways (0870 850 9850, www.ba.com) Twice-daily Heathrow to Istanbul (
pounds 178/ pounds 178).

Cyprus Turkish Airlines (020 7930 4851, www.kthy.net) Flights stop in Turkey on
the way to northern Cyprus. Gatwick to Antalya; Stansted to Antalya, Dalaman and
Izmir; Heathrow to Antalya and Izmir; Belfast to Antalya; Glasgow to Antalya;
and Manchester to Dalaman. On all routes: April to mid-July, and late August to
late October, pounds 240- pounds 305; mid-July to late August, pounds 290-
pounds 355.

Discounts for couples, retired and disabled travellers.

Turkish Airlines (020 7766 9300, www.turkishairlines.com) Heathrow to Istanbul
three times a day ( pounds 184/ pounds 253), and Manchester to Istanbul five
times a week ( pounds 221/ pounds 254). Plus connections from Istanbul
throughout Turkey.

By charter flight

The greatest choice of flights to Turkey is with the charter airlines.

Seats are available with

MyTravel Airways (part of the same company as Airtours), First Choice Airways
(formerly Air 2000), Thomas Cook Airlines and Thomson (the new name for
Britannia Airways). All operate charters from airports across Britain to the
three main holiday gateways of Bodrum, Dalaman and Antalya. There are also
flights to Izmir with Thomas Cook Airlines and, less frequently, MyTravel
Airways. For contact details see "Sun & Sand", p17.

Avro (0870 458 2847, www.avro.  com) Specialises in flight-only deals on charter
airlines; can also book seats on a Monarch charter every Monday from Gatwick to
Dalaman (May- October): pounds 199/ pounds 229 in June/August.

Excel Airways (0870 998 9898, www.  excelairways.com) Between May and October,
from Gatwick and Manchester to Antalya, Bodrum and Dalaman (plus Birmingham and
Glasgow to Dalaman). Gatwick to Dalaman: pounds 144- pounds 164/ pounds 204-
pounds 214 in June/August.

Ferries

Alternative Travel & Holidays (0870 041 1626, www.alternativeturkey.com) British
agent for Marmara Lines, which sails to esme on the Aegean from Italy: April-
November from Ancona (60 hours), July-September from Brindisi (36 hours) - both
once a week. For Brindisi to esme one way, a small car costs about pounds 132,
and the cheapest two-berth cabin (not en suite) pounds 110 per person.

Viamare Travel (0870 410 6040, www.viamare.com) British agent for Med Link
Lines, which operates twice-weekly Brindisi to esme June-September (fares not
yet published).

GETTING

AROUND

Car hire

Some operators discourage holidaymakers from hiring a car. The standard of
driving in Turkey is poor, and accident rates are high. The quality of roads is,
however, improving.

Car hire is quite expensive. The best rates are often available through brokers,
rather than the big companies. For a compact five-door car with
air-conditioning, for a week's hire at the end of July from Dalaman airport, we
were quoted pounds 195 in mid-January by Onairportcarhire.com (0870 850 0853,
www.onairportcarhire.com), which is part of Suncars. Also try Holiday Autos
(0870 400 4447, www.holidayautos.co.uk).

Public transport

For pottering around cities and resorts and between villages, do as the Turks do
and use a dolmus - a shared minibus or car that sets off when full and stops
when someone wants to get out.

For long distances, travel by coach (train services are infrequent and far
slower). Coach services are frequent and inexpensive (about pounds 14 for the
280 miles from Istanbul to Ankara).

Backpackers might consider the Fez Bus between the major tourist spots in
western Turkey - more details on www.fezbus.co.uk.

Further information

Tourist board information

To order free brochures, call the Turkish Tourist Office on 09001 887755 (calls
cost 60p a minute). For specific inquiries (no brochures sent out), call 020
7629 7771, write to 170/173 Piccadilly, London W1J 9EJ, or visit
www.gototurkey.co.uk.

Websites

For the latest Foreign Office advice, go to www.fco.gov.uk/travel.Useful
websites about the country include: www.turkey.org; www.turkey.com - many
wide-ranging links covering travel, culture, food and drink, etc;
www.hitit.co.uk - aimed at independent travellers; www.turkishdailynews.com -
the online version of the country's only English-language newspaper;
www.exploreturkey.com - a wealth of detail on historical and archaeological
sites; and www.hotelguide.com.tr - an exhaustive countrywide listing.

Area-specific travel sites worth referring to include: www.theguideturkey.com,
which focuses on Istanbul, Antalya, Bodrum, Ankara and Izmir;
www.marmarisinfo.com; and www.cappadociaonline.com. For arts festivals in
Istanbul, visit www.istfest.org; www.ido.com.tr is the site for crossings of the
Bosphorus and Sea of Marmara operated by the Istanbul Fast Ferry Company.

Guidebooks

For a comprehensive, multi-purpose guide, pick the 1,120-page Rough Guide to
Turkey ( pounds 14.99). For copious historical and archaeological detail, try
the Blue Guide: Turkey (A & C Black, pounds 17.99). For a city guide to
Istanbul, the best choice is Time Out: Istanbul (Penguin, pounds 11.99). The
Little Hotel Book lists more than 160 properties; available from Milet
Publishing (020 7603 5477) for pounds 7.99 plus pounds 2 p & p; there's an
online version at www.nisanyan.net. The Lycian Way describes the route of the
300-mile coastal path; available from Cordee (0116 254 3579, www.cordee.co.uk)
for pounds 12.99 plus pounds 1.50 p & p. Also for walkers, Landscapes of Turkey:
Around Antalya, contains well-researched hikes as well as car tours; pounds 11
including p & p from Sunflower Books (01392 423002, www.sunflowerbooks.co.uk). A
sister volume covering the area around Bodrum and Marmaris is almost sold out,
but is being reissued later this year.

For other country guides in this series see www.telegraph.co.uk/ski.

SUN &

SAND

Between them, the mass-market tour operators offer about 30 resorts in Turkey.
They are spread along what are known as the Aegean coast (Kusadasi to Bodrum),
the Turquoise coast (between Marmaris and Antalya), and the Mediterranean coast
(around Antalya, and east to Alanya): this eastern stretch is characterised by
generally bigger, often all-inclusive, hotels - with more Germans, and fewer
Britons.

In each region there are overdeveloped Costa-style resorts - Kusadasi and
Marmaris spring to mind - and some real gems: choose your destination carefully.
For independent, often highly critical, reviews of resorts, as well as package
hotels and apartments, read the reports of the research company DG & G on www.
virgin.net/travel/ resortfinder - an online version of travel agents' "truth
books". So many discounts and deals are bandied about at this time of year that
when comparing prices, you should phone companies for a quote, rather than go by
brochure prices.

Airtours (0800 085 3027, www.  airtours.co.uk) Dedicated Turkey brochure covers
12 resorts, with flights from 18 regional airports in Britain. New this year:
twin-centre combinations, for example Imeler with Hisaronu or Olu Deniz.
Accommodation includes the Super Family First Club Excelsior/

Excelsior Apartments in Marmaris, with plenty of childcare options. There are
also half a dozen properties branded Local Flavours, which are smaller,
family-run hotels in quieter parts of resorts. Other relevant brochures: Adults
- accommodation suiting couples (not necessarily child-free); Aspro - the budget
brand; and Escapades - clubbing holidays in Gumbet.

Cosmos (0800 093 3136, www.cosmos-holidays.co.uk) Eleven Turkish resorts are
covered in the Eastern Mediterranean brochure, which, new this year, has helpful
"family pricing" for accommodation pitched at families (so you don't have to
calculate complicated under-occupancy supplements). Packages with flights to
Antalya have been introduced this year, with hotels in the nearby resorts of
Belek and Side (a busy modern resort built over the ruins of a Greco-Roman
port). A couple of hotels are highlighted as Elite, such as the Laguna, on the
waterfront at Imeler ( pounds 589/ pounds 859 half board, including private taxi
transfers). Also offers gulet cruises.

First Choice (0870 750 0001, www.firstchoice.co.uk) Greece & Turkey brochure
offers a wide variety of Turkish resorts, including quieter ones on the Bodrum
peninsula and Cavus, south of Antalya. There is also a big range of
accommodation - from small guest-houses to four-star all-inclusive hotels (the
best properties are flagged as Premier Choice) - and flights from 15 regional
British airports. Other relevant brochures: Sunstart - the budget brand, with
two- and-three-star properties in busy resorts; 2wentys - clubbing holidays in
Gumbet; and Eclipse (0870 501 0203, www.eclipse holidays.com), the direct-sell
arm, which has increased its choice of accommodation for those flying into
Dalaman.

Manos Holidays (0870 753 0530, www.manos.co.uk) The dedicated Turkey brochure
offers 11 resorts, including Patara, which has an 11-mile-long beach. It has
added a few villas with pools in the village of Atakoy, near Marmaris. Look out
for the Select symbol, which highlights better-quality hotels. Diving packages
and gulet holidays are also available. Its sister company, Panorama Holidays
(0870 759 5595, www.panoramaholidays.  co.uk), has added Turkey to its Summer
Sun brochure, with accommodation in Marmaris, Imeler and Gumbet.

Sovereign (0870 5768 373, www.sovereign.com) The upmarket Summer Sunshine
brochure features three properties in Turkey - two in Kalkan, plus Lykia World
Residence ( pounds 755/ pounds 1,495 full board), a 90-acre family-oriented
holiday village with a children's adventure and water park, near Olu Deniz,
Turkey's most famous beach.

Sunquest (0870 366 1553, www.  sunquestholidays.co.uk) Long-established low-cost
Turkey specialist, now part of First Choice. A big selection of resorts, with
the majority of properties two- or three-star self-catering or smallish hotels.
A good choice of apartments with room for families of five or more. Also some
properties away from heavily commercialised tourist areas that are labelled
Taste of Turkey - such as the Tuvana Hotel, in Antalya's old town ( pounds 335/
pounds 689 b & b).

Thomas Cook (0800 107 7400, www.thomascook.com) Took 40 per cent of British
bookings to Turkey last year. It's a good choice for the northern Aegean
resorts: its airline provides virtually all the charter flights to Izmir (much
closer than Bodrum to resorts such as Kusadasi), and it is one of the few
operators to feature esme, a summer bolt-hole for Izmir residents. The Turkey
brochure features 27 resorts - including appealing spots such as Turun, Dalyan
(the resort sits alongside a river delta, and the three-mile-long beach is
undeveloped), Kalkan and Kas. The smartest hotels are labelled Select (five
star) and Finesse (four star). There are flights from 15 British airports. Other
selling points: a big choice of gulet cruises; scuba diving courses in the
Bodrum and Dalaman areas; and a three-night Istanbul excursion from any resort
(from pounds 319). Other relevant brochures in the Thomas Cook stable: Club
18-30 - clubbing in Gumbet and Bodrum; Beach Villas - a few villas with pools
near Bodrum; Sunset - the budget brand; and Blue Sky Direct (0870 010 2581,
www.blue skyholidays.com), the company's direct-sell arm. Lastly, there's JMC
(0800 107 7444, www.jmc.com), which offers a big choice of family-oriented
accommodation. Half a dozen properties feature children's clubs, and some of
these - such as the Sunrise Holiday Village in Side ( pounds 569/ pounds 966
all-inclusive in a family room) - also have creches,.

Thomson (0870 550 2555, www.thomson.co.uk) New this year are three- and
four-night breaks for those flying into Dalaman, and more flights from regional
British airports into Antalya. The dedicated Turkey brochure includes the Club
Magic Life Marmaris - flagged as a Thomson Beachclub, it has a wealth of sports
facilities included in the rates ( pounds 589/ pounds 1,055 all-inclusive) -
plus a dozen Small & Friendly branded hotels and pensions, and, new this year,
two upmarket A la Carte branded hotels. Other relevant brochures: Skytours -
budget family holidays; Freestyle - clubbing holidays in Gumbet; Just (0870 606
0789, www.just.  co.uk) - the no-frills, no reps, budget brand; and Portland
(0870 500 2200, www.portland-direct.co.uk) - Thomson's well-regarded direct-sell
arm.

Unijet (0870 533 6336, www.  unijet.com) Also part of First Choice, but its
holidays are less packaged than other brands, and pitched at those who want a
quieter break. Mostly three-star or better self-catering apartments, in 10 of
Turkey's major resorts. Instead of coach transfers, you can pay extra for taxi
transfers - or hire a car.

ACTIVITY

HOLIDAYS

Lycia - both the coast and its mountainous hinterland - is the most popular area
for activity holidays. Many companies offer hiking along the Lycian Way,
Turkey's first long-distance footpath, which runs along the coast. Walking and
cycling trips in the bizarre landscapes of Cappadocia are also available.

Some of the companies listed below are adventure tour specialists; their
holidays, which are very popular with singles, are a good way to see a large
chunk of the country inexpensively, and most of the main operators now have
trips for families. Other companies listed specialise in one or two specific
activities - most commonly, walking.

For trips to the east, see the introduction to "Cultural Tours", p20.

Our selection

Exodus (0870 240 5550, www.exodus.  co.uk) The small-group activity specialist
has a reputation for well-planned and well-led trips - and it has the widest
choice of activity holidays in Turkey, spread over five brochures. They include:
walking along the Lycian Way or through the Taurus Mountains, camping some
nights; sea-kayaking on the Lycian coast; and multi-activity weeks in Lycia,
with whitewater rafting, mountainbiking and hiking. There are also two new
cycling holidays: a seven-night off-road trip, for experienced riders, in Lycia
( pounds 715, most meals), and a 14-night road trip from Cappadocia to Istanbul
via the south-west coast ( pounds 1,005 in May/June, some meals).

Explore Worldwide (01252 760000, www.exploreworldwide.com) Inspiring choice of
small-group trips in Turkey. Some are effectively sightseeing tours. Others are
more active, such as a Lycian village hike, staying some nights as guests of
locals in remote mountain villages (seven nights pounds 465, most meals). The
high Taurus trek includes seven nights' camping in the Taurus Mountains, using
mules to carry gear. The Family Adventures brochure has a seven-night gulet
cruise. A new dedicated cycling brochure includes a week's cycling on back lanes
and farm tracks through Cappadocia. Explore's trips have a reputation for being
good value.

Other operators

Adrift (01488 71152, www.adrift.  co.uk) Whitewater rafting specialist: trips
down the oruh river in north-eastern Turkey from May to early July.

The Adventure Company (01420 541007, www.adventurecompany.co.uk) Programme
includes a Lycian Way trek, an activity week (whitewater rafting, sea-kayaking,
diving) based at Kas, group holidays for families (children from five upwards)
in Lycia and, new this year, trips combining Istanbul with the Aegean coast.

ATG Oxford (01865 315678, www.atg-oxford.co.uk) Upmarket walking specialist has
cut back its Turkey programme this year to just two itineraries: escorted
walking along the Lycian Way, and a cruising/ walking holiday around Lycia.

Crusader Travel (020 8744 0474, www.crusadertravel.com) Land-based diving
holidays from Kalkan, Kas, Fethiye and Bodrum, and a live-aboard dive boat out
of Fethiye. Also sea-kayaking and gulets. No brochure.

Guerba (01373 826611, www.guerba.  com) A week's guided walking in Cappadocia,
and a two-week trip combining Cappadocia with trekking in the Taurus Mountains
and four nights on a gulet.

HF Holidays (020 8905 9388, www.hfholidays.co.uk) A week following the western
section of the Lycian Way, between Olu Deniz and Kalkan.

The Imaginative Traveller (01473 667337, www.imaginative-traveller.com) Big
selection of inexpensive small-group adventure tours in Turkey. Several trips
cover the less-explored Black Sea and eastern regions. New for 2004: an 11-night
family trip (minimum age six) starting/ending in Istanbul, which includes an
overnight train to the bizarre rock terraces of Pamukkale, two nights on a
gulet, and rafting or canoeing down a canyon ( pounds 685, some meals, excluding
international flights).

Interest and Activity Holidays (0870 741 1274, www.flightholiday.co.uk) Guided
treks on the Lycian Way, scuba diving on the Mediterranean coast, and yoga
holidays.

KE Adventure Travel (017687 73966, www.keadventure.com) Specialises in
challenging trips: an ascent of Mount Ararat, a fortnight's trekking along the
Lycian Way, and off-road mountainbiking in Cappadocia.

Original Travel (020 7978 7333, www.originaltravel.co.uk) Alternative, upmarket
short breaks. Trips to Turkey include one focused on sea-kayaking in the Dalyan
delta, and another one mountainbiking in Cappadocia.

Ramblers Holidays (01707 331133, www.ramblersholidays.co.uk) Sightseeing and
walking trips to Istanbul and north-west Turkey, and from a base in Bodrum. Also
a more demanding holiday following the Lycian Way.

Sherpa Expeditions (020 8577 2717, www.sherpaexpeditions.com) Two summer
departures for a two-week guided walking tour of the Taurus Mountains, plus
Cappadocia.

Sportif (01273 844919, www.sportif-uk.com) Windsurfing specialist, with bases at
Teos and Alaati, near Izmir.

Walks Worldwide (01524 242000, www.walksworldwide.com) Guided and independent
walking along the Lycian Way, and a self-guided trip combining Istanbul and
Cappadocia.

Waymark (01753 516477, www.  waymarkholidays.com) Guided holidays based on the
shores of Lake Egirdir, in Turkey's stunningly beautiful Lakeland region. Other
trips are based in Kas and the northern Aegean.

Wilderness Adventure (0845 458 4440, www.wildernessadventure.co.uk) Bespoke
sea-kayaking, whitewater rafting, trekking and mountainbiking holidays.

TURKEY

SPECIALISTS

If you book with one of the companies listed here, the chances are you'll deal
with someone who is Turkish and/or has first-hand knowledge of Turkey. With many
of the companies, you should also be able to speak to someone who has visited
the property you're interested in.

Many of the specialists concentrate on the smaller, more charming resorts,
particularly along the Turquoise/Lycian coast (between Marmaris and Antalya).
Between them, the companies offer everything from flashy villas with private
pools to simple family-run pensions. Most also offer stays in Istanbul and
Cappadocia - either as trips on their own, or as add-ons to time spent in a
resort.

Our selection

Anatolian Sky (0870 850 4040, www.anatolian-sky.co.uk) This Turkey and north
Cyprus specialist has an impressive brochure that provides good detail on the
resorts and accommodation it features. The resorts on offer are mostly less
developed places, and the accommodation is chiefly in small-scale, family-run
hotels. New this year is the seaside village of irali, south of Antalya, which
has a two-mile sand and pebble beach protected from development - thanks to
nesting turtles. The tour operator claims it is the only British company to
offer holidays here: the Azur Hotel, with bungalows in gardens full of fruit
trees, costs pounds 499/ pounds 739 b & b. Anatolian Sky is also worth
considering for tailor-made driving tours of Turkey: the brochure suggests
itineraries, and has a good choice of accommodation in Istanbul and Cappadocia.
Also offers twin-centre holidays (eg Istanbul and a resort), gulet cruises,
weddings, diving packages, and golf packages to Belek.

Cachet Travel (020 8847 3846, www.cachet-travel.co.uk) Interesting selection of
villas, cottages, apartments and small hotels in some of the more pleasant spots
on the Turquoise coast and villages just inland. Villas with private pools have
been added this year in Kalkan, Ovacik (a village between Olu Deniz and
Fethiye), and in the bucolic Kaya Valley, near Fethiye. This year, guests can
pre-book paragliding packages, and tandem flights with a qualified pilot (
pounds 65), from Mount Babadag (near Olu Deniz). Also walking weeks in
May/September, staying in the grounds of an old farmhouse high above the coast,
and a comprehensive portfolio of self-drive tours. Some tours focus on
well-trodden parts of the Med (not available in high season); others are more
adventurous, covering not only Cappadocia and the central Anatolian plateau, but
also the Black Sea and far east, with internal flights to help reduce driving. A
14-night Black Sea trip, from Istanbul to Trabzon, costs pounds 1,170/ pounds
1,330 b & b, including car hire and all flights.

Savile Tours (020 7722 2986, www.saviletours.com) Glossy brochure of carefully
chosen upmarket hotels and self-catering accommodation. The biggest choice is in
and around smart, yachty Gocek and the lovely old harbour town of Kas (lively in
the evenings, good shopping, a successful mix of young independent travellers
and package holidaymakers). Options near Kas include the Savile Residence (owned
by the tour operator), which is billed as a country-house retreat and has plush,
individual suites. A top seller for families is the Hillside Beach Club at
Fethiye, which has a host of activities and good food, and is popular with
well-to-do Turks. Other resorts featured include Antalya: the new Hillside Su
Hotel ( pounds 890/ pounds 1,350 b & b) is an extraordinary-looking place,
combining minimalist (all-white bedrooms) and 1960s aesthetics (giant, disco
balls in the lobby). Also offers mini-cruises, multi-centre holidays and some of
the best hotels in Istanbul.

Simply Turkey (020 8541 2204, www.simplytravel.com) A beautifully presented
selection of hand-picked villas, apartments and hotels scattered across many of
the most appealing resorts in south-west Turkey: Kalkan is its top seller. New
for 2004: the unspoilt, mountainous peninsulas of Loryma and Data, where a
one-bedroom bungalow in the simple Gabaklar Bungalows, a short walk from a
secluded beach, costs pounds 595/ pounds 1,000 b & b. Other areas with a good
choice of accommodation include Dalyan, Kalkan and the Bodrum peninsula. Simply
has its own watersports centre and creche on the Bodrum peninsula at the
Tamarisk Beach Hotel in Ortakent, and self-catering on the waterfront of
Gumusluk, the peninsula's prettiest spot. Tailor-made touring trips of
south-west Turkey can be arranged, and Istanbul, Cappadocia and gulet cruises
are also featured.

Tapestry Holidays (020 8235 7777, www.tapestryholidays.com) Voted best tour
operator in 2003 by Daily Telegraph readers. The lavish brochure is admirably
detailed, in both words and pictures, and backed up by a first-rate website that
gives 360-degree views of properties, and availability of specific hotel rooms.
Coastal accommodation - exclusive to Tapestry - is in what it calls
"uncommercial" areas, such as the Bozburun peninsula, Turun Bay, Kalkan and Kas.
The portfolio includes lots of top-quality, family-run hotels, some 60 villas
with private pools (the largest selection of any operator), and more affordable
self-catering with shared pools, such as the new Karmylassos Cottages - three
two-bedroom villas surrounded by fruit trees in a rural spot near Fethiye (
pounds 750/ pounds 1,000, including Jeep rental). New this year are day walks
for guests staying in Kalkan, Kas or the Bozburun peninsula ( pounds 30 per
walk). Gulet cruises (over-16s only, unless on a sole charter) are also a
significant part of the programme. Istanbul (a choice of interesting hotels) and
Cappadocia (stays now include a complimentary balloon flight) are also featured,
and can be combined with the coastal resorts. Private multi-day tours, with your
own guide/driver and vehicle, can be arranged from Istanbul.

Other operators

Alternative Travel & Holidays (0870 041 1626, www.turkishgolf.com) Leading
specialist for golf holidays to the smart resort of Belek, near Antalya (six
courses, large five-star hotels). Also non-golfing packages to smart hotels in
the mainstream beach resorts.

CTA Holidays (0870 600 1123, www.ctaholidays.com) North Cyprus specialist with
stopover hotels around Antalya.

Concept Travel (020 7493 4243, www.concept-trv.com) Tailor-made holidays across
Turkey, including twin-centre breaks, Istanbul stays, gulet cruises and spa
holidays.

Green Island Holidays (020 7637 7338, www.greenisland holidays.com) North Cyprus
specialist also has Anzac tours to Gallipoli, and holidays around Antalya, where
it is increasing its programme this year.

Holidays 4U (0870 444 3843, www.holidays-4u.co.uk) Turkey-only specialist
offering packages to, and accommodation-only bookings in, the main beach
resorts; also gulet cruises.

Jewel in the Crown Holidays (01293 533338, www.jewelholidays.  com) A major
Turkey specialist - it handled about 20,000 holidaymakers there last year.
Concentrates on value-for-money packages using smaller family-run hotels and
apartment complexes. Features both big, busy resorts such as Bodrum and
Marmaris, and quieter spots such as Dalyan and Kas. Altinkum, which has a good
family-friendly beach, is added this year: the simple Panormos Hotel costs
pounds 335/ pounds 429 b & b.

Metak Holidays (020 8290 9292, www.metakholidays.co.uk) Another leading Turkey
and north Cyprus specialist. Features mainstream hotels in many of the most
popular resorts and has expanded around Antalya this year. Also Istanbul: lots
of resort/Istanbul twin-centre possibilities, and tailor-made trips beyond
brochured options.

Tulip Holidays (020 7734 0484, www.tulipholidays.com) Mid-priced packages to the
main resorts, plus accommodation-only, fly-drive and flight-only options.

The following operators offer Turkey alongside other destinations:

Cricketer Holidays (01892 664242) Packages to a peaceful family-run two-star
hotel at off-the-beaten-track Cavus, south-west of Antalya; fortnight rates (
pounds 919, half board) include six boat trips.

Ilios Travel (01403 259788, www.iliostravel.com) Upmarket villas with private
pools, and boutique hotels - mainly in quieter corners of the Bodrum peninsula,
also in Akyaka and Data.

Magic Connoisseurs (0870 166 0363, www.magic-connoisseurs.  co.uk) Three luxury
hotels in Turkey - in Istanbul, Cappadocia and, in the form of the stylish
Marmara, a boutique hotel with a highly rated spa, in Bodrum.

Something Special (0870 165 2603, www.somethingspecial.co.uk) This well-regarded
villa specialist offers seven modern villas with pools on the Bodrum peninsula.

Turkey By Air (01273 819999, www.turkeybyair.com) Three- and four-star hotels,
and apartments and villas, in the Hisaronu/Olu Deniz region.

Whitehall Leisure (020 7340 1030, www.whitehall-leisure.co.uk) Hotels and
apartments in the area around Olu Deniz.

CULTURE BREAKS

Many tours focus on the spectacular classical sites close to the Aegean and the
south-west coast, as well as the Ottoman art and architecture in cities in
western Turkey such as Istanbul. Wider-ranging tours take in the Hittite sites
of the interior, and the "fairy chimneys" and cave dwellings of Cappadocia.
Guided tours are increasingly being offered to the little-visited east. Large
swathes were effectively off-limits in the 1990s because of fighting between the
PKK Kurdish separatist movement and government forces. It is now much safer,
though the Foreign Office says that the PKK recently ended its "unilateral
ceasefire" with Turkey, and that visitors should "exercise caution at all times
in the east".

EXPERT-GUIDED TOURS

The following tours are accompanied by an archaeologist, classicist or other
expert from Britain, usually in addition to a tour leader, and often a local
guide. Group size is normally small: typically from 12 to 20.

Our selection

Andante Travels (01722 713800, www.andantetravels.co.uk) Archaeology and
ancient-history specialist that offers tours (average group size is 18) for
"fit, interested people of all ages". Four Turkish tours with British lecturers:
of Cappadocia/inland Anatolia; the Aegean coast (Troy, Ephesus etc); Pamphylia/

Lycia; and, new this year, the Lycian coast, including some rarely visited
sites, from a base at Kas ( pounds 1,400, eight nights' full board).

Swan Hellenic (0845 355 5111, www.swanhellenic.com) Cruises with guest speakers
- experts in subjects such as ancient history or religion - on the new Minerva
II, described in the brochure as a "floating country house". Six cruises include
Turkey in their itineraries - in combination with Greece and other parts of the
eastern Med, and/or the Black Sea. An eight-day cruise in June, taking in
Istanbul, the sites of Troy, Pergamon and Ephesus, thence to the Greek islands
and Athens, costs from pounds 1,547 (the cheapest standard inside cabin) full
board, with flights and excursions.

Westminster Classic Tours (01225 835488, www.wct99.com) Cultural cruises on
gulets - a maximum of 12 passengers in en-suite cabins - plus lecturers. There
are 13 tours this year (in June, September and October) of the Turkish coast
(some also take in Greek islands). They visit places such as Troy and Ephesus,
as well as lesser-known sites that can be equally rewarding with the right
guide. One tour follows the coastline of Rough Cilicia, east from Antalya - not
a route normally undertaken by gulet cruises. An overland trip to Antioch
(modern Antakya), one of the world's first Christian communities, has been added
to this tour this year (14 nights, pounds 1,795 full board, excluding flights).
Private charters also possible.

Other operators

ACE Study Tours (01223 835055, www.study-tours.org) Three departures to Turkey
this year: in May to the east, including a visit to the extraordinary funerary
mound and statues at Nemrut Dagi; in July along the shores of Lycia, rich in
classical ruins, in a motor yacht; and in October on an Ottoman-themed tour that
takes in Istanbul, Bursa and Iznik.

Holts Tours (01293 455300, www.battletours.co.uk) The leading battlefields
specialist has thorough eight-day trips to Gallipoli in May (primarily
walking-oriented), and late September.

Martin Randall Travel (020 8742 3355, www.martinrandall.com) One of the leading
British companies for cultural tours, with a reputation for good planning. Three
Turkish tours in 2004: of Ottoman Turkey (Bursa, Iznik, Istanbul, Edirne);
classical Turkey (along the Aegean and Mediterranean coasts); and Istanbul.
Hotels are mostly four-star.

Midas Tours (01747 825499, www.midastours.co.uk) This battlefields specialist
has a brief trip to Gallipoli for the commemorative services on Anzac Day (April
25); a Discovering Gallipoli tour in May; and a nine-night trip following
Alexander the Great's campaign against the Persians in 334-333 BC, along the
Aegean and Mediterranean coasts.

Temple World (020 8940 4114, www.templeworld.com) Archaeological cruises on the
company's own gulets. This year it is running a "geography ancient and modern"
cruise, with evening lectures, in late May, in conjunction with the Royal
Geographical Society and Institute of British Geographers ( pounds 1,645 for 14
nights' full board). Also pilgrim/study tour cruises in the footsteps of St
Paul.

The Traveller (020 7436 9343, www.thetraveller2004.com) Formerly the British
Museum Traveller, now privately owned - though many lecturers are curators, or
ex-curators, of the museum, as before. Its four Turkey tours are focused on
Ottoman Turkey, classical Turkey, the Anatolian interior, and the east - the
latter taking in the Byzantine Empire of Trebizond and 10th-century Armenian
Kingdom of Ani, as well as Nemrut Dagi ( pounds 1,790 for 14 nights' half
board).

GENERAL TOURS

The following operators run more general sightseeing tours, often led by highly
knowledgeable local guides.

Archers Direct (0845 600 1910, www.archersdirect.co.uk) Two inexpensive tours of
Turkey: a seven-night tour of the west, via Istanbul, Gallipoli, Troy and
Ephesus, staying mostly in three-star hotels, costing pounds 495/ pounds 495
(some meals); and a 12-night "grand tour" that takes in Konya, Cappadocia and
the capital, Ankara. Beach add-ons possible. You can book the same tours, at
slightly higher rates, through Cosmos Tourama (0870 264 6012,
www.cosmostourama.co.uk) - Archers is Cosmos' direct-sell sister.

Bales Worldwide (0870 241 3208, www.balesworldwide.com) A comprehensive tour of
eastern Turkey - via Trabzon, Erzurum, Diyarbakir (one of the oldest settlements
on earth) and Nemrut Dagi: from pounds 1,895, 15 nights, most meals.

Insight Vacations (0870 514 3433, www.insightvacations.com) Upmarket tours,
popular with Americans, staying in smart hotels and travelling in
comfier-than-average coaches. The two tours of Turkey cover the central and
western part of the country.

MasterSun (020 8942 9442, www.mastersun.co.uk) Programme of Christian holidays
(daily prayers and Bible teaching) that includes Seven Churches of Asia tours in
April from a base in Kusadasi.

Saga Holidays (0800 056 6099, www.saga.co.uk) Two-week Historic Heart of Turkey
tours - some departures with an archaeological or religious theme. Also stay-put
holidays in Kusadasi, Side and near Bodrum.

Several companies listed under "Turkey Specialists" on p19, such as Anatolian
Sky and Metak Holidays, run coach tours, with frequent departure dates.

SPECIAL INTEREST

Natural world

BTCV (01302 572244, www.  btcv.org) Environmental charity runs volunteer
holidays in July and August protecting and monitoring a beach near Dalaman where
turtles nest.

Cox & Kings (020 7873 5000, www.coxandkings.co.uk) April trip to southern
Turkey, combining wild flowers with ancient sites.

Gullivers Natural History Holidays (01525 270100) Flowers-and-birds trip to
Lycia, covering the wetlands, rocky coast and Taurus Mountains: pounds 899 for
seven nights' full board.

Naturetrek (01962 733051, www.naturetrek.co.uk) Three bird-watching and botany
tours to Turkey: one to western Turkey in the spring, the others to eastern
Turkey - including, in June, a 13-night trip taking in the wetlands around Lake
Van and the meadows of the Kakar Mountains near the Black Sea, as well as the
regions' major cultural sites ( pounds 1,995, full board).

Health

Erna Low Holidays for Body & Soul (020 7594 0290, www.bodyand soulholidays.com)
Holidays to the Gloria Verde Resort and Thalasso Asklepion at Belek.

Health & Yoga Holidays (020 8699 1900, www.yogaturkey.co.uk) Holidays in Golkoy,
near Bodrum. Yoga is the main focus, and on certain weeks this year can be
combined with salsa, cooking and painting; a yoga/gulet week is also planned.
From pounds 395 per week full board in a two-star hotel, including tuition,
excluding flights.

Huzur Vadisi (01970 626821, www.huzurvadisi.com) Yoga courses based in a
converted farmhouse and sleeping in yurts (dome-shaped structures with
electricity and wooden floors), in a lovely rural spot near Gocek. Also a
pilates/massage week, and guided walks weeks. Full board for a week, including
the course but excluding flights, pounds 390- pounds 550.

Singles holidays

Friendship Travel (0289 446 2211, www.friendshiptravel.com) Uses a small hotel
in Kusadasi and in Turun; also gulet cruises, and cruise-and-stay combinations.

Solo's (0870 072 0700, www.  solosholidays.co.uk) Istanbul breaks, beach
holidays in Imeler, and new spa packages to Kemer, near Antalya; different age
ranges for different departure dates.

Travel One (0870 757 2488, www.travelone.co.uk) Packages to Dalyan and, new this
year, alis Beach, near Fethiye; also a week-long gulet cruise, and
cruise-and-stay fortnights.

See also companies listed under "On the Water", p21: on many trips, more than
half the participants are solo travellers.

CLUB HOLIDAYS

Club Med (0845 367 6767, www.clubmed.co.uk) The French company has five villages
in Turkey: three covered in a brochure aimed at the British market, the others
detailed on the website. Club Med's strengths are the international atmosphere
of the villages and the good food. A wealth of sports facilities (such as
sailing, windsurfing and waterskiiing, and land options such as archery and
tennis), and group tuition, are included in the package price. Palmiye, south of
Antalya, has children's clubs (for those aged two upwards), and a circus school
for children. This year, adults-only Kemer Freestyle ( pounds 679/ pounds 1,703)
has become a fully all-inclusive village, with drinks and snacks included in the
rates (at most other clubs, these cost extra, outside mealtimes).

Mark Warner (0870 770 4222, www.markwarner.co.uk) Two bases in Turkey, both near
Bodrum. Palm Beach will be adults-only this season, while Altinel has children's
clubs for those aged two or more. The prime attraction of Mark Warner clubs is
the watersports: sailing and windsurfing, with tuition, are included in the
rates (however, waterskiing is now extra, at pounds 10 a tow). The Turkish
complexes also offer scuba diving and tennis coaching (extra charges). Full
board at Altinel: pounds 659/ pounds 1,395.

Neilson (0870 909 9099, www.neilson.com) The main brochure of the active holiday
specialist has two centres on the Bodrum peninsula. At Bitez, windsurfing is the
prime activity (and there's a new windsurfing club for those aged between eight
and 13), followed by mountainbiking: pounds 465/ pounds 785 b & b in the Bitez
Han, including sports equipment and tuition. Gundogan is quieter, and also
offers sailing. The Beachplus Clubs brochure is geared to those who want active,
but slightly gentler, holidays: the Seaside Hotel at Ortakent, also near Bodrum,
offers good watersports, plus daily yoga and pilates classes. Neilson also
features diving packages - either at Bitez, or staying on a gulet.

Sunsail (023 9222 2222, www.  sunsail.com) The leading British watersports
specialist has three beach clubs in Turkey. They offer a big range of the latest
sailing and windsurfing equipment, with free group tuition; more in-depth Royal
Yachting Association courses at extra cost (including, new this year, RYA Youth
Sailing Scheme courses for those aged between eight and 12 - pounds 65 for two
days); tennis coaching; health and beauty spas; and children's clubs. The
largest of the Turkish clubs, with the most facilities, is Marverde, in a
setting surrounded by pine forests north of Bodrum: pounds 720/ pounds 1,565
half board (children two to 12, pounds 595/ pounds 1,405).

ON THE WATER

Turkey's south-west coastline is best appreciated from the water. Indeed, many
of the loveliest spots - and some archaeological sites - can only be reached by
boat.

The most popular holidays afloat are on gulets. These traditional pine motor
yachts are ideal for non-sailors. The sails are rarely used, and a crew takes
care of the navigating, cooking and cleaning. Cabins are normally en suite, and
many are now air-conditioned (but if you are travelling in July and August,
check for restrictions). You can book individual cabins on gulets, and/or
charter whole vessels with a crew. Cabins can also be booked with many of the
tour operators listed under "Sun & Sand" (p17) and "Turkey Specialists" (p19).
Thomas Cook and Tapestry Holidays have two of the most promising programmes.

Also listed below are companies specialising in chartering yachts (both bareboat
for the experienced, and skippered) and flotilla holidays ( you do the sailing
but follow a lead boat).

Our selection

DayDreams (020 7637 8921, www.daydreams-travel.com) Long-established specialist
in chartering schooners and gulets; a wide range of boats, with varying degrees
of size and comfort. Arranges "schooner parties" - popular with singles and
couples in their 40s and 50s - on a vessel sleeping up to 10; a host is
provided, and good food is part of the appeal. Land-based "house parties" are
also on offer. In June, you can combine a four-night house party, staying in a
hotel in Antalya old town and attending the opening night of Aida at Aspendos
Roman theatre, with a 10-day schooner trip: pounds 1,324 full board.

Sunsail (023 9222 2222, www.  sunsail.com) A leading yacht specialist. Four
bareboat bases (Finike is new this year), with the option of skippered charters,
including an instructional skipper. Also five flotilla itineraries; these
include one from Gocek, flagged as an "easy flotilla" suitable for
less-experienced sailors. One week's bareboat rental, or in a flotilla, in
June/August of a 33ft Gib'Sea 33 (suitable for two couples) costs pounds 575/
pounds 760 per person, including flights, based on four sharing. You can tie in
a flotilla holiday with a Sunsail club (see "Club Holidays").

Tussock Cruising (020 8510 9292, www.tussockcruising.com) Long-established gulet
specialist. Unusually, it owns its nine vessels, and the gulets are designed to
sail, and do so for a few hours most days. They sleep six to 18 - the smallest
being popular for group charters. There are several themed cruises, including
painting, backgammon, photography and bridge, as well as a child-oriented trip.
Excluding flights, a week in June/August per person costs pounds 235/ pounds
295, plus pounds 150 for meals and drink. The company is Dutch/British, and a
large proportion of holidaymakers are Dutch.

Other operators

Blue Cruise (020 8968 7770, www.bluecruise.co.uk) Gulet specialist that takes
bookings for individual cabins and charters. Boats sleep six to 16, and have
air-conditioning. Also cruise-and-stay holidays.

Cosmos Yachting (0800 376 9070, www.cosmosyachting.com) Bareboat and skippered
yacht charters, and gulet charters.

The Moorings (01227 776677, www.moorings.com) Yacht charters from Gocek.

Nautilus Yachting (01732 867445, www.nautilus-yachting.com) Chiefly yacht
charters. Also flotilla holidays from Bodrum; can book gulets.

Nigel Burgess (020 7766 4300, www.nigelburgess.com) Charters large (130ft-plus)
luxury fully crewed yachts.

Setsail (01787 310445, www.setsail.co.uk) Flotilla holidays along the Lycian
coast and, new this year, around the Gulf of Gokova. Also learn-to-sail
packages, bareboat charters and cruise-and-stay combinations.

Top Yacht (01243 520950, www.top-yacht.com) Turkey specialist. Charters yachts
from Gocek and Kei Buku (west of Marmaris) - one-way sailing between bases
possible at no extra cost. A week in June/August for a bareboat charter of a
mid-range 40ft six-berth yacht costs pounds 2,050/ pounds 2,250, excluding
flights. Also charters gulets.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 31, 2004, Saturday Edition 1

Families travel together in wake of terror attack

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: TRAVEL NEWS, Pg. 82

LENGTH: 328 words


   The terror attacks on America in 2001 have triggered a new demand from
families and friends to travel long distances in larger groups, according to
Britain's leading long-haul operator.

Presenting the Longhaul Travel Report for 2004, Kuoni UK managing director Sue
Biggs said: "Parents who might have left children behind in the past are now
keen that everybody travels together."

She also confirmed a dramatic increase in big event holidays. A quarter of its
long-haul business is based on weddings and honeymoons although the average
party size for a wedding in exotic, far-flung destinations is six, including the
happy couple.

Favourite wedding package by far is a ceremony in Sri Lanka with a standard 488
package per couple including calypso band, river safari with sparkling wine
breakfast and going away by elephant followed by a honeymoon in the Maldives.
Until now, the Maldives a Muslim country has refused to allow weddings for
British visitors but there are hopes this will change .

Vow renewals enabling couples to get married again with the children watching is
also a booming part of Kuoni's business.

Kuoni claims a huge increase in demand in 2003 for its World Class programme,
from around 3,000 per head, and also for its bargain basement Limited Editions
brochure. And it predicts cheapies will dry up in late-2004, because of rising
demand for full-price holidays.

Although Kuoni carries over 260,000 travellers a year mostly from southern
England it admits visitor numbers plunged in 2003, because of Gulf War fears and
the Sars epidemic.

Instead, travellers switched in large numbers to the Indian Ocean area Sri
Lanka, Mauritius, and the Maldives and the Caribbean, particularly Barbados. But
the process is likely to reverse in 2004 because hoteliers in the Indian Ocean
and the Caribbean have raised prices sharply.

INFORMATION: Kuoni brochure requests on 08709 909 905 and www.kuoni.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2004 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Broadcast

                            February 2, 2004 Monday

Terrorist attack on financial systems at heart of new show.

SECTION: ARTICLE; Commissioning

LENGTH: 175  words



HIGHLIGHT: The critically acclaimed


This time, the 90-minute special, working-titled The Day Britain Stopped 2, is
expected to look at the consequences of a successful terrorist cyber attack on
the world's financial systems.Indie Wall to Wall plans to mix archive footage
with dramatic reconstruction to simulate what could happen in the event of such
an attack.Co-commissioned by head of current affairs Peter Horrocks, the show is
produced by Simon Finch and directed by Gabriel Range, who are also the
co-writers. Leanne Klein executive produces. Filming is due to begin next month,
with transmission expected in the autumn.The order follows the success of The
Day Britain Stopped, which featured the knock-on effects of transport gridlock
in the UK, culminating in an air disaster. It originally aired in May last year,
pulling in 4.2 million viewers - one of the channel's highest ratings for a
factual offering last year - and was repeated on 18 January.Wall to Wall's
earlier hypothetical drama documentary, BBC2's Smallpox 2002, was also
successful, pulling in 3.5 million viewers.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Broadcast


                            Copyright 2004 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            February 2, 2004, Monday

MUM TELLS OF ROAD RAGE ATTACK TERROR;
 MOTORIST TRAPS WOMAN'S HAND IN WINDOW AND DRIVES OFF

BYLINE: ALAN HARRIS D17677-1 ORDEAL: Chrisoulla Mairoudis, 35, was attacked and
abused while in her car with disabled dad Andreas, 64. Picture: WILL BINNS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 481 words


A MUM has spoken of her terror after being assaulted and racially abused in a
vicious road rage attack in Coventry.

Chrisoulla Mairoudis was hit in the face and deliberately dragged along by her
female attacker who trapped her hand in a car window.

The mum-of-three is angry and traumatised by her shocking ordeal which happened
before shoppers in Jubilee Crescent, Radford.

Mrs Mairoudis, of Webster Avenue, Kenilworth, needed hospital treatment for her
injuries and was helped at the scene by an off duty policeman.

The 35-year-old, who is a British citizen with Greek parents, says she was
called an Iraqi and was racially abused during her ordeal, which followed a
driving incident.

Her terrifying ordeal began when she was driving her 64-year-old disabled dad,
who is recovering from a stroke, home from physiotherapy in her Mitsubishi
Shogun.

Mrs Mairoudis, who runs Spires Fish Bar, in Cheylesmore, decided to stop off to
visit family friends at Godiva Fish Bar, in Jubilee Crescent.

She says she was initially in the wrong lane as she approached the busy shopping
area but indicated and parked near the chip shop.

But another female driver who had been following behind her pulled in right in
front of her, got out and swore at her using racist words.

Mrs Mairoudis said: "The woman was by the side of my car and she swore at me and
asked me to wind my window down.

"She said all foreigners should be dead and buried like in the Iraq war.

"She thought I was an Iraqi.

"She said she was going to follow me home."

Mrs Mairoudis said she got out of her vehicle to reason with the woman who had
returned to her car and refused to move, blocking her in.

She said: "By now I was quite upset about it.

"She would not budge her car.

"She wound down her window and whacked me in the face. She then headed off with
my fingers trapped in her electric window. I was being dragged along - I was
hysterical."

Mrs Mairoudis managed to pull her hand free as her attacker drove off and was
helped by an off-duty policeman who came to her aid.

She went to hospital where she received treatment for an eye injury and bruising
to her arm.

She said: "I've never been in this situation before. The fact that my dad was
with me was worse.

"I'm a very confident person but now I've had to get a taxi to work where I've
broken down in tears.

"This woman's face was nothing but anger and she didn't want to reason at all.
I'm a respectful person and she had no right to disrupt my life. She should be
off the road because this is affecting my children."

The offending motorist is believed to be in her 40s and driving a dark blue
Peugeot 206.

Anyone with information about the incident, which was at 6.30pm on Thursday,
January 22, should phone Little Park Street police station on 0845 113 5000.

alan.harris@mrn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            February 2, 2004, Monday

SHOP ASSISTANT THREATENED WITH BOTTLE IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 120 words


A SHOP assistant was threatened by a masked raider wielding a bottle.

The raider stole cigarettes from the Star News Shop, in Umberslade Road,
Earlswood, at 7.30pm on Saturday.

A spokesman for Warwickshire Police said: "A man wearing a balaclava went into
the shop carrying an empty wine battle.

"One of the shop staff ran out of the store and the attacker threatened the
other member of staff with the bottle. He jumped over the counter and went into
the back of the shop."

The second staff member ran out of the shop as the raider tried to force the
cigarette cupboard.

Staff tried to lock him in the shop but the thief forced a back door and
escaped.

The store was also raided in December.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 02, 2004, Monday

Transatlantic flights axed over threat of bio-terrorism attack

BYLINE: By Nic Fleming and Robert Uhlig

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 531 words

SIX flights bound for America, including four from Britain, were cancelled after
intelligence suggested that al-Qa'eda was planning a spectacular attack using a
hijacked airliner and weapons of mass destruction.

British Airways cancelled Flight 223 from Heathrow to Washington yesterday and
today on Government advice. It is exactly a month since similar fears grounded
the same service after US officials became suspicious of Arabic names on the
passenger list.

American intelligence officials said the latest flights had been cancelled
because of fears that terrorists were plotting to contaminate an airliner with
chemical or biological agents, or to smuggle a radiological device on board.

The prospect of a terrorist self-infected with an agent such as smallpox passing
the disease on to tens or hundreds of passengers breathing recirculated air
close by has been described as a "doomsday scenario".

Experts regard the likelihood of a successful attack as relatively low because
of the difficulty of obtaining and using viable biological agents.

But an American government spokesman described the threat as "specific and
credible" after increased telephone and internet communications between
terrorist suspects were detected.

British Airways also cancelled Flight 207 from Heathrow to Miami yesterday and
Continental Airlines stopped flight 17 from Glasgow to Los Angeles. Air France
cancelled AF026 from Paris to Washington yesterday and today.

The Washington Post said intelligence officers had intercepted messages
referring to weapons of mass destruction being used in connection with an
airliner, although the information did not "indicate a precise tactic". An
intelligence official said the information was "sketchy".

Potential threats included the release of a biological agent such as smallpox or
anthrax on a flight, a hijack using a chemical agent to debilitate passengers
and crew, or the smuggling of a radiological device in luggage.

Lord Falconer, the Constitutional Affairs Secretary, said that sometimes
security information was received "that we must act on".

He said: "That will lead to inconvenience from time to time but we think it is
the right course."

Reports have suggested that al-Qa'eda wants to mount a spectacular attack to
show followers and potential recruits that it remains a viable force despite the
death or capture of three quarters of its leaders since the September 11
attacks.

About 900 BA passengers will be offered a refund or a switch to other flights.
BA said: "We recognise that some passengers may feel inconvenienced and we fully
apologise for that. However, the safety and security of our operation is
paramount."

Some terrorism experts were sceptical about the validity of the intelligence.

Simon Reeve, the author of The New Jackals, a book on al-Qa'eda, said: "I think
some of it is tenuous to say the least. But nobody in the intelligence community
or airport security will want to take the chance of sending a plane into the air
if there is even a whisper of a threat."

Jim McAuslan, of the British Airline Pilots' Association, said: "We are pressing
the Government to examine these claims from America."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           February 3, 2004, Tuesday

RURAL MATTERS: MP'S FURY AT ATTACK BY 'ANIMAL TERRORISTS'

BYLINE: JONATHAN WALKER POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 376 words


Animal rights protesters who attacked a home linked to a guinea pig breeding
centre have been dubbed 'terrorists' by a Midland MP.

Michael Fabricant (Con Lichfield) called on the security services to deal with
threats such as activists who have targeted David Hall & Partners, which breeds
the animals for medical research, at Newchurch, near Lichfield, Staffordshire.

Speaking in the House of Commons, Mr Fabricant said: 'One of my constituents
runs a guinea pig farm for medical research which is controlled by the Home
Office to protect the animals and to ensure the guinea pigs are bred and kept
humanely. 'He has written to me saying: 'Before New Year's Eve, the activists
smashed all the downstairs windows of my 86-year-old father's home whilst he was
in the house, and then threw red paint bombs through the smashed windows.

'He was petrified. Between Christmas and New Year they were also at my niece's
house . . . and they turned off all her water and then concreted the stop cock
so she could not get it back on'.'

Mr Fabricant told the Commons: 'Those animal rights terrorists must be
controlled, so may we have a debate on the issue?

'Perhaps the Home Secretary could designate those people as terrorists, so that
organisations for which I have the greatest respect, such as the security
service, can be utilised to try to restrain their activities.'

Cabinet Minister Peter Hain, the Leader of the Commons, told him: 'Many of us
have a lot of sympathy with animal rights movements and support them. We want
proper protection for animals and an end to cruelty, but to take things to such
an extent and to terrorise scientists, doctors and others involved is wholly
unacceptable.'

Last night Mr Fabricant said: 'The irony is that if this particular guinea pig
farm is closed, laboratories will import these guinea pigs from France where
there are no inspections whatsoever to ensure that they are protected against
cruelty.

'I oppose the testing on animals for cosmetics and other nonmedical experiments.

'I just wonder about the hypocrisy of those animal rights terrorists who
persecute my constituents yet have been vaccinated against polio and other
diseases when this is a product of animal research.'

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 03, 2004, Tuesday

Blunkett attacked over secret trials for terror suspects

BYLINE: By Philip Johnston Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 08

LENGTH: 524 words

CIVIL liberties groups and Muslim community leaders lined up yesterday to
denounce plans from David Blunkett to conduct secret trials of suspected
terrorists.

The Home Secretary found himself at the centre of renewed controversy after
proposing legal changes that would make it easier to convict potential suicide
bombers.

He said the threat from extremists was now so great that the burden of proof in
criminal trials should be reduced from "beyond reasonable doubt" to "the balance
of probabilities".

He also wants a debate over whether intelligence information against suspects
should be given in camera to avoid compromising security.

Mr Blunkett's ideas - to be proposed formally in a Home Office paper later this
month - are intended to address what the Government sees as a serious threat
from Islamist fundamentalists.

Speaking in India, where he is on a six-day visit, he said "global suicide
terrorism" meant it might now be necessary to adopt new court procedures. These
could include keeping evidence secret from defendants and vetting defence
counsel to ensure that they did not pass on sensitive information.

Mr Blunkett said: "We need to debate how we deal with these delicate issues of
proportionality and human rights on the one hand and evidential base and the
threshold of evidence on the other.

"That is quite a challenge because we are having to say that the nature of what
people obtain through the security and intelligence route is different to the
evidence gained through the policing route." He added: "It needs to be presented
in a way that doesn't allow disclosure by any of the parties involved which
would destroy your security services."

Lady Kennedy, QC, a Labour peer, compared Mr Blunkett to Robert Mugabe, the
president of Zimbabwe. "He really is a shameless authoritarian," she said on BBC
Radio 4's Today programme. "We can be confident that many of his colleagues in
the Cabinet, including particularly the Attorney General, will sit on this,
because it really is an affront to the rule of law."

Lady Kennedy described the proposals as "a classic Blunkett tactic". She said:
"You suggest all kinds of outrageous and awful things because then you get away
with half of them."

Mark Littlewood, the campaigns director of Liberty, said: "Simply introducing
more laws, greater powers and stiffer penalties will go a long way to
undermining British justice and will not make our country any safer."

Michael Howard, the Tory leader, said: "You have to try and strike the balance
between giving the British people the proper protection against terrorism and
not depriving innocent people of their liberty."

However, David Winnick, a Labour member of the Commons home affairs select
committee, said concerns over civil liberties should not blind people to the
threat of terrorism. He said: "If it is absolutely necessary to extend the
powers that exist, then of course the House of Commons must listen carefully and
make up its mind accordingly."

But Massoud Shadjareh, the chairman of the Islam Human Rights Commission, said:
"This sort of legislation in Germany led to concentration camps."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                February 3, 2004

TERROR TRIAL PLAN ATTACKED

SECTION: News; People; Campaigns; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 254 words


In an Options Paper, David Blunkett is due to set out plans to lock up suspected
terrorists on the basis of intelligence given in secret trials.  He said the
threat was now so great the burden of proof should be reduced from "beyond
reasonable doubt" to the "balance of probabilities".

The move would allow prosecutors to take action against extremists even where
evidence was not enough to convict under existing rules.

Lawyers defending the accused would also have to be vetted and some evidence
withheld from them to stop sensitive information leaking back to defendants and
terror groups.

Gloucester businessman Yacoob Motala, a member of the Islamic Human Rights
Commission, accused the Home Secretary of a "total disregard" for the human
rights of Muslims.

"As things stand, people can be arrested and charged on the flimsiest of
evidence but they cannot be convicted without a proper trial," he said.

"The Home Secretary is now suggesting that they can be convicted on probability.
That would be an outrageous erosion of human rights." Mr Motala fears the
suggestion that any trial should be held privately by a "selected panel" - the
secret trials would be presided over by judges vetted by MI5, MI6 and GCHQ - was
even more worrying and would be an affront to the rule of law.

A spokesman for the Home Office said the idea was to be able to use evidence
without compromising intelligence sources and preventing the release of any
information that would be useful to terrorists.


LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 The Gloucester Citizen

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                February 4, 2004

Ricin attack on Senate raises new terror fears

BYLINE: WILLIAM LOWTHER

SECTION: ED_1ST_MER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 526 words


FEARS of a new terror campaign against America were raised last night after the
deadly poison ricin was sent to the U.S. Senate in Washington.

President George Bush was briefed and a major investigation started after the
poison was found in a leading lawmaker's office.

The Senate ground to a near-halt yesterday after offices were evacuated and
staff went through a decontamination procedure. None appeared to be infected.

'Someone sent ricin with the intent of spreading terror and harm,' said Senate
Republican leader Bill Frist.

While the Senate chamber itself was kept open for debate on a major transport
bill, all three of the huge main office buildings where more than 6,000 staff
work were closed.

'No treatment for those who ingest it' 'Ricin is so toxic and deadly that there
is no treatment for those who ingest it,' said Mr Frist.

But defiant politicians vowed not to be defeated by the terror tactics.

'We do not know if there are links to Al Qaeda or other international terrorist
groups,' said Mr Frist. 'It is too early to tell. But the Senate itself will
stay in business.' Senator Tom Daschle said: 'There are no signs yet that anyone
is suffering from ill health as a result of what has happened. Terrorist attacks
will not stop the work of the Senate.' Mr Frist said that the ricin, a white
powder, was found on a machine in his office that is used for opening letters.

The machine had opened about 50 letters and it is not known which of them
contained the powder. Both the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security are
investigating. Scientific experts were called in and tests indicated that the
powder was ricin.

'It could be the start of another terror attack,' said a senior FBI
investigator.

While ricin has no known antidote, it does not spread easily and must find its
way into the body to kill.

Terrorists are known to have used ricin. A quantity was found in a London flat
that had been occupied by Islamic extremists last year and a ricin-tipped
umbrella was used to assassinate Bulgarian dissident Georgi Markov in London in
1978.

In 2001, an anthrax-laced letter shut down Congress briefly and closed the Hart
Senate Office Building for months of expensive cleaning.

Five people were killed and 17 made seriously ill nationwide after someone
started posting letters containing anthrax. No one has been charged with the
crime.

If ricin gets into the bloodstream, it almost immediately triggers a high fever,
cough and excess fluid in the lungs. Severe breathing problems follow and death
comes within one or two days.

Ricin, twice as deadly as cobra venom, is made from the castor bean plant and is
relatively easy to make.

Mr Frist said last night that the three Senate office buildings would remain
closed for four or five days.

The Senate will be heavily disrupted. 'It has more than slowed us down, it has
brought us to a virtual stop,' said one senior Senate aide.

He added: 'This is a terror attack and it has probably served its purpose in
that it has definitely slowed the working of the U.S. government.'

w.lowther@dailymail.co.uk

END

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                February 4, 2004

RELATIVES of the victims of an horrific north-west terror attack 30 years ago
were gathering at a motorway services area today to remember the dead.

BYLINE: ALAN Salter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 245 words



RELATIVES of the victims of an horrific north-west terror attack 30 years ago
were gathering at a motorway services area today to remember the dead.  Nine
soldiers, mostly from Greater Manchester, along with one man's wife and two
children, were killed when their bus was blown up in West Yorkshire on its way
from Manchester to Catterick on February 4, 1974. The Army has organised a
special memorial service at Hartshead Moor services, near Bradford, for those
who were killed in one of the IRA's most infamous horrors.  An Army padre was to
lead the short service after a bugler played reveille. The bugler was then due
to play the last post.  The coach had left Manchester's Chorlton Street bus
station after being left unattended around the city for 48 hours.  Confessed
Among the dead were 23-year-old lance corporal Clifford Haughton, his wife Linda
and their sons Lee, five and Robert, two. Soldiers from Wythenshawe, Middleton,
Oldham, Partington, Bolton and Tyldesley also died.

Judith Ward, from Stockport, confessed to handling the bomb and was sentenced to
30 years. But she was released in 1992 when vital forensic evidence was
discredited.  Among those attending today's service were Linda Haughton's
56-year-old sister Anne Morris and her daughter.

Mrs Morris, who lives in Middleton, said: "It is all just as painful now as it
ever was and I remember everything as if it was yesterday."
alan.salter@men-news.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: AMONG the victims . . . (from left) Terence Griffin, Stephen Whalley
and David Walsh; THE coach . . . ripped apart by the explosion in which 12
people died

                     Copyright 2004 Manchester Evening News

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                February 4, 2004

US ON TERROR ALERT OVER RICIN ATTACK

LENGTH: 127 words


A NEW bio-terrorism scare gripped America last night as the deadly poison ricin
was sent to a leading senator.

A package filled with ricin was opened at the Washington office of Republican
Bill Frist (right) -a key ally of President George Bush. Sixteen workers in the
post room where the envelope was discovered were decontaminated.

Intelligence chiefs fear it marks the start of a new campaign by Osama Bin
Laden's extremists. A postal depot in Connecticut was also shut after a worker
found a mystery white powder in an envelope yesterday morning.

It is the same distribution centre where investigators found anthrax spores in
2001.

It was also revealed yesterday that a letter containing ricin was sent to the
White House in November.


LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                February 6, 2004

Needle attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 105 words


A MAN was stabbed in the throat with a syringe during a street attack.

The 60-year-old father was making his way home in Glasgow when a thug pounced on
him from behind.

The attacker held the needle to the man's throat as he rifled through his
pockets and made off with just his mobile phone during the attack in Aitken
Street, Haghill.

The victim, who was treated for neck wounds in hospital, was returning alone to
his home in the east end of the city on Monday evening.

He now faces an anxious wait for the result of blood tests to discover if he has
contracted any illnesses, such as HIV or

hepatitis.

LOAD-DATE: February 07, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 7, 2004

Lawyers attack Blunkett anti-terror plan

BYLINE: Audrey Gillan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 522 words


A group of the country's leading barristers has condemned a plan by the home
secretary to extend anti-terrorist legislation to allow British terror suspects
to be tried on secret evidence they would never hear.

The criticism is likely to embarrass David Blunkett because the six lawyers have
been approved by the government to work as special advocates in immigration
cases. They are experienced in working with secret evidence and therefore
well-placed to comment on the plans.

In an open letter the six say they would refuse to take part in trials under the
proposals.

The letter was prompted by the Guardian's revelation this week that Mr Blunkett
was considering extending the anti-terror laws to allow the introduction of
criminal trials conducted in secret with a non-criminal standard of proof.

This would widen the use of special advocates, the state-vetted defence counsels
who are given access to secret evidence provided to immigration courts by the
security services. Their job is to represent the accused at the secret hearings
but not relay back to their "clients" what they are alleged to have done.

The letter says attempts to apply this system to criminal cases would be
"untenable".

Nicholas Blake QC, Andrew Nicol QC, Manjit Singh Gill QC, Ian Macdonald QC, Rick
Scannell and Tom de la Mare write: "We are convinced that both basic principles
of fair trial in the criminal context and our experience of the system to date
make such a course untenable.

"It would contradict three of the cardinal principles of criminal justice: a
public trial by an impartial judge and jury of one's peers, proof of guilt
beyond reasonable doubt, and a right to know, comment on and respond to the case
made against the accused.

"The special advocate system is utterly incapable of replacing these essential
fundamentals of a fair trial.

"An unfair trial determining guilt is not something we could be associated with.
We are also convinced that there are other less draconian ways in which our laws
can be adjusted to address the secretary of state's concerns."

In an interview while on tour in India Mr Blunkett said he intended to revise
emergency legislation before 2006, when he is obliged to do so. He said the
special advocates were essential to protect security service sources and
indicated that terrorist cases may be tried on a lower standard of evidence.

His remarks were met with widespread consternation within the legal community.
The Labour peer Helena Kennedy QC described the home secretary as a "shameless
authoritarian" and called his ideas "an affront to the rule of law".

Last Thursday Britain's most senior judges ruled that there were very few cases
where material was so sensitive that defendants should not hear it.

Lord Bingham of Cornhill, Lord Woolf, Lord Hope of Craighead, Lord Walker of
Gestingthorpe and Lord Carswell said, "the golden rule is that full disclosure
should be made". They said the appointment of special counsel should "always be
exceptional, never automatic; a course of last and never first resort".

guardian.co.uk/terrorism


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 7, 2004

Moscow train blast : How rebels brought frontline to Moscow: Recent terrorist
attacks in Russian capital

BYLINE: Linda MacDonald

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 245 words


August 31 1999

Bomb explodes in underground shopping centre just outside Kremlin walls,
wounding 20. Officials call it "act of terrorism" but do not link it to Chechen
separatists

September 9 1999

Blast levels flats on Guryanov Street, Moscow, killing 94 people and injuring
164. Four days later another blast at apartment block in Kashirskoye Shosse,
southern Moscow, kills 119. Two further attacks in cities of Volgodonsk and
Buinaksk. Opposition claims blasts are work of state security officers, intent
on promoting career of Vladimir Putin, then prime minister, who launched second
invasion of Chechnya

August 8 2000

Bomb rips through underpass packed with hundreds of commuters and shoppers in
central Moscow, killing eight people and injuring around 50

October 23 2002

Fifty Chechen rebels hold about 800 people hostage in Moscow theatre in
three-day siege. Rebels are killed, along with 120 hostages, when Russian forces
use sleeping gas to storm building

July 5 2003

Two women bombers kill 14 people when they blow themselves up at rock festival
at Moscow's Tushino airfield. Sixty wounded; 15th victim dies on July 24

December 9 2003

Explosion outside National Hotel in central Moscow kills six people. Officials
blame attack on Chechen women suicide bombers

February 6 2004

Rush-hour blast kills up to 40 people on train on central Moscow metro railway.
More than 100 injured in suspected suicide attack


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               February 07, 2004

Terrorist attack kills 39 on Moscow metro;

BYLINE: by Our Foreign Desk

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 407 words


AN explosion tore through a train in the Moscow metro during the morning rush
hour yesterday, killing at least 39 people and wounding more than 120 others.

The blast appeared to be the deadliest terrorist bombing to hit the city since
Russia launched its second war in Chechnya.

Officials differed over whether the blast, which occurred five weeks before
Russia's presidential election, had been caused by a suicide bomber.

Deputy Moscow Mayor Valery Shantsev said that investigators had not found metal
shrapnel, which usually fills suicide bombers' explosives.

He said that the bomb had probably been in an attache case or rucksack on the
floor of a carriage.

However, police sources said that the explosion had been caused by a female
suicide bomber.

Police have a videotape of the suspected attacker and her alleged accomplice
standing on the metro platform before boarding the train, the Interfax news
agency reported.

The Federal Security Service said that it had not ruled out the possibility that
someone had been transporting explosives on the metro which detonated
prematurely.

About 39 people were killed and 122 hospitalised, including one child, according
to Deputy Interior Minister Alexander Chekalin.

Most of the victims were suffering from concussions and smoke inhalation, he
said.

Parliamentarian Valery Draganov, who represents the Avtozavodskaya district,
said that body parts were scattered along the tracks.

Inside the badly damaged carriage, bodies sat side by side in their seats,
covered in soot. Bodies covered in blood and with their clothes torn lay on the
tracks.

Moscow police spokesman Kirill Mazurin said that the bombing was being
investigated as an act of terrorism.

There were no claims of responsibility, but Chechen rebel leader Shamil Basayev
has claimed to have masterminded the most recent terrorist explosions in Russia.

Some commentators also drew a connection with Russia's March 14 presidential
election and speculated that the blast might have been intended to discredit
President Vladimir Putin.

"I heard a loud sound like a firework and smoke filled the car, " said passenger
Ilya Blokhin, who was in the train's nextto-last carriage - several coaches away
from the blast.

"Now that there are explosions on the metro, what are our country and government
and police going to do when they blow up crowded metro carriages?"

he asked.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004

GRAPHIC: TRAUMA: Two injured women outside Moscow's Avtozavodskaya metro station
yesterday.

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               February 07, 2004

Lawyers attack terror trial scheme;
 Plans for secret courts come under fire

BYLINE: by BOB GLANVILLE

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 394 words


LEADING barristers launched a fresh attack yesterday on plans by Home Secretary
David Blunkett to lock up British "terror suspects" after sinister secret
trials.

Mr Blunkett (right) intends to launch a "preemptive" attack on potential
terrorists, under proposed new powers to try the "future criminals" in shadowy,
non-jury trials presided over by secret service-vetted judges.

Speaking during a tour of the Indian subcontinent, Mr Blunkett claimed that the
forces of law must "intervene before the act is committed."

The Home Secretary also wants to lower the burden of proof so that prisoners can
be convicted on the basis of evidence that would not stand up in a normal court.

He is hoping to rewrite the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 so that
prosecutors only have to show that the "balance of probabilities" points towards
the defendants' guilt.

Under Mr Blunkett's plans, suspects would be represented by special advocates
cleared by the secret service to hear sensitive material.

They would be forbidden from disclosing the evidence, even to the suspects they
represent, in order to protect British intelligence sources.

But a group of top barristers originally lined up do the work have rebelled,
stressing that they would have no part of the "unfair" scheme.

Writing to the Times newspaper, the legal experts warned that the special
advocate system does not contain the "fundamentals of a fair trial."

Making it clear that they would boycott such a move, they stressed that "an
unfair trial determining guilt is not something we could be associated with."

Socialist Campaign Group chairman John McDonnell MP warned that Mr Blunkett had
taken "a further step in the erosion of the basic right to a fair trial.

"This will result in further miscarriages of justice and demonstrate that we've
learnt no lessons from the operation of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, which
resulted in the Birmingham Six and the Guildford Four spending nearly two
decades of their life in prison."

Stop the War Coalition spokeswoman Ghada Razuki condemned the plans, noting that
they were part of a volley of "disgusting and racist attacks" launched from the
Home Office.

She noted that the plans originated from the same "failed logic" as the decision
that was made to launch a "pre-emptive" strike on Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 7, 2004, Saturday

Terror attacks in the Russian capital

SECTION: Overseas news; 22

LENGTH: 132 words


* The last bomb attack in Moscow occurred in December. A female suicide bomber
killed herself and five others near the State Duma

* The previous big attack took place in July lat year, when two female bombers
blew themselves up at a rock festival. Fifteen people died, and 60 were wounded

* Public transport has been regularly targeted. Three trains were blown up
between 1996 and 1997, killing nine people. The Metro was last hit in 2001, when
a small bomb exploded at the busy station. Nine people were injured

* More than 100 people died in Moscow in September 1999, when an apartment block
was destroyed in a bomb attack. Only a week earlier, 92 people had died in a
similar explosion. No group claimed responsibility, but the Government blamed
Chechen separatists


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                February 8, 2004

SECURITY CHIEFS FEAR COPYCAT ATTACK BY ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS; TERROR ALERT AS GANG
IS SPOTTED 'CASING' CANARY WHARF

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Tim Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 713 words


CANARY Wharf has been targeted by terror suspects who have been spotted
examining security arrangements at the high-rise complex in London Docklands.

Specific warnings of a strike were issued two months ago, around the time of the
bombing of the British consulate and the HSBC bank in Istanbul.

Security has been tightened throughout Canary Wharf, where HSBC's worldwide
headquarters is seen as the prime target. The alert was triggered when a group
of men were detected scouting out the location of closed-circuit TV cameras and
security guard positions.

Security chiefs believe the most likely form of attack would be an attempt to
ram a truck packed with explosives into one of the six skyscrapers on the site.

But they also fear that terrorists could detonate a dirty bomb, spreading
radiation around the area in which 50,000 work. Canary Wharf Group and HSBC's
security bosses have been working closely with MI5 and the Metropolitan Police
anti-terrorist branch to keep the site secure.

A security source, whose information has proved correct in the past, told the
Sunday Express: "There was a specific threat against Canary Wharf after a number
of suspect characters were spotted in the area.

"There was a warning issued around the time of the Istanbul bombing which
referred to the HSBC building. That attack certainly focused minds." Asked if
the terrorist suspects were scouting out security precautions, the source said:
"Yes, camera angles and fixed positions."

Analysts believe the terrorist threat to Britain will be particularly high over
the next seven months in the run-up to the US presidential election.

It is thought that Islamic terrorists may try to create another 9/11-style
atrocity because they believe that President Bush will launch a full-scale
attack to wipe them out if he is reelected. They calculate that Bush would be
reluctant to get sucked into large scale military action overseas before the
poll.

Another security source said: "There is evidence that they think they have a
window of opportunity in which they can strike with impunity."

In the past two months, intelligence agencies have detected increased "chatter"
about the possibility of another September 11-scale attack. A week ago British
Airways and Air France cancelled flights to the US following "serious and
credible" intelligence of a possible terrorist attack.

The Docklands area was the scene of an IRA bomb attack in 1996 at South Quay,
just across the water from where the six Canary Wharf towers now stand.

In the event of another terrorist strike, the first response would be
co-ordinated by Canary Wharf Group's Security Manager - who, the Sunday Express
has learnt, would run operations from an underground command bunker equipped
with phone lines and CCTV coverage of the whole complex.

A spokeswoman for Canary Wharf Group, which is in charge of security across the
whole site, said: "We take security incredibly seriously, but we never comment
on individual incidents.

"Security workers directly employed by us run into the hundreds, we are
supported by the Metropolitan Police and individual tenants have security
arrangements of their own."

An HSBC spokeswoman said: "We can't talk about the specifics of security
contingencies. The Istanbul incident and 9/11 before it made everybody think
more about security and we built on our existing arrangements.

The safety of our staff and our building is a priority for us. We constantly
look at and review our security arrangements to see how they can be improved."

Sixty-two people died and about 700 were injured in Istanbul when terrorists
detonated four truck bombs.

Consul-general Roger Short was killed in the attack on the consulate on November
20. The HSBC bank was blown up the same day. Five days earlier, two synagogues
had been targeted.

One suspect told Turkish officials the attacks were approved personally by Al
Qaeda chief Osama Bin Laden.

The bombings have led Foreign Office security chiefs to overhaul security at
missions abroad to transform them into US-style "bunker" embassies.

The strength of American security has left civilian targets such as Canary Wharf
and British embassies and consulates more likely to be targeted.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               February 12, 2004

Woolf attacks terror trial plan

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: D; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 90 words


THE LORD Chief Justice today clashed with David Blunkett over the Home
Secretary's latest draconian proposals for terrorist suspects, writes Patrick
Hennessy.

Lord Woolf said he hoped plans to try suspects in secret before they had
committed any crime were "not on the agenda". He echoed the reservations of a
number of senior figures about Mr Blunkett's plans for "pre-emptive" trials by
judges without a jury.

He also said the situation of British detainees being held at Guantanamo Bay was
" unsatisfactory".

END

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                          February 12, 2004, Thursday

SCHOOL ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 133 words


PUPILS at a Liverpool girls' school were attacked by a teenager with a dog chain
and a metal bar.

A 16-year- old girl got into the playground at Holly Lodge school and started
swinging the metal chain at pupils.

Police raced to the site,on Queens Drive, West Derby yesterday lunchtime but the
girl had fled.

Several Holly Lodge pupils were injured during the attack but none needed
hospital treatment.

Other children tried to stop the attacker, who is not a pupil, and a brawl
spiral led out of control.

Two girls who were targeted by the attacker were today due to be interviewed by
police officers.

A police spokeswoman said: "We sent officers to the school after reports that a
girl who we believe has never attended the school went on to the site with a
chain."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          February 12, 2004, Thursday

OSAMA'S NAVY;
 BIN LADEN HAS BOUGHT FLEET OF 15 SHIPS FOR TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: GARY JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 363 words

HIGHLIGHT: PLOTTING: Bin Laden


OSAMA bin Laden has a "terrorist navy" of 15 ships.

And Scotland Yard has warned one could sail up the Thames to attack Parliament.

The vessels - capable of carrying lethal chemicals or a dirty bomb - could also
ram cruise liners, oil rigs or enter ports on missions of destruction.

A private memo sent to police chiefs by the Met's marine unit is headlined: Next
Terror Attack Waterborne?

Ship insurer Lloyd's of London is said to be helping MI6 and the CIA trace
vessels bought by al-Qaeda from a Greek shipping magnate with links to bin
Laden.

The memo states shipping agents have been asked to help in the search.

The report by the Met - which says it obtained its intelligence from maritime
agencies - states: "Al-Qaeda has reportedly taken possession of 15 ships,
forming what could be described as the first terrorist navy. The ships fly the
flags of Yemen and Somalia where they are registered - and are capable of
carrying lethal cargoes of chemicals or a dirty bomb."

Vessels flying the flags of Senegal, Liberia and the Caribbean island of St
Vincent are also under suspicion.

The ships are believed to be in the Indian or Pacific oceans. But with 120,000
vessels worldwide, the chance of finding them is slim.

Armed police are already routinely patrolling the Thames to protect Parliament,
MI6, and other possible targets. The Royal Navy, Special Forces and the Yard's
anti-terrorism squad are looking for unusual" shipping movements near Britain's
oilfields and oil refineries.

US intelligence experts believe an al-Qaeda ship carried explosives used to bomb
two US embassies in Africa in 1998. The explosives used in the Bali nightclub
were brought in by ship.

US officials have captured al-Qaeda's chief of naval operations, Abdulrahim
Mohammed Abda Al-Nasheri, who is known as the Prince of the Sea. They believe he
masterminded the October 2000 bombing of the USS Cole in Aden which killed 17
sailors and wounded 40 others.

Al-Nasheri plotted an attack on British and US warships in the Gibraltar
Straits, but the Moroccan security services prevented the suicide missions by
arresting Saudi Arabian al-Qaeda members.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                               February 13, 2004

Faces of three thugs in terror attack

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 405 words


Three thugs subjected a Preston couple to a terrifying ordeal by threatening
them with a gun and a knife in a sinister attack at their home.

The men tricked their way into the Trower Street, Frenchwood, house by posing as
taxmen, then plunged the home into darkness as they pulled out the weapons.

Rope was also produced from a suitcase as one of the attackers pulled on black
gloves.

Police today issued these pictures in a bid to identify the attackers who struck
at 6pm on Thursday last week.

DC Steve Ryder, of Preston CID, said: We are keen to trace these three men who
are responsible for this terrible crime. Any information which people may have
in relation to the incident, no matter how small they think it may be, we would
urge them to contact the police as soon as possible.

We would also remind the public to remain vigilant when letting officials into
their homes and to check identification at all times.

The middle-aged couple's ordeal began when two smart-suited white men arrived at
their home, claiming to be from the Inland Revenue.

They asked visitors to leave, then called a third accomplice, an Asian, claiming
he needed to interpret for the couple who are both Asian and do not speak good
English.

As the husband reached for his tax documents, one of the three-strong gang hit
the light switch and plunged the room into darkness. They heard one of the men
saying 'Get the gun and the knife out.'

The husband panicked and tried to run out of the room, at which point he
received a minor inch-long cut to his hand.

His wife saw a handgun and then a piece of rope being pulled out of a briefcase
as the offender started pulling on black gloves.

The woman told police: I shouted out 'Call the police!' and tried to run out of
the room but the Asian man grabbed hold of me.

As her husband ran out of the room, into the rear living room and escaped
through the kitchen into the alley at the rear of the house, he dropped her arm.
She fled into the hall and tried to open the front door, still screaming for
help, but the three followed, pushed her out of the way and fled.

They turned left and ran to nearby Brixham Street, where a passer-by saw them
speed off in a car.

Police are seeking two white men aged 35 to 40, with dark brown hair who were
wearing dark suits with shirts and ties. One wore glasses. The first was 5ft
6-8in and balding, the second 5ft 11in and slim.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 14, 2004, Saturday

Obituary of Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev Nationalist president of Chechnya later
accused of links with al-Qa'eda and terrorist attacks on Moscow

SECTION: News Pg. 27

LENGTH: 517 words

ZELIMKHAN YANDARBIYEV, who was assassinated yesterday in Qatar aged 51, became
acting president of Chechnya after Dzhokhar Dudayev was killed by Russian forces
in 1996; he was also accused of masterminding suicide bombings in Russia and of
links with the al-Qa'eda terrorist network.

Yandarbiyev's brief spell as president came after Dudayev was blown up by a
Russian missile on April 26 1996. Dudayev's last words were: "Do not give up
what we have begun. Continue to the end." But doubts were immediately raised
about Yandarbiyev's ability to remain in control; he had only nominal support
from tribal leaders and the military command. When he stood in 1997's
presidential elections, he came third, behind the relatively moderate Aslan
Maskhadov, and the rebel leader Shamil Basayev. Maskhadov lost no time in
sending him to the Middle East, ostensibly as his personal representative. His
presence there, and his previous links with the Taliban (he had opened a Chechen
embassy at Kandahar during their reign) led him to be identified as a supporter
of Osama bin Laden - though he denied having described the al-Qa'eda leader as a
"friend of Chechnya".

Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev was born on September 12 1952 at Vydrika in Kazakhstan.
When he was 17, he began working as a bricklayer, and later became a gas well
driller; but he had greater ambitions than manual labour, and spent some time at
the Chechen-Ingush University. He went on to a job as a proof-reader and an
"engineer-technician" at the Chechen-Ingush Publishing House in 1976. After nine
years in the job, his literary enthusiasms had developed sufficiently for him to
sign up to the USSR's Union of Writers; he chaired the Committee of Literature
Promotion for a year, and then became editor-in-chief of the magazine Raduga.

Meanwhile, he published several collections of verse and short stories under the
pseudonym Abdul Muslim, and also produced a number of children's stories. But
most of his energies were devoted to the independence movement; by 1989, he was
vice-chairman of the Association of Highland Peoples of the Caucasus.

Two years later, Yandarbiyev entered the Chechen parliament, and rapidly allied
himself with Dudayev. As vice-president from 1993, Yandarbiyev was involved in
talks with Boris Yeltsin during the shelling of Grozny in December 1994; after
Dudayev's death, he called for a jihad against Russia.

Moscow announced Yandarbiyev's death within a matter of days, but he appeared on
television, volunteering to meet Russian leaders, though only if troops were
withdrawn from Chechnya. Despite peacemaking attempts later that year, when
Yandarbiyev praised the approach of General Alexander Lebed, the conflict
continued. During his exile in the Middle East, Russian intelligence services
believed Yandarbiyev had been instrumental in the attack on a Moscow theatre in
October 2002, in which 130 hostages, and 41 Chechen rebels, died.

Yandarbiyev was killed by a bomb which destroyed his car as he left the mosque
at Doha with his 13-year-old son. Russian security services have denied
responsibility.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           February 17, 2004, Tuesday

FEARS GROW OVER SAUDI TERROR ATTACK;
 'FINAL STAGES OF PREPARATION' ALERT AS PLANE GROUNDED

BYLINE: JAMIE LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 184 words


TERRORISTS could be in the final stages of planning an attack on Saudi Arabia,
the Foreign Office has warned.

It has issued fresh guidance to travellers about the possibility of an imminent
attack.

The FO has already warned it believes terrorists are determined to carry out
further attacks in Saudi Arabia.

Last night's advice came after British Airways yesterday cancelled flight BA 263
to Riyadh for security reasons.

The Foreign Office had already advised British nationals against all
non-essential travel to Saudi Arabia.

Terrorists carried out attacks in Riyadh twice last year.

On November 9 they attacked the Muhayya residential compound in Riyadh killing
18 and injuring more than 80.

That followed co-ordinated bomb attacks against residential compounds in Riyadh
on May 12, which killed more than 30 people, including two British nationals.
Many more were injured.

Advice from the Foreign Office now states: "We believe that terrorists remain
determined to carry out further attacks in Saudi Arabia, and that these may be
in the final stages of preparation."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           February 17, 2004, Tuesday

SAUDI WARNING OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 185 words


TERRORISTS could be in the final stages of planning an attack on SaudiArabia,
the Foreign Office warned last night.

It has issued fresh guidance to travellers about the possibility of an imminent
attack.

The FO has already warned it believes terrorists are determined to carry out
further attacks in SaudiArabia.

The advice comes after British Airways cancelled yesterday's flight BA 263 to
Riyadh for security reasons.

The Foreign Office had already advised British nationals against all
nonessential travel to Saudi Arabia.

Terrorists carried out attacks in Riyadh twice last year.

On November 9, they attacked the Muhayya residential compound in Riyadh killing
18 and injuring more than 80.

That followed coordinated bomb attacks against residential compounds in Riyadh
on May 12, which killed more than 30 people, including two British nationals.
Many more were injured.

Updated advice from the Foreign Office states: "We believe that terrorists
remain determined to carry out further attacks in Saudi Arabia,and that these
may be in the final stages of preparation."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 17, 2004, Tuesday Edition 1

New warning over Saudi terror attack

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 182 words


   Terrorists could be in the final stages of planning an attack in Saudi
Arabia, the Foreign Office has warned.

It issued new guidance to travellers about the possibility of an imminent
attack.

The FO has already warned it believes terrorists are determined to carry out
further attacks in Saudi Arabia.

Last night's advice came after British Airways yesterday cancelled flight BA 263
to Riyadh for security reasons.

The Foreign Office had already advised British nationals against all
non-essential travel to Saudi Arabia.

Terrorists carried out attacks in Riyadh twice last year.

On November 9 they attacked the Muhayya residential compound in Riyadh killing
18 and injuring more than 80.

That followed co-ordinated bomb attacks against residential compounds in Riyadh
on May 12, which killed more than 30 people, including two British nationals.
Many more were injured.

British pilots' leaders were flying to the US today for talks on airline
security amid continued concern about the number of flights being cancelled on
the strength of intelligence information.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2004 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               February 17, 2004

Terrorist attack on Saudi Arabia imminent, FO says

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 459 words


Terrorists could be in the final stages of planning an attack on Saudi Arabia,
the Foreign Office warned last night.

Officials have been advising travellers against all non-essential trips to the
country for almost a year, saying terrorists remain determined to carry out more
attacks.

But last night a spokeswoman raised the level of the warning, saying those plans
"may be in the final stages of preparation".

The news comes amid growing security fears surrounding Saudi Arabia.

A British Airways flight from London to Riyadh, which had been due to fly
yesterday, was cancelled last Thursday, and on Friday the Saudi interior
ministry warned that there was an imminent and serious threat of a car bomb in
the capital.

The Foreign Office said: "We believe that terrorists remain determined to carry
out further attacks in Saudi Arabia, and that these may be in the final stages
of preparation." But a spokeswoman would not say if the new warning was linked
to previous threats.

Last year terrorists carried out two big attacks in Riyadh. On November 9 they
hit the Muhayya residential compound in the Saudi capital killing 18 and
injuring more than 80.

That followed coordinated bomb attacks against residential compounds in Riyadh
on May 12, which killed more than 30 people, including two British nationals.
Many more were injured.

The latest warning comes as British pilots' leaders were planning to fly to the
United States today for talks on airline security amid growing concern about the
number of flights being cancelled on intelligence information.

The British Airline Pilots Association (Balpa), which has called on the
government to check information from the US which was leading to so many flight
cancellations, said it had a number of outstanding issues to discuss with the
American airline pilots' asso ciation. Balpa's general secretary, Jim McAuslan,
said talks would be held on the way intelligence was gathered and how it was
tested.

"Safety and security is our priority," he said. "Whenever there is a specific,
credible threat to a flight, it is quite right that the flight is cancelled.

"But pilots around the world, analytical because of the nature of their job,
continue to ask questions and these questions have to be answered."

Yesterday's grounding followed the cancellation on Sunday of BA223, one of three
London to Washington DC flights that BA operates daily. It was the fifth time
this year that this London-Washington flight had been cancelled. Passengers on
this route have also been subject to long delays on other days.

More than a dozen BA, Aeromexico and Air France flights to the US have been
cancelled or delayed since New Year's Eve because of security fears.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               February 17, 2004

Saudi terrorist attack imminent, Foreign Office says

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 313 words


Terrorists could be in the final stages of planning an attack on Saudi Arabia,
the Foreign Office warned last night.

Officials have been advising travellers against all non-essential trips to the
country for almost a year, saying terrorists remain determined to carry out more
attacks.

But last night a spokeswoman raised the level of the warning, saying those plans
"may be in the final stages of preparation".

The news comes amid growing security fears surrounding Saudi Arabia.

A British Airways flight from London to Riyadh, which had been due to fly
yesterday, was cancelled last Thursday, and on Friday the Saudi interior
ministry warned that there was an imminent and serious threat of a car bomb in
the capital.

The Foreign Office said: "We believe that terrorists remain determined to carry
out further attacks in Saudi Arabia, and that these may be in the final stages
of preparation." But a spokeswoman would not say if the new warning was linked
to previous threats.

The latest warning comes as British pilots' leaders were planning to fly to the
United States today for talks on airline security amid concern about the number
of flights being cancelled.

The British Airline Pilots Association (Balpa), which has called on the
government to check information from the US which was leading to so many flight
cancellations, said it had a number of issues to discuss with the American
airline pilots' association. Balpa's general secretary, Jim McAuslan, said talks
would be held on the way intelligence was gathered and tested.

"Safety and security is our priority," he said. "Whenever there is a specific,
credible threat to a flight, it is quite right that the flight is cancelled. But
pilots around the world, analytical because of the nature of their job, continue
to ask questions and these questions have to be answered."


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               February 17, 2004

Car attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 94 words



POLICE are appealing for witnesses after a terrifying attack on a woman driver
in Atherton, near Wigan. The 22-year-old woman was on her way to work at 5am
yesterday when a man approached her Rover 200 outside a medical centre in Church
Street and punched through the glass to grab her.  When the woman screamed he
ran off without stealing anything, but she was left with serious cuts on her
arms and was very shaken.  The man is described as white, in his late teens,
wearing a navy jacket and navy gloves. Witnesses should call 0161 856 7251.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Manchester Evening News

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 17, 2004, Tuesday

SAUDI TERROR ATTACK ALERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 78 words


TERRORISTS could be in the final stages of planning an attack on Saudi Arabia,
the Foreign Office has warned.

Last night it issued fresh guidance to travellers about a possible imminent
attack.

Terrorists carried out two attacks in Riyadh last year.

The warning came after British Airways cancelled yesterday's flight BA 263 to
Riyadh for security reasons.

And British pilots' leaders fly to the United States today for talks on airline
security.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               February 19, 2004

Terror attack on woman (105)

BYLINE: By Mary Fitzgeraldmfitzgerald@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 412 words


Target: Jane Crudden 105-year-old pensioner

ONE of Northern Ireland's oldest women was recovering in temporary accommodation
today after she was showered in glass during an attack on her north Belfast
home.

The 105-year-old woman, Jane Crudden, was sleeping in the front room of the
house at Cliftondene Gardens last night when four bricks were thrown through the
window.

The bed-ridden pensioner, who lives with her daughter Jean, was left badly
shaken.

"She was so shocked she couldn't speak," her daughter said. "Her whole bed was
splattered with glass. She has bruises on her chest, but thank God she didn't
have any other injuries."

Mrs Crudden, who has 11 children and 42 grandchildren, was taken by ambulance to
a residential care home following the attack.

Her daughter said she did not want her mother to permanently move out of the
house.

"I don't want her in residential care for the long-term. I want her home with me
for as long as I can," she said.

"Nothing like this has ever happened to us. I have been living here for 27 years
and have never seen any bother on this street.

"Imagine living to 105 and then having something like this happening to you.
Broken windows can be replaced but it's the aftermath, the trauma, that is left
behind."

The incident was one of a series of petrol bomb, brick and paint bomb attacks in
north Belfast last night which Sinn Fein has blamed on loyalists.

A woman living in the same street was splattered with paint when bricks and
paint bombs were thrown through her window, while two houses in nearby
Cliftondene Crescent were also attacked with paint.

Petrol bombs were thrown at three houses in Clifton Park Avenue later in the
night. The window frame of one house was slightly damaged and a wheelie bin at
another was also damaged.

Police took away the remains of three devices for forensic examination.

Sinn Fein councillor, Eoin O'Broin, said the incidents bore all the hallmarks of
loyalist attacks.

"These areas have been very quiet for some time now because of the work being
done by people on both sides to keep the situation calm," he said.

"It is up to politicians and community leaders to ensure that this sort of thing
doesn't happen again."

Meanwhile, a number of homes in Jamaica Street, Etna Drive and Brompton Park
were evacuated during a security alert after a suspect device was found. Army
bomb experts later declared the device a hoax.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 21, 2004, Saturday

ALERT FOR TERRORIST ATTACK HEIGHTENED

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 50 words


JAPAN: Security was tightened at the country's airports, nuclear plants and
government facilities yesterday as a precaution against a possible terror
attack. The government refused to say whether it had new information about a
possible strike. The alert knocked the Japanese yen to 10-week lows.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                          February 21, 2004, Saturday

CITY JOGGER'S ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: SARAH CHAPMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 412 words


A COLLEGE lecturer has described the moment he was attacked by a gang of youths
as he jogged home.

Keen runner Brian Lawrenson told Liverpool crown court he felt his employment
prospects had gone as a result of the brain injury he received after he was
kicked by teenagers.

David Hogg and William Chapman, both 18,and a 17-year- old boy who cannot be
identified for legal reasons,are accused of causing grievous bodily harm to Mr
Lawrenson.

All three plead not guilty.

Brian Cummings,prosecuting,has alleged they launched an unprovoked assault on Mr
Lawrenson as he was jogging in Huyton.

A group of youths,including Hogg, Chapman and the other teenager, travelled on
the train from Wavertree to Huyton at 7pm,intending to confront another group of
teenagers, he said.

Hogg,of St Mary's Road,Garston, is also accused of attempting to rob a 16-year-
old of a gold ring -a charge he denies.

Mr Lawrenson, 48, who used to teach computer programming in Everton as well as
supply teaching, said that before the attack he ran between 70 and 80 miles per
week.

The jury heard that on March 10 he was jogging as usual and was running in
Acacia Avenue -half a mile from home -when he came across some youths.

He said he heard a voice coming from behind him and carried on jogging.

He told the court a person, who he said was "as high as a kite",came at him
flailing his arms and kicking his legs.

Mr Lawrenson said he dodged the person and ran off,but was chased.

Near the corner of Charlwood Avenue,Mr Lawrenson stopped.

He said: "It was sheer aggression straight off.

"I turned round to stand my ground, I stood still and he came straight at me."

He said he remembered sitting in the gutter of the road: "I had blood pouring
down my face,I had no idea what had happened.

"I made my way home,I thought it was all over. I passed out and woke up 10 days
later,I nearly died.

"Someone decided to pick on me for no reason whatsoever."

He added that as a result of his injuries,his co-ordination has been affected
and his work prospects have diminished.

The court has heard that while he was in hospital,Mr Lawrenson had a series of
seizures, which indicated severe brain injury, and was discharged after two
weeks in intensive care.

Chapman, of Thingwall Road, Wavertree, is also accused of perverting the course
of justice and intimidating a witness.

He has pleaded not guilty to both charges.

(Proceeding.)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               February 23, 2004

Comment & Analysis: An authoritarian state is in the process of construction:
Without a single terrorist attack in Britain, our liberties are being removed

BYLINE: John Upton

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1135 words


The news that M15 is to increase its numbers by a thousand is merely the latest
instance of David Blunkett's rampant authoritarianism. The secret state's claim
that it is losing the never-ending, unprovable war against terror will play its
part in the government winning a far greater prize. Across the range of his
responsibilities - immigration, policing, the criminal justice system and
prisons - Blunkett has either proposed or actually introduced measures whose
repressive nature should shock us. That, by now, we may have become inured to
them, does not take away from the fact that New Labour is trying to radically
change the constitutional environment in which we live.

The home secretary has, among other things, sought to remove sentencing powers
from judges; weaken safeguards for those accused of criminal offences; remove
the right of jury trial; criminalise asylum seekers; and form a national
gendarmerie. While five of the British citizens detained at Camp Delta are to be
repatriated with the possibility that they will not face criminal charges, the
government continues to run its own little Guantanamo at Belmarsh prison. A
number of foreign nationals suspected of having links with terrorism are being
detained indefinitely and without trial. Blunkett is assembling a body of
repressive legislation of a type not seen in western Europe since the second
world war.

There is a stock of evidence to suggest that the home secretary is pursuing a
deliberate line which, if unchecked, will result in a significant constitutional
shift. The source of this change does not originate with Blunkett or his New
Labour predecessor, Jack Straw. Its roots are to be found in the clash between
Thatcherite attitudes to criminal justice, immigration and - to a lesser extent
- terror, and those integrationist values expressed in the post-1945 social
democratic consensus.

Blunkett has continued to build on the foundations laid by Howard, Waddington
and Baker. But where the Conservative government had to wage an ideological war
against still powerful enemies, New Labour is free, thanks to the Iron Lady, to
pursue an agenda which expressly rejects that which has gone before - witness
the abolition, at a stroke, of the 1,000-year-old office of lord chancellor.

The timing of these proposals has been fortuitous for the government.
Circumstances have conspired to allow Blunkett to announce policies and pass
laws that would have been any Thatcherite home secretary's dream. Without a
single terrorist attack taking place, or a single civilian in the UK being
killed, a climate has been created so that when we are told by the home
secretary that our liberties must be removed in order to ensure our freedom, we
meekly accept.

The fact that the government has had to derogate from its 1998 Human Rights Act
obligations in order to legitimise its policy of internment at Belmarsh is proof
that it is talking the language of rights without understanding its meaning. New
Labour rights chatter is a devalued currency.

We shouldn't wonder at this. If Blunkett's public pronouncements are examined,
they reveal an obsession with authoritarian concepts. In several speeches, he
has compared the situation in Britain with that of the Weimar republic, his
message being that tough measures taken today will prevent even tougher ones
being taken later.

It would be fascinating to know whether Blunkett is familiar with the work of
the infamous Weimar - and later Nazi - jurist, Carl Schmitt, whose aphorism
"Sovereign is he who decides on the exception" comes closer to describing
Blunkett's political practice than does all the cosy communitarian talk about
social capital, partnership and mutuality in which the home secretary likes to
indulge.

Schmitt was the first political philosopher explicitly to speak of "the other",
the enemy who must be identified not only in order to be defeated but also to
sustain the coherence of the state. For Schmitt, politics was war. Blunkett's
politics also appear to depend on mobilising the masses against the marginalised
- those suspected of crime or terrorism, and immigrants and asylum seekers.

The symptoms of the underlying structural change affecting our constitution can,
most recently, be seen in the announcement that a British "FBI" is to take over
the fight against serious crime from the police. Whatever the arguments for its
establishment, there is also important symbolism in dismantling the functions of
regional constabularies in favour of a government-controlled super-agency. A
fundamentally different, authoritarian paradigm of the state is being created
before our eyes.

In his essay, On the Character of a Modern European State, Michael Oakeshott
wrote of two modes of association known to Roman law, which may assist in
mapping this constitutional metamorphosis. Societas , in its pure form,
encompasses the ideal of disinterested rule-based partnership, and universitas
suggests focused leadership and directed purpose. In explicit political terms,
the former suggests the functioning of participative practices and the workings
of democratic institutions, while the latter lays an emphasis on centralised
government and teleological leadership - at whose extreme lies totalitarianism.
In theory, liberal democracy rests somewhere in between these two ends of the
spectrum.

In Britain, which lacks a formal separation of powers, notions of reasonableness
are crucial in coordinating the workings of the state. But we are no longer
dealing with a reasonable government. We are dealing with one that is failing to
respect traditional constitutional values of justice and balance. This
government believes less in participative democracy than in governing as an
exercise in domination. With each increasingly draconian proposal, the home
secretary removes a constitutional safeguard or gathers more power into the
executive. By placing the country on a permanent war footing against "the
other", we advance rapidly towards the polarity expressed by universitas

Shouldn't this government's strident moves towards corporatist, directorial
government give us pause? The time has surely come to formally delimit the
powers of the different actors - government, parliament and judiciary - in the
constitution. The home secretary relies on the fact that most of us are not
affected by his illiberal experiments to govern by way of the exception. We
remain docile in the face of his extraordinary measures against those we are
encouraged to consider as outcasts. But if he is allowed to continue imposing
measures unsuited to our liberal conception of the state, how long will it be
before we too become "the other"?

John Upton is a barrister specialising in criminal law

jandhuk@btinternet.com


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               February 25, 2004

Expect terror attack on London: Blunkett

BYLINE: By Brian Walker, London Editorbrian.walker@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 223 words


A TERRORIST attack on Britain is certain, the Home Secretary has said, on the
eve of publishing possible new anti-terrorist laws.

Speaking before a Commons debate to renew existing emergency measures Mr
Blunkett said he was "fed up" with "brickbats" hurled at him by civil liberties
campaigners.

"Let's hear some new ideas and not just poisonous personal attacks," he said.
The head of MI6 had told him a terror attack was a case of not "if" but "when"
and the head of MI5, Eliza Manningham-Buller, had delivered a public lecture
giving an assessment of the threat.

A public debate was needed on the ideas in a paper he was publishing today, he
said.

Mr Blunkett added: "By 2006, we need to have decided whether to re-legislate to
allow detention of terrorist suspects. We also need to look at how best to
convict to prevent those supporting terrorism as well as whether more
intelligence material such as intercepts (phone taps), could be used in court."

Among other ideas being canvassed are civil actions against fringe activists and
specially vetted judges hearing evidence in secret.

The Home Office paper also describes measures taken by other countries.

"Whatever we do, we cannot guarantee, nor should we pretend to, that we can
protect ourselves by security measures alone," warned Mr Blunkett.


LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                          February 26, 2004, Thursday

SEX ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: BY STEVE EDWARDS SOUTH WALES ECHO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 246 words


A manhunt is underway after a woman was attacked and sexually assaulted by a
stranger in her own home.

The 23-year-old victim had answered a knock on her front door when the man burst
into her house in Rumney, Cardiff. He pushed her down the hall into the kitchen
and indecently assaulted her.

The woman called the police after the man, who it is believed may now have
scratch marks on his face, ran from the house.

Detective Inspector Debbie Cooper, from Rumney CID, said the victim was being
comforted. 'This was a very frightening attack on a woman in the privacy of her
home. The victim is very distressed and it's been a terrible ordeal for her.'

The house was sealed off following the attack at 9.20pm on Tuesday, with a
forensic team examining the crime scene.

Officers have also been carrying out house-to-house inquiries in the Rumney
area.

The man was white, aged in his early 30sm, of muscular build, and 5ft 7in tall
with dark hair in a crew-cut style.

He was wearing a dark bomber jacket and dark trousers and spoke with a Cardiff
accent. He also smelt strongly of aftershave.

Det Insp Cooper added: 'This is an isolated incident. We would like to reassure
residents in the area that incidents like this are rare.

'However, security precautions such as door chains are important - never let
anyone into your home if you are unsure of their identity.'

Anybody with information should call the incident room on 029 2077 4233.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               February 27, 2004

BUCHAN FARMER IN DIGGER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Jamie Buchan

SECTION: News; Courts; Sheriff; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 630 words


A Buchan farmer who was intent on frightening off poachers used a digger to
attack a Land Rover with two men inside, a court heard yesterday.  James
Forrester, of Cruden Bay, said he was trying to protect his livelihood when he
impaled the car on the spikes of the digger and repeatedly picked it up and
dropped it.

After a trial at Peterhead Sheriff Court yesterday, he was convicted of using
the machine to raise the front of the vehicle by about two metres and then let
it drop it back to the ground.

Sheriff Malcolm Garden described the 62-year-old's behaviour as "astonishing".
But after the day-long trial, Forrester insisted his actions were justified.

The incident happened on September 15 last year after gamekeeper Milton Ferguson
and joiner John Henderson had been hunting for foxes on Forrester's farm.

Mr Ferguson, 28, said he had been given permission to kill specific types of
vermin at Forrester's home, Aldie Farm, but Forrester denied allowing anyone to
shoot on the property.

The gamekeeper said he and Mr Henderson had been blocked from leaving the farm
by a wide digger.

He told the court he had stopped the Land Rover about 20 metres from the vehicle
and dimmed his lights.

The digger lights were then switched on and the vehicle started to move towards
the Land Rover.

"The digger struck us from the front, pushed us back and lifted us up," said Mr
Ferguson.

He said forks on the front of the digger had gone under the vehicle, bursting a
tyre.

The court heard the forks were raised and then driven into the front of the
engine.

"I could feel we were balancing on the tow bar," said Mr Ferguson.

He said the front of the vehicle was raised about three metres, while the rear
was stuck into the ground.

"I was holding on to the steering wheel and John was jumping about on the
passenger side," Mr Ferguson said.

He told the court the digger had lifted the car and dropped it five or six
times.

Mr Ferguson said the repair bill for the Land Rover was £6,000 and the vehicle
had since been written off. Mr Henderson said he had had to take a week off work
because of an injury to his back.

The next day, Mr Ferguson went with his father, co-owner of the Land Rover, and
spoke to Forrester. Under cross-examination by defence agent Iain Jane, Mr
Ferguson said: "He said to me I should consider myself lucky.

"He said if he had his way he would've been looking at two corpses and he would
have hidden the evidence." The farmer denied he had used those words but
admitted spiking the Land Rover, raising it by about 6ft and dropping it,
although he claimed he had done so only twice.

He said he had intended to damage and immobilise the car, but he had not meant
to harm anyone.

The court heard he had suffered ongoing problems with poachers.

Forrester said his first thought was that Mr Henderson and Mr Ferguson had been
poaching on his land.

When asked by procurator fiscal Sandy Hutchison if he accepted he had been
culpable and reckless, he replied: "No, it was my own land. They were the
reckless ones." Sheriff Garden heard that Forrester, described as an upstanding
citizen by his agent, no longer had problems with poachers and had earned a
reputation for not tolerating them.

He told the farmer: "Your behaviour is quite extraordinary. You don't seem to
appreciate the danger in what you decided to do.

"That kind of attitude is unacceptable." The sheriff deferred sentence for
background reports until March 25.

Speaking after the trial, Forrester said he was surprised by the guilty verdict.

"I still feel I was justified in what I did," he said. "I was simply protecting
my home and my livelihood. I knew I had to stop them or they would have just
come back."

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2004 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               February 28, 2004

FARMER IN DIGGER TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: News; Courts; Sheriff; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 643 words


Land Rover was impaled on spikes Alleged poachers raised 6ft then dropped A
BUCHAN farmer who was intent on frightening off poachers used a digger to attack
a Land Rover with two men inside, a court heard yesterday.

James Forrester, of Cruden Bay, said he was trying to protect his livelihood
when he impaled the car on the spikes of the digger and repeatedly picked it up
and dropped it.

After a trial at Peterhead Sheriff Court yesterday, he was convicted of using
the machine to raise the front of the vehicle by about two metres and then let
it drop it back to the ground.

Sheriff Malcolm Garden described the 62-year-old's behaviour as "astonishing".

But after the day-long trial, Forrester insisted his actions were justified.

The incident happened on September 15 last year after gamekeeper Milton Ferguson
and joiner John Henderson had been hunting for foxes on Forrester's farm.

Mr Ferguson, 28, said he had been given permission to kill specific types of
vermin at Forrester's home, Aldie Farm, but Forrester denied allowing anyone to
shoot on the property.

The gamekeeper said he and Mr Henderson had been blocked from leaving the farm
by a wide digger.

He told the court he had stopped the Land Rover about 20 metres from the vehicle
and dimmed his lights. The digger lights were then switched on and the vehicle
started to move towards the Land Rover.

"The digger struck us from the front, pushed us back and lifted us up," said Mr
Ferguson.

He said forks on the front of the digger had gone under the vehicle, bursting a
tyre.

The court heard the forks were raised and then driven into the front of the
engine.

"I could feel we were balancing on the tow bar," said Mr Ferguson.

He said the front of the vehicle was raised about three metres, while the rear
was stuck into the ground.

"I was holding on to the steering wheel and John was jumping about on the
passenger side," Mr Ferguson said.

He told the court the digger had lifted the car and dropped it five or six
times.

Mr Ferguson said the repair bill for the Land Rover was £6,000 and the vehicle
had since been written off. Mr Henderson said he had had to take a week off work
because of an injury to his back.

The next day, Mr Ferguson went with his father, co-owner of the Land Rover, and
spoke to Forrester.

Under cross-examination by defence agent Iain Jane, Mr Ferguson said: "He said
to me I should consider myself lucky.

"He said if he had his way he would've been looking at two corpses and he would
have hidden the evidence." The farmer denied he had used those words but
admitted spiking the Land Rover, raising it by about 6ft and dropping it,
although he claimed he had done so only twice.

He said he had intended to damage and immobilise the car, but he had not meant
to harm anyone.

The court heard he had suffered ongoing problems with poachers.

Forrester said his first thought was that Mr Henderson and Mr Ferguson had been
poaching on his land.

When asked by procurator fiscal Sandy Hutchison if he accepted he had been
culpable and reckless, he replied: "No, it was my own land. They were the
reckless ones." Sheriff Garden heard that Forrester, described as an upstanding
citizen by his agent, no longer had problems with poachers and had earned a
reputation for not tolerating them.

He told the farmer: "Your behaviour is quite extraordinary. You don't seem to
appreciate the danger in what you decided to do.

"That kind of attitude is unacceptable." The sheriff deferred sentence for
background reports until March 25.

Speaking after the trial, Forrester said he was surprised by the guilty verdict.

"I still feel I was justified in what I did," he said. "I was simply protecting
my home and my livelihood. I knew I had to stop them or they would have just
come back."

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2004 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          February 28, 2004, Saturday

SCHOOLGIRL TERROR;
 MOB ATTACKS PUPILS AND THEN TRIES TO DRAG TEACHER FROM CAR

BYLINE: GEORGE JACKSON AND MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 219 words

HIGHLIGHT: DAMAGE: Our Lady's school


TERRIFIED schoolgirls had to run for cover as thugs pelted them with rocks of
ice before trying to drag their vice principal out of his car, it emerged
yesterday.

Pupils at Our Lady of Mercy High School in Strabane, Co Derry, were left in
tears as the 15 to 20-strong group subjected them to a sustained attack.

And yesterday the school was closed after the incident. Vice-principal Michael
Early said: "They threatened the staff and pupils. They attempted on one
occasion to force their way into the canteen and I had to lock the door. They
smashed the front gate.

"When I tried to leave the school they threw snowballs at my car, stood in front
of it, pulled the driver's door open and tried to pull me out.

"A caretaker was punched and spat on and they tried to pull him through the
gate."

Principal Anne McGarvey added that the school's main gate was also damaged and
staff members were spat upon and verbally abused.

She said: "We were essentially besieged by a group of aggressive young men and
there was no way I could allow the same to possibly happen again today so we had
to close the school.

"The group involved were young males aged 14 to 16 who were obviously absent
from their own schools. "

A PSNI spokesman said they were examining CCTV footage of the incident.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 28, 2004, Saturday

Terrorists' punishment attacks at a record high

BYLINE: David Lister Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 16

LENGTH: 643 words


The frequency of so-called punishment attacks by terrorists in Northern Ireland
is at a record level, according to police statistics.

There have been 51 punishment beatings and shootings so far this year, compared
with 46 for the same period last year, according to the Police Service of
Northern Ireland.

In the latest incident, three teenage boys from East Belfast were beaten and
locked in a cupboard for several hours by the Provisional IRA after they were
wrongly accused of smashing a window in a leisure complex.

The children, aged 14 and 15, were subjected to the type of assault which has
led to an unprecedented number of teenage suicides in North and West Belfast. Up
to 13 young men in the area have taken their own lives since Christmas after
punishment attacks by dissident republican terrorists.

The latest teenager to commit suicide, Bernard Cairns, 17, was buried ten days
ago after he hanged himself outside a Roman Catholic church in the Ardoyne area
of North Belfast. He killed himself days after the suicide of his best friend,
Anthony O'Neill, 18.

Days after the latest suicide, the three beaten youths were blindfolded and
dragged down a passageway known as "Kneecap Alley", off Friendly Street in the
nationalist Markets district of Belfast. They were told that they would be shot
the next time they were questioned by the IRA. According to security sources,
the IRA has stepped up punishment attacks after last November's assembly
election, before which it reined in its activities so as not to embarrass Sinn
Fein, its political wing.

In one area of Belfast alone last week police handed out seven notices to young
men warning them that republican terrorists planned to assault them.

The Markets and neighbouring Short Strand districts are a microcosm of a problem
that has escalated out of control since the signing of the 1998 Good Friday
agreement. Many of the attacks go unreported to police. Some are so horrific
that they have their own nicknames: to be given a "crucifixion" is to be shot in
the feet and hands, while "a six-pack" involves two bullets in the ankles, two
in the knees and two in the elbows.

One attack several years ago in the Markets is still recalled with genuine
horror: on that occasion the offender, who was accused of carrying out a
burglary, was nailed to a wooden floor.

Fear is now at such high levels among youths in Belfast's Roman Catholic ghettos
that it is even rumoured that republicans have devised a "torture chamber" where
teenagers are interrogated.

If they are seized by republican beating squads, the youths believe that they
will be taken to a derelict house and forced to stand facing a door studded with
nails, to be slammed against them if they fail to confess to alleged
"antisocial" activities.

In the Short Strand and Markets areas, "justice" is dispensed by an IRA unit
which counts among its ranks a rapist, a paedophile, a former joyrider and a man
who once attacked a woman by burning her breasts with an iron.

According to the Police Service of Northern Ireland, 31 punishment shootings
have been carried out so far this year, the same number as in the first two
months of last year; 20 were by loyalists and 11 by republicans. The number of
punishment beatings, at 20, is already five higher than in the same period last
year; 12 were by loyalists and 8 by republicans. The figures raise the prospect
that 2004 will be the worst year on record for punishment attacks, underlining
Tony Blair's problems as he seeks to revive power-sharing in the Province.

Duncan McCausland, the assistant chief constable for Belfast, said that the
figures could get even worse. "Inevitably there are still people in these
organisations who feel that by inflicting such attacks they are providing a
'service' to their community," he said.


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               February 29, 2004

JUST JANE; PANIC ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: JANE O'GORMAN

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 211 words


IN THE past few months I've had three panic attacks.

Each time I was out shopping when my heart started beating wildly.

These palpitations were so bad that I thought I was having a heart attack.

It was terrifying - I was breathless with hot and cold sweats.

Now I'm too terrified to go out in case I have another one. I've been to the
doctor and the hospital and they tell me that, physically, I'm fine. I accept
that but just wish that my boyfriend could be more sympathetic. All he ever does
is criticise me and tell me that I'm weak and stupid.

In his eyes I can't do anything right. Now he's saying that unless I pull myself
together, he'll find someone else.

JANE SAYS: By constantly undermining you, your revolting boyfriend is doing you
no favours at all. The next time he threatens to leave you I suggest you help
him pack his bag. It's far more important that you concentrate on getting
yourself strong and well, rather than worrying about him.

In her book Anxiety, Phobias & Panic Attacks (Vega, GBP 5.99), author Elaine
Sheehan suggests many ways in which you could help yourself, including
relaxation techniques.

Also, go back to your GP and ask for psychological help and check out the No
Panic helpline (01952 590545).

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           February 29, 2004, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS BRING NEW AGE FOR SPOOKS: MI5 RECRUITMENT;
 SECRECY & SPIES: THE AGENCY WANTS 1,000 MORE BUT FEW OF THE

BYLINE: TIM LUCKHURST Shayler: The job is more about pushing paper than pushing
drugs in a sting'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 778 words


The former agent David Shayler described life as an MI5 desk officer as
"Nine-to-five, or to be more precise, nine-to-five-fifteen". He and his
colleagues were more likely to be "pushing paper than pushing drugs in a sting
operation".

Despite last week's unprecedented appeal for a thousand new recruits, the MI5
website suggests little has changed. The application process is designed to
deter thrill-seekers, and the negatives of life as a spy are emphasised: men
over 5ft 11ins tall need not apply; they are too conspicuous, and the same goes
for women over 5ft 8ins; there is little prospect of promotion: watching an
unmoving target for hours on end can be extremely dull. But sources familiar
with the recruitment needs of MI5 and MI6 say the life of a spy has become more
exciting since the beginning of the war on terrorism. "There is less time for
reflection and analysis," says one. "In the 1990s the worst that could be
envisaged if intelligence failed was an IRA bomb outside Harrods. Now we face
the threat of anthrax bombs that could render cities uninhabitable for 20
years."

The security services still need recruits "with the intellectual qualities of a
high-flying civil servant" but employees are increasingly required to act as
"enforcers who can go in and disrupt bank accounts, hack into financial records
and smash networks. MI5 has set up entirely false banks which have then
disappeared when money has been transferred to them".

Interrogation skills have also become vital. The source explains: "Suspects need
to be picked up fast and pumped for information. This business is all about
exploiting human weakness. It is about cultivating friends in order to
manipulate them. Modern agents are people who have the charisma to persuade
people to do things that may be against their natural instincts."

These people are hard to find. The traditional staff complements of MI5 and the
foreign intelligence service MI6 have, until now, been about 2,000 each. The
recruitment of 1,000 new people to MI5 announced last week would represent a
massive expansion. There is, however, little confidence that it will work. A
source says: "The first time MI5 advertised in The Guardian it got 14,000
applications. Thirteen thousand were in need of serious medical help. Open
recruiting attracts people who have confused MI5 with the SAS."

This has caused a form of social regression. Insiders say that 20 years ago,
when both MI5 and MI6 employed the traditional recruitment method of approaching
potential candidates at university, both agencies achieved an almost perfect
gender balance. Now recruitment advertising attracts an overwhelming number of
male applicants.

Changes in higher education have also caused difficulties. A source claims:
"Tutors do not know their students as well as they used to. Academics no longer
have the confidence to recommend people to the agencies." Student debt is a
problem for the espionage community, too. "We are now entering a phase where the
only people who can afford to work for MI5 and MI6 are people lucky enough to
graduate without debts," the source says. This has led to a crisis in retention
as well as recruitment. A source explains: "MI5 experiences a steady bleed of
people. At 23, people will come to London and won't mind slumming it for a
while. But at 28, when they want to buy a house, the salary is not enough. It
takes 10 years to train a good agent handler and far too many leave after five
or seven years. MI6 has been trying to expand for seven years. The good people
are sucked up by merchant banks that pay three times as much."

Few who are acquainted with the security services doubt that MI5 can attract
applicants. But at a time when advanced IT skills, languages and financial
acumen are desperately needed, there are grave concerns about quality. A source
says: "Blair uses the intelligence services more than any of his predecessors.
In recent years they have been the largest recruiters in Whitehall. But both MI5
and MI6 have struggled to reach targets. At a time when we need these people, it
is harder to attract and retain the right calibre of recruit."

The stiff traditionalism and inflexibility that once appalled David Shayler has
been diluted from the security services. New recruits can expect unprecedented
opportunities. But at a time of maximum need, the attractions of spying are
still being undermined by mundane realities such as low pay grades and student
debt. It used to be claimed that MI5 and MI6 had 12 good people for every 100
mediocrities in the CIA. That is close to being untrue now - though not because
the CIA has got better.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                               February 29, 2004

Aristocrat cheats death in pistol attack terror

BYLINE: GRACE MCLEAN

SECTION: HI2; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 601 words


ONE of Scotland's wealthiest aristocrats told last night how he cheated death
when a gunman opened fire on his car in a Paris tunnel.

Sir James Cayzer's chauffeurdriven Mercedes was waiting in a queue of traffic
when the masked man climbed off the back of a motorcycle and fired two shots
into the car's rear window.

Sir James's party, which included his sister Mrs Gaulliers-Pratt, Russian
Imperial princess Mimi Romanov and fellow Scots aristocrat Captain Malcolm
Napier, were covered in shards of glass after the bullet-proof window shattered.

Sir James, 72, head of a shipping and banking dynasty which owns Caledonia
Investments, yesterday flew home from Paris to Claridges in London where he has
a permanent suite.

He told The Mail on Sunday: 'It was a very frightening experience.

We were stationary in a tunnel on our return from a day in the country when a
man dismounted a motorcycle and fired two shots at the rear window of the
vehicle.

'The glass did not break completely, but there were little shards everywhere, on
my friends and in my sister's shoes.

'The bullets lodged in the window and the police are now investigating.

'There have, apparently, been a lot of incidents like this in Paris of late and
I don't know if it was a case of terrorists having a shot at just anyone, or
whether they mistook my car for someone else's.

'I have to wonder whether these men meant to target someone who was staying at
the Ritz, since the distinctive car clearly belonged to the hotel.' Despite his
ordeal, Sir James got back into a Ritz limousine just hours later to have supper
with a friend.

He said: 'I hate publicity and the less said about the whole incident the
better. However, I was not going to allow this incident to alter my schedule
'Bullets lodged in the window'

and went out for supper that night.' Last night the Paris Ritz refused to
comment on the incident, which happened at around 5.30pm on Thursday.

A spokesman said: 'We are awaiting the results of the police report due this
week.' Sir James is a notoriously private person, but is currently embroiled in
a dispute with members of his wider family over the future of its Pounds 600
million stock market vehicle Caledonia Investments.

Sir James and other stakeholders, who own 37 per cent of Caledonia, believe the
company should be broken up and cash handed back to investors.

But this has been opposed by other family members.

Sir James is also at war with his cousin, Caledonia chairman Peter Buckley, over
the 16,585-acre Gannochy estate in Angus.

He has publicly deplored the activity of Caledonia in breaking up the estate,
threatening the livelihood of estate workers and tenants.

Sir James' family owns British and Commonwealth Shipping and has other
investments including the Harry Ramsden fish and chip shop chain.

He was a victim of a Raffles-style burglary in 1998 when more than Pounds
200,000 worth of antiques and paintings were stolen from his Kinpurnie Castle
home near Newtyle, Angus.

He is close friends with British resident Princess Mimi, a member of the
Imperial family which ruled Russia for more than 300 years.

Sir James also comforted his friend Captain Malcolm Napier when he lost his wife
following a routine gall bladder operation at the prestigious London Clinic in
2001.

Lady Mariota Napier, the sister of Scone Palace owner Lord Mansfield, died only
hours after the operation.

At an inquest in London into her death, Captain Napier accused staff of
neglecting his wife when she complained of excruciating pain.

END

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 1, 2004, Monday

SCREAM GANG RAPE TERROR;
 MASKED MEN ATTACK TWO WOMEN IN HOME

BYLINE: AIDAN MCGURRAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 396 words

HIGHLIGHT: SCARE: Scream mask


TWO terrified women were "traumatised" last night after being raped by three
armed men wearing Scream masks.

The brutal attackers, wielding knives and a handgun, tied their victims to a
bed. Then they took it in turns to assault them in a 30-minute ordeal.

After stealing cash, the thugs escaped in a getaway car.

Yesterday police tried to ease residents' fears by saying they believed the
women, all in their 20s, were deliberately targeted.

A spokesman said: "We don't believe this attack was random or speculative and
want to reassure people their community is safe.

"This kind of offence is extremely rare. We think the men probably knew their
victims although the women may not have known them.

"This is a truly shocking case. What we're trying to establish is why these
women were targeted in such a brutal and horrific way.

"They're extremely traumatised and we're giving them all the help we can while
trying to get as much information as possible." The attackers knocked on the
women's door then forced their way into their house on a quiet estate in Saffron
Walden, Essex at 7.30pm on Friday.

All three men wore sinister elongated skull masks as used in the horror movie
Scream. The film shows twisted teeenagers hunting down and killing victims in a
US town.

As a huge search was mounted, detectives spoke to nearby store owners selling
the pounds 2.99 masks.

More than 200 drivers were stopped in an attempt to trace the sick gang.

House-to-house inquiries were also conducted with 70 neighbours being
questioned.

One of the rapists wore a brown jacket and the other two, black jackets. One
carried a red and black rucksack.

Police are appealing for anyone who heard or saw a car being driven off at high
speed.

Neighbours were in shock. One said: "It's normally so peaceful around here. This
is the sort of place where nothing ever happens.

"It's really scary to think of what happened to those two poor women. It must
have been twice as horrifying because of the Scream masks."

Councillor Christine Bayley said: "This is absolutely awful.

"The community is stunned by what has happened and our hearts go out to the two
women. It must have been terrifying.

"Police have been searching everything, even upturning flower pots. Anyone with
help should call them immediately."

aidan.mcgurran @mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 March 1, 2004

MUSLIM EXTREMISTS CLAIM FERRY FIRE WAS TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Features; Arts; Amateurdrama; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 173 words


The Muslim extremist group Abu Sayyaf claimed responsibility yesterday for an
explosion on a ferry in the Philippines that sparked a fire and left 184
passengers missing.  President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo dismissed the Abu
Sayyaf's claim that it planted a bomb aboard the Superferry 14 that started
Friday's blaze, saying it appeared to be an afterthought by the group to use the
accident for propaganda and to spread fear.

"There is nothing in the investigation that proves that this was an act of
terrorists," Arroyo said at coast guard headquarters.

Only one person has been confirmed dead from the fire that swept through the
10,192-ton steel-hulled ferry. Witnesses reported a large explosion started the
blaze at 12:50 am on Friday, about two hours after it left Manila for central
Bacolod city and southern Cagayan de Oro.

Most of the 897 passengers and crew survived by getting into lifeboats or
jumping into the sea. But hopes for more survivors among the 184 listed as
unaccounted for dimmed yesterday.


LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             March 2, 2004, Tuesday

JENNIFER IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: TONY BARRETT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 251 words


JENNIFER ELLISON screamed in terror as three masked men trashed her car and
wounded her boyfriend with a machete.

The 21-year- old pop star was in the driver's seat as the gang set about her and
fiance Tony Richardson after they left a star-studded fashion show in Liverpool.

The couple fled for their lives after their Range Rover was surrounded by the
gang, who were ordering Mr Richardson to get out of the vehicle.

He was struck with a machete and received a stomach wound.

Ms Ellison was not injured but was left in tears.

The incident happened after Mr Richardson, 24, and Ms Ellison left a fashion
show at the Place nights pot in Victoria Street.

After getting into Ms Ellison's Range Rover, the pair watched in terror as a van
blocked their way before four masked men surrounded them and began to attack
their vehicle. One had a machete and another a baseball bat.

The man with the machete smashed the passenger window and struck Mr Richardson
across the stomach.

Ms Ellison then managed to start her car and the couple escaped.

Police say they are investigating the incident which happened at 11.30pmlast
Thursday.

A spokesman for The Place said: "Jennifer and Tony enjoyed a wonderful night at
the fashion show. "There were no incidents of any kind inside the bar itself and
we were unaware of anything having happened to them after they left."

The latest incident comes just months after Ms Ellison's luxury home in West
Derby was raked with gunfire.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIMS: Jennifer and boyfriend Tony earlier on the night of the attack

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 March 02, 2004

Nearer a police state every day;
 Terror hype being used to justify attacks on our rights

BYLINE: PAUL DONOVAN

SECTION:  Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1418 words


ATA time of unprecedented peace in Britain, the Home Secretary is o ffering MI5
a blank cheque to take on an extra 1,000 staff.

What do citizens get in return? Not a guarantee that terrorist attacks will be
averted - quite the opposite.

The mantra that it is a case of when, not if, there will be a terrorist attack
is regularly rolled out by a rota of senior politicians, security and police
chiefs.

The flip side of the argument is that the only reason there has not been an
attack so far is due to the professional - ism and efficiency of the security
and police services.

There is also a strange revisionism at work regarding the conflict in Northern
Ireland. Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens was recently
recalling the efficiency of the British police and security forces in the war
against the IRA. People were apprehended and attacks stopped due to their
excellent work.

A closer look at the record will reveal a somewhat different story.

In fact, the expensive intelligence operations led to very few real terrorists
being apprehended or attacks thwarted. Those IRA operations that were stopped
were often the result of routine policing, with beat off i c e r s coming across
garages full of terrorist equipment or, in some cases, literally tripping over
operations.

Following the events of September 11, the concept of Irish terrorism has been
revised, with the IRAnow depict - ed as "our" terrorists. They played by certain
rules, gave warnings and certainly wouldn't consider suicide bombing missions.

Again, this is far from the truth. In the early 1990s, the IRAwere letting off
bombs in London - seemingly at will. The combination of real bombs and hoaxes
often brought the capital's infrastructure to a complete standstill.

What has not been revised, however, is the circular process that was first
deployed in terms of the Irish war - frightening people to give up their rights
in return for "security."

It was former Devon and Cornwall Chief Constable John Alderson who recalled that
this is the rationale used by dictators everywhere. Alderson said that, during
his time as a senior police officer, he had not met any fellow officer in the
world who would not ask for more powers and more resources. The present hyping
up of the terrorist threat appears to be part of this agenda.

The legislative history of taking away people's most basic rights on the basis
of an alleged terrorist threat can easily be traced from Ireland.

The Prevention of Terrorism A c t was introduced by then Home Secretary Roy
Jenkins in 1974 follow - ing the Birmingham pub bombings.

He described it as "a draconian, temporary measure."

Paul Hill of the Guildford Four was the first person to be picked up under the
PTA. He was subsequently wrong - ly convicted of the Guildford pub bombings and
spent 15 years in prison.

The PTA then took on a permanent hue, as it was routinely renewed every year.
The Labour Party did oppose the legislation during the 1980s, only later
switching to an abstentionist position.

Meanwhile, clauses in the anti-terrorist legislation were gradually downloaded
into ordinary criminal law. In 1994, the Criminal Justice A c t removed the
right to silence and the charge of witholding information was brought into
criminal law.

The legislation itself was not used solely to apprehend terrorists. Instead, it
was deployed to terrorise the Irish population in Britain.

They faced the uncertainty of being stopped every time that they travelled
between Britain and Ireland. T h e n there were the raids on people's houses.

The Irish were treated as a suspect community and, once picked up under
anti-terror legislation, no one knew if they would be held for a couple of hours
or seven days.

Most were released without charge. The legislation largely proved a means to
intimidate and gather intelligence on the Irish.

Following the notorious miscarriage of justice cases, the state continued to
attempt to lock up innocent people. There was the Derry student John Mathews,
who was detained for three months in the early 1990s before being released.

Then Gerry Power was detained on the basis of dodgy police intelligence relating
to an IRAattack in Germany - he was released after a few months.

Later came Roisin McAliskey, again detained on "intelligence" relating to
terrorist activities. She was only released after a vociferous campaign from
people in Britain.

A caveat should be added here - the media contributed very little to the release
of these people. It was the work of campaigners, lawyers and a few journalists,
mainly in the Catholic, Irish and left press, that helped to secure the release
of these innocent individuals.

The national media was silent when it came to the crucial moment to expose
injustice.

The power of the intelligence community to influence and control much of
government should not be underestimated, though.

It is significant that the 2000 Terrorism Act (TA) came in at a time when there
had been peace in Ireland for some years. Bombs had not been going off in London
or Belfast, yet the Labour Home Secretary Jack Straw had no difficulty extending
anti-terrorist legislation to cover groups beyond Irish terrorism.

There was hardly a whimper of opposition from the national media.

The removal of basic rights is a sys - tematic process that stretches back over
three decades. The language of the 2000 and 2001 anti-terrorism acts speaks of
building on past acts and extending the legislation.

These Acts have enabled those in the police and intelligence services to
intimidate and criminalise ethnic com - munities living in Britain. For Irish,
now read Muslim and Hindu - or maybe just non-white.

The policing and intelligence model that supporters of the security state appear
to want to implement is that operated by the Royal Ulster Constabularly in
Northern Ireland.

RUC Special Branch was at the centre of a model that was based on informers and
intelligence gathering. A police officer could be investigating a normal crime,
but his main objective was not to apprehend the wrongdoer but to gather
intelligence and recruit potential informers.

Mr Blunkett seems to favour the Northern Ireland blueprint and has given extra
power and resources to police and intelligence services to operate in just such
a way .

Note the comments of solicitor Gareth Peirce, who represented the Birmingham
Six, Guildford Four, Mathews, Power and some of those being held in Belmarsh
Prison and at Guantanamo Bay, regarding reports from the Muslim community around
the country.

"Innumberable individuals have expressed fear. They have had a knock on the
door, an approach in the street, an obstruction in the aisle at Tescos, from an
individual saying he was from the security services and wanted to obtain
information from them.

"In exchange, considerable help could be given to the obtaining of British
citizenship or regularising of immigration status, " said Peirce.

Adding to the Northern Irish connection is the fact that Ronnie Flanagan, the
former RUC chief constable, is in charge of the police inspectorate in Britain.

Judge-only Diplock courts in Northern Ireland ensured that many innocent people
were convicted.

Mr Blunkett's judge-only tribunals will ensure the same in Britain.

Peirce believes that some of the detention measures brought in recently are part
of an experiment - the British and US governments are watching to see the scale
of the public reaction to the detentions in Belmarsh Prison and Guantanamo Bay.
So far, there has been little.

He argues that part of the reason why there has been movement on the Guantanamo
Bay situation is because of the shocked reaction across British society when it
looked as though the British citizens could be executed by the US.

President Bush also appears to be concerned about the adverse publicity that
could result from an unfavourable judgement on Guantanamo Bay from the US
Supreme Court.

There needs to be more opposition to the project to create a police state, where
people inform on their neighbours and citizens are detained at will on the basis
of unseen "intelligence."

The health of the foreign nationals who have been held in Belmarsh Prison for
the past two years is now deteriorating.

They want to be told why they are being held. Everyone in this country should be
demanding an answer. Who knows who will be next?

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2004

GRAPHIC: THE BIRMINGHAM SIX: (Clockwise from top left) Patrick Hill, John
Walker, Hugh Callaghan, Robert McIlkenny, Billy Power and Gerard Hunter .

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           March 03, 2004, Wednesday

Bombers slaughter 180 pilgrims in attempt to provoke civil war Bloodbath in
Iraq: Terrorists attack Shi'ite shrines on holy day

BYLINE: By Patrick Bishop in Karbala and Inigo Gilmore in Baghdad

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 620 words

A WAVE of explosions at two Shi'ite shrines in Iraq yesterday killed at least
180 pilgrims and wounded hundreds more in an attack apparently designed to whip
up religious hatred and provoke civil war.

The co-ordinated bombings, on the holiest date in the Shi'ite Muslim calendar,
led to the bloodiest day in Iraq since the overthrow of Saddam Hussein last
April.

As America blamed a Jordanian linked to al-Qa'eda, distraught pilgrims vented
their anger on US occupation troops, throwing stones at patrols trying to keep
order, while their leaders blamed US forces for failing to guard their ceremony.

The explosions struck the Shi'ite holy city of Karbala, about 60 miles south of
Baghdad, when it was crowded with hundreds of thousands of pilgrims, and the
Kazimiya mosque, the capital's most revered shrine.

US Brig Gen Mark Kimmitt said: "Let us acknowledge that this was a very
sophisticated attack, well co-ordinated."

Tony Blair condemned the attack, saying there was a struggle between "good and
evil" going on in Iraq.

Last night Adnan Pachachi, a senior Sunni member of the Governing Council,
condemned the "evil and terrorism that targets Iraqi unity and seeks to inflame
divisions among the people". Earlier, in a show of unity, Sunni, Shia and
Kurdish council representatives appeared together.

Shi'ite clerics and political figures appealed for calm but there was no
predicting where the wave of fury flooding through the country's majority Shia
population would lead.

It was just after 10am when the first blast shook Karbala where pilgrims had
gathered in hot sunshine to mark the death of Imam Hussein, grandson of the
Prophet Mohammed, in battle in AD 680.

Panic spread through the teeming crowds and many ran for safety, only to catch
the force of another explosion seconds later. At least six further blasts
followed, killing and maiming men, women and children. At least 112 people,
including Iranian pilgrims, were killed.

US and Polish coalition forces said mortar bombs had been fired from the city
perimeter, which was under the control of Shia forces, but others blamed suicide
bombers or devices buried in mounds of rubbish in the streets.

Within a few minutes of the onslaught on Karbala, there were blasts in Kazimiya,
the largest and holiest Shia shrine in Baghdad.

Thousands of pilgrims were in and around the mosque, beating their chests in
mourning for Imam Hussein, when three explosions, thought to have been triggered
by suicide bombers, ripped through the crowds. A fourth bomber was arrested
after his explosive belt failed to detonate. At least 70 worshippers are
believed to have died.

Shi'ites were also a target in Pakistan. A procession in the border city of
Quetta was attacked with automatic rifles and grenades, leaving 44 people dead.

The Iraq blasts shattered the optimism following the agreement by politicians of
interim laws under which the country will be run until elections.

In Britain, Mr Blair appeared shaken by the scale of the killing, even though
Downing Street said it was "no coincidence" that they occurred the day after the
interim laws agreement.

Asked if the outrages would delay handing over power to the Iraqis in June, the
Prime Minister's spokesman said the Government had always acknowledged that the
timetable was "challenging". But Mr Blair was determined that progress would not
be derailed by a destructive minority.

Coalition officials said the operations bore the hallmark of Abu Musab
al-Zarqawi, a Jordanian terrorist with strong links to Osama bin Laden who they
say is pursuing a strategy of provoking civil war between the majority Shias and
the Sunnis who have controlled Iraq for much of its modern history.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 March 3, 2004

Driver's stolen car attack terror

LENGTH: 255 words


FOUR masked men stole a car in a Bury street after dragging the driver out of
his new Subaru Impreza on Tuesday night.

The 32-year-old was driving along Parsonage Street at 8.50pm when the men in a
blue Audi A4 threatened him before dragging him out of the car.

The gang then drove away in the blue new registered Subaru leaving the victim
uninjured but extremely shaken.

They were all wearing dark clothing and balaclavas and the Audi is thought to
have been stolen from the Radcliffe area previously.

Anyone who witnessed the incident or who has any information surrounding it

is asked to contact the Robbery Unit at Bury Police Station on 0161 856 8093.

Officers from this unit are also eager to trace witnesses to the theft of a BMW
stolen from a driveway in Prestwich on Tuesday morning.

The two incidents are not believed to be connected and on this occasion the
offender jumped into the new registered silver BMW 330 as the 32-year-old male
owner was de-icing it on the driveway of a house on Ladythorne Avenue.

The man reversed the car onto Sandy Lane and drove it away.

He is described as mixed race in his 20s approximately 5ft 8in to 5ft 10in tall
wearing a navy blue woollen hat and a dark jacket.

This incident happened at approximately 9am and the car was recovered in Salford
near to Pendlebury Railway Station at approximately 9.40am.

Anyone with information is asked to contact the Robbery Unit at Bury or

Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 4, 2004

US STEPS UP BORDER COTROLS TO CURB TERROR ATTACKS IN IRAQ

SECTION: A; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 91 words


BORDER police numbers will be doubled in some areas of Iraq after the suicide
attacks on Shia shrines, US administrator Paul Bremer has pledged.

Hundreds more vehicles will be deployed in a bid to stop terrorists slipping
into the country.

"It is increasingly apparent that a large part of this terrorism comes from
outside the country," Mr Bremer said after religious leaders called for curbs on
entry. But Brigadier General Mark Kimmitt said even building a "mile-high wall"
could not have stopped Tuesday's attacks.

END

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 4, 2004

Solo terrorist feared behind attacks

BYLINE: Ian Bruce Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 431 words


THE Jordanian suspected of masterminding the bombings which killed more than 270
Shia pilgrims and wounded about 400 others in Iraq on Tuesday was "freelancing"
rather than carrying out the orders of the al Qaeda terror network, intelligence
sources said yesterday.

Abu Musab Zarqawi, a graduate of Osama bin Laden's Afghan training camps, has
claimed responsibility for more than two dozen recent bomb and suicide attacks
in Iraq.

Although he has worked with al Qaeda, US sources fear he has ambitions to become
an independent leader of Islamic militants in the region, eclipsing his former
mentors.

These suspicions appeared to be confirmed by a letter claiming to be from bin
Laden's organisation denying involvement in Tuesday's attacks and blaming
American troops for the massacres in Kerbala and Baghdad.

The letter, signed by the Abu Hafs al Masri Brigades with "al Qaeda'' in
parenthesis, was sent yesterday to the London-based al Quds al Arabi newspaper.

The co-ordinated attack on thousands of Shi'ite pilgrims using suicide bombers,
mortars and concealed explosives made Tuesday Iraq's bloodiest day since the
fall of Saddam Hussein's regime last April.

Kurdish forces captured Hassan Ghul, a known al Qaeda courier, as he tried to
leave Iraq in January carrying a 17-page letter from Zarqawi to bin Laden.

The letter urged support for triggering a sectarian civil war between Shi'ite
and Sunni Muslims to frustrate western efforts to hand over to an interim Iraqi
government this

summer.

The letter says "zero hour" for stepping up attacks on both coalition forces and
their Iraqi allies would be the end of June.

George Tenet, the CIA director, told a US senate panel on February 24 that
attrition among the senior ranks of bin Laden's network had "transformed the
organisation into a loose collection of regional networks" which shared the same
basic goals, but pursued their own agendas and picked their own targets.

In Baghdad, Paul Bremer, US administrator, said it was "increasingly apparent"
that a large part of terrorism came from outside Iraq and pledged to increase
controls of Iraq's borders to prevent infiltrators from entering the country.

Also yesterday, the former chief US weapons inspector yesterday urged George W
Bush to admit that pre-war intelligence on Iraq's weapons of mass destruction
was "wrong".

In his first British newspaper interview, David Kay told the Guardian he
believed the US had lost the credibility of its intelligence services following
the failure to find stockpiles of WMDs in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: March 04, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PAUL BREMER: Terrorism 'coming from outside Iraq'.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Legal Week

                                 March 4, 2004

NY Bar attacks AIG chief after 'terrorist' jibe

BYLINE: Legal Week; news@gpmuk.com

LENGTH: 305 words


The president of the New York State Bar Association (NYSBA) has launched a
stinging attack on AIG chief executive Maurice Greenberg after Greenberg
compared the US plaintiff bar to terrorists.

In a letter sent last week, NYSBA chief Thomas Levin claimed that Greenberg owed
an apology to the families of the 11 September attacks and came out with a
strongly worded defence of the class action system.

"The right of individual Americans to take their grievance to court - no matter
how powerful their adversary - and get a fair hearing by a judge and jury is one
of the most fundamental rights granted in our country," he wrote.

He also claims that if the insurance industry was allowed to shape the tort
system, America "would. resemble the hopeless and colourless underclass depicted
in a 19th century Dickens' novel.

"Corporate America. would like to make it harder for people to sue them. That
would be in their self-interest, but it would hardly be in the best interest of
the American people, who need an effective way to redress the real injuries that
cause irreparable harm or take lives."

Levin's attack follows the speech on Tuesday (24 February) by Greenberg in which
he claimed the efforts of the insurance industry to curb speculative litigation
was "almost like fighting the war on terrorists. I call the plaintiff bar
'terrorists'".

Greenberg's comments had already provoked a furious response from American Bar
Association president Dennis Archer, who claimed: "To deny the legitimacy of
millions of people who rely on courts for compensation for real injuries, and to
label their advocates as akin to terrorists, is irresponsible in the extreme."

The row is evidence of the mounting tensions in the US over levels of security
and product liability litigation facing big business."

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                           Copyright 2004 Legal Week

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Worthing

                                 March 5, 2004

Terror of mum in firebomb attack

BYLINE: Sam Thomson (news@theargus.co.uk)

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: Worthing


A mother told today of the terrifying moment a firebomb exploded outside her
home as her two children slept.

Andrea Staplehurst leapt from the sofa bed she shared with her partner and
looked out horrified.

Ms Staplehurst 25 and now pregnant with her third child said: "I saw a bright
orange flash outside jumped up and saw the fire.

All I could think about was the children asleep next door.

If the flat had been on fire we wouldn't have been able to get to them. They
could easily have been killed."

As the smell of smoke and petrol seeped into the room her partner Paul Kibble
looked out of the window and saw a shadowy figure running away.

They both knew who it was - their decision to offer refuge to a vulnerable young
mother had come within a whisker of costing them their lives.

Jilted Simon Silk faces a lengthy prison sentence today after pleading guilty at
Lewes Crown Court to arson and possessing an explosive.

Silk 21 of Wish Hill Eastbourne was enraged when the couple let his
ex-girlfriend Claire Hughes 19 stay at their first-floor flat in Whitehawk Way
Brighton a month after they split.

His anger came to a head on September 26 last year.

After several hours' drinking Silk filled a large Beck's beer bottle with petrol
and stuffed a wick into the neck. His friend Chris Ovenden drove him to the
Whitehawk estate at about 11pm.

Silk who had once threatened Miss Hughes he would torch her elderly
grandmother's home lit his home-made petrol bomb and launched it.

The bottle exploded 18in from the living room window.

Had it broken through the flaming liquid would have doused Ms Staplehurst and Mr
Kibble as they lay on their sofa bed under the window.

The attack could have killed them both leaving their children Tristan five and
Kyra two asleep in a burning building.

Miss Hughes the mother of Silk's 16-month-old son Scott had moved out of the
flat just two days earlier.

She said: "I never thought Simon would do what he did. He knew I had been
sleeping on the sofa bed with Scott so if I had been there he could have killed
his own son.

I felt really guilty when it happened because Andrea and Paul hadbeen so good to
me and given me a place to stay.

The arson attack shocked Mr Kibble although he knew a few days before the bomb
attack that Silk had confronted Miss Hughes at their flat and swung an iron bar
at the window.

Mr Kibble said: "He is very obsessive and controlling and I knew it would come
to a head."

Mr Kibble spotted Silk getting into the car with Ovenden 27 of Claremont Road
Seaford.

Ms Staplehurst phoned the police and the two men were stopped and arrested
shortly afterwards.

Ovenden also faces a possible prison sentence after he was found guilty of
aiding and abetting Silk by driving him to and from the scene.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Mid Sussex

                                 March 5, 2004

Terror of mum in firebomb attack

BYLINE: Sam Thomson (news@theargus.co.uk)

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: Mid Sussex


A mother told today of the terrifying moment a firebomb exploded outside her
home as her two children slept.

Andrea Staplehurst leapt from the sofa bed she shared with her partner and
looked out horrified.

Ms Staplehurst 25 and now pregnant with her third child said: "I saw a bright
orange flash outside jumped up and saw the fire.

All I could think about was the children asleep next door.

If the flat had been on fire we wouldn't have been able to get to them. They
could easily have been killed."

As the smell of smoke and petrol seeped into the room her partner Paul Kibble
looked out of the window and saw a shadowy figure running away.

They both knew who it was - their decision to offer refuge to a vulnerable young
mother had come within a whisker of costing them their lives.

Jilted Simon Silk faces a lengthy prison sentence today after pleading guilty at
Lewes Crown Court to arson and possessing an explosive.

Silk 21 of Wish Hill Eastbourne was enraged when the couple let his
ex-girlfriend Claire Hughes 19 stay at their first-floor flat in Whitehawk Way
Brighton a month after they split.

His anger came to a head on September 26 last year.

After several hours' drinking Silk filled a large Beck's beer bottle with petrol
and stuffed a wick into the neck. His friend Chris Ovenden drove him to the
Whitehawk estate at about 11pm.

Silk who had once threatened Miss Hughes he would torch her elderly
grandmother's home lit his home-made petrol bomb and launched it.

The bottle exploded 18in from the living room window.

Had it broken through the flaming liquid would have doused Ms Staplehurst and Mr
Kibble as they lay on their sofa bed under the window.

The attack could have killed them both leaving their children Tristan five and
Kyra two asleep in a burning building.

Miss Hughes the mother of Silk's 16-month-old son Scott had moved out of the
flat just two days earlier.

She said: "I never thought Simon would do what he did. He knew I had been
sleeping on the sofa bed with Scott so if I had been there he could have killed
his own son.

I felt really guilty when it happened because Andrea and Paul hadbeen so good to
me and given me a place to stay.

The arson attack shocked Mr Kibble although he knew a few days before the bomb
attack that Silk had confronted Miss Hughes at their flat and swung an iron bar
at the window.

Mr Kibble said: "He is very obsessive and controlling and I knew it would come
to a head."

Mr Kibble spotted Silk getting into the car with Ovenden 27 of Claremont Road
Seaford.

Ms Staplehurst phoned the police and the two men were stopped and arrested
shortly afterwards.

Ovenden also faces a possible prison sentence after he was found guilty of
aiding and abetting Silk by driving him to and from the scene.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                                 March 5, 2004

Terror of mum in firebomb attack

BYLINE: Sam Thomson (news@theargus.co.uk)

LENGTH: 474 words


A mother told today of the terrifying moment a firebomb exploded outside her
home as her two children slept.

Andrea Staplehurst leapt from the sofa bed she shared with her partner and
looked out horrified.

Ms Staplehurst 25 and now pregnant with her third child said: "I saw a bright
orange flash outside jumped up and saw the fire.

All I could think about was the children asleep next door.

If the flat had been on fire we wouldn't have been able to get to them. They
could easily have been killed."

As the smell of smoke and petrol seeped into the room her partner Paul Kibble
looked out of the window and saw a shadowy figure running away.

They both knew who it was - their decision to offer refuge to a vulnerable young
mother had come within a whisker of costing them their lives.

Jilted Simon Silk faces a lengthy prison sentence today after pleading guilty at
Lewes Crown Court to arson and possessing an explosive.

Silk 21 of Wish Hill Eastbourne was enraged when the couple let his
ex-girlfriend Claire Hughes 19 stay at their first-floor flat in Whitehawk Way
Brighton a month after they split.

His anger came to a head on September 26 last year.

After several hours' drinking Silk filled a large Beck's beer bottle with petrol
and stuffed a wick into the neck. His friend Chris Ovenden drove him to the
Whitehawk estate at about 11pm.

Silk who had once threatened Miss Hughes he would torch her elderly
grandmother's home lit his home-made petrol bomb and launched it.

The bottle exploded 18in from the living room window.

Had it broken through the flaming liquid would have doused Ms Staplehurst and Mr
Kibble as they lay on their sofa bed under the window.

The attack could have killed them both leaving their children Tristan five and
Kyra two asleep in a burning building.

Miss Hughes the mother of Silk's 16-month-old son Scott had moved out of the
flat just two days earlier.

She said: "I never thought Simon would do what he did. He knew I had been
sleeping on the sofa bed with Scott so if I had been there he could have killed
his own son.

I felt really guilty when it happened because Andrea and Paul hadbeen so good to
me and given me a place to stay.

The arson attack shocked Mr Kibble although he knew a few days before the bomb
attack that Silk had confronted Miss Hughes at their flat and swung an iron bar
at the window.

Mr Kibble said: "He is very obsessive and controlling and I knew it would come
to a head."

Mr Kibble spotted Silk getting into the car with Ovenden 27 of Claremont Road
Seaford.

Ms Staplehurst phoned the police and the two men were stopped and arrested
shortly afterwards.

Ovenden also faces a possible prison sentence after he was found guilty of
aiding and abetting Silk by driving him to and from the scene.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 March 9, 2004

Driver's stolen car attack terror

LENGTH: 263 words


FOUR masked men stole a car in Radcliffe then used it in a Bury street to steal
another car after dragging the driver out of his new Subaru Impreza on Tuesday
night.

The 32-year-old was driving along Parsonage Street at 8.50pm when the men in a
blue Audi A4 threatened him before dragging him out of the car.

The gang then drove away in the blue new registered Subaru leaving the victim
uninjured but extremely shaken.

They were all wearing dark clothing and balaclavas and the Audi is thought to
have been stolen from the Radcliffe area previously.

Anyone who witnessed the incident or who has any information surrounding it

is asked to contact the Robbery Unit at Bury Police Station on 0161 856 8093.

Officers from this unit are also eager to trace witnesses to the theft of a BMW
stolen from a driveway in Prestwich on Tuesday morning.

The two incidents are not believed to be connected and on this occasion the
offender jumped into the new registered silver BMW 330 as the 32-year-old male
owner was de-icing it on the driveway of a house on Ladythorne Avenue.

The man reversed the car onto Sandy Lane and drove it away.

He is described as mixed race in his 20s approximately 5ft 8in to 5ft 10in tall
wearing a navy blue woollen hat and a dark jacket.

This incident happened at approximately 9am and the car was recovered in Salford
near to Pendlebury Railway Station at approximately 9.40am.

Anyone with information is asked to contact the Robbery Unit at Bury or

Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           March 10, 2004, Wednesday

TELLY: CHILLING PREDICTION OF EFFECTS OF TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 99 words


OUR TV schedules are full of gritty dramas these days,but this new programme may
prove to be more disturbing than many of those currently on offer.

If...is a new documentary series in which potential major issues are addressed
using drama,interviews and journalism.

The first edition focuses on what could happen if a terrorist attack on a gas
pipeline in Russia caused a power cut in the south east of England during the
winter of 2010. With the country already struggling to generate enough
electricity to meet demand, experts offer some chilling predictions.

If (BBC2,9pm)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 11, 2004, Thursday

HERCULEAN EFFORT TO PROTECT OLYMPICS FROM TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: DANIEL HOWDEN IN ATHENS Members of Greece's anti-chemical-biological war
unit review the site of a mock attack, during a drill at an Athens Metro station
yesterday Reuters

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 724 words


A MULTINATIONAL security operation designed to safeguard the next Olympic Games
from attack by international terrorists got under way in Greece yesterday.

While Greece's new conservative government was sworn in, hundreds of
international troops, including British and US commandos, took charge of secret
operations spanning the southern island of Crete to the country' s Balkan
borders and the ancient site of Olympia.

Codenamed "Shield of Hercules" the fortnight-long exercise is the main drill
ahead of August's lighting of the flame and will give the first clear indication
of whether Greece's decision to spend an unprecedented pounds 500m on security
at the Games is working. The budget is three times the figure spent at Sydney,
the last Olympics held before the 11 September 2001 terror attacks.

Despite the spending, Greece has yet to convince people that visiting the Athens
Games will be safe. More than half the respondents in a recent US poll said they
would be staying at home to avoid becoming potential targets for terrorists.

With its thousands of miles of coastline, notoriously porous borders and chronic
construction delays, Greece is a security planner's nightmare.

More than 1,500 Greek troops, police, firefighters and coastguards were joined
by 400 overseas troops to test preparedness for a range of threats from truck
bombings and ship hijacks to chemical or biological attacks.

Thousands of Greeks were expected to demonstrate outside the US embassy at the
presence of foreign troops on Greek soil. Despite being an EU and Nato member
Greece retains a strong anti-American sentiment. The protest is the latest
indication of anti-capitalist and anti-Olympic sentiment after last month's
fire-bomb attacks on two cars outside government ministries involved in Games
preparation.

Security analysts said domestic threats to the Olympics were minimal after the
conviction last year of 15 members of the November 17 urban guerrilla group.
Diplomats close to security planning said the prospect of a truck bombing is the
chief concern.

With less than five months to go, less than half the venues have been completed,
transport and infrastructure is delayed and the set-piece stadium roof and
marathon route are in serious doubt. At the same stage in Sydney all venues were
completed and organisers were busy planting flowers.

Costas Karamanlis, the conservative Prime Minister, who swept to power in
Sunday's elections was sufficiently concerned at delays to take personal charge
of all Games preparations in an attempt to cut through the red tape that delayed
works for years.

Mr Karamanlis has vowed not to extend the traditional Greek round of sackings
that accompany a change of government to Olympic officials. But Costas Kartalis,
the most high-profile socialist appointee on the Athens organising committee, is
expected to resign tomorrow on the grounds that he cannot work with the
conservatives.

The Greek premier has appointed George Voulgarakis, a former commando, to head
the public order ministry, which overseee security operations. "The security of
the country, especially in light of the Olympic Games, is an issue the new
government gives great importance," said Mr Voulgarakis.

Delays on completing venues and transport projects threaten to compromise the
installation of communications equipment upon which the safety of athletes and
visitors depends.

Outgoing socialist officials at the public order ministry claim the eyes and
ears of the security operation, a multimillion-pound military communications
system called C4I, will not be ready. The C4I system works on the basis of
thousands of signals from cameras and microphones to hi- tech sensors installed
in every venue, vehicle and vantage point, all feeding back to one nerve centre.

An anonymous former ministry official quoted in the Greek press said the system
will only be "85 per cent ready". But the claim was denied by the security
contractor Science Applications International Corp (SAIC), which implemented C4I
for the first time at the Salt Lake Winter Olympics in 2002. Relations between
the former government and SAIC were strained by haggling over the terms of the
contract that was signed eight months late and only after immense pressure from
the International Olympic Committee.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             March 12, 2004, Friday

MARKET REPORT: TERROR ATTACK SENDS SHARES PLUMMETING

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 462 words


Brittle investor confidence was shattered by the Madrid bomb blasts, sending
London shares into freefall.

The FTSE 100 index closed 100.1 points lower at 4445.2 last night , wiping about
pounds 24 billion off the value of the market.

Sentiment had already been rocked after Wall Street slid sharply into the red
overnight after the US trade deficit widened to a record high of pounds 24
billion in January.

Poor results from insurer Royal & Sun Alliance also convinced many traders that
the time had come to bank profits rather than continue to maintain the Footsie's
recent strong run.

Greg Niebank, a trader at deal4free.com, said the fall in share prices appeared
to have been arrested and traders could now seek to boost their portfolios at
discounted prices.

But events in Spain could force stocks lower if the bomb blasts were proved to
have been organised by a global terror organisation rather than domestic groups,
he added.

The bleak day for the Footsie was underlined by the fact that only six stocks
were in positive territory - led by AB Foods, up 7p at 613p following a broker
upgrade. BT also advanced 1.5p at 181.5p after the telecoms group announced new
broadband services.

A critical report from MPs about failings by the financial services industry in
selling and managing endowment mortgages compounded the gloom in the insurance
sector.

Prudential was three per cent lower, down 15p to 479p, while Friends Provident
slipped 8.5p to 145.75p and Norwich Union owner Aviva fell 25.25p to 542p.

The banking sector was also affected with Royal Bank of Scotland off 55p at
1679p and HBOS retreating 28p to 721p.

Concerns over a possible rise in costs, coupled with the impact of the Madrid
attacks, caused British Airways shares to fall almost eight per cent, or 24.5p,
to 284.5p. Among other transport related stocks, cruise ship operator Carnival
fell 104p to 2475p.

Aerospace group BAE Systems, which holds a 29 per cent stake in tank-maker
Alvis, was among other fallers after US defence engineering group General
Dynamics said it was taking over Alvis for pounds 309 million.

BAE Systems fell 10.25pto 189p, while Alvis surged 41 per cent or 87.5p to 298p.

Elsewhere, Shire Pharmaceuticals declined three per cent or 17p to 549.25p -
despite announcing plans to pay its first dividend later this year. The group
also unveiled a 10 per cent rise in net income.

The day's biggest risers were AB Foods, up 7p to 613p, Smiths Group advancing
5.5p to 649.5p, BT Group up 1.5p to 181.5p and Gallaher moving 4p higher to
684p.

Biggest losers included Royal & Sun Alliance, down 16.25p to 88.75p, British
Airways down 24.5p to 284.5p, Old Mutual down 5.5p to 92.75p and Antofagasta off
61.5p to 1048.5p.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 12, 2004, Friday

MADRID TERROR ATTACK: AL-QAIDACLAIMS MADRID BOMBING;
 192 CONFIRMED DEAD IN TERRORIST EXPLOSIONS

BYLINE: LIAM CHRISTOPHER

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS

LENGTH: 1022 words


FEARS were growing last night that Islamic terror group al-Qaidamay have been
behind yesterday's bomb atrocity in Madrid.

Spanish police investigating the attacks, which left 192 dead and more than
1,200 injured, said they had discovered a van on the outskirts of the city with
detonators and an Arabic language tape with verses from the Koran.

And the London-based Arabic language Al Quds newspaper said it had received an
e- mail from a group representing Osama bin Laden's alQaida network claiming
responsibility for the explosions.

Throughout the day, theSpanish authorities had insisted they believed the Basque
separatist group ETA was the most likely suspect,even though its political wing
said they did not believe it was involved. However,after the latest
disclosures,Interior Minister Angel Acebes said no line of investigation was
being ruled out. Meanwhile,Tony Blair joined world leaders in condemning the
"unspeakable evil" of the bombers. The editor of Al Quds,Abdel Bari Atwan, said
he believed the claim of responsibility by al-Qaida was genuine. "In the past,
the same organisation sent us similar letters. They claimed responsibility for
the attacks against Italian troops in Iraqand also for other attacks in Istanbul
against the British consulate,"he said. Thee-mail,issued by the Brigade of Abu
Hafs al-Masri,in the name of al-Qaida, said its "death squad"had penetrated "one
of the pillars of the crusader alliance". "This is part of settling old accounts
with Spain, the crusader,and America's ally in its war against Islam,"it said.
Mr Blair,in Dublin for talks with Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern,expressed
his "deepest sympathies" to the Spanish people for the attacks. "I would like to
express deep condolences from the British people to the Spanish people in this
terrible hour of tragedy in the face of absolute, unspeakable evil, which led to
the death of so many innocent people,"he said. "It is absolutely unbelievable
that people should think any cause could justify such an act." In Washington,US
President George Bush also strongly condemned the bombings. "We stand strong
with the people of Spain,"he said."I appreciate so very much the Spanish
government's fight against terror." Despite the Spanish government's initial
insistence that the bombings were the work of ETA,many terrorism experts
believed Islamic terrorists were more likely to have been responsible. The
absence of any warning, the multiple, simultaneous explosions,and,above all, the
sheer scale of the killing appeared to bear the hallmarks of an al Qaida attack.
However,following the discovery of the van, stolen 12 days ago in the Spanish
capital, Mr Acebes said told a news conference that "all kinds of lines of
investigation open up". "Because of this,I have just given instructions to the
security forces not to rule out any line of investigation,"he said. He
added,however, that ETA remained the "main line of investigation". Spain has
been regarded as a potential target for Islamic terrorists because of Prime
Minister Jose Maria Aznar's strong support for Britain and America in the war
against Iraq. The attacks -timed to coincide with the Madrid morning rush hour
-came just days before the Spanish people go to the polls this weekend to elect
a new government. A total of 10 bombs,nearly all in backpacks,exploded in a 15
-minute span along a nine-mile stretch of a commuter line -running from Santa
Eugenia to the main Atocha terminal -hitting four trains. Police found and
detonated three other devices. The blasts began about 7.40am, tearing through
trains or platforms on the commuter line running to the Atocha station. At least
two of the bombs went off in trains at that station. Worst hit was a train at
the El Pozo station, where two bombs killed 70 people. Mike Yardley,a
psychologist and historian of terrorism, said: "My first reaction was that it
wasn't ETA.It's out of character for ETA and in character for Islamic radicals.
"I still cannot imagine why ETA would want to kill almost 200 people,it's not
going to bring the Spanish Governmentto the negotiating table." He said the al
Qaida method of attack was unexpected, low- tech and with the aim of inflicting
mass casualties. "In the past the idea was kill one frighten 10,000,now the aim
of launching an attack is not just to inflict psychological damage but the
primary means of making war,particularly if you are weak and your enemy is
strong,"Mr Yardley said. The attacks were Europe's worst atrocity since the 1988
bombing of a Pan Am jetlinerover Lockerbie,Scotland, which killed 270 people.
After an emergency Cabinet meeting,a sombre Prime minister Jose Maria Aznar
vowed to hunt down the attackers. "This is mass murder,"he said. In Madrid as
the bombs went off,commuters panicked, trampling on one another as they tried to
escape. Commuter trains were turned into twisted wrecks and platforms were
strewn with bodies and body parts. Mobile phones rang unanswered on dead
bodies,as frantic relatives tried to contact them.In all,four trains were
bombed. Interior Minister Angel Acebes said that 192 people werekilled and more
than 1,240 were injured. If confirmed as an ETA operation, theattack could
signal a radical and lethal change of strategy for the group that has largely
targeted police and politicians in its decades-long fight for a separate Basque
homeland. After police found the van with seven detonators and the
Arabic-language tape,Acebes said: "I have just given instructions to the
security forces not to rule out any line of investigation." The van was found in
the town of Alcala de Henares,15miles northeast of Madrid and stolen in the
capital on February 28. The claim of responsibility, which was e-mailed
toAl-Quds al-Arabi newspaper in London then faxed to the The Associated Press in
Cairo by the paper, was signed by the shadowy Brigade of Abu Hafs al-Masri. The
claim said the brigade's "death squad" had penetrated "one of the pillars of the
crusade alliance,Spain." It said: "This is part of settling old accounts with
Spain, the crusader,and America's ally in its war against Islam."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The twisted wreckage of one of the bombed trains Picture:

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 12, 2004, Friday

MADRID TERROR ATTACK: WORST ATTACK IN EUROPE SINCE LOCKERBIE

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 199 words


THE death toll from today's bombings at three Madrid train stations make it
Spain's deadliest terror attack and the worst to hit Europe since the Lockerbie
disaster.

Pan Am Flight 103 exploded over Lockerbie on December 21,1988.

The Boeing 747 aircraft blew up over the Scottish town killing all 259
passengers and crew,and 11 people on the ground.

Flight 103 was on its way to New York from Frankfurt after a stop at London's
Heathrow Airport when a bomb blew the plane apart at 31,000 feet.

However, the deadliest act of terror in Europe's history remains the bombing of
Air India Flight 182 inJune 1985 over the Atlantic just off the coast of
Ireland.

The crash killed 329 passengers,82 of them children. Most of the people on board
were Canadians.

The bombing was thought to be the work of Sikh extremists living in western
Canada.

In Northern Ireland on August 15,1998, theReal IRA carried out the worst single
atrocity in Northern Ireland when it detonated a car bomb in the town of
Omagh,killing 29 people in August 1998.

In the last 18 months alone, some 250 people in Moscow and elsewhere have been
killed in bombings linked to Chechen separatists.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 12, 2004, Friday

MADRID TERROR ATTACK: TRAINS ARE TARGETS FOR TERROR GROUPS

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 197 words


DESPITE terrorist atrocities being most commonly associated with bombs planted
in cars and on planes,explosions on trains have claimed the lives of hundreds of
people.

Targeting a train offers terror groups not only the chance to cause widespread
casualties with a large number of people in small space but also the opportunity
to cut a major economic artery -often for days.

In December last year a suicide bomber on a commuter train in southern Russia
killed 45 people and injured many more.

The attack, which followed a number of others in the area, was blamed on Chechen
rebels.

While terror attacks on trains in Europe have been rare, the past 10 years has
seen a series of explosions on the railways of both Pakistan and India.

In June 1998, 22 people died when a bomb went off in the southern province of
Sindh,in Pakistan.

In March last year a dozen commuters died in an explosion on a train in Mumbai,
India.

In 1998 22 people died from a bomb on a train in Algeria. Among the most
notorious atrocities thought to have been committed by terrorist Carlos the
Jackal were attacks on French trains in which seven people died in 1982 and1983.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 12, 2004, Friday

MADRID TERROR ATTACK: US ON VERGE OF NEW AL-QAIDAATTACK

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 219 words


THE group claiming responsibility for the train massacre has said America was on
the verge of another deadly terror attack.

The group, speaking in the name of al Qaida, said plans to strike America with a
"black wind of death" were 90% complete.

The warning was sent to the London-based Arabic newspaper,Al Quds,by The Brigade
of Abu Hafs al-Masri.

It said: "We announce the good news for the Muslims in the world that the strike
of the black wind of death, the expected strike against America, is now at its
final stage -90% ready -and it is coming soon,by God's will.

"The faithful will be happy for God's victory," it added.

The editor of Al Quds, Abdel Bari Atwan, said he believed the claim of
responsibility was genuine.

"In the past, the same organisation sent us similar letters. They claimed
responsibility for the attacks against Italian troops in Iraq and also for other
attacks in Istanbul against the British consulate,"he told Sky News.

"It is the routine of this kind of organisation to send these kind of e-mails."

The warning that the US was on the verge of another attack will sow seeds of
fear into the consciences ofAmericans.

But some terrorism experts have argued that it is simply a tactic to terrorise
the American people, whether it is true or not.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 12, 2004, Friday

MADRID TERROR ATTACK: SHARES CRASH

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 61 words


THE London stock market suffered its worst session in almost a year yesterday
after economic worries and the bomb blasts in Spain hit confidence.

About pounds 24bn was wiped from the value of the FTSE 100 Index, which closed
100.1 points lower at 4445.2.

The decline was sparked by Wall Street's reaction to worse-than-expectedUS trade
deficit numbers.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 12, 2004, Friday

MADRID TERROR ATTACK: SECOND BOMB SPARKS PANIC STAMPEDE

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 212 words


ANIBAL Altamirano said fellow commuters around him were too stunned to move when
the first bomb blew apart a train during Madrid's morning rush hour.

When a second blast hit the busy Atocha station a few minutes later, everyone
fled in panic.

"People dropped everything -bags and shoes -and ran,many trampling on others,"
said Altamirano,a 26-year-old Ecuadorian who was at the station a few blocks
south of Madrid's famedPrado Museum.

"People didn't know which way to go,"he said."Some even went into the train
tunnels without thinking other trains could be coming." Ten bombs exploded in
half an hour across theSpanish capital's commuter rail network,killing more than
180 people and injuring hundreds of others.

Firefighter Juan Redondo,arriving at the El Pozo station, found a scene he
described as "butchery on a brutal scale."

At least 70 bodies lay on the platform, near where two bombs tore through a
double-decker train.

"This catastrophe goes beyond the imaginable,"Redondo said.

Residents in nearby houses were warned to stay off balconies, but thousands
gathered anyway.

"On many bodies, we could hear the person's mobile phones ringing as we carted
them away," said Beatriz Martin, a doctor who tended to victims at El Pozo.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 12, 2004, Friday

MADRID TERROR ATTACK: TEACHER SAFE

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 157 words


FAMILIES in Merseyside were waiting after the bombings for news of family and
friends living and working in Madrid.

When Barrie Bradburn, 68,heard about the tragedy,his first thought was for his
teacher son living in Madrid.

The retired journalist, from Bromborough, tried to telephone to check he had not
been caught up in the bombing. However, the lines were blocked by terrified
relatives all calling Spain.

Mr Bradburn said: "We were very worried because Jonathan (pictured)lives only
half a mile from the station.

"We were getting phone calls from friends and family wanting to know he was all
right.Finally, thee-mails and text messages came through."

Jonathan Bradburn, 40, a teacher and translator who has lived in Madrid for the
past eight years, was asleep when the attacks happened.

His father said: "The last thing he said to me was that he is really fearful
that people he knows are missing and hurt."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 12, 2004, Friday

MADRID TERROR ATTACK: ROYALS VISIT INJURED

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 39 words


Spain's QueenS ofia,right, with her son Crown Prince Felipe,centre ,his fiancee
Letizia Ortiz,and Minister of Health Ana Pastor, arrive at a hospital to visit
some of the injured accompanied by a doctor and hospital official

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 12, 2004, Friday

MADRID TERROR ATTACK: DEATH CALL FOR EVIL BOMBERS;
 THEY SHOULD NOT KILL INNOCENT PEOPLE

BYLINE: CLARE USHER

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 343 words


SPANISH people in Liverpool were left reeling after yesterday's terrorist
attacks, with some calling for the death penalty for those responsible.

Lucianio Gomez was originally from Galycya but has lived in Liverpool for the
past four decades and still has many relatives in Spain.

He said: "I was watching this morning on Spanish television all about the
bombings.

"It is a disgraceful thing that's happened there, really terrible. I do not know
who has done it, everybody says Eta,Eta,Eta,but who knows.

"Whoever it is, they should not kill innocent people. It is peace time and they
have done nothing, they were just going to work."

Mr Gomez called for the evil people who had inflicted the suffering to have the
same fate as their victims. He added: "I hope the police catch the people who
did this and they should do the same to them, they killed people so they should
be killed too."

Spaniard Ricard Romagosa, 27, from Barcelona,now works in city centre coffee
shop and was also appalled at the politically-motivated violence.

He said: "I have family who live in Madrid and I have made calls to see if they
are OK and I think they a re. Some of my friends have been affected, who live
and work in central Madrid,but thankfully they were not on the trains.

"This is clearly because the Spanish election is coming up, everyone was
expecting something big to happen,it's a show from the terrorist groups."

Mr Romagosa added that the violence was senseless.

He said: "Most Spanish people will condemn these actions and will vote right
wing. The terrorism will not work in the long term,I hope."

Nicola Garvin from Liverpool who lived in Madrid as a student last year said
these attacks would make her much more frightened of returning.

Nicola, 21, said:"When I was in Madrid there were no terrorist attacks. Now I
would be much more wary about going there."

MEANWHILE,a Liverpool University spokeswoman confirmed staff were prepared to
offering counselling and support to students affected by the tragedy.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 12, 2004, Friday

MADRID TERROR ATTACK: ATTACK HORRIFIES EX-PATS

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 157 words


MEMBERS of Britain's Spanish community reacted with horror to the bomb attacks.

Former Madrid resident Javier Rodrigez, 29, said:"I'm just horrified about it.

"I hope terrorists are not going to target Britain next but it wouldn't
surpriseme." Mr Rodrigez, who lives in east London and works in a Spanish food
shop in the capital, said he had friends and relatives in the Madrid area.

"Tonight I'mgoing to call my family. I hope nothing happened to anybody I know
there." Elaine Tovar, 21, who travelled to London eight months ago from her home
in Alicante to improve her English, said:"I cannot believe what has
happened,it's just crazy."

Ms Tovar, who works at a Spanish restaurant in north London, said:"I'vegot
family in Madrid but I'llhave to wait till I finish working tonight until I can
phone them. I feel helpless.

"There are another three Spaniards working here and we have all felt very
subdued today.""

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 12, 2004

MADRID MASSACRE ALQAEDA FEARS IN EUROPE'S WORST TERROR ATTACK; SOCOLD, CLINICAL
AND CALCULATING

BYLINE: By Greg Swift

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 985 words


IT was the cold, calculating and ruthless targeting of the innocents that made
it so shocking.

With no warning and during the morning rush hour, workers, parents,
schoolchildren and tourists were slaughtered by a series of devastating
explosions.

But as Europe reels from its worst terrorist attack in decades, the identity of
the sick minds behind the outrage remains a mystery.

Spain initially pointed the finger of blame at the Basque separatists ETA but
later revealed that a van with detonators and an Arabic-language tape with
verses from the Koran had been found near the scene.

Islamic terrorists have reason to attack Spain, which has arrested a number of
Al Qaeda suspects.

"Spain is an Islamic target, " said Richard Evans, editor of Jane's Terrorism
and Insurgency Centre. "It sides with Britain and the United States in the war
on terror and I have seen statements from Islamic militants claiming parts of
Spain for the Islamic world."

FBI and British secret service officers are understood to already be on the
ground and liaising with their Spanish counterparts to establish the bombers'
identity.

And while Spain has ETA's guilt in its sights, intelligence experts raised the
prospect that Al Qaeda or other Islamic terrorists were involved.

They pointed out that yesterday's operation was more sophisticated and more
destructive than anything ETA has managed in its 40-year history.

The death toll, the simultaneous detonations and the operational planning
involved in such a high-risk terror attack bore all the hallmarks of Al Qaeda,
they said.

ETA also has a history of seeking training from other terrorist units and it
would come as no surprise if Al Qaeda's masterminds had offered their
"expertise". If true, it raises the appalling prospect that Al Qaeda has at
least one savagely effective cell operating in Europe, possibly preparing future
atrocities.

British Government terrorism adviser Dr John Gearson said: "Are we vulnerable?
Of course we are.

"I think Britain is better protected than most countries in the world but we are
one of the prime targets. We are the number one target in Europe."

Spanish officials yesterday pointed out that on February 29 two known ETA
operatives were seized in a van carrying explosives about 80 miles south east of
Madrid.

The device, made up of half a ton of potassium chloride compound, compressed
dynamite, a core fuse and an electrical detonator, was typical of ETA devices
used across Spain.

Intelligence agencies also revealed that on Christmas Eve they intercepted a
Madridbound train on which explosive-filled bags had been hidden. An ETA member
was also found with explosives, intending to place another bag on board.

It is known that since the announcement of ETA's ceasefire earlier this year,
the terrorists have managed to acquire more than 3,000lb of explosives.

Claims from an ETA political leader that it had not carried out the attacks were
angrily dismissed by the Spanish government.

One interior ministry official snapped: "That is so sick. I don't want to say
another word about this claim."

And Interior Minister Angel Acebes insisted:

"There is no doubt that this was the work of ETA. It has been clear for some
time that it wanted to stage a massacre.

"Four times in recent weeks the security forces have prevented such attempts.

Regretfully today they did not."

Founded as a student movement seeking autonomy for the Basque region of northern
Spain and southern France, ETA's terrorist attacks have murdered more than 800
people in the past four decades.

Unlike Britain's peace efforts in Northern Ireland, the Spanish government has
refused to negotiate with ETA's political wing Batasuna.

Instead, it has concentrated on infiltrating the shadowy network - so
successfully that last year ETA's attacks claimed just three lives.

That prompted Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar to declare that ETA had been
defeated.

Former intelligence officer Andrew Garfield said the infiltration by Spain's
intelligence agencies had forced the terrorists to change their operations.

"While this does fit Al Qaeda's style, it is not the first time ETA has targeted
the Madrid rail system, " he told BBC Radio Five Live.

"Knowing it had been infiltrated ETA set up in a new way, with autonomous cells
having only the vaguest linkage to a higher command. These cells support
themselves independently of senior management so it is not a surprise that there
has been a denial of responsibility from ETA's political wing."

With the country's elections on Sunday, fears were mounting that an ETA splinter
group had emerged, determined to wreak as much havoc across Spain as possible in
an effort to bomb the government back to the negotiating table.

Chillingly, it is known that a new wave of young terrorists has urged ETA's high
command to sanction suicide attacks, as favoured by Al Qaeda. While Spain thinks
ETA remains the most likely culprits for the attacks, the spectre of Al Qaeda
continues to loom over any postSeptember 11 terror outrage. Security expert
Frank Gardner told BBC's Five Live: "No warning, simultaneous explosions, a very
high death toll - it is all symptomatic of Al Qaeda."

Dr Gearson said: "I wouldn't rule out the possibility of Al Qaeda given Spain's
support of the US and British Governments during the recent Iraq war and we know
there are Al Qaeda cells in Spain."

Last night in addition to the death squad named in the e-mail to the
London-based Arab newspaper, it emerged that another Al Qaeda splinter group may
have been responsible. Al Muwahidoun, also known as the Lions of AlMufridoon, is
believed to be made up of Moroccan, Algerian and Tunisian operatives and is
connected to Osama Bin Laden's terrorists. According to the Jihad Unspun
website, Al-Mufridoon said it was behind the atrocities.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 March 12, 2004

Terror in Madrid: From Bali to Madrid, attackers seek to inflict ever-greater
casualties: Strategy Experts warn Eta's new generation of activists may take
al-Qaida as role model

BYLINE: Ewen MacAskill and Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 918 words


The immediate assessment by the Israeli security service of the September 11
attacks was that a new benchmark for terrorists to attract public attention had
arrived. Madrid yesterday morning became the latest victim of this inflation in
terrorism.

Jonathan Eyal, director of the London-based Royal United Services Institute,
said yesterday: "It is not a matter any more of scores of victims like Omagh or
a supermarket in Barcelona. You have to go into three figures or, ideally, four
figures. That is what happened this morning. They were deliberate: not only the
morning commuter train but timing it when it arrived at a station, with people
on the platforms."

He added that it was a sad fact that "what used to frighten people, an attack at
Harrods or Canary Wharf, has been dwarfed by 9/11".

The Madrid attack was designed for maximum carnage. Eta normally gives bomb
warnings, although al-Qaida does not. There was no warning yesterday.

John Gearson, a senior lecturer at King's College's defence studies department,
agreed with Dr Eyal, but he said that this inflation in terrorism predated
September 11. He recalled a chilling quote attributed to one of the American
bombers who killed 168 people in Oklahoma City in which they said they "needed a
high body count to get attention".

Ronald Noble, secretary general of Interpol, linked the bombing to the worldwide
"war against terrorism", saying: "Since September 11, 2001, Interpol has
underlined that the global fight against terrorism is not only against
al-Qaida."

Since September 11, there has been a series of outrages that has produced high
death tolls, from Bali to Istanbul. Most of these have been the work of al-Qaida
or a related Islamist militant group.

What was different about yesterday was that if it was the work of Eta it would
be the first time that a traditional western European guerrilla group with a
specific political goal had engaged in an outrage of this scale.

Tim Garden, former assistant chief of defence staff and associate fellow at the
Royal Institute of International Affairs, was guarded about the idea of an
inflation in terrorist attacks. He said that limited bomb attacks conducted on a
regular basis could just as equally create a sense of terror.

He drew a distinction between aims of extremist Islamist militants and people
with political aims in a specific country. "Those wanting political change hope
for a solution of some kind and Eta has an endgame in mind and cannot afford to
outrage public opinion," he said.

The consensus among analysts yester day was that the scale of the attack will
have been counter-productive for Eta, in the way that the Omagh bombing was for
the Real IRA.

Even before yesterday's attack, Spain had been linked directly to the "war on
terrorism".

The Spanish prime minister, Jose Maria Aznar, took advantage of the new mood
after September 11 to use extensive counter-terrorism laws to crack down not
only on Eta but any Basque groups regarded as militant. Suspects have been held
incommunicado and a Basque language newspaper closed down.

But Jurgen Storbeck, head of the European Union police agency, cautioned that
the Madrid attack was not consistent with Eta's usual methods. "It could have
been Eta . . . But we're dealing with an attack that doesn't correspond to the
'modus operandi' they have adopted up to now," he said.

A well-placed British source said: "If it was al-Qaida, there will be a great
deal of surprise. Intelligence showed Eta was still active and wanted to strike
back."

Magnus Ranstorp, of St Andrews University's centre for the study of terrorism
and political violence, said the nature of the attacks pointed away from Eta.

But he then referred to a different generation of Eta activists, one that was
prepared to make a "gigantic leap to establish they're back in business" despite
tough counter-measures by the the Spanish authorities.

British security sources also pointed to a "generational shift" in Eta which, if
reflected in other extremist groups, would have widespread implications for the
"war on terror".

Joachim Krause, University of Kiel security expert, said yesterday: "Even though
Eta has been partially wiped out, there is still a radical core that has
survived and this core apparently has no qualms about killing mass numbers of
people . . . They've perhaps taken al-Qaida as a role model . . . They've seen
that's how to get media attention."

Mustapha Alani, an Iraqi-born terrorism analyst and adviser to the Royal United
Services Institute, put it another way. For al-Qaida and Islamist extremists, he
said, suicide bombings prove you have the ability to attack and had a propaganda
value. The Madrid bombings merely proved that what he called a "small group of
young people" could cause a large number of casualties. "Technically it is not
complicated" to make the kind of bombs that were detonated and timed to kill
commuters on the the Spanish trains, said Mr Alani.

Dr Eyal said it was not just a matter of terrorism inflation but also
professional pride among attackers to show off their skills. They wanted "to
stage it elaborately and carefully but also audaciously". He recalled a tape of
senior al-Qaida members excitedly discussing the flawless and spectacular nature
of the New York attack.

guardian.co.uk/spain

Links www.la-moncloa.es Jose Maria Aznar's statements on the attacks
behatokia.info Behatokia: Basque human rights group


LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 12, 2004, Friday

HORROR AT RUSH HOUR: 3 DAYS OF MOURNING;
 PEOPLE'S GRIEF TURNS TO ANGER AT TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: MARK ELLIS, FOREIGN EDITOR

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 801 words

HIGHLIGHT: UNITED WE STAND: Euro officials in Brussels hold up an anti-Eta
banner, above, as Aznar, right, addresses the world


AN OUTRAGED world condemned the mass murder of nearly 200 people on packed
commuter trains in the Spanish capital Madrid yesterday.

More than 1,200 people were also hurt in Spain's worst ever terrorist attack -
widely blamed on the Basque separatist group Eta and just 72 hours before a
general election.

Three days of official mourning have been declared in Madrid, where a government
spokesman said: "This is a massacre."

Defiant Spanish Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar left an emergency cabinet
meeting and fought back tears as he told his stunned nation that terrorism would
never win.

The outgoing conservative premier is Eta's biggest enemy and has taken a tough
stance against terrorism during his eight years in power, flatly refusing meet
or talk with any of the Basque group.

Mr Aznar, who survived an ETA car bomb attack when he was opposition leader in
1995, said: "No negotiation is possible or desirable with these assassins who so
many times have sown death all around Spain.

"Only with firmness can we end the attacks. They will be defeated. There will be
unconditional surrender."

He added that Spain had suffered a "day of infamy". He said: "The government and
the whole of Spain shares the pain of the families of those who died or were
injured."

And King Juan Carlos, addressing the nation on television, said: "An act of
barbaric terrorism has engulfed Spain with profound pain, repulsion and anger."

Security forces in Spain had warned of an Eta "spectacular" and had been on red
alert for days.

But nothing prepared them for the scenes as men, women and children were cut
down by the 10 coordinated explosions which ripped apart trains during rush
hour.

Unlike other ETA attacks there was no warning for the group's worst carnage
since they took up arms 36 years ago in a murderous campaign for a homeland that
has cost the lives of 800 people.

Mr Aznar rejected the suggestion that al-Qaeda might have colluded in the
atrocity.

An Arabic newspaper said last night that it had received an email claiming
responsibility, which purported to be from a group linked to al-Qaeda.

The message read: "This is part of settling old accounts with Spain, the
crusader, and America's ally in its war against Islam."

Spain - along with Britain - was a strong supporter of the US-led invasion of
Iraq. Police have not ruled out the involvement of Islamic extremists after a
stolen van was found containing detonator devices and a tape of verses from the
Koran.

The van, which had been stolen in Madrid on February 28, was parked in Alcala de
Henares, about 16 miles from the capital.

Three of the four bombed trains set off from the town and the fourth passed
through it early yesterday.

But Interior Minister Angel Acebes insisted that Eta remained the "main line of
investigation".

Late last night King Juan Carlos addressed the nation in a TV and radio
broadcast.

All afternoon he and the royal family toured Madrid's hospitals comforting the
injured and their families.

Tonight hundreds of thousands are expected to take to the streets across Spain
in a mass public display of protest and grief under the slogan "With the
Victims".

Eta - Euskadi ta Askatasuna or "Basque Homeland and Freedom" - is branded a
terrorist group by both the US and the European Union.

It has not claimed responsibility for the outrage, but officials said tests
showed the explosives employed were a kind of dynamite normally used by the
terror group.

The attack had the hallmarks of a similar plot, which was thwarted on Christmas
Eve when Eta targeted Madrid's Chamartin station for a twin bomb strike.

But one of the bombs was stopped by police at Burgos, 120 miles north of Madrid,
and the other was intercepted as terrorists were about to plant it on a
capital-bound train in Bilbao.

Only last week a "caravan of death" - two vanloads carrying two tonnes of
explosives from France - was stopped in the province of Cuenca. It was heading
for a site next to Madrid's Barajas airport.

Before yesterday's blasts, Eta's deadliest attack was a bombing which killed 21
people in a Barcelona supermarket in 1987.

Arnold Otegi, leader of Batasuna, an outlawed Basque party linked to the armed
separatist group, denied it was behind the blasts.

He suggested "Arab resistance" was responsible but Spain has not been subject to
any major terrorist attack from such elements in recent years.

In Britain, Prime Minister Tony Blair reacted to yesterday's bombings by
activating the Cabinet's top secret emergency committee - Cobra - to make sure
Britain is able to thwart a similar outrage.

Senior military and intelligence service officials took part in the session in a
heavily-fortified bunker beneath Downing Street.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Screen International

                             March 12, 2004 Friday

Spanish industry suspends business after terror attacks

BYLINE: Jennifer Green in Madrid

SECTION: ARTICLE; Categories.Industry / Corporate

LENGTH: 364  words



HIGHLIGHT: Cinemas close, shoots halt for a day as a mark of respect;
promotional activity for Almodovar's latest film called off.


Cinema is the last thing on anyone's mind in Spaintoday. The media sector
responded to yesterday's terrorist attacks withthe same solemnity and solidarity
that has characterised national - andinternational - response to the tragedy.

Spain awoke Thursday morning to news that ten bombs hadexploded on four packed
commuter trains travelling into the capital city atrush hour, causing close to
200 deaths and thousands more injured. Three daysof national mourning were
called and political candidates cancelled campaigningin the final countdown to
the country's general elections Sunday.

Many unglued themselves from round-the-clock TV coverageonly to attend impromptu
demonstrations in Madrid, Bilbao and elsewhere.Responding to a call by the
Exhibitors' and Distributors'Federations, cinemas closed their doors Thursday
evening and were expected todo the same all day Friday.

Most distributors decided not to postpone weekend releasesalthough some said
they had considered it and anticipate results to lag farbehind what they would
otherwise have been on heavyweight premieres such asBuena Vista International's
Hidalgo,Warner's Alex & Emma,UIP's Along Came Polly andColumbia's The Missing.

El Deseo called off promotional activities - except a pressscreening next
Tuesday - in advance of next week's premiere of PedroAlmodovar's hotly
anticipated Cannes opener Bad Education (La MalaEducacion).

Almodovar and staff - and a likely majority of theindustry - plan to attend the
mass anti-terrorist demonstration calledfor Friday evening in Madrid. The
Spanish Producers' Federation FAPAEcalled on media professionals to fill the
'front line' atFriday's demonstration.

FAPAE further suggested all shoots be paralysed for the day.Among films
currently shooting in Spain are KanZaman's H6, Filmax's Rottweiler and Infinity
Films' The Birthday. KanZaman released its own statement confirming thatMadrid
production on H6 would naturally come to a halt Friday.

'We are professionals of the film industry, our job isto create dreams, invent
stories and entertain, but in the face of suchabsolute evil, the only
appropriate response seems to us complete andrespectful silence,' the KanZaman
statement read.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Screen International


                            Copyright 2004 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 12, 2004, Friday

World's ten worst terrorist attacks

SECTION: Overseas news; 8

LENGTH: 187 words


The September 11 strikes in the US in 2001 killed more than 3,000 people

On October 23, 1983, suicide bomb attacks on US Marine barracks and a French
paratrooper base in Beirut claimed 300 lives. Islamic Jihad admitted
responsibility

A series of 13 bomb attacks in Bombay on March 12, 1993, killed an estimated 300

The worst attack in Europe was on December 21, 1988, when a bomb exploded on Pan
Am flight 103, killing 259 people and a further 11 on the ground in Lockerbie

On August 7, 1998, bomb attacks on US embassy complexes in Nairobi and Dar es
Salaam killed 253 people. Four followers of Osama bin Laden were convicted

202 people, more than 80 of them Australian tourists, died after two bombs
exploded in Bali on October 12, 2002

Yesterday's attacks in Madrid

In the US on April 19, 1995, a lorry bomb attack on a government building in
Oklahoma City killed 169

127 people died when hijackers took control of an Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 767
on November 23, 1996. It crashed into the Indian Ocean

Chechen separatists planted a bomb in Moscow on September 13, 1999, killing 118


LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            March 13, 2004, Saturday

MADRID AFTERMATH: TERRORISTS SWITCH TO ATTACKING CIVILIANS

BYLINE: RICHARD WARBURTON HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 266 words


A Birmingham-based terrorist expert yesterday said the events of September 11
had made civilian targets the focal point of extremist attacks.

Dr Sean McGough, of the University of Birmingham, said the bombings in Madrid
were an example of terrorists renewing traditions of killing innocent members of
the public rather than political targets.

'After the atrocities, outcry and the number of innocent members of the public
killed in the IRA Omagh bomb, terrorists tended to stay away from the public and
target political issues,' he said.

'What al Qaida has done is bring back a trend of targeting innocent people again
and ETA may have jumped onto that bandwagon. The ball game is now back in the
civilian world and a lot of copycat groups will be influenced by al Qaida.

'The flip side of that is, if the attack in Madrid was by ETA working alone,
then it may encourage al Qaida and may give it confidence to carry out more
strikes.'

Dr McGough added that British authorities had to look strong in the coming weeks
in a bid to stop people panicking.

'The threat of attacks are both commercial and social and there are no real way
to prevent them happening,' he said.

'The British authorities will now be doing all they can to plan down the threat
to the country as panic is a major weapon for terrorist groups and what we don't
need is people panicking.

'What I predict is the Government and the security agencies making sure that
rules already in existence, which may have lapsed recently, like things being
left lying around at stations, will be tightened.'

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 13, 2004

Attacks turn election into poll on terror;Blame is key to outcome

BYLINE: Lucy Bannerman And Phil Miller

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 654 words


THE terrorist attack in Madrid could turn tomorrow's general election into a
referendum on the government's support for the Iraq war, depending on who voters
blame for the atrocity.

Spaniards reacted furiously last year when Jose Maria Aznar, the retiring prime
minister, aligned himself with George W Bush and Tony Blair to support the
invasion. Spain did not send combat troops, but did dispatch 1300 peacekeepers.

The Spanish government maintained last night that Eta, the Basque separatist
group, was probably behind Thursday's blasts, but said it was also analysing a
reported claim of responsibility on behalf of al Qaeda. But Eta yesterday denied
responsibility for the attacks, said Gara, the Basque newspaper.

Ahead of tomorrow's election, one theory is that if Spaniards accept the
government assertion pointing at Eta, Aznar's party - which has fought the group
tooth and nail - will be rewarded at the polls.

But if people see al Qaeda's hand in the carnage, electors might view the
attacks as retribution for Aznar's Iraq policy and punish his ruling Popular
party (PP) when they vote.

Jose Blanco, a senior opposition Socialist party official, yesterday accused the
government of withholding information on the possibility of an Islamic link.

"Whoever toys with the truth at a time of so much pain is doing something very
grave," he said.

Paul Laverty, the award-winning Scottish film writer behind Sweet Sixteen and My
Name is Joe, lives in an apartment less than five minutes away from the Atocha
railway station in Madrid.

Last night, he said: "What everyone wants to know is just who is responsible for
this, and depending on what the answer is I think it's going to have a stunning
effect on the country.

"I feel a great deal of friction because the Ministry of the Interior
immediately said it was Eta, and then later we hear of the van with the
detonators and the tapes (with Koranic verse)," he said.

"Some 95% of the population was against the Iraq war, and I think if it turns
out to be al Qaeda behind this it will change people's opinion of these events.
If it is Eta, then it is very easy for us to take the moral high ground."

Elisa Roller, a contemporary Spanish studies professor at Manchester University,
said she expected a huge turnout tomorrow and a resounding victory for the PP.

"In recent polls there seemed to be a danger that the Popular party would lose
its absolute majority. But I don't think that's the case any longer," she said.

However, if an al Qaeda connection is proven by tomorrow, that could change
things.

"Then people will blame the PP saying: 'Hey, you got us into this, being all
buddy-buddy with Britain and the United States.' I'd say the PP will be watching
its back between now and then," she added.

But Sebastian Balfour, professor of contemporary Spanish studies at the London
School of Economics, said there was not enough time for the possible link to
Islamic fundamentalism to take shape into a protest vote against the war.

He said strong suspicion fell on Eta after the blasts and this would bring the
Popular party "an even greater majority in parliament" in the ballot.

Ramon Cotarelo, a political history professor at Madrid's Complutense
University, said he believed the attacks were the work of Arab terrorists and
were retribution for Spanish support for the Iraq war.

"The government will try to keep the focus on Eta, but it's impossible. I'd
guess the PP is going to lose the election," he said.

Prior to the attacks, polls unanimously gave Aznar's conservative party a clear
advantage, but cast doubt over whether it would retain a majority. The PP
currently holds 183 seats in the 350-seat parliament.

Aznar, himself a survivor of a 1995 Eta car-bomb assassination attempt, has made
the fight against terrorism and Eta one of the main policies of his eight years
in office.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: paul laverty: Lives near the Atocha train station in Madrid.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 March 13, 2004

Terrorist attacks hit the index

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 406 words



TERRORIST fears re-ignited by the horrific rain bombings in Madrid, have hit
world markets this week. And the M.E.N./Brewin Index of north west companies has
suffered from the same plunging fortunes.

The Index fell 2.75 per cent to 1492.04 compared with the FTSE which fell 2.5
per cent to 4445.20. The bombings impacted heavily on world markets, where there
has been widespread profit taking, said Brewin's Lynsey Wilson. "The performance
of the M.E.N. Index mirrored that of the main market, with the fallers far
outweighting the risers," she said.

On the week there were only 13 risers, with 38 companies falling and 14
unchanged. Macclesfield-based engineering firm Bodycote International topped our
league of fallers, suffering a 9.92 per cent drop from 148.75p to 134p when it
surprised the markets by announcing a rights issue, planning to raise £64.2m to
strengthen its balance sheet after another tough year.

Bodycote, which employs 7,400 worldwide, with 220 in the north west, also plans
to sell its wet coatings division, which has sites in Rochdale and five other UK
locations, as well as in France, Germany, Finland and Sweden. But the division
incurred losses of £6m last year, on sales of £38m. Condoms to rubber-gloves
group SSL International also fell, by 5.41 per cent to 310.25p, after announcing
the sale of its wound management business for £55m, which will be used to pay
off debt.

Despite another record year of sales and profits, Manchester-based car retail
group Lookers also slumped, by 5.21 per cent to 300p. Good full year results for
Cheshire-based international engineering services group Amec also failed to
impress, with shares dropping by 3.5 per cent to 276p.

Catalogue group N Brown fell by 2.42 per cent to 121p following the resignation
of its merchandise director and Manchester United dropped 1.12 per cent to 264p
after being knocked out of the Champions League. Ironically, in a generally bad
week, struggling MyTravel enjoyed a bounce back, heading the thin table of
risers. Larger than average numbers of shares were traded during the week,
leading to refinancing and takeover speculation. Shares rose by 24 per cent,
from 12.5p to 15.5p.

Topps Tiles rose slightly, by 0.97 per cent to 680p after buying back 4,100
shares at 675p. The announcement of its plans to launch four new broadband
services also helped BT, which rose slightly, by 0.14 per cent to 181.5p.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Manchester Evening News

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                 March 14, 2004

ONE OF THE GLOBAL ECONOMY'S GREATEST AREAS OF VULNERABILITY - ITS RELIANCE ON
SHIPPING LANES TO CHINA - IS AN EASY TARGET FOR TERRORIST ATTACK, ACCORDING TO
LEADING INTELLIGENCE EXPERTS.

BYLINE: Tracey Boles;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 447 words


One of the global economy's greatest areas of vulnerability - its reliance on
shipping lanes to China - is an easy target for terrorist attack, according to
leading intelligence experts.

Shipping lanes passing through the Red Sea or Malacca Straits are the most
likely targets of an attack from terrorists who have picked up tips from
pirates, says Aegis Defence Services, the commercial intelligence and risk
advisory firm.

If one or two of the four major choke points between East and West were blocked,
either through positioning or exploding the tanker, it would turn a three-week
freight journey into a seven-week one. Even a perceived risk of terrorist attack
could be enough to drive insurers away from the market and bring shipping to a
standstill, threatening the whole global economy.

The risk is highlighted in the latest quarterly report from Aegis on the global
threat from terrorism, which outlines developments likely to become apparent
this year.

One of the report's authors, Dominic Armstrong, Aegis' head of research and
intelligence, cites the $ 58bn (£32bn, E47bn) bill from the 2002 US port strike
as proof of the havoc that can be wreaked by disruption to shipping. The strike
lasted just 12 days.

Armstrong told The Business: "Terrorists are the new highwaymen threatening the
global economy. We are living in a global village, but the roads are very, very
dangerous." The main terrorist threat to developed countries this year continues
to be that from Islamist extremism, the report says.

The terrorists are watching and learning from pirates, Armstrong believes.
Piracy worldwide is up 30% year on year. The waters around Indonesia are a
hotbed for this sort of crime. "Sea mugging could soon become hijacking," said
Armstrong.

Last year, terrorists are believed to have staged a practice run at kidnapping a
tanker near Indonesia. After boarding the ship, they did not demand money as
pirates would, but went to the bridge to steer the tanker and replace its
communications system with one of their own. After checking the system worked,
they disembarked the ship.

Armstrong said: "The stock market has rewarded cheap manufacturing to China. But
what if the boat doesn't come? Businesses are ill-prepared for such an
eventuality and should make back up plans, such as having a shadow facility
somewhere nearer to home."

Revolutionaries are the most active terrorists globally, according to the Aegis
report, accounting for 31% of atrocities. Islamists are responsible for 17%, and
separatists 8%. The Palestinian conflict has generated 6% of the total attacks.
Aegis was launched by Colonel Tim Spicer in 2002.


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2004 Sunday Business Group

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 March 14, 2004

Comment: Dignity and defiance: In the face of a callous and murderous terror
attack, the Spanish demonstrate what it is to be civilised

BYLINE: David Aaronovitch Columnist of the Year

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1319 words


THE KILLERS MAY have nothing but contempt for us, but the great rituals of
democracy can be more wonderful than one thinks possible. No one on Friday, in
that whole great crowd, brandished nooses, or set upon those who sounded like
Basques or looked like Arabs. Instead eight million people stood together in
rain-soaked Madrid, in Salamanca, in Santiago, everywhere, in dignity and
re-committed themselves to democracy, solidarity and liberty.

How shall we imagine those others, though? Sitting around a kitchen table in a
suburban apartment perhaps, with glasses of apple juice or tea, pieces of paper
scattered about, covered in diagrams and sketch maps. How many devices? Thirteen
should do it, packed with nails, because that really increases their
effectiveness. Where placed? All on suburban trains timed to get into the
central station in the same period. If it goes to plan we should be able to kill
or maim possibly hundreds of commuters. Which will be a great victory. Good
luck! God bless!

This is a picture of a minor Wannsee that must have happened in some form, a
conference of technicians planning the deliberate deaths of innocents. Where the
whole point was the deliberate deaths of innocents. Other such events may have
been planned and aborted, but nothing has happened in Europe on this scale since
Lockerbie. To illustrate what this means, the following was posted by someone in
Madrid on a British website on Friday:

'A woman who survived the blast has lost her husband, her two sons, and her
grandsons. The radio reported this morning that she was so overwhelmed with the
loss that she later tried to kill herself. In one of the destroyed trains they
rescued a seven-month-old baby. They haven't been able to find his parents and
he has just died while in the ICU.'

By one of those pieces of bad timing that journalists dread, the Madrid bombings
coincided with the publication in the Spectator magazine (edited by the
Conservative MP, Boris Johnson) of an article by the newly knighted former
editor of the Times , Simon Jenkins. This was an argument ridiculing the Prime
Minister for his recent Sedgefield speech on terror, and accompanied by the
headline, 'Nothing to fear but fear itself'.

Mr Blair, argued Jenkins, was really just a second-class intellect, 'roaming the
world in search of dragons'. But actually there weren't any. That stuff with the
tanks at Heathrow and the smallpox terror alert, had all been staged in order to
'prepare the country for George Bush's invasion of Iraq'. But such a threat of
terrorists capable of killing masses of people was a chimera. 'The technology of
terror,' claimed Jenkins, 'has in reality advanced little beyond the 1970s and
1980s.' True, '. . .inept Western diplomacy in the Middle East may increase the
risk of bombings, but the risk is qualitatively no different from that of
paranoid fanatics and anarchists down the ages. Read Conrad.'

I'LL DEAL WITH the 'we brought it upon ourselves' bit later. For the moment
Jenkins's point is that terrorism is no threat to our societies unless we allow
it to be. It is not, in that sense, like a war between states that one could
lose. OK. We could discuss that proposition with relation to Northern Ireland.
The killings there at the height of The Troubles were, year by year, probably
comparable with road-death statistics. And they were emotionally and politically
intolerable.

Yet, on the whole, the objective of Irish terrorists was not the mass killing of
civilians. After 11 died and 63 were wounded in the 1987 Enniskillen bomb, the
IRA apologised for a mission that had 'gone wrong'. There is some evidence that
the carnage was a psychological turning-point for people such as Martin
McGuiness. Now, however, we are dealing with groups who actively want to kill as
many civilians as they possibly can. That's a big difference, Simon. It changes
nearly everything.

In April 1999, David Copeland, the Nazi bomber, planted three devices in London,
the last of which blew up in the Admiral Duncan pub in Soho, killing three.
Another four victims suffered amputations. The result was a period of extreme
anxiety. Now imagine that 13 such bombs had been planted to explode
simultaneously, and that these had been put there by a Muslim group. What effect
would that have? Or if a shoulder launched ground-to-air missile brought down a
large passenger plane over a suburb of Hounslow. Why not? The technology exists,
and the attempt has been made in Kenya. What we thought was missing before 11
September was the will to use it. We were wrong. Read Conrad? Why? I've seen the
video.

At a moment like this all kinds of hares are set running. On BBC's Question Time
on Thursday, one audience member linked possible terrorism to the entry of
Eastern European workers when their countries accede to the EU. And as that one
scurried around, Shirley Williams unhutched several more on Radio's Any
Questions a day later. Terrorists, she said, were, 'young men. Desperate.
Unemployed.' This in the same week as we saw the Hamas tapes of the tubby,
well-employed, un-desperate boys from Britain who bombed Mike's Bar in Tel Aviv.
These were young men animated by cultish belief and a desire for personal
victory in a kind of apocalyptic Fame Academy

Nor has it much to do with world poverty, or inequality. We have not been bombed
by the Congolese, the Chinese, or the peoples of the Maghreb. And efforts at
debt relief or humanitarian intervention in Sierra Leone have not earned us much
credit with the people who - long before Iraq - set the Bali bomb.

We should also forget this guff about one man's terrorist being another man's
freedom fighter, and the notion that accommodating terrorism can help placate
it. The IRA's unnecessary and immoral campaign came to an eventual end precisely
because, after 25 years, it had not succeeded. Peaceful civil rights agitation
would have achieved as much change inside a decade, and with no one dead.

This leads into the relativism argument. One letter writer to the Guardian said
this week, before Madrid: 'Let's probe the words "terror" and "good and evil".
Who has vast armament factories, and who does not?. . . The category of "who
has", of almighty power, seems always to belong to the "good". The "evil", those
who use "terror", seem always to be in the category of "who does not".'

YES, AND LET'S keep it that way. Let's make sure that those who do not have, the
Madrid bombers, the Karbala bombers, the Copelands, don't get. And this brings
us back to Jenkins's point about 'inept diplomacy'. He means Iraq, Israel and
Afghanistan circa 2001. But he could just as well have mentioned Afghanistan
1990, Saudi Arabia just about any time, Iraq in 1988, and all the times when
diplomacy was aimed at maintaining relations with corrupt governments and walked
away from democrats. It was in an age that Jenkins liked; the age that gave rise
to all this.

Shirley Williams claimed that part of the problem in dealing with terrorism was
the fact that President Bush had called it a 'war'. Far better, she said, had we
called it, 'a campaign against crime'. One nearly weeps, but even so, there is
something hiding there beneath the confusion. It is that undermining terror is
as important, strategically, as confronting it. Its supports should be knocked
away, or bribed, or persuaded, or loved out of its flirtation with death. And
certainly it shouldn't be locked up in the same place and forced unnecessarily
to share the same political air.

This makes a big difference to the way we enforce terrorist legislation, how
many searches are carried out, how many detained, and in what way. Better to
have ID cards which we all carry, CCTV which sees all of us, than to alienate
entire sections of the population. Better to demonstrate, as the Spanish did
last week, what it is like to be civilised.


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 14, 2004

MASSACRE IN MADRID FURY AT NEW POLICY AFTER UK GOES ON ALERT; BLAIR CUTS CASH
FOR TERROR WAR AS ATTACK FEARS GROW

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 418 words


DESPITE fears that Britain is next on the terror hit list Tony Blair is refusing
to put more money into defending his country.

A pathetic 32p will be spent on protecting every man, woman and child in the UK
next year under government plans which slipped out last week.

The Government has decided to freeze the amount of money invested in civil
defence until March 2005, even though the Madrid massacre has shown that Europe
is on the frontline in the war against terror.

Local authorities are furious that the decision means they will be shackled with
a real-terms cut in funding as they battle to make get themselves up to full
preparedness to cope with a big terror strike.

Britain has been on the second highest level of alert for more than a year, but
just GBP 19million is being invested, the same derisory amount as last year,
which attracted outrage when it was announced 12 months ago.

The Cabinet Office, which wrote to local authority chiefs last week, even as
Spain was reeling from the worst terror assault in Europe since the Lockerbie
atrocity, confirmed the funding freeze, but preferred to call it a "stabilising
of the grant" for civil defence.

Emergency planners say more money is needed to run exercises to improve
co-ordination between the emergency services in the event of an attack.

They are particularly concerned that the vast majority of the Government's
planning is centred on London, leaving other towns and cities exposed.

A well-placed security source said: "What are they playing at?

The money involved is chicken feed, but they send out this signal that they are
not interested."

Security chiefs are urgently reviewing the latest intelligence on the Real IRA
and animal rights activists amid fears that they will emulate the Madrid
massacre in Britain. Analysts say that Osama Bin Laden has set a new "gold
standard" for terrorists belonging to smaller domestic groups. This could lead
to copycat strikes on soft targets, such as the transport network. The source
said intelligence experts in Britain are divided 60-40 that ETA was responsible
for the train bombs on Thursday, rather than Al Qaeda.

The funding freeze is just the latest in a long line of complaints that the
Government has not put its money where its mouth is on terrorism.

Home Secretary David Blunkett says that counterterrorism takes up 20 per cent of
his time, but doubts remain about the ability to co-ordinate the emergency
response to a smallpox attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                             March 14, 2004, Sunday

MUM IN SEX ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 108 words


A YOUNG mum was attacked by a sex fiend as she returned home from taking her
child to school, police said yesterday. The 24-year-old woman's ordeal happened
in Crowther Road, Whitmore Reans, Wolverhampton, at about 9am last Tuesday.

The assailant started talking to her and then carried out the indecent assault
before running off.

Police are hunting for a man in his late 20s or early 30s of eastern European
appearance, 5ft 11ins, dark brown or black hair, wearing a beige coat,
stone-washed jeans and black shoes.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Bilston Street police station in
Wolverhampton on 0845 113 5000.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        March 15, 2004, Monday Edition 1

Terror attack on US foiled

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 157 words


   Explosive experts today defused a bomb next to the US Consulate in Karachi.

It was not immediately clear who planted the device, though Islamic extremist
groups have repeatedly targeted Westerners and minority Christians since the
Pakistani government threw its support behind the US-led war on terrorism.

The thwarted attack came just two days ahead of a scheduled visit to Pakistan by
US Secretary of State Colin Powell. He is due to arrive there on Wednesday.

"The man or men who left this van near the US Consulate building wanted to blow
it up," Pakistan's Information Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed said.

NTwo Palestinian suicide bombers infiltrated a closely-guarded port, killing 11
Israelis in the first deadly attack on a strategic installation in more than
three years of Middle East fighting.

After yesterday's attack in Ashdod, police ordered increased security at all
Israeli seaports, airports and stations.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2004 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 15, 2004

SECURITY IS STEPPED UP OVER FEARS OF ATTACK IN UK; HOOK LINK TO TERROR TRAIN
GANG

BYLINE: By Richard Palmer and John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 5

LENGTH: 538 words


TWO suspects held over the Madrid train bombings have been linked to hook-handed
Muslim cleric Abu Hamza and a network of Al Qaeda recruiters across Europe.

Spain's interior ministry yesterday said two of the five men arrested following
the outrage that killed 200 people and injured 1,500 are known associates of key
members of Osama Bin Laden's terror network.

The discovery, which supported the growing belief that Al Qaeda carried out the
bombings, came as Britain's police chiefs and the heads of MI5 and MI6 prepared
for an emergency summit today amid fears of a similar attack in this country.
Police and MI5 are to step up checks on hundreds of young North Africans in
Britain and bolster security on trains.

The five men arrested in Spain are three Moroccans and two Spaniards of Indian
origin.

In Britain, counter-terrorism officers have been trailing suspects for months
amid fears that an Al Qaeda cell is ready to strike here after a number of
failed operations, including a plot to release the poison ricin in London.

The Spanish suspects have been linked to a mobile phone and prepaid card found
in a bag of explosives which failed to detonate on one of the trains.

Moroccan Jamal Zougam, 30, is a known associate of jailed Madrid-based Muslim
cleric Abu Dahdah - leader of Spain's Al Qaeda cell, according to the Spanish
interior ministry and officials in Morocco.

Before his arrest in November 2001 Dahdah visited Britain at least 20 times to
raise funds and recruit young Muslims to fight for Al Qaeda and the Taliban in
Afghanistan.

Investigators say he had regular contact with close associates of Abu Hamza, the
Egyptian-born fanatic who preaches in Finsbury Park, north London.

He is known to have had many meetings with another fiery London cleric Abu
Qatada, who before being jailed served as Bin Laden's recruiting officer in
London and preached alongside Hamza in Finsbury Park.

The Moroccan Zougam was named as a contact of Dahdah and other Al Qaeda
activists in a report published six months ago by Spain's leading criminal
investigator, Judge Baltasar Garzon, when he indicted Bin Laden and 34 other
people for trial for the September 11 attacks in America. The judge based
Spain's right to put Bin Laden and his associates on trial on the grounds that
Al Qaeda finalised its plans for the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks at
meetings in Spain in the summer of 2001.

Twelve of those he indicted have been held at a top security prison near Madrid
since November 2001 - but Zougam was allowed to remain at liberty.

Spanish sources said another Moroccan being held yesterday, Mohamed Chaoui, 34,
met the ringleader of the September 11 plot, Mohammed Atta, when he visited
Spain in the run-up to the attacks.

They also suggested that the third Moroccan, Mohamed Bekkali, 31, had links with
Islamic fanatics. The two Indians have been accused of forging mobile phone
cards.

As police in Spain yesterday studied a video in which Al Qaeda claimed
responsibility for the Madrid attacks, they were assisted by Moroccan security
experts who were part of the team that investigated fundamentalist bombings in
Casablanca last year which killed 33 people.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 March 15, 2004

One in 10 back terror attacks

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 114 words


More than one in 10 British Muslims back al-Qaeda-style terror strikes on the
United States, a poll revealed last night. As the anniversary of war in Iraq
approaches, more condemned that conflict than attacks on America.

And almost half said they might consider becoming a suicide bom-ber if they
lived as a Palestinian.

An overwhelming 80 per cent say Britain and the US should not have launched the
invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein.

That is significantly higher than the 73 per cent opposed to terrorist strikes
on the US, according to the ICM survey.

Attacks on the US were viewed as justified by 13 per cent of the 500 British
Muslims questioned.


LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2004 1503WESTDP243onein

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 16, 2004

Fire brigade geared up for terror attack

BYLINE: By William Allennewsdesk@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 270 words


THE Fire Brigade today said it is poised to deploy new equipment within weeks to
deal with an attack in Northern Ireland by terrorists using chemical or
biological weapons.

The Brigade today revealed it is undecided about locating two mass
decontamination mobile units in Belfast and Londonderry.

In the event of an attack or major accident involving chemicals, the units could
decontaminate up to 200 people an hour.

But the brigade said today it will first bring in "interim units" while it
evaluates whether to implement the option of establishing large response
vehicles at the two main centres of population, or to spread a number of smaller
units around NorthernIreland.

The move, which comes as fear grips Europe following the Madrid massacre, was
first planned as a response to the al-Qaida threat after September 11.

As part of the Government's UK Resilience strategy, firefighters here were given
responsibility for dealing with a mass decontamination process in the event of
an attack with so-called "dirty bombs" or chemical weapons.

Senior Divisional Officer, Tom Wright, said today: "While we have good
procedures already in place, as seen in the role we adopted while dealing with
the white powder incidents, it was felt that a more bespoke solution should be
available in terms of mass decontamination.

"We are in the process of evaluating our mass decontamination response. We are
now moving the issue forward as quickly as we can, and we are now going for an
interim solution.

"We hope to have the interim units in the brigade within the next two to three
months."


LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 16, 2004

Terrorist attack on London 'is inevitable'

BYLINE: By Brian Walker, London Editor brian.walker@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 391 words


A TERRORIST attack on London could be inevitable, Metropolitan Police
Commissioner Sir John Stevens said today.

Police and the security services have dramatically increased their efforts and
are "working three times harder than ever" to foil any terrorist plot.

London Mayor Ken Livingstone told a City Hall press conference that it would be
"miraculous" if the capital was not attacked.

Sir John said: "Since September 11 there have been 520 arrests, half have been
charged with an offence and there are 90 about to go through to court.

"We do know that we have actually stopped terrorist attacks happening in London
but, as the Prime Minister and Home Secretary have said, there is an
inevitability that some sort of attack will get through but my job is to make
sure that does not happen."

An extra 680 officers have been drafted in for the anti-terrorist operation and
a budget of £52m for 2004/2005 was expected for the Metropolitan Police. London
remains on a high state of alert and everyone needs to be vigilant, said Sir
John.

He went on: "We are not talking about the Tube and the rail system. We are
talking about London generally.

"We are talking about buses, anything seen of suspicion in clubs. This is a
general request to be alert."

Sir John's comments came amid mounting evidence that Islamic extremists with
links to al-Qaida were behind last week's Madrid bombings which left more than
200 dead.

The terrorists behind the attack may also be linked an attack in Casablanca in
Morocco, last year that killed 45 people including suicide bombers.

One of five suspects being held by Spanish police in connection with Thursday's
attack in Spain had travelled to Morocco, then left on April 20, 2003 - just
before the May 16 attacks in Casablanca, according to officials in Morocco. The
suspect, Jamal Zougam, also has al-Qaida connections that lead to a suspect in
the Casablanca attacks and possibly to Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a key operative
working with Osama bin Laden's network who has been blamed in attacks in Jordan
and elsewhere.

Sir John Stevens urged the public not to panic and to go about their normal
lives, adding: "A major catastrophe in London will not be easy to handle. None
of them are but we have major experience over the last 32 years and we will take
action."


LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            March 16, 2004, Tuesday

CUTS 'PUT UK AT RISK OF TERROR ATTACK'

SECTION: Nuneaton Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 167 words


CUTS in emergency planning cash mean Britain is not prepared for a Madrid-style
terror attack, an expert warned today.

Local authorities are being given new powers to act in the face of major
incidents by legislation currently before Parliament.

But the powers are no use without more cash, says Patrick Cunningham, president
of the Emergency Planning Society which represents councils and emergency
services.

"As things stand we are not 100 per cent prepared by any means to deal with a
Madrid-type disaster," he told the Today programme on BBC Radio 4.

"Probably the main reason for that is that funding for local authorities'
emergency planning has fallen from pounds 24.5 million in 1991 to pounds 19
million in the present day."

"That reduction has occurred despite the fact that in that time we have had to
deal with the fuel crisis, foot-and-mouth, widespread flooding, train crashes
and now, of course, we have this increased probability of some act of
terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            March 16, 2004, Tuesday

CUTS 'PUT BRITAIN AT RISK OF TERROR ATTACK'

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 216 words


CUTS in emergency planning cash mean Britain is not prepared for a Madrid-style
terror attack, an expert warned today.

Local authorities are being given new powers to act in the face of major
incidents by legislation currently before Parliament.

But the powers are no use without more money, according to Patrick Cunningham,
President of the Emergency Planning Society which represents councils and
emergency services.

"As things stand we are not 100 per cent prepared by any means to deal with a
Madrid-type disaster," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

"Probably the main reason for that is that funding for local authorities'
emergency planning has fallen from pounds 24.5 million in 1991 to pounds 19
million in the present day.

"That reduction has occurred despite the fact that in that time we have had to
deal with the fuel crisis, foot-and-mouth, widespread flooding, train crashes
and now, of course, we have this increased probability of some act of
terrorism."

Patrick Mercer, Conservative homeland defence spokesman, agreed more money was
needed to put them into practice.

He told the Today programme: "The money that local authorities need to employ
these powers is missing. The civil defence grant this year has been frozen at
last year's level."

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 March 16, 2004

Country on high alert in bid to foil terror attacks

BYLINE: David Stoakes

SECTION: News; 999; Murders/violentcrime; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 485 words


If Terrorists launched a germ warfare attack in South Wales, this is the image
of police that survivors would see.  The UK is on high alert following the
Madrid train bombings.

British Transport Police in Swansea today gave the Evening Post this exclusive
glimpse of their nightmare scenario gear.

Both BTP and South Wales Police say there is nothing to suggest terrorists would
carry out biological or bombing campaigns in regional cities like Swansea and
Cardiff.

But security has been stepped up at key sites like the DVLA, Landore railway
depot, airport and docks. Patrols have also been increased in frequency on the
M4.

All the BTP police based in South Wales have taken part in railway-based
terrorism practices in London.

Superintendent Cliff Filer, head of operational policing in Swansea, said:
"There is nothing to suggest there is cause for alarm.

"We merely urge people to be vigilant and report anything suspicious." Sergeant
Steve Dawkins, of BTP, said today: "We have eight or nine First Great Western
trains left overnight at Landore, as well as the goods yard at Margam, and we
are paying special attention to them." He urged people who were travelling not
to leave luggage unattended and to report suspicious packages.

Steven Cahill, assistant chief constable of South Wales, said: "We are in
constant liaison with both the security services and the Metropolitan Police
regarding the latest developments in terrorism activity.

"Contact is also being maintained in South Wales with our partners including
BTP, military liaison and neighbouring police forces. This contact will ensure
our staff are fully briefed with the latest information and of course are doing
the best we can to combat this worrying threat.

"I must emphasis there is no intelligence to show that anywhere in South Wales
is to be targeted but all the agencies across the United Kingdom must remain
vigilant." A series of terrorism disaster exercises have been held in South
Wales. Even before the Madrid outrage one was planned to take place in the
Newport area next week.

In London, uniformed officers have begun stop-and-search checks on the
Underground as security was stepped up. Passengers have been warned to make
their own checks for unattended baggage, British Transport Police said, and a
new poster campaign has also been launched.

Deputy chief constable of British Transport Police Andy Trotter said the three
million passengers that use the tube would be the police's "eyes and ears".

Speaking outside Embankment Tube Station in central London, he said: "Those
awful events in Madrid underline just how serious this is and how important it
is that we work together. It is by working together that we can keep the tube
safe." Mr Trotter reiterated that plain clothes officers would be on the system
as well as high visibility police patrols and the CCTV.


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2004 South Wales Evening Post

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 March 16, 2004

Terror attacks leave investors uncertain

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 333 words


The London market continued its recent downward spiral yesterday, driven further
into negative territory by a poor performance on Wall Street.  The FTSE 100
Index opened on the back foot and fell even more sharply in the afternoon to
close down 54.5 points at 4412.9.

In New York the Dow Jones Industrial Average also opened in the red, with
analysts saying they expected equity markets to remain volatile for the rest of
the week.

Mounting evidence that an al Qaida operative was behind last week's bomb blasts
in Madrid also dominated the minds of investors, leading them to take an
increasingly short-term view of their portfolios.

Insurers were again weak in London, with Royal & Sun Alliance declining in the
wake of its disappointing annual results last week. R&SA fell 4.25p to 88.75p,
while Prudential was off 17.25p at 467.5p and Aviva weakened 11.25p to 541p.

British Airways also continued to suffer from events last week, with fears over
increased costs pushing it to the top of the fallers board, off nearly seven per
cent or 19.5p to 269p.

And ongoing concern over Shell's reserves restatement continued to upset the oil
major's share price - down 4.75p at 368.5p. Rival BP was up 2.25p at 448p.

Abbey National was near the top of the risers board, up 6p to 456.5p, but failed
to cheer other banking stocks. Lloyds TSB was among the fallers, off 2.75p to
430p, while Barclays weakened 4p to 482.25p.

Retailers were also slipping behind despite an encouraging performance earlier
in the day. Argos owner GUS fell 3p to 742.5p, Marks & Spencer was off 3.5p to
279.5p and B&Q owner Kingfisher dropped 1p to 297.25p.

The day's biggest risers were Imperial Tobacco rising 35p to 1215p, BT gaining
3.25p to 184.25p, Abbey National up 6p to 456.5p and BAT cheering 7.5p to 811p.

The biggest fallers were British Airways down 19.5p to 269p, Schroders losing
41.5p to 609.5p, mmO2 off 6.5p to 100.5p and Royal & Sun Alliance falling 4.25p
to 88.75p.


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 March 16, 2004

Coast is clear for terrorist attacks

SECTION: Features; General; Columnist; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 146 words


The pain in Spain fell mainly on the train - and who's to blame?  The government
there has now been booted out, clearly from a backlash over the country's
involvement in the Iraq war. Sadly, we must brace ourselves for a dose of our
own medicine soon, as Bin Laden seeks revenge.

Scarily, it is almost impossible to avoid a terrorist attack - especially when
our coastline is open to anyone who wants to come in unchecked and blow us
apart.

We don't help ourselves by letting those five Guantanamo Bay Taliban apologists
back in - at vast expense to us, and now they will claim compensation from us.

What were they doing in Afghanistan anyway? Rambling through the mountains,
trainspotting, enjoying the view? Nothing to do with training camps, was it?
They should have been dumped back where they came from - after their passports
had been seized.


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2004 1603WESTDP2D4coast

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           March 17, 2004, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACK IN BRITAIN 'INEVITABLE'

BYLINE: HELEN WILLIAM

SECTION: 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 399 words


BRITAIN is an inevitable target for international terrorists despite police
success in thwarting previous attacks, Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John
Stevens said yesterday.

His fears were echoed by London Mayor Ken Livingstone's grim forecast that it
would be "miraculous" if the capital escaped attack.

Sir John also revealed that a team of Met officers are in Madrid to see what
lessons can be learned from last week's bomb blasts. The number of dead rose to
201 yesterday.

Sir John told a City Hall Press conference: "Since September 11, there have been
520 arrests, half have been charged with an offence and there are 90 about to go
through to court.

"We do know that we have actually stopped terrorist attacks happening in London
but, as the Prime Minister and Home Secretary have said, there is an
inevitability that some sort of attack will get through but my job is to make
sure that does not happen."

Any terrorist will not find Britain an easy target, Sir John said. They will
have to deal with some of the world's leading counter-terrorism measures which
have been have been fine-tuned during 35 years of the Troubles.

The warnings came as Spanish police say they are closing the net on Islamic
extremists with links to al Qaida who may have been be involved.

The Madrid terrorists may also be linked to an attack in Casablanca, Morocco,
last year that killed 45 people.

One of five suspects being held by Spanish police had travelled to Morocco, then
left on April 20, 2003 - just before the May 16 attacks in Casablanca, according
to officials in Morocco.

The suspect, Jamal Zougam, also has al Qaida connections that lead to a key
suspect in the Casablanca attacks and possibly to Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a key
operative working with Osama bin Laden's terror network.

Spanish radio station Cadena Ser said yesterday that police have located a
witness who saw Zougam on board one of the bombed trains.

But Interior Minister Angel Acebes said authorities have no knowledge of a
witness.

Algerian Ali Amrous, who allegedly talked about a terrorist attack in Madrid two
months ago, was detained on Saturday in San Sebastian.

During questioning Amrous is reported to have said "we will fill Madrid with the
dead," according to the Spanish authorities.

It is not believed he had any contacts with Basque separatist group ETA.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Century Newspapers Limited

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 March 17, 2004

We must do everything to prevent terrorist attack

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 162 words


In the light of events in Spain in the past few days, and the possibility that
al Qaida may be responsible for this outrage, it would not be overstretching the
imagination to believe that a city in Britain may become a target in the next
year or two, for the same reason as they may have been led to direct an attack
against Spain.  With the likelihood of a general election next year this could
become a target date, though it would be both rash and complacent were we to
assume that no attack could come in the meantime.

It is therefore most important that we review our anti-terrorist defences as a
matter of urgency, to ensure that we have put in place whatever measures are
possible and within our finite resources.

If this should require additional funding then this should also be seriously
considered.

We owe it to our city to do everything within our power to prevent any terrorist
attack.

David Kitson, Deputy Lord Mayor of Bristol.


LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2004 1703BRISEP3A2wemus

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           March 17, 2004, Wednesday

LETTER: TERRORISM WILL NOT BE ERADICATED UNTIL WE ATTACK INJUSTICE

BYLINE: GEORGE F YOUNG

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 273 words


Sir: Dr James A Crupi, writing from Texas (letters, 16 March), says that the
Spanish people were wrong to throw out the government that in order to get
re-elected, tried to mislead them about the perpetrators of last week's outrage
in Madrid. We too do not like being lied to by our government and would most
likely do the same here if a credible alternative existed, but unfortunately
both parties with the possibility of forming a government are at the moment as
bad as each other.

What many Americans seem to find difficult to accept is that there are millions
of people in Europe and elsewhere who do not wish to have the world turned into
a theme park in which American big business can frolic and gambol as it wishes,
and consequently are not content to see their governments slavishly fall into
line with American foreign policy. To say that is not to condone or accept the
activities of the murderous thugs who randomly target and kill innocent
strangers by the thousand.

Since the end of the Second World War American policy has striven in bloody and
devious ways all over the world to topple any government, legitimately elected
in most cases, that has shown the slightest inclination towards socialism,
whilst at the same time supporting any thuggish regime such as Saddam's as long
as it suited America's purpose.

Terrorism will not be eradicated until the western world addresses the terrible
injustices and inequalities that disfigure our world and serve as justification
for the cynical murderers we call terrorists. Sadly there is not much sign at
present of this happening.

GEORGE F YOUNG

Derby

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           March 17, 2004, Wednesday

LETTER: TERRORISM WILL NOT BE ERADICATED UNTIL WE ATTACK INJUSTICE

BYLINE: MARK HARMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 60 words


Sir: Those like James A Crupi who accuse the Spanish of lacking courage
misunderstand their motives. Taking to the streets, in defiance of further
potential attacks, takes far more courage than bombing Iraq and Afghanistan.
Turning the other cheek is the value that we should stand up for, not an eye for
an eye.

MARK HARMS

Clara Vale, Tyne and Wear

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           March 17, 2004, Wednesday

INEVITABLE;
 BRITAIN WILL NOT ESCAPE A TERROR ATTACK SAYS TOP COP

BYLINE: GARY JONES

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 350 words

HIGHLIGHT: ALERT: Sir John yesterday


BRITAIN is bound to be attacked by international terrorists, a police chief
warned yesterday.

Despite successes in thwarting previous attempts, one day the bombers will
inevitably get through, said the Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John
Stevens.

His fears were echoed by London Mayor Ken Livingstone's grim forecast that it
would be "miraculous" if the capital escaped attack.

Sir John said: "Since September 11 there have been 520 arrests across the
country. Half have been charged and there are 90 about to go through to court."

He also revealed that a team of police officers was in Madrid to see what
lessons could be learned from last week's bomb blasts. Yesterday, the death toll
rose to 201.

Sir John said that an extra 680 officers had been drafted in for anti-terrorist
operations in London and pounds 52million was earmarked for the Met in
2004/2005.

But Patrick Cunningham, president of the Emergency Planning Society which
represents councils and emergency services across Britain, warned: "As things
stand, we are not 100 per cent prepared by any means to deal with a Madrid-type
disaster.

"Probably the main reason is that funding for emergency planning has fallen from
pounds 24.5million in 1991 to pounds 19million in the present day.

"The reduction has occurred despite the fact that in that time we have had to
deal with the fuel crisis, foot and mouth, widespread flooding, train crashes
and now, of course, we have this increased probability of some act of
terrorism."

Earlier, Cabinet minister Peter Hain said the UK was a "frontline target" for
attack by international terrorists.

Yesterday, an Avon and Somerset police spokesman said: "We are obviously aware
of what happened in Madrid and are extra vigilant.

"I like to hope that the systems we have in place are robust enough."

A spokeswoman for Greater Manchester police added: "We have contingency plans in
place to deal with a number of emergency situations including terrorism."

West Midlands police said: "We are working to disrupt any potential terrorist
activity."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 18, 2004, Thursday

WHAT IF THERE'S A TERRORIST ATTACK? RITA JAHAN; GURJIT DHARIWAL; SHARLEEN JULIEN
DONALDSON WEBB; MALCOLM CAROL WILLIAMS PEARSALL

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 242 words


Sharleen Donaldson, 18, a hairdresser from Weoley Castle, said: 'It makes sense
if it's quiet - it's a waste of money having fire engines which aren't being
used. That money can go towards paying the firemen extra so they don't go out on
strike.' Julien Webb, 32, unemployed from Erdington, said: 'I'm very worried -
what about all the drunks who turn out of the pub at closing time and then cause
road accidents or go home and start cooking chips?'

Carol Pearsall, 48, an insurance worker from Weoley Castle, said: 'It may be
fine on paperbut in real life fires occur at all times of the day and night.

'What happens if there's a terrorist attack? It's just cost-cutting which will
eventually lead to firefighters' jobs being lost.'

Students Gurjit Dhariwal and Rita Jahan, both 21, were against the proposals.
Gurjit, from Smethwick, said: 'I wouldn't feel safe knowing there are so few
fire engines available.'

'Even though we don't use them, it's reassuring to know there are plenty of fire
engines if we need them.'

Malcolm Williams, 59, unemployed from Yardley Wood, said: 'It's disgraceful -
they should be putting money into the fire brigade, not cutting it back.

'They need more fire engines available now we've got this terrorist threat.'

What do you think? Send YOUR views to The Editor, Evening Mail, PO Box 78,
Weaman Street, Birmingham, B4 6AY, or eveningmail@mrn.co.uk or log on to
www.icBirmingham.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 March 18, 2004

Vox pop: do you fear that a terrorist attack in the uk is now imminent?

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 76 words


"I don't fear it much here but maybe in London; the underground is probably the
easiest target. But if it happens, it happens." Mike Hughes, 23, Bedminster
"Probably in London, yes. Like they say, it is inevitable. We would be mad to
think it wasn't." Lee Johnson, 37, city centre "I am a bit worried about it, but
there is nothing I can personally do, so I carry on day to day, hoping nothing
happens." Michael Rouemaine, 58, Stockwood

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2004 1803BRISEP515voxpo

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 18, 2004

29 die in latest terror attacks on Baghdad

BYLINE: HUMFREY HUNTER

SECTION: A; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 272 words


AT least 29 people were killed and more than 50 injured in the latest terror
attacks to hit Iraq, it was confirmed today.

Two Britons were hurt in a bomb blast outside a hotel in central Baghdad last
night which claimed 27 lives, while two American soldiers died following a
mortar attack north of the Iraqi capital.

Eyewitnesses said a number of women and children were among those killed by the
1,000lb bomb, which also injured 45 people and left a crater 20 feet wide and 10
feet deep in the road outside the Mount Lebanon Hotel.

Many more people were feared to have been trapped in buildings damaged by the
explosion. Rescuers dug at the rubble into the early hours but officials said
today there were no more survivors.

Two American soldiers died and six others were injured when mortars struck a US
logistics base shortly after the hotel bombing. The attacks came three days
before the anniversary of the start of the war to topple Saddam Hussein.

A US spokesman said the hotel attack was directed at civilians and designed to
cause maximum casualties. He added: "There were no coalition forces operating in
the area at this time."

Colonel Ralph Baker added: "It looks like the bomb was 1,000lb of plastic
explosives and artillery shells mixed in with explosives to create more
injuries.

"It fits the profile of the terrorist organisations we have been combating in
the past year."

The attack was the latest in a series of bombings which Washington blames on
supporters of Saddam and non-Iraqi Islamic militants. The hotel is known to be
used by Arab businessmen as well as foreigners.

END

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 March 18, 2004

Man's gang axe attack terror

LENGTH: 88 words


A 34-year-old man was attacked with an axe by three masked men who broke into
his flat in Whitefield.

The burglars fled empty-handed after leaving the victim suffering from cuts and
bruises to the head and shoulder.

The man who lived alone was confronted by the gang at his flat in Bury New Road
near to the Metro Station on Tuesday at about 10.30pm.

He was taken to Fairfield General Hospital before being released.

Contact the CID at Whitefield on 0161 856 8248 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             March 19, 2004, Friday

TERROR CRISIS: EXTREMISTS THREATENING NEW ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 138 words


The Islamic militant group that claimed responsibility for last week's Madrid
train bombings has warned that its next targets could be Britain, Japan, Italy,
or Australia, an Arabic newspaper reported in Cairo.

The paper Al-Quds al-Arabi said on its web site that it received a statement
from The Brigade of Abu Hafs al-Masri (al Qaida) in which the group reiterated
its responsibility for the March 11 attacks.

The group also said it was calling a truce to give the newly elected Spanish
government time to carry out its pledge to withdraw troops from Iraq, according
to the statement. 'Our brigades are getting ready now for the coming strike,'
they said.

The statement warned that 'the brigades of death are at your doors,' adding that
they would strike 'with an iron hand at the right time and place'.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 19, 2004

LETTERS; YOU CAN NEVER HOPE TO JUSTIFY A TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 56 words


A POLL claims that more than one in 10 British Muslims believes further US
terror attacks are justified (Scottish Daily Express, March 16).

Did they approve Saddam Hussein sending his army to kill Muslims in Iran and
Kuwait, and the gassing of Muslim Kurd men, women and children in Northern Iraq?

Robert Darroch, Clydebank

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 March 19, 2004

Troops attack terror hideout

SECTION: News; Politics; World; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 515 words


Al Qaida's second-in-command, Ayman al-Zawahri, may have been wounded in two
days of fierce fighting between Pakistani soldiers and about 200 fighters loyal
to the terror network.  The attacks continued this morning, with helicopter
gunship and artillery fire spreading to two more villages in the remote region
of South Waziristan.

Pakistan was also reported to be preparing for a major air assault on the border
region to kill al-Zawahri or drive him into their clutches.

Al-Zawahri was indicted along with bin Laden for his alleged role as mastermind
of the 1998 bombings of the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 224
people.

US government sources also believe he played a significant role in the September
11 attacks in Washington and New York in 2001.

The latest operation came after recent reports that Pakistani and US special
forces were closing in on bin Laden.

Since Tuesday, hundreds of Pakistani troops and paramilitary rangers have
pounded several fortress-like mud-brick compounds with artillery and fired on
them from helicopter gunships.

Dozens of al Qaida fighters, said to be well-trained and well-equipped, have
been killed, according to intelligence officials.

Some 18 suspects were arrested during yesterday's attack and were being
interrogated. During questioning some fighters said al-Zawahri was wounded in
the fighting.

On Tuesday, at least 41 people - 15 Pakistani soldiers and 26 suspected
militants - were killed in fighting in the area.

Yesterday, Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf told CNN: "The resistance that
is being offered by the people there, we feel that there may be a high-value
target.

"They are not coming out in spite of the fact that we have pounded them with
artillery." There was no indication that bin Laden was with Egyptian-born
al-Zawahri, 52, although the pair have been known to travel together in the
past.

Al-Zawahri is bin Laden's mentor and confidant. According to some reports he is
also his personal doctor.

He met bin Laden in the mid-1980s during the Afghanistan war.

He is believed to be the brains and ideologist behind al Qaida. His extremist
agenda influenced the wealthy Saudi-born bin Laden, prompting the formation of
the terror network.

Pakistan has arrested more than 500 al Qaida suspects and has recently turned
most of them over to the US.

In the past few weeks there have been reports that bin Laden narrowly evaded
capture by Pakistani soldiers.

The latest operation comes after recent revelations that US forces were planning
a "spring offensive" to capture bin Laden.

US Secretary of State Colin Powell announced in the Pakistani capital,
Islamabad, that Washington now saw Pakistan as a "major non-Nato ally".

He said he believed there was evidence that bin Laden was also hiding in the
rugged border area.

"And if he is alive and active, and the evidence suggests that he is, and if he
is in the area of the Pakistan-Afghan border, that's a very difficult area to
find someone who doesn't want to be found," he said.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Nottingham Evening Post

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 March 19, 2004

Memorial to Madrid terror attack victims on the cards

BYLINE: Johnathan Schroder

LENGTH: 348 words


THE 200 victims of the terrorist bombs in Madrid were remembered with a
one-minute silence in Enfield on Monday.

Staff in all council buildings paid tribute to those who died in Thursday's rush
hour Tube train attacks by observing the silence at 11am.

Council bosses are also planning to create a memorial to the victims in
association with a church in the borough. A spokeswoman said more details will
be available later in the week but added: "We have had an approach by a local
church to do something."

The borough's Spanish residents have also been deeply affected by last week's
events.

Miguel Mota who runs La Paella restaurant in the Broadway Southgate hails from
Madrid and has family in the city.

He said: "I spoke to my family last week and they are very very concerned about
what is going to happen not just in Spain but elsewhere in the world.

"The Spanish people are very upset about what has happened all we want is peace.

"A lot of my customers have been phoning me to show their sympathy for us."

The culprits behind the bomb have still not been confirmed but Islamic terror
group al-Qaeda is the prime suspect in what would be its first major attack
since the September 11 atrocities in New York and Washington in 2001.

The bombings in the Spanish capital have prompted Transport for London chiefs to
tighten security on the Tube.

British Transport Police have launched a massive operation on the London
Underground which includes the deployment of plain clothes counter terrorist
patrols in key areas.

Commuters from Enfield who use Underground stations at Cockfosters Oakwood Arnos
Grove and Southgate and others around London have also been urged to stay
vigilant and report any suspicious packages.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke head of the Metropolitan Police
anti-terrorist branch said: "The despicable attacks in Madrid show only too
clearly the threat from terrorism remains very real.

"London continues to be on a high level of alert and security across the capital
remains under constant review."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            March 20, 2004, Saturday

TERROR CRISIS: US TRIAL WOULD PROVOKE ATTACK SAYS DETAINEE'S FATHER

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 345 words


The father of a Black Country man being held in Guantanamo Bay yesterday said if
he was tried by a US military tribunal it would provoke further terrorist
attacks.

Azmet Begg says his son Moazzam, who has been held for two years, should be
returned to the UK for a fair trial here.

Mr Begg said he had not been in touch with the British men released from the
camp, saying they are 'different people' from his son.

'I am not asking any favours, any mercy, all I am saying is bring him back to
this country where he belongs,' he said.

'If necessary, bring him to the court. If he is found guilty, he must be
punished. What else could be fairer than that?'

Asked about the possibility of his son being tried by a US military tribunal, he
said: 'What will happen is terrorists will take advantage of that situation.

'They will say 'he was our man, we have a good reason to attack'. This is what
will happen.'

Mr Begg, of Sparkhill, Birmingham, said he had recently received a letter from
his son, dated October, which said he had now been denied his 'luxury' of being
allowed to run to keep fit in the camp.

He said: 'I raised him, who knows him better than me? Does Mr Bush know him
better than me? Does Mr Blair? No.'

Asked about the other released Guantanamo Bay prisoners, he said: 'We haven't
met them, but I will try to and see them. They are different people from our
family, we didn't know them before.'

Mr Begg has recently returned from the US where he met some relatives of the
victims of September 11.

He said his son had been in Pakistan when he was apprehended, and had previously
been in Afghanistan trying to set up a school.

He added that his family was 'British through thick and thin' and his son would
have no reason to attack the West.

'We are proud British citizens,' he said. 'We are with Britain through thick and
thin. If necessary we will go forward against anyone who attacks this country.

'I feel very unhappy that he has been held, and very unhappy that it is being
done by my own country.'

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            March 20, 2004, Saturday

UK TERROR ATTACK IS SURE TO HAPPEN';
 POLICE EXPERT SAYS IT'S ONLY A MATTER OF TIME

BYLINE: MATT WITHERS

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 409 words


NORTH Wales delegates were yesterday told a terrorist attack on Britain was
inevitable.

National family liaison coordinator Duncan McGarry told a forum of police and
social service workers in Llandudno it was a question of when terrorists struck
rather than if.

And he warned work must be done to ensure officials were ready to deal with the
aftermath.

Det Con McGarry said: "It's going to happen in the UK. I don't know how many
times my Commissioner has been on television and said it, but it is going to
happen.

"And we have to be ready to meet it when it happens.

"I don't have access to the intelligence system in advance but I'm part of the
emergency response team for the UK and we can't be on a higher state of alert.

"We are very susceptible to attack. But I don't know where that will be."

Det Con McGarry is Britain's leading authority on dealing with families of those
killed in atrocities.

He worked with New York police following September 11' and advised Australian
colleagues in the wake of the Bali bombings.

He has also written the international guidelines on family liaison which are
about to be sent to forces across the world.

The Scotsman, who has 22 years' service in the Metropolitan Police, said
officers in the UK were waking up to the new challenge they faced.

He said: "I'm old enough to have lived through the IRA bombings in London and
got very blase about terrible attacks over the years.

"I could tell you horror stories about officers turning up to investigate
suspect packages and giving them a kick. That's what happened. I can assure you
it wouldn't happen now."

He was sent to New York three days after September 11 to deal with the team
liaising with the families of British victims. He said: "Somebody asked, what do
you normally do in these circumstances?I had to laugh.

"But you don't say this is just another family,one of over 3,000'. It's not.
They have lost their child that they brought into the world. It's their
individual tragedy and that's how you deal with it."

Det Con McGarry has been the leading figure in turning around methods of family
liaison in the Met, which he acknowledged have been "in deep trouble" following
botches,including the probe into the death of Stephen Lawrence.

The speech was part of a day long conference, organised by North Wales Victim
Support, to bring together police, social services,and different agencies.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DC Duncan McGarry is family liaison officer

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 March 20, 2004

Hold firm, Bush urges Iraq allies: Washington tries to stiffen resolve as Powell
and Bremer warn that terrorists will step up attacks

BYLINE: Jonathan Steele and Suzanne Goldenberg

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 802 words


President George Bush yesterday urged America's allies to stay the course on
Iraq, using the anniversary of the invasion to call for greater resolve in the
war on terror.

In a week of daily suicide attacks, car bombs and drive-by shootings, and amid
signs of wavering from Washington's coalition partners, Mr Bush paid tribute to
Iraq's "day of deliverance". He also said America and its allies had a
responsibility to press on despite the dangers.

"It is the interest of every country and the duty of every government to fight
and destroy this threat to our people," Mr Bush said in his 20-minute address.

The costs were apparent yesterday. As Mr Bush set off to visit wounded soldiers
at a Washington hospital, at least two explosions rocked the fortified compound
housing the US-led coalition headquarters in Baghdad. Earlier, journalists in
the Iraqi capital walked out of a press conference with the US secretary of
state, Colin Powell, in protest at the killing of two Arab journalists by US
soldiers. Meanwhile, the number of war dead among America's military rose to
572.

"These things are going to keep happening, and it may get worse before it gets
better," Sir Jeremy Greenstock, Britain's envoy to Iraq, told Reuters.

The endurance test ahead - and the challenge of keeping the coalition intact -
appeared to weigh on Washington. In the last week, there has been flagging
resolve from three allies in Iraq: Spain, Poland and now South Korea, which
yesterday said it would not send forces to Kirkuk. Mr Bush acknowledged the
polit ical fallout, mentioning "disagreements . . . among old and valued
friends".

In an attempt to galvanise the international community, Mr Bush invited
diplomats from more than 80 countries to the White House. He described the war
on terror as the calling of the current generation, and said there was no
escaping duty.

"There is no neutral ground - no neutral ground - in the fight between
civilisation and terror because there's no neutral ground between good and evil,
freedom and slavery, and life and death.

"There can be no separate peace with the terrorist enemy. Any sign of weakness
or retreat simply validates terrorist violence and invites more violence for all
nations. The only certain way to protect our people is by united and decisive
action."

In Baghdad, Paul Bremer, the top US official in Iraq, said the US had achieved
"an astonishing record" in the year since the invasion.

He boasted that unemployment had halved from former 60% levels, oil production
was at prewar rates, and the supply of drinking water and electricity was above
them. "When I arrived in early May, there was no traffic on the streets except
US military vehicles, no shops were open, no policemen were on duty," he said.

Although there were now 70,000 Iraqi police in service, security was worse than
he had hoped, and would probably deteriorate in the run-up to the transfer of
sovereignty on June 30.

"We will have some really bad days. The terrorists are going to accelerate the
attacks on innocent men, women and children," he said. However, polls showed the
vast majority of Iraqis were very optimistic about the future.

Mr Powell made an unannounced visit to Baghdad yesterday to discuss arrangements
for an interim government. The United Nations is to join the process and a team
led by Kofi Annan's special envoy, Lakhdar Brahimi, is expected in two weeks'
time.

He also predicted more violence. "We have to shift as the enemy shifts. They
have moved from harder targets to softer targets. We'll have to adapt our
tactics likewise," he said.

He attacked the Spanish government for planning to withdraw its troops. "This is
not the time to say, 'Let's stop what we're doing and pull back.' It's time to
redouble our efforts . . . and not run and hide and think it won't come and get
us," he said.

But Mr Powell ran into protests from Iraqi and other Arab journalists over the
killing of two colleagues, apparently by US troops.

Before he could speak at his press conference, Iraqi journalists, who had taken
seats at the front, stood up. "We declare our boycott of the conference because
of the martyrs," Najim al-Rubaie, of the Iraqi newspaper Distor, read from a
statement.

"We declare our condemnation of the incident which led to the killing of two
journalists at the hands of the American forces," he said. Around 30 journalists
left the room.

Mr Bremer said the US force commander, General Ricardo Sanchez, had begun an
inquiry into the incident.

Iraqi journalists say troops fired on Ali Abdelaz, a cameraman and Ali
al-Khatib, a reporter for the Dubai-based TV channel al-Arabia as they came to
film damage caused by a rocket attack on two Baghdad hotels.

The hunt for al-Qaida, page 4


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             March 21, 2004, Sunday

OFFICIAL: UK WOULD FAIL TO COPE WITH MAJOR TERROR ATTACK;
 EMERGENCY CHIEFS: WE LACK RESOURCES FOR MADRID-SCALE OUTRAGE N

BYLINE: GEOFFREY LEAN, FRANCIS ELLIOTT AND SOPHIE GOODCHILD

SECTION: First Edition; TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1002 words


Britain could not cope with a terrorist bombing on the scale of this month's
atrocity in Madrid, the country's top emergency planners have admitted. It would
be even less able to deal with the aftermath of the chemical, biological or
nuclear attack predicted by ministers and the security services.

They say that the resources provided for emergency planning have declined in
real terms since the destruction of the World Trade Center, that their staff
lack vital equipment and training, that the Government keeps its plans secret
from them, and that the public has not been given enough information on how to
react to an incident.

Patrick Cunningham, the leader of Britain's 500 emergency planners, called the
situation "unbelievable" and described the country as gripped by "a culture of
complacency". And Iain Hoult, their chairman in southern England, added: "We are
very, very badly prepared."

And in another embarrassment for the Government, Britain's security services
face censure for allowing a key suspect in the investigation into the Madrid
bombings to disappear. Mohammed al-Garbuzi - who is believed to have been in
close contact with Jamal Zougam, who is being held by the Spanish police in
connection with the attacks that killed 201 people - fled his London home on
Wednesday night, despite being well known to MI5.

Meanwhile an unyielding President Bush, giving his weekly radio address on the
first anniversary of the start of the Iraq war, said that the United States and
Britain would overcome the wave of terrorist-style attacks destabilising Iraq.
Speaking as demonstrations against the war took place across the globe -
including one of at least 25,000 people in London - he added: "We will never
turn Iraq over to terrorists who intend our own destruction."

On Tuesday Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, and Ken
Livingstone, the Mayor of London, repeated warnings from ministers that a
terrorist attack on the capital was "inevitable". And on Friday Eliza
Manningham-Buller, the head of MI5, said that it was "only a matter of time"
before al-Qa'ida unleashed a weapon of mass destruction in a Western city.

This week representatives of Britain's local authorities are to meet the
Government to demand more resources before the country is caught unawares by
terrorists. The Local Government Association will tell the Cabinet Office and
the Deputy Prime Minister's Office that funds for emergency planning must be
increased after being frozen since before 11 September, 2001.

The money provided for planning has remained at pounds 19m a year since April
2001, which means that it has declined in real terms. No increase is expected
next year And under the Civil Contingencies Bill, now before Parliament, even
this amount will no longer be guaranteed: emergency planners will have to
compete with other local authority priorities for funds.

Yesterday Mr Cunningham, the Chairman of the Emergency Planning Society, said:
"It is absolutely unbelievable. We are concerned that our own emergency plans
are not going to meet public expectations. It just does not make sense."

He stressed that he was not criticising the police, fire and ambulance services,
all of which have received extra funds and equipment over the last two years.
But he says the local authority planners, who are supposed to play a vital role
in the aftermath of a disaster, will be unlikely to be able to "offer anything
other than a token gesture of support".

They could cope with a "traditional IRA bomb" but not with anything on the scale
of the Madrid attacks. Staff lacked protective suits and other essential
equipment, and had not had adequate training.

The planners are supposed to perform a wide range of essential functions. These
include arranging evacuations, feeding the emergency services, mobilising
insurance, finding mortuaries, burying the dead, housing people made homeless
and providing information to the public. While the "blue-light" services quickly
leave the scene, the local authorities are in charge of recovery from the
catastrophe.

"When people are left damp, cold and without clothes after being decontaminated
after an incident, we will have to deal with them", says Paul Reed, who will be
meeting the Government this week on behalf of the Local Government Association.

"It will be no good being told that we might get an improvement in funding next
year, when we might get a terrorist attack tomorrow."

Mr Hoult added that Britain was "very, very badly prepared" for a Madrid- scale
attack. "It is a totally unacceptable position; something has got to happen."

The suspect lost by M15, Mr

Garbuzi, is an Islamic cleric and reportedly a commander of the proscribed Group
of Islamic Combatants of Morocco. "He is probably one of the best-known of the
bunch," said one security source last night.

He was visited by Mr Zougam on one of his trips to Britain, it was reported in
Spain. He is also suspected of entering the country in the company of Imad Eddin
Barakat Yarkas, also known as Abu Dahdah.

Syrian-born Mr Dahdah, a Spanish national, has been held in Spanish custody for
more than two years for being a member of al-Qa'ida and on charges of arms
possession and robbery. Police believe the pair met in London with the radical
cleric Abu Qatada, who has been named in court documents as al-Qa'ida's
"spiritual leader" in Europe.

MI5 have denied that non-essential US embassy staff in London are to be moved
out of the capital to protect them from an al-Qa'ida-style attack. Reports have
been circulating that officials were planning to evacuate the families of US
ambassadorial staff as well as support staff for "the foreseeable future" after
receiving intelligence of a non-specific threat from an al-Qa'ida cell in
Britain.

This threat was understood to have been intercepted and decoded by Norwegian
security services. However, intelligence sources said that no threat had been
received.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             March 21, 2004, Sunday

QUESTIONS OF TERROR: THE HOME FRONT - Q1 ATTACK IS INEVITABLE, SAY THE POLICE.
SO HOW CAN WE STOP IT?;
 FEARS ARE RIFE IN THE WAKE OF THE MADRID BOMBINGS, AND WHILE THE

BYLINE: RAYMOND WHITAKER, PAUL LASHMAR AND SOPHIE GOODCHILD High security levels
at Heathrow airport have been effective in thwarting terrorist attacks. However,
the Madrid bombing proved that other targets are all too vulnerable DAVID
SANDISON; Security forces have been primed for chemical, biological,
radiological or nuclear attacks TOBY MADDEN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1709 words


It is not the first time we have been told that a terrorist attack in Britain is
coming, but in the wake of the slaughter in Madrid, the words of the
Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir John Stevens, were particularly stark.

"There is perhaps an inevitability that some attack will get through," he said
at a press conference last week. The Home Secretary, David Blunkett, agreed. So
did the Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, who said: "It would be miraculous if,
with all the terrorist resources ranged against us, terrorists did not get
through, and ... it would be inconceivable that someone does not get through to
London."

The sense that a strike on a major British city was only a matter of time, with
London the prime target, was clearly in the minds of the commuters who fled
Euston station in near-panic during a security alert the same day, as well as
the police, who immediately cordoned off the entire area. In the 10 days since
the Madrid attacks, 114 suspect packages were reported to British Transport
Police in London and the South-east, a five-fold increase from the 10 days
before the bombings.

Public jitters were also reflected in an incident at Knightsbridge Tube station,
which was evacuated after a rucksack with Arabic writing on it was found on the
platform. A few minutes later, the aggrieved owner called from the next stop to
report his bag missing. It seemed that another passenger panicked and threw it
out of the train.

Given these fears, why are the authorities making such apparently alarmist
statements? For any Londoner who lived through the Blitz or the Cold War, when
scores of nuclear missiles were targeted at the capital, or the IRA campaigns
from the 1970s onwards, when huge bombs devastated parts of the City and
Docklands, explosive devices and incendiaries were left on the Tube and in
shops, and six people - including three policemen - were killed by a car bomb
outside Harrods, today's reactions might seem somewhat hysterical. Even in the
capital, let alone the market towns of Middle England, the chances of any
individual being caught up in a terror attack remain minimal.

Sir John, Mr Blunkett and others might appear to be trying to deflect the
inevitable criticism when such an attack occurs. But similar warnings were
issued when the main threat was from the IRA, and for the same reason: unless
the public is recruited, no amount of intelligence or police work, no matter how
successful, is sufficient to hold back the terrorists.

As the Metropolitan Police head went on to say, it is his duty to make an attack
"difficult, if not impossible". The IRA famously commented, however: "We only
have to be lucky once." And it was never as indiscriminate as al-Qa'ida, which
scorns warnings and seeks maximum casualties.

The conservative Spanish government lost the election last week because it
sought to throw suspicion for the 200 deaths in the Madrid bombings on its own
separatists - the Basque ETA movement - rather than al-Qa'ida. Although the spin
failed, it was supported by the fact that no suicide bombers were involved,
something that had previously seemed a hallmark of al-Qa'ida. However, terrorism
experts say that this makes things even harder for those seeking to prevent a
similar onslaught here.

"Until Madrid," said one, "it had been the case that no successful spectacular'
had been mounted in the West since 9/11. It appeared that improved security had
forced al-Qa'ida to attack symbols of the West in the Third World - mainly in
Muslim countries - such as consulates or military bases. When that became too
difficult, they went after softer targets such as the nightclubs in Bali and a
hotel in Kenya. But in most cases they still had security to penetrate, so they
employed suicide bombers.

"Madrid was different. They did not need to go for a symbol of the West because
they were in the West. All they wanted was to kill as many people as possible,
and for that they didn't have to blow themselves up. Nor did they need airliners
or chemicals or biological agents - just ordinary explosive. If you ask how
might it happen here, the answer is: Take your pick.'"

Much of the discussion and planning for a terrorist attack in Britain tends to
focus on exotic threats, such as what is known as "a CBRN event" - CBRN stands
for chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear - and, at least in public,
lays the stress on coping with the aftermath of such an attack rather than
preventing one. The lesson of Madrid, however, is that radiation detectors at
all Britain's ports, one measure being implemented, cannot deal with a more
conventional peril. Technology such as X-ray scanners that can penetrate
clothing, or electronic devices that can "sniff" explosives, are either too
disruptive to normal life or too far in the future to be much help at all.

But there is another troubling outcome of Madrid: Britain's security forces
increasingly believe any terrorist attack launched with al-Qa'ida's blessing
will be carried out by North Africans, who have been less closely monitored than
people from other Muslim regions, such as the Middle East. "The security
services are seriously worried, because they believe they only have a handle on
about 20 to 25 per cent of radicals from North Africa," said an intelligence
source.

Those arrested by Spanish police over the Madrid bombings are almost all North
Africans. Key suspects have been revealed to have links with fellow radical
Muslims in the UK. Before and since 9/11, MI5 has been behind the disruption of
a number of North African terror cells. Last year a number of Algerians were
arrested over an alleged ricin plot based in North London.

"Spain's North African emigre community consists mainly of Moroccans, for
obvious geographical reasons, and that community provides the cover for
terrorist groups linked to al-Qa'ida. In Britain there tend to be more
Algerians, so that is the group MI5 pays a lot of attention to," said a source
close to intelligence circles. "Algerians are really the only community still
large enough to provide cover for an active service unit."

The emergence of North Africans as frontline terrorists is a relatively new and
growing phenomenon. Initially they tended to act in support roles, such as
providing money and accommodation to active terrorists from the Middle East.
Over the past three years Scotland Yard has targeted a number of Algerian gangs
for credit card and cheque card frauds, with the cash flow known to be linked to
al-Qa'ida sympathisers.

But as it gets harder for al-Qa'ida members, especially those from Saudi Arabia,
Afghanistan and Middle Eastern countries, to move freely around the world,
British-based North Africans are now best placed to mount any terror attack.
"They need to source explosives and bomb-making equipment locally, as
transporting across borders is now too risky," said one intelligence source.

Islamist suspects from North Africa are described as "an amorphous target". The
majority are previously unknown to the authorities, though a number have trained
in the al-Qa'ida camps in Afghanistan. They are just as likely to live in
Manchester or Bournemouth as London.

Security officials believe that Jamal Zougam, arrested by Spanish police in
connection with the Madrid bombings, has contacts with a number of individuals
of North African origin who are at large in the UK. "It is known there are
well-established links to Spain and North Africa," said one well-placed source,
referring to individuals in Britain. But security sources are reluctant to go
into detail, and they dismiss what they say are exaggerated suggestions that the
Spanish inquiry has its roots in Britain.

Jamal Zougam has visited Britain at least once with Imad Eddin Barakat Yarkas,
alias Abu Dahdah, a senior cleric now held in Spain who has been named as
al-Qa'ida's head there. Police believe the pair had a meeting in London with the
extremist cleric Abu Qatada, who is detained at Belmarsh prison in south-east
London.

Such links were one reason for the decision of European Union ministers last
week to appoint a single official to co-ordinate the anti-terrorism work of
member states. Improved international co-ordination is essential to head off
al-Qa'ida, but most of the effort to prevent an attack in Britain consists of
unromantic police work - a poster campaign on public transport, more
plain-clothes officers on trains, spreading the message of vigilance in packed
public venues such as pubs and clubs.

Another cause for concern is that terrorists may use the Thames and other
waterways to move around undetected, so the Met are introducing more high- speed
launches to enable them to patrol more efficiently. There are no immediate plans
to put on extra officers at Heathrow airport. Security sources say terrorists
have looked at attacking Heathrow, but have been put off by the airport's high
security.

The fact that terrorists are believed to have used mobile phones to detonate the
Madrid bombs has led to calls for London Underground to rethink plans to enable
their use in deep tunnels. "Texting is a luxury, security is not," said Simon
Hughes, the Liberal Democrat mayoral candidate for London, but the Underground
says no decision has been made. There have also been reports that the security
services have started "jamming" mobile phones in the vicinity of Tony Blair, to
prevent a potential attack on the Prime Minister.

The terrorist threat may have all kinds of longer-term consequences, such as
aiding Mr Blunkett in his campaign to introduce identity cards. But the fact is
that Britain reviewed its alert state after Madrid, and did not change it: we
have been on the second highest level for more than two years now.

The conundrum for the authorities is how to keep the public aware of the danger
without sowing widespread panic. Partly because of the IRA, this country has
learned to live with the ever-present fear of an attack, but if and when the
predictions of Sir John Stevens and the rest come true, that may be no comfort.

There is perhaps an inevitability that some attack will get through'

Sir John Stevens, Metropolitan Police Commissioner

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                                 March 22, 2004

Poverty is not to blame for world terror attacks

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 120 words


David Evans, Points of view, March 17, insults those who live in the developing
world by suggesting there is a direct correlation between poverty and terrorism.
The men who flew planes into the World Trade Center and killed thousands of
innocent civilians were not poor.

Moreover, they were directed by a multi-millionaire member of one of Saudi
Arabia's wealthiest families. Many of al-Qaeda's victims have been poor people
in Africa, Pakistan, Afghanistan and other countries.

Mr Evans needs to wise up to the fact that the terrorist threat comes from
people driven by fanaticism and hatred for our values of freedom and democracy,
not concern for the poor.

Miss C Harris Magdalen Road Exeter

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 March 22, 2004

Britain not ready to cope with terror attack, warn emergency workers: Planning
Ministers reject local authority body's fears

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 553 words


Politicians and officials were locked in argument yesterday about Britain's
preparedness to cope with a terrorist atrocity.

Warnings from local authority emergency planners that the country could not cope
with a terror attack on the scale of the Madrid train bombings were dismissed by
ministers as little more than a manoeuvre to win more funding.

But at the same time union leaders representing firefighters and ambulance staff
in London said their members did not believe that Britain was ready to deal with
a largescale attack.

The Local Government Association is expected to tell the Cabinet Office and
Deputy Prime Minister's Office this week that funds for emergency planning -
currently drawn from a £19m a year budget - must be increased.

Patrick Cunningham, chairman of the Emergency Planning Society, said local
authority planners would be able to offer little more than "a token gesture of
support" in the aftermath of a major disaster.

Mr Cunningham said staff, whose roles could include organising evacuations and
assisting the homeless, lacked essential equipment and training. He added: "We
are concerned that our own emergency plans are not going to meet public
expectations."

He told the Independent on Sunday that police, fire and ambulance services had
all received extra funds and equipment in the last two years to help them
prepare for terrorist attacks.

But local authority planners were trained to cope with a "traditional IRA bomb"
but not with anything on the scale of the al-Qaida attack on Madrid. Iain Hoult,
the organisation's chairman in southern England, said Britain was "very, very
badly prepared".

But Nick Raynsford, the local government minister who has special responsibility
for "London resilience", said Mr Hoult was representing local authority planners
who are negotiating for increased funding "and probably that's what lies behind
his comments. All those emergency planners who have been closely involved in
London's preparedness are very well aware of all the planning that's been put in
place and I don't think you'll hear a similar comment from them".

Mr Raynsford told ITV1's The Week programme that contingency plans were
advanced: "London is as prepared as it possibly can be."

The defence secretary, Geoff Hoon, told ITV1's Jonathan Dimbleby programme: "I
believe that significant efforts have been made, led by the Home Office, in
order to en sure that we can react properly and effectively to any such threat."

Mick Shaw, of the Fire Brigades Union, questioned the speed of implementation of
security plans. "There is new equipment coming on line. We have got four interim
incident response units, which will be used for decontamination, and there will
be another six at the beginning of next month.

"We are also getting vehicles for urban search and rescue and we have had people
go to Texas for state of the art training. Later this year we will be in good
shape but as of now we are not a lot better than we were on September 11 2001."

* The Foreign Office said last night that Britain's embassy in Algiers had been
moved at the weekend to the Hilton hotel because of security concerns. The move
followed a review after November's bombing of the British consulate in Istanbul.

Leader comment, page 19


LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                             March 22, 2004 Monday

WE COULD NOT COPE WITH BIG TERRORIST ATTACK, SAY EMERGENCY PLANNERS

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; News

LENGTH: 563  words



HIGHLIGHT: Britain could not cope with a terrorist bombing on the scale of this
month's atrocity in Madrid, the country's top ...


Britain could not cope with a terrorist bombing on the scale of this month's
atrocity in Madrid, the country's top emergency planners have admitted, reported
The Independent on Sunday (pp1-2).It would be even less able to deal with the
aftermath of the chemical, biological or nuclear attack predicted by ministers
and the security services.Resources for emergency planning have declined in real
terms since the destruction of the World Trade Center, according to those in
charge of the UK's planning. They say their staff lack vital equipment and
training, that the government keeps its plans secret from them and that the
public has not been given enough information on how to react to an
incident.Patrick Cunningham, leader of Britain's 500 emergency planners, called
the situation 'unbelievable', and described the country as gripped by 'a culture
of complacency'. Iain Hoult, their chairman in southern England, added: 'We are
very, very badly prepared'.This week representatives of local authorities are to
meet the government to demand more resources before the country is caught
unawares by terrorists. The Local Government Association will tell the Cabinet
Office and the ODPM that funds for emergency planning must be increased after
being frozen since before 11 september 2001.The money provided for planning has
remained at £19m a year since April 2001. No increase is expected next year, and
under the Civil Contingencies Bill, now before parliament, even this amount will
no longer be guaranteed: emergency planners will have to compete with other
local authority priorities for funds.Mr Cunningham, chairman of the Emergency
Planning Society, said: 'It is absolutely unbelievable.

We are concerned that our own emergency plans are not going to meet public
expectations. It just does not make sense'.He stressed he was not criticising
the police, fire and ambulance services, all of which had received extra funds
and equipment in the past two years. But he said the local authority planner s,
who were supposed to play a vital role in the aftermath of a disaster, were
unlikely to be able to 'offer anything other than a token gesture of
support'.They could cope with a 'traditional IRA bomb' but not with anything of
the scale of the Madrid attacks. Staff lacked protective suits and other
essential equipment and had not had adequate training.The planners are supposed
to perform a wide range of essential functions. These include arranging
evacuations, feeding the emergency services, mobilising insurance, finding
mortuaries, buring the dead, housing those made homeless and providing
information to the public. While the 'blue-light' services leave the scene
quickly, local authorities are in charge of recovery from the catastrophe.Paul
Reed, who will be meeting government this week on behalf od the Local Government
Association, said: 'It will be no good being told that we might get an
improvement in funding next year, when we might get a terrorist attack
tomorrow'.Mr Hoult said there was no structure enabling neighbouring local
authorities to help each other, and that the government was keeping vital
information secret. The planners were not being told enough about the
government's plans even though they would have to work with them, and the public
was not told enough about what to do after an attack because ministers were
afraid of causing panic.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2004 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 23, 2004

Terror czar warns of attack at the Stock Exchange

BYLINE: RICHARD EDWARDS

SECTION: B; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 226 words


TERRORISTS are likely to attack "softer targets" to disable the way of life in
Britain, Whitehall's most senior figure in homeland defence has warned.

Sir David Omand, the Government's security and intelligence co-ordinator, has
claimed that in the face of increased security, terrorists will attempt to
disrupt the Stock Exchange, shopping centres and computer systems.

Speaking to a conference at the Royal Institute of International Affairs in
London, he said hackers may paralyse computer networks operating water supplies,
electricity grids, air traffic control and credit card systems.

Sir David said: "We must expect there will be a shift to softer targets
including economic targets in response to our enhanced security."

He warned that terrorists would have a growing interest in access to biological
and chemical agents and radiological material. "We should expect attacks on our
information infrastructure, some from terrorist-inspired motives as well as
criminal," he added.

. Pakistani forces believe leading al Qaeda suspects may have escaped their
besieged mud fortress through a mile-long tunnel discovered in their mountain
hideout on the border with Afghanistan.

The revelation came as DNA tests were carried out to identify foreign terrorists
killed in the weeklong offensive in South Waziristan.

END

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 March 23, 2004

Education: Learn: Tackling terror: Classroom discussions are a good way to
tackle pupils' questions and anxieties about recent terrorist attacks in Madrid,
says Jerome Monahan

BYLINE: Jerome Monahan

SECTION: Guardian Education Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 793 words


The terrible scenes in Madrid, reports of hundreds dying and injured and the
concerns that what happened on commuter trains could have happened in the UK and
still might, pose considerable challenges to teachers. How is it possible to
make sense of such terrible events in a way that does not fuel children's
prejudices or fan their undoubted anxieties?

The UK is currently a stated target of international terrorists. That, and the
fact that many children will have been exposed to the news, makes it appropriate
for time to be given over in class to the discussion of terrorism.

Charting anxiety

In September 2003, a report was published showing that news reports often had
far more potential to scare young people than violence in fictional contexts
(www.ofcom.org.uk/static/ archive /itc/uploads/HOW-CHILDREN -IN TERPRET-SCREEN-
VIOLENCE. pdf). In the light of this research, teachers might like to unpack
students' reactions to what they have seen in Madrid. Do they think people of
their age should be encouraged to see such things or should they be protected?
And if such scenes should be filtered, how does such censorship square with the
other forms of violence they see on TV? And are there moments of suffering that
should be protected from intruding cameras? Which scenes did they find the most
upsetting and why - the immediate aftermath of the explosions or the funerals?
By contrast, what was their response to film of the huge demonstrations in
Spanish cities?

What is terrorism?

The idea of using terror to coerce people is not new. The Greek historian
Xenophon (c431-350BC) wrote in praise of psychological warfare, but "terrorism"
is a modern phenomenon.

Ask students what their definition of "terrorism" might be. According to
Professor Paul Wilkinson of St Andrews University, terrorism involves the
deliberate creation of fear in selected populations - frequently civilian
populations. This is done through seemingly random attacks on symbolic targets.
And, he adds, terror ism invariably violates human rights, breaking the rules
that are meant to govern human conflict.

There is much in this to explore. Discussions might focus on what "symbolic
targets" might mean. Clearly the destruction of the World Trade Centre and the
attack on the Pentagon were hugely symbolic. So, too, were the Madrid train
bombs, but for different reasons.

Both 9/11 and the Madrid attacks relied on the power of the mass media to bring
such events into our living rooms. Is that a factor in terrorists seeking ever
more spectacular outrages?

The 'new' terrorism

Most terrorism has clearly defined national aims, often geared to gaining
greater independence for a region or specific people. Eta, initially blamed for
the Madrid bombing, seeks an independent Basque homeland. Al-Qaida also has
specific territorial ambitions, including the wish to gain control of the
Islamic holy places, overthrowing the current rulers of Saudi Arabia. But its
aims go far beyond this. Hatred of the US and all its allies is fuelled by a
highly aggressive interpretation of Islam and the dream of a united Islamic
world, run along the lines the Taliban imposed on Afghanistan.

Furthermore, al-Qaida is, says Professor Wilkinson, "an incorrigible
organisation" - partly because of its fanatical beliefs and its loose
organisation, based on a structure that has been compared with grapes on a vine,
each bunch knowing nothing of those growing elsewhere on the plant.

Al-Qaida's goals are, suggests Professor John Gray of the London School of
Economics, in keeping with many other modern ideologies that have dreamt of
perfecting the human race, Nazism and communism included. Ask students what
their idea would be of a perfectly peaceful global society and how it might be
brought about. What are the dangers of such a goal? What sorts of powers would a
government need to achieve and maintain this new world order?

A key concern for teachers must be that condemnation does not spill over into
prejudiced views about Muslims in general. The topic could, in fact, provide an
ideal means of looking at the contri bution Islam has made to world culture and
the central importance of life and peace in its philosophy. It is also worth
pointing out how many Muslims have suffered in al-Qaida atrocities.

Could it happen here?

The question provides an ideal opportunity to explore the response being planned
by the government. The Home Office site is packed with information
(www.homeoffice.gov.uk/ terrorism/index.html).

Clearly, the fear of an attack and the consequences should also be discussed.
What aspects of our liberty should we be prepared to sacrifice in the face of
such an implacable enemy as al-Qaida?


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 23, 2004, Tuesday

BILLIONS WIPED OFF SHARES AFTER ISRAELI STRIKE HEIGHTENS FEARS OF TERRORIST
ATTACKS

BYLINE: PHILIP THORNTON ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 621 words


STOCK MARKETS tumbled across the Western world yesterday as Israel's
assassination of the spiritual leader of the militant group Hamas triggered
fresh security fears just days after the Spanish bomb attacks.

Billions of pounds were wiped off the value of shares in London, New York,
Frankfurt, Paris, Madrid and every other major trading centre in Europe.

The rapid escalation of violence in the Middle East sent investors scrambling
for safe havens for their money such as gold, whose prices hit a two-month high.

Jeremy Batstone, research director at Fyshe Group stockbrokers, said: "We are
all walking a tightrope that's a consequence of the dangerous escalation of the
situation in the Middle East." He said yesterday's violence had occurred while
markets were still recovering from the Madrid bombings last week and had
reinforced mounting concern over the sustainability of the global economic
recovery.

On Wall Street the Dow Jones plunged as much 150 points or 1.2 per cent, at one
point threatening to break though the 10,000 level it has held above since
December.

In London the FTSE 100 fell 98 points or 2.3 per cent before ending down 83.9 at
4,333.8, its worst finish since 16 December. The French, German, Italian,
Spanish, Dutch and Swiss blue chip markets also all fell at least 2 per cent.

Richard Batty, a global investment strategist at Standard Life Investments,
said: "This is obviously concerning the markets given what happened in Madrid."

The prime losers were travel stocks as dealers dumped shares that could be hit
by a fall in tourism and travel in the wake of the latest outbreak of terrorism
and the resulting fear of future violence.

The dollar fell 1 per cent against the euro as the US currency fell across the
board, while prices of bonds rose and gold futures in New York hit a two-month
high.

However, the oil price fell as leading members of the producers' cartel Opec
signalled they would step back from their promise to cut production next month.
Venezuela and Qatar said surging prices, which recently hit $ 38 a barrel in the
US, meant Opec needed to "stabilise" the price.

Julian Lee, an analyst at the Centre for Global Energy Studies, said strong
demand and low stocks meant the market was much tighter than some had
anticipated. "Opec is increasingly aware that the world needs more oil than they
would have given if they were prepared to implement the output cuts."

Analysts said the stock markets were also weighed down by concerns about
political instability in Taiwan and weekend reports that the UK would not be
able to deter a terrorist attack on British soil.

Economists said yesterday's falls simply extended a recent run of declines on
stock markets. "Something wider is going on as well," Mr Batty said. "People
have become a bit scared that the momentum is leaving the equity markets and
things are slowing in the global economy."

He said a vacuum of hard economic and business news was allowing speculation to
fester ahead of the second quarter corporate earnings season the US. He added
that he expected the US corporate sector to deliver positive news next month,
which would bring the recent sell-off on the stock markets to a halt. Mr
Batstone concurred, commenting: "It is a buying opportunity - but not yet."

Economists in the UK are waiting for testimony from Mervyn King, the Governor of
the Bank of England, and several members of the Monetary Policy Committee, to
give clues as to the timing of the next interest rate rise.

George Buckley at Deutsche Bank said: "If the committee is going to signal the
risks for an early tightening this is a clear opportunity to do so."

Travel stocks slump, page 37

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            March 23, 2004, Tuesday

ISRAEL TO ATTACK TERRORIST LEADERS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 221 words


ISRAEL has defied world condemnation of the assassination of Hamas founder
Sheikh Ahmed Yassin, and vowed to continue attacks on terror group leaders.

"The war against terror has not ended and will continue day after day,
everywhere," prime minister Ariel Sharon said.

Meanwhile,Israeli tanks moved into northern Gaza after Palestinian fighters
launched rocket attacks in retaliation for the death of Yassin in an Israeli air
strike yesterday.

Palestinian fury boiled over in Gaza and the West Bank after the assassination,
which threatened to catapult the 42-month conflict to a new level of violence.

Hundreds of thousands thronged the streets of Gaza City for Yassin's funeral
procession. Hamas threatened punishing revenge attacks against Israel, also
hinting for the first time that the United States could become a target for
backing Israel.

Thirteen British soldiers were injured in clashes with demonstrators in the
southern Iraqi city of Basra. The troops were said to have fired tear gas at
protesters after being attacked with rocks,petrol bombs and grenades.

A judge today charged four more suspects -three Moroccans and a Spaniard -with
terrorism and mass killings over the Madrid bombings. The charges were made at
Madrid's National Court, and bring to nine the total number charged.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 23, 2004, Tuesday

GATES OF HELL;
 TERRORISTS PROMISE US REVENGE ATTACKS ON ISRAEL, AND ITS ALLIES FOR

BYLINE: MARK DOWDNEY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 759 words

HIGHLIGHT: ORDER: Sharon; BLAST: Remains of Yassin's wheelchair at mosque;
ANGER: Mourners carry Yassin coffin yesterday; SHOW OF FORCE: Masked gunmen from
Hamas at funeral; PRAYERS: Arafat


HAMAS terrorists vowed yesterday that Israel had opened the "gates to hell" by
assassinating their spiritual leader Sheikh Yassin.

Last night Israelis were bracing themselves for a wave of attacks from the
feared suicide bombers, whose supporters pledged: "We'll make a funeral in every
street."

In a chilling escalation of tension the al-Qaeda linked Abu Hafs al-Masri
Brigade called for vengeance attacks on the US and its allies, declaring:
"Yassin's blood was not spilt in vain."

The assassination was condemned worldwide. The US was "deeply troubled".

But Israeli Defence Minister Shaul Mofaz hit back: "If we think how many more
terrorists Yassin would have sent, we acted correctly."

Wheelchair-bound Yassin - paralysed from the neck down since a swimming accident
at the age of 12 - died in an Israeli missile strike as he left 5.30am prayers
at a mosque near his Gaza home.

At least seven others were killed in the attack which was personally
masterminded by Israeli Premier Ariel Sharon.

Fifteen others, including two of Yassin's sons, were wounded.

The 67-year-old sheikh, who founded Hamas in 1987, was found lying in blood
among the remains of his wheelchair.

After the strike, a wave of revenge swept through Gaza and the West Bank.
Residents near the mosque rubbed their hands in pieces of gravel mixed with
Yassin's blood, a traditional sign of revenge.

Hamas declared: "Sharon has opened the gates of hell and nothing will stop us
from cutting off his head."

The militant Al-Aqsa Martyr's Brigade said: "An eye for an eye. There will be a
response within hours, God willing."

Hundreds of young Palestinians rushed to volunteer as suicide bombers. Fanatical
Hezbollah guerrillas in the Lebanon pledged to join the attacks on Israel.

In Gaza 200,000 mourners took to the streets in the biggest public turnout in a
decade.

A militant gunman, his mask soaked in tears, sobbed: "We have lost a great
hero." Beside him, the crowd chanted: "Sharon, start preparing your bodybags." A
taxi driver wept: "I cry today as never before. A black future awaits."

Flags at Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's Ramallah HQ were at half-mast.

Arafat recited a Muslim prayer for Yassin, and added: "May you join the martyrs
and prophets. To heaven, you martyr."

The threat by the Abu Hafs Brigade, who claimed responsibility for the Madrid
bombings, appeared on an Islamist website. It could not be verified.

Last night, sporadic violence broke out. Three Israelis were stabbed by an Arab
on a Tel Aviv bus. Another three were attacked outside an army base by an Arab
armed with an axe.

None of the victims was seriously hurt. Palestinian militants fired several
homemade rockets at an Israeli checkpoint in the Gaza Strip.

Yassin, who escaped a previous assassination bid in September, had never tried
to hide.

A week ago, he warned Sharon; "When a Hamas leader is killed a hundred other
leaders arise."

But though supporters said the sheikh was a moderating influence Sharon branded
him an "arch-terrorist".

The defiant Premier told Israeli MPs yesterday: "The state of Israel this
morning hit the first and foremost leader of the Palestinian terrorist
murderers.

"The war on terrorism is not over and will continue daily."

Not all Sharon's own backers wanted to kill Yassin. Interior minister Avraham
Poraz, who voted against the decision, said it could lead to the loss of many
more Israeli lives.

With the so-called peace process now at a standstill, Palestinian Prime Minister
Qurie said: "This was a crazy and dangerous act. It opens the door to chaos."
The world stood aghast the highest-profile assassination of a Palestinian since
the 1988 killing of Abu Jihad in Tunis.

Washington denied Hamas accusations it had given Israel the green light to kill
Yassin.

Instead, the White House said: "We are deeply troubled by this morning's actions
in Gaza."

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said Israel had a right to defend itself against
terrorism.

But he added: "It is not entitled to go for this kind of unlawful killing. It's
unacceptable, unjustified and unlikely to achieve its objectives."

UN Secretary General Kofi Annan said: "I condemn the targeted assassination of
Ahmed Yassin. It is contrary to international law."

Representatives of Arab countries have asked the Security Council to issue a
statement on the attack. If there is no agreement they will demand a Security
Council debate.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 6

mirrornews @mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 23, 2004, Tuesday

GATES OF HELL;
 TERRORISTS PROMISE REVENGE ATTACKS ON ISRAEL, US AND ITS ALLIES FOR

BYLINE: MARK DOWDNEY

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 784 words

HIGHLIGHT: BLAST: Remains of Yassin's wheelchair at mosque; ANGER: Mourners
carry Yassin coffin yesterday; Picture: REUTERS; SHOW OF FORCE: Masked gunmen
from Hamas at funeral; ORDER: Sharon yesterday; PRAYERS: Arafat yesterday


HAMAS terrorists vowed yesterday that Israel had opened the "gates to hell" by
assassinating their spiritual leader Sheikh Yassin.

Last night Israelis were bracing themselves for a wave of attacks from the
feared suicide bombers who have killed hundreds of innocents in the last 10
years.

In a chilling escalation of tension the al-Qaeda linked Abu Hafs al-Masri
Brigade - who claimed responsibility for the Madrid bombings - also called for
vengeance.

It said: "Yassin's blood was not spilt in vain. We call on Brigades to attack
the tyrant of the age, America, and its allies."

The killing was condemned by Arab states, the West and the UN.

But Israeli finance minister Binyamin Netanhayu hit back: "If in the short term
there'll be a harsh response from Hamas, in the long term the effect will be to
rein it in." Blind and paralysed Yassin died in an Israeli missile strike as he
left a mosque near his Gaza home.

At least seven others were killed in the attack masterminded from his desert
ranch by Israeli Premier Ariel Sharon.

Fifteen others, including two of Yassin's sons, were wounded. The 67-year-old
sheikh, who founded Hamas in 1987, was found bloodied among the remains of his
wheelchair.

A wave of revenge swept through Gaza and the West Bank. Hamas declared: "Sharon
has opened the gates of hell and nothing will stop us from cutting off his
head." The militant Al-Aqsa Martyr's Brigade said: "An eye for an eye. There
will be a response within hours, God willing."

Hundreds of young Palestinians rushed to volunteer as suicide bombers. Fanatical
Hezbollah guerrillas in the Lebanon pledged to join attacks on Israel.

In Gaza 200,000 mourners took to the streets in the biggest public turnout in a
decade.

The crowd chanted: "Sharon, start preparing your bodybags."

A militant gunman, his mask soaked in tears, sobbed: "We have lost a great
hero." A taxi driver wept: "I cry today as never before. A black future awaits."

Some rubbed their hands in gravel mixed with Yassin's blood, a traditional sign
of revenge. Flags at Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's Ramallah HQ were at
half-mast. He recited a prayer for Yassin, adding: "May you join the martyrs and
go to heaven."

The threat by the Abu Hafs Brigade appeared on an Islamist website. It could not
be verified.

Last night Israeli tanks moved into the Gaza Strip to fire at least four rockets
at Palestinians.

Three Israelis were stabbed by an Arab on a Tel Aviv bus. Three more were
attacked outside an army base by an Arab with an axe. None was seriously hurt.

Yassin, paralysed from the neck down at the age of 12 after competing with
youngsters to see who could stand on their head the longest, had never tried to
hide.

He cheated an assassination attempt in September, and warned Sharon: "When a
Hamas leader is killed 100 others arise."

But though supporters said the sheikh was a moderating influence Sharon branded
him an "arch-terrorist".

The defiant Premier told Israeli MPs yesterday: "The state of Israel this
morning hit the first and foremost leader of the Palestinian terrorist
murderers.

"The war on terrorism is not over and will continue daily."

But interior minister Avraham Poraz, who voted against the decision, said it
could lead to the loss of many more Israeli lives.

With the peace process grievously wounded, Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed
Qurie said: "This was a crazy act. It opens the door to chaos." The world stood
aghast at the highest-profile assassination of a Palestinian since the 1988
killing of Abu Jihad in Tunis.

The US denied Hamas accusations it had given Israel the green light to kill
Yassin.

Instead, the White House said: "We are deeply troubled by this morning's actions
in Gaza." British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said Israel had a right to defend
itself against terrorism.

But he added: "It's not entitled to go for this kind of unlawful killing. It's
unacceptable, unjustified and unlikely to achieve its objectives."

UN Secretary General Kofi Annan said: "I condemn this targeted assassination.
It's contrary to international law and does nothing to help peace."

Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak said: "With this act the peace process is
aborted."

But Lord Janner, vice president of the World Jewish Congress, said: "As Britain
seeks to rid the world of Osama bin Laden so Yassin's death should be seen as a
victory in the free world's war against terror."

Fears of a bloodbath wiped pounds 20billion off the value of Britain's top
companies, sending the Stock Market to a three-month low. In the US 100 points
were slashed off the Dow Jones index.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 6

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 23, 2004, Tuesday

Condemnation of terrorist attacks

SECTION: Features; 19

LENGTH: 227 words


From Imam Dr Abduljalil Sajid Sir, Mr P. W. Giles says (letter, March 18) that
he has not been able to find in any of the broadsheets any senior British Muslim
representatives condemning the horrors of Madrid. On the day of the bombings,
the Muslim Council of Britain (MCB) released a press release, part of which
read:

The Muslim Council of Britain condemns these atrocities totally and
unequivocally.

The hearts of Muslims and all peoples of conscience go out to families of those
whose loved ones have been murdered and those who have been wounded in these
appalling atrocities. Our heartfelt condolences go out to the Spanish people at
this time of shock and grief. The MCB also condemns the use of the term "Islamic
terrorists" (in the media) to describe these clearly evil people who carried out
these heinous crimes. (We) hope that the organisers and perpetrators of these
monumental crimes against humanity will soon be identified and held to account.

You have since reported (March 19) that the MCB is "urgently consulting its
members and mosques on proposals for a rally to underline Muslim condemnation of
the Madrid bombings and al-Qaeda violence".

Yours sincerely, ABDULJALIL SAJID (Chairman), Muslim Council for Religious and
Racial Harmony UK, 8 Caburn Road, Hove, East Sussex BN3 6EF.

sajid@imamsajid.com

March 19.


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 24, 2004

Thames barrier plan to shield MPs from terror attackers

BYLINE: JUSTIN DAVENPORT; DICK MURRAY

SECTION: A; Pg. 1; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 708 words


DRAMATIC plans to counter an al Qaeda attack on London were revealed today.

A massive floating barrier may be placed in the Thames to protect the Houses of
Parliament from suicide bombers in boats.

Consideration may also be given to replacing the fences around the Commons and
Lords with a 15ft concrete wall topped with razor wire and patrolled by armed
police.

And a major review of security at Westminster - ordered before two antiwar
protesters climbed Big Ben - has also proposed closing a series of roads around
the area, including Parliament Square.

One security source said: "There are some measures we can take to protect
Parliament from the road but it is much more difficult to protect from the
river."

Other new precautions include a glass screen between the Strangers' Gallery and
the Commons to prevent an attack on the Prime Minister or other MPs.

A new official may take control of security from the traditional post of
Serjeant-at-Arms.

The measures were drawn up after talks between Speaker of the House of Commons,
Michael Martin, Commons leader Peter Hain, Scotland Yard Commissioner Sir John
Stevens and MI5 chief Eliza Manningham-Buller.

Concern over the possibility of an attack along the river means the Thames now
has Britain's only armed boat police and river traffic is monitored by high
definition cameras.

Despite the new measures, a series of leaked documents seen by the Standard
raise major questions over how ready London is for the nightmare scenario of a
chemical, biological or "dirty bomb" attack.

The internal Government papers were disclosed as London's emergency planners
held their first summit on dealing with a terror strike since the Madrid
bombings.

But their meeting was overshadowed by minutes from a high-powered committee-in
John Prescott's Office of the Deputy Prime Minister which reveal serious
concerns over the "New Dimension" project to prepare emergency services,
especially the fire brigade, for a chemical, biological or "dirty bomb" attack.

They reveal that: . Last year a modest £3million was "allocated for expenditure
on mass decontamination" - not just for London, but the whole country.

. A lack of funding in 2003 meant there was no "effective and integrated
response" to training for a doomsday terror attack or communicating in the
aftermath of one.

. A large percentage of the New Dimension budget is to be spent on new equipment
for firefighters. But there will be no cash for the staff to operate it.

. In January 2004 fire brigades, including the London Fire Service, were told
there will be no extra cash to cope with the New Dimension project.

. Existing fire engines and other fire service vehicles would be too small to
carry decontamination equipment needed in the event of an attack. They need to
be redesigned but this has not been done - partly because bigger vehicles would
not fit in fire stations.

The most recent of the leaked memos discloses that the project will not be
complete until 2006 - five years after September 11.

And it shows massive concern among fire and council chiefs that there will be no
long-term funding Today local government minister Nick Raynsford defended the
Government's handling of emergency planning. "We are paying a great deal of
money for the acquisition of the new equipment and we are providing a very
substantial amount of money towards the fire service generally," he said. "We
have got £56 million of mass decontamination kit all in place, distributed to
fire authorities throughout the country ready for use. That is a major
programme."

But Mr Raynsford is already facing serious criticism that cash was spent on the
decontamination equipment while a massive investment in the sort of search and
rescue equipment used at the World Trade Centre is still in the pipeline.

And today emergency planning officers warned that massive secrecy demanded
Government is stopping them from reassuring the public. David Kerry, chairman of
London's local authority emergency planners, said today: "It's so difficult not
being able to talk about the things we're doing or not.

"I'm not able to say whether the response for a catastrophic attack is good or
not."

END

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 March 24, 2004

Are we safe in their hands?: Today London's emergency planners - led by a man
who made his name helping buses negotiate traffic lights - will meet to assess
their readiness for the terror attack police say is inevitable. But why aren't
they telling us more? And are they preparing for the right threat? Oliver
Burkeman investigates

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1902 words


In the event of a catastrophic terrorist attack on Heathrow airport, a computer
system will telephone David Kerry at work, and at home, and on his mobile, over
and over, until it tracks him down. If the mobile networks over south-west
London are jammed with calls from panicked travellers, the government will
implement its access control overload scheme, blocking all but a few privileged
handsets. In this way, Kerry will be summoned to his control centre, a chilly
room on the second floor of Hounslow town hall that waits, silent and empty, for
exactly this eventuality.

He will do all this, one suspects, with an absolute minimum of fuss, and a hint
of tongue-in-cheek brusqueness. "I hope you're not one of these people who think
it's confrontational to sit across a table from someone. No? Good," says Kerry,
sliding into a seat at the control centre. A man of reassuring bulk, Kerry is
Hounslow's emergency planning officer, and chair of all London's local-authority
emergency planners - and he seems to see a big part of his job as instilling
much-needed backbone in soft metropolitan backs. "You take a village in the
middle of nowhere, gets cut off by the snow, the power's down? Oh well, fine -
we've got the camping gas, got the candles, make a few babies, there you go. But
in London people always say: 'What are you going to do for us?' "

Today, at a location that the government refuses to disclose, the capital's most
senior emergency planners will attend a gathering of the London Resilience
Forum, the body established weeks after September 11 to prepare for an attack
that politicians and police now freely refer to as "inevitable". It will be the
first such meeting since the Madrid bombings - and the first since this
weekend's claim by Nick Raynsford, the minister who chairs the forum, that
"London is as prepared as it possibly can be". Among those present will be
Philip Selwood, the man in charge of the ambulance service's response to an
attack, and when I asked him if he agreed with Raynsford's assessment, he
paused. "I wouldn't want to contradict the minister," he said at length. "My
position would be that the level of preparedness is continuing to develop."

Finding out what this kind of statement actually means is not easy. Near-total
secrecy seems to be London Resilience's preferred mode of operation, to the
intense frustration of several of the crisis planners involved, who told the
Guardian they believe more openness is essential to quell public fear. Only
basic details of a few subgroups have been made public - the Blue Lights
subcommittee, for example, which coordinates the emergency services, and working
groups on everything from rubble clearance to finding sites for temporary
mortuaries. In the absence of further facts, panicky nuggets have inevitably
come to dominate, such as last year's claim, made by one government adviser,
that people seeking to flee a chemical or biological attack "would be stopped",
trapped within police cordons.

Among the hundreds of men and women placed in the surreal position of being paid
to prepare for something they hope will never happen, though, it is clear that
the atrocity in Spain has jangled nerves. "The incident in Madrid has raised the
agenda to another level - simultaneous bombs, no notice of attack, designed to
cause maximum fatalities," says Selwood. There have been "a heck of a lot of
meetings" in the past two weeks, one highly placed government official said.
Each attack "is a wake-up call", the official went on, before being struck with
an afterthought. "Except we're not asleep, of course."

The man at the front of the front line is Zyg Kowalczyk, director of the London
Resilience Team, the forum's executive wing. When the World Trade Centre towers
fell, Kowalczyk was looking after the deputy prime minister's BusPlus
initiative, making sure London buses were fitted with radio devices to enable
them to communicate with traffic lights and thus speed traffic flow. But his
earlier role in helping London prepare for the Millennium bug had clearly
impressed his superiors: within days of 9/11 he was plucked from public
transport to introduce the capital to the newly minted concept of resilience.

Where the American idea of "homeland security" evokes a permanent state of war,
"resilience" is a stiff-upper-lipped, British kind of word, evoking, if
anything, a permanent state of insisting that everything is perfectly fine. In
Dealing With Disaster, the 96-page tract compiled by the Civil Contingencies
Secretariat in the Cabinet Office, it is defined as the ability "at every
relevant level to detect, prevent, and, if necessary, to handle and recover from
disruptive challenges". Ken Lawson, director of training and doctrine at the
government's Emergency Planning College, at Easingwold in North Yorkshire, could
probably flesh all this out, but chooses not to. "Put it this way: I refer
(media) queries to the Cabinet Office, and I've never heard anything back. Of
course," the former military man adds with what sounds over the telephone like
heavy irony, "this might mean that they have answered all your questions
perfectly."

If an attack takes place, though, and the conceptual gives way to the practical,
even Kowalczyk will step aside, deferring to the police. Senior officers will
coordinate response to the developing crisis from a "gold control" room in the
bowels of New Scotland Yard, while Downing Street's team will activate the
monitoring unit known as Cobra, an acronym altogether more impressive than its
full name, Cabinet Office Briefing Room A.

At this point, a grim hierarchy kicks in. Mobile phones will be blocked, if
necessary, and non-critical patients may be cleared from hospital beds. And at
the ambulance headquarters in Waterloo, an ever so slightly tatty room adjacent
to the main 999 call centre will be cleared of its usual occupants, whose job is
to dispatch vans and buses on the least urgent missions, ferrying the old and
infirm to hospital appointments and the like. They will move elsewhere, and
Selwood's team will settle in for the duration.

Selwood has practised for this - most publicly in the Osiris II exercise last
September, which simulated a chemical attack on the underground at Bank - but
there are limits to what he can do. "We get about 3,000 calls a day in London,
and about 40% are judged life-threatening," he says. "If I take too many crews
off the road to indulge in live exercises, it's a huge clinical risk for us in
terms of delivering the core service."

It was the exercise at Bank that did the most to reassure or to panic -
depending on your disposition, and on how you tend to respond to TV footage of
firefighters in green protective suits shepherding victims (actually police
cadets) underneath decontamination showers. The exercise involved a train
attacked 80ft underground on the Waterloo and City line and cost a reported
£500,000 to stage; the government's report on it has never been made public, but
complaints from firefighters soon emerged. It was alleged that the
decontamination suits, for example, with their huge, cumbersome helmets, made it
dangerously hard for people to communicate with each other. (On the other hand,
as Kerry points out, "The purpose of exercises is, you've done some planning,
you've got some equipment, now let's see how it works. It ain't gonna work
perfectly to begin with.")

Even to the extent that it succeeded, though, the rehearsal highlighted what the
lay observer might regard as a strange emphasis on a chemical, biological or
radiological ("dirty bomb") attack. Such prospects may terrify us far more
comprehensively than conventional bombs, or even destruction in the manner of
9/11, but they have not, thus far, been among the working methods of al-Qaida.
Advocates of the government's focus on the unconventional threat refer instead,
repeatedly, to the 1995 sarin attack on the Tokyo subway, which killed 12. "If
someone flies a plane into Canary Wharf tomorrow, there's still not the
equipment to handle that kind of attack," says Duncan Milligan, of the Fire
Brigades Union, who calls the Bank operation a "photo-opportunity".

For reasons that remain unclear - critics say it was simply a question of doing
the cheapest thing first - the government's post-9/11 plan for the fire service
raced ahead with a £56m purchase of chemical and biological equipment while
postponing a £132m expenditure on high-tech "urban search and rescue" equipment.
The latter sum is earmarked for machines to stabilise teetering buildings, or to
pump out flood water, or to detect people still alive beneath rubble, but much
of this equipment is not yet ready for use, concedes Ken Knight, London's fire
commissioner. "The (chemical and biological) equipment was more readily
available," he says. "And work had to be prioritised."

Back in his Hounslow control room, David Kerry gives the impression of
desperately wanting to say more - about what the public should do if terrorists
strike, for example, or about what plans exist for mass evacuations - but can't.
"It's so difficult not being able to talk about the things that we're doing," he
says. "I'm not able to say whether the response for a catastrophic (attack) is
good or not." He rejects the idea that "the public will become alarmed or panic
about the fact that we are doing this emergency planning work". His group is
"pressing the government . . . to be more open", he says. "I wouldn't want the
public thinking we're just waiting around for doomsday to happen." More money
would help, too: central government's average grant to London councils for
emergency planning, he notes, is a mere £80,000 - enough for two staff.

Another London emergency planning official, with responsibilities for a crucial
commercial part of the city, puts it even more bluntly. Some crisis planners had
been "scarred for life" by central government for speaking out of turn to the
press, the official said. "One's got the black spot for ever from the London
Resilience Team for saying something inappropriate." Ministers were unavailable
to comment for this article, but they are understood to be taking the complaints
seriously. That, apparently, represents a major reversal since last April, when
Raynsford told the Commons defence committee that London Resilience had decided
not even to distribute an information leaflet to Londoners, because there were
so many possible kinds of attack that the document would be "confusing, or, at
worst, counterproductive".

Kerry, for his part, says he hasn't changed how much he uses the underground, or
whether he ventures into the City, and he does not intend to. "The risks are
there, but they always have been," he says. What he does have - ready to throw
into a bag and take from the house at speed - are all his essential documents,
some bottled water, tinned food, and an old camping gas stove. He calls these
kinds of preparations "self-resilience".

"We used to use the phrase 'return to normality'," he says, reflectively.
"Everybody used that phrase. You deal with the event, then you work towards a
return to normality. Now we look at it as though we might have to redefine
normality. If people have lost family and friends, if there has been an area of
destruction . . . we're not going to be going back to what was there before."


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           March 24, 2004, Wednesday

PRESIDENT WARNED OF TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Final Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 51 words


GERMANY: President Johannes Rau cancelled a visit to Djibouti, in eastern
Africa, today after German security services warned of an assassination plot.
His office said they had received information that an Islamist group planned to
kill him during a visit to the Horn of Africa state to meet troops.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                                 March 24, 2004

Do you feel safe from terrorist attacks?

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1082 words


But the threat from terror attacks has not reduced, as events in Madrid two
weeks ago tomorrow demonstrated.  Britain is still on a heightened state of
alert and London has been singled out as a possible target for terrorists
because the UK is seen as one of America's staunchest allies.

Are people in North Lincolnshire concerned about this situation and are they
more vigilant because of it? Or do we not see ourselves as a target? We went on
to the streets of North Lincolnshire to find out.

Name Lisa Somerscales Age 36 Occupation Print designer at Scunthorpe Instant
Print From Swift Drive, Scawby Brook I do think we are more at risk. The
terrorists hate the Americans and any country which seems to be supporting
America, they are going to target them.

It's all because of taking sides. I would have left it to the Americans. I am a
pacifist, so I don't believe in war.

If we continue to threaten Iraq or carry on the search for Osama bin Laden
they'll target the big cities. I'm not worried living up here.

Name Vernon Bartlett Age 70 Occupation Retired train driver From Buckingham
Avenue, Scunthorpe I think any country would be a target. You could say it has
made us more of a target.

What worries me is the United Nations didn't take a lead and everything has been
left to America. I think it would be more acceptable to the rest of the world if
the UN were leading it.

People are more wary, a majority of people are. We are quite good at things like
that.

Name David Nicklen Age 24 Occupation Unemployed office worker From Cemetery
Road, Scunthorpe I can't say it's helped in any way, it must have made us more
of a target. I flew for the first time in my life about two weeks ago. I can't
say I didn't think about it.

I think we should get out, the Americans should sort out the mess they've
caused.

If I saw something suspicious, I would say something about it. There are a lot
of things to look out for. I think there could be a lot more done.

Name William MacDonald Age 51 Occupation Payroll clerk From Stanley Road,
Scunthorpe I don't think we are more of a target at the moment. London could be
more of a target, it is slightly more at risk.

I think people are quite vigilant and people do enough if they see something
suspicious.

I think we should still be involved in Iraq, until the matter is resolved.

Name Steven Balchin Age 34 Occupation Gas engineer From West Common Lane,
Scunthorpe I believe we are more of a risk. I do believe we should have gone in
and kicked him out, definitely. I don't know if the Americans' motives were all
to do with fuel and the area it was in.

I don't think we are a target, living in Scunthorpe. I don't think they are
likely to strike around here, it's more capital cities.

We've always had to be vigilant in London, because of the IRA, but that was
years and years ago.

Name Nolly Biggins Age 43 Occupation Nurse From West Street, Scunthorpe We are
probably more at risk because we are an ally of the Americans.

I travel all over the world and I believe everybody has a little card somewhere
and if it's your time, it's your time.

Don't let them rule your lives. I was in Istanbul when the bombs went off a few
months ago, but it didn't mean I wouldn't go around Istanbul.

People shouldn't panic about it.

Name Paul Blanchard Age 61 Occupation Mechanical engineer From Bottesford Road,
Ashby Yes, I think any non-Muslim country is seen as a target. I don't think
Scunthorpe is a prime target, it's more cities like London.

People are more vigilant, but can we ever be totally on our guard? I don't think
we should pull out of Iraq, what's done is done.

I think we need to deal with the fanatics in all religions.

Name Joanne Clark Age 18 Occupation Shop assistant From Newlands Avenue,
Scunthorpe I don't know really. I watch the news a bit, but I don't pay too much
attention. It makes me more wary, it just goes to show what they are capable of.

If they think it's going to help, they should stay in Iraq, but not if it's
going to cause more problems. They should step up security. We've always been
told to be aware of things.

I would be more wary of flying now, but I'd still go on holiday. I wouldn't let
it stop me.

Name Lesley Hall Age 48 Occupation Civil servant From Sheffield Street,
Scunthorpe I suppose it's fair to say we have become a target. The situation
worries me. I suppose it's a bit of a mixed bag. It would be nice to get the
situation resolved.

I suppose I am more vigilant, but I can't say as far as travel is concerned,
because I don't travel a lot. But you would have to be more aware than in
previous years.

In my work area, especially in the work environment, we have to be more aware.

Name Steven Fish Age 42 Occupation Warehouse operative From Bluebell Close,
Scunthorpe It's going to come isn't it? They've done it to Spain. We came back
from Las Vegas and three days later they blew the Twin Towers up.

I did fly again last April and it did make me think about it, but it didn't put
me off. I was thinking about the airline I flew with, British Airways, I thought
it was more of a target.

You've got to watch what's around you, and I people watch anyway. If you watch
their reactions, you can tell a lot from their body language.

Name Harry Swift Age 72 Occupation Retired steelworker From Justice Hall Lane,
Crowle I was there in the 1950s and when I came back from the Gulf, terrorism
was just starting, it was a terrible ordeal.

When we went out there, they hated the British troops. I think they are doing a
good job in Iraq.

I went for my National Service, they have volunteered. They shouldn't complain,
they went out there to do a job.

I do think it's putting us in a position, it's on everybody's lips 'when will it
happen in London'? I hope it doesn't.

Name Sue Twentyman Age Would not say Occupation Senior care officer in a
residential home From Delacy Way, Winterton I do think we are more of a target
now. I just think there could have been some other way they could have sorted it
out a year ago.

It is more the big cities the terrorists would target, we are quite safe in
Scunthorpe. I am quite upset about it all, we should be more wary.

I believe we've been cheated by the Government, they said about these weapons of
mass destruction and they can't find them.


LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 March 25, 2004

Bomb discovery revives French fear of terror attacks on railways

BYLINE: Jon Henley, in Paris

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 532 words


Fear that the French rail network has become a target for terrorists was raised
again last night after a track worker found an explosive device half-buried on
the main line from Paris to Basle.

The interior ministry said the suspected bomb, contained in a transparent
plastic box measuring 20cm by 20cm (8in by 8in), did not appear to resemble
those described in threats by a group called AZF, which has said it will blow up
railway tracks unless it is paid a multimillion-pound ransom.

The ministry said that the box, found just after noon near the eastern village
of Montieramay, held "nitrate fuel, a flat battery linked to six pyrotechnic
detonators . . . and a domestic timing device". One of the wires had become
disconnected, the statement said.

A police source had told French radio that the device "strongly resembled" a
time bomb planted under a railway track near Limoges in the south-west to which
AZF directed the police last month.

That device, made of diesel fuel and nitrate and fitted with an advanced timer,
was "complex, efficient, and in full working order", the ministry said at the
time, and had sent a 35kg (77 lb) section of track hurtling 25 metres when
detonated in a controlled explosion.

The previously unknown group, apparently named after a chemical factory which
blew up in southern France in September 2001, has written at least three letters
to the interior minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, and President Jacques Chirac warning
that it has buried 10 bombs under railway tracks around France which will begin
exploding unless it is paid a ransom of $ 4m (£2.2m) and euros 1m ( £670,000).

Three government attempts to pay the ransom have failed, according to the French
media, and a thorough search of all 20,500 miles of track by 10,000 railway
employees earlier this month failed to unearth any suspected bombs.

The interior ministry said yesterday that it had set up a crisis centre in Paris
headed by officers of the serious crimes squad, the anti-terrorist police and
the national police's elite rapid intervention force.

A spokesman for the ministry refused to speculate about who might have planted
the device. It said the device was being examined in a police laboratory to see
how dangerous it really was.

The French railway company, SNCF, has been receiving up to a dozen hoax calls a
day and has discovered at least three fake bombs since AZF's threats were
reported in the press.

The ministry made no mention of a possible Islamist threat, but French officials
have warned in the wake of the Madrid train bombings that France is at much at
risk as any other European country.

The prime minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin said last night: "I call on everybody to
be calm until the investigation is over."

Despite the scare, Mr Raffarin completed a scheduled regional election campaign
trip to Troyes, near to where the device was found. Officials said the visit had
been agreed at the last minute and ruled out any link.

Asked if the new bomb bore the hallmarks of AZF, Mr Raffarin said in comments
broadcast on television: "For the moment I can't answer you. It doesn't match
the information we have."


LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Spalding Guardian

                                 March 25, 2004

trip off amid terror attack fears

LENGTH: 355 words


A SPALDING school has cancelled a trip to London for fear of a terrorist attack.
Year seven pupils from Gleed Girls' Technology College were due to go to the
Science Museum on Thursday, April 1. Headteacher Chris Murrell said: "Clearly as
the days go by the information we are getting is more and more concerning. I am
concerned for the safety of students and staff and don't want to put them under
unnecessary risk. "We don't have to have school trips and it could be done
another time".

 She added that the school has cancelled trips to the capital in the past when
there have been bomb scares. It was reported last week that Metropolitan Police
commissioner Sir John Stevens had said that a terror attack on London was
inevitable. A Metropolitan Police spokesman told the Spalding Guardian that it
was impossible to say whether it was safe to visit London and decisions on
whether to run trips was a matter for individual schools. She added: "The level
of threat has been at the second highest level for the last 18 months and that
is not going to change in the near future".

 A concerned grandparent, who has a granddaughter at the Gleed Girls' School,
believes all schools should cancel similar trips for the time being. The
Whaplode resident narrowly escaped harm in an Oxford Street bombing at the
height of the IRA troubles and said it was horrendous. She said: "Spalding is a
relatively safe place, although it can happen anywhere, and to take children
from a relatively safe area into a zone where everybody is on standby just seems
unnecessary. "Both my husband and I lost sleep over the thought of our
granddaughter going. "It really is a terrible thing. It's a frightening world we
live in and I believe that no school should expose our dear little children to
these dreadful dangers".

 A Home Office spokesman saidd: "For a long time we have said that the threat
from terrorism remains real and serious. "The public should remain alert but not
alarmed. "We are maintaining a state of heightened readiness in the UK and
taking every feasible precautionary measure to protect British citizens".


LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 26, 2004

TERRORISTS USE HORROR OF THE CRUSADES TO JUSTIFY ATTACKS ON WEST; WHY AL QAEDA
STILL WAGES A MEDIEVAL WAR

BYLINE: By Jonathan Phillips

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 1003 words


AN AL QAEDA statement in the aftermath of this month's Madrid atrocities
proclaimed: "We have succeeded in infiltrating the heart of crusader Europe and
struck at one of the bases of the crusader alliance."

Since the events of September 11, 2001, the language of crusading and holy war
has featured prominently in the utterances of Osama Bin Laden and other Islamic
terror leaders.

Such oaths are invoked to justify their actions and to attract further
supporters to their cause.

In October, 2001, he stated: "Our goal is for our nation to unite in the face of
the Christian crusade - the original crusade brought Richard the Lionheart from
England. Today the crusading countries rushed as soon as Bush raised the cross.
They accepted the rule of the cross."

Why do Bin Laden and his propagandists lay such emphasis on events that happened
so long ago, and why do his pronouncements have such a compelling meaning to
opponents of the West? The answers go back to events 800 years ago - events
which possess a direct link with the terrible bombings of Madrid this month
which killed 190 people.

The First Crusade was launched in 1095 when Pope Urban II called on the knights
of Western Europe to march to the Holy Land and reclaim Jerusalem from the
infidels.

Thousands rallied to the holy cause, culminating in the slaughter of the city's
Muslim defenders when the Western armies, according to legend, waded in blood up
to their knees.

Crusader states were established, only to be crushed less than a century later
by the most renowned Muslim military leader in history - Saladin.

Jerusalem - which as the place from which the Prophet ascended into Heaven ranks
behind only Medina and Mecca in importance to Muslims - was regained. In stark
contrast, however, Saladin allowed the Christian defenders of the city to depart
alive - an act of magnanimity which won him universal admiration.

TODAY, Al Qaeda seeks to draw a parallel with the aggressive incursions of the
West and in particular the resistance and eventual triumph of the Muslims. In
Bin Laden's eyes, for the Crusader states now read Israel (a rich irony, given
the crusader pogroms against the Jews of Western Europe). The United States
represents the power of the Papacy.

In other words, the barbaric West is simply trying to repeat the age of the
crusades and to dominate and brutalise Islam and its peoples.

George W Bush merely reinforced this belief when, in the aftermath of 9/11, he
called for "a crusade" against agents of terror in the Islamic world. This
disastrous choice of words confirmed the hostile intentions of the West.

Nor is it just Al Qaeda which has sought to associate itself with Saladin.
Britain's new friend, Libya's Colonel Gaddafi, has drawn parallels and one of
Saddam Hussein's many palaces was adorned with a mural that showed Saladin
watching his horsemen riding to victory against the crusaders. Alongside, Saddam
was depicted watching his tanks sweep to success against the crusaders'
descendants. The fact that both Saddam and Saladin were born in the same town,
Tikrit, was a further source of pride to the Iraqi dictator. He drew less
attention, however, to Saladin's Kurdish origins.

As a country that publicly supported the invasion of Iraq, Spain has in the eyes
of the terrorists opened itself up to counter-attacks. Yet Spanish involvement
in war against Islamic peoples also has its roots deep in history. For 400
years, until the end of the 11th century, Muslim rule in Spain was unquestioned
following invasion from North Africa.

In Islamic-controlled cities such as Cordoba, communities of Jews and Christians
often co-existed comfortably with their Muslim overlords.

But the advent of the crusades began to change the picture. By the 13th century,
after years of conflict, Spain was Christian-ruled, although Muslim power hung
on in Granada until 1492. But Al Qaeda and its allies have long memories. Over
the centuries crusading came to be a flexible concept deployed against opponents
of the Catholic church in general. The most shocking of these episodes took
place in 1204 when the armies of the Fourth Crusade sacked the city of
Constantinople, capital of the Byzantine Empire.

While the Fourth Crusade was intended to regain Jerusalem from the Muslims, a
series of calamitous misjudgments meant its forces ended up outside the walls of
Constantinople without food and faced by a deeply hostile population.

Constantinople was the most magnificent city in the Christian world at the time
but its inhabitants were Greek Orthodox rather than Catholic and, in 1054, a
schism arose between the two churches on matters of doctrine and the authority
of Rome.

Tensions continued to fester, and the sporadic appearance of huge crusading
armies marching through the Byzantine lands en route to the Holy Land, provided
added provocation. Once inside Constantinople the crusaders unleashed a wave of
violence. Thousands were killed; women of all ages - even nuns - were raped;
churches were pillaged.

A drunken prostitute cavorted and sang as she straddled a chair on the altar of
the magnificent Hagia Sophia Church. Many in the West were appalled at the
savagery - even the Pope condemned the excesses.

IN THE West the word crusade has continued in use to this day. Tony Blair, for
example, recently demanded one to reduce waiting lists for cancer patients;
others call for a crusade for fair play in sport or to cut waste. In a society
as secular as 21st-century Britain, we have become accustomed to using the word
with only the barest reference to its origins.

As recent events have shown, however, the horror inflicted upon the regions that
felt the crusaders' swords is a powerful and persuasive image for opponents of
the modern West to draw upon. We must be aware of the true history that lies
behind the crusades and should not dismiss the concept as a relic of a distant
and romanticised past - tragically, it remains all too alive.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                                 March 26, 2004

Terror yob caged after gang attack

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 404 words


The leader of a group of yobs who terrorised and attacked a householder has been
put behind bars.

At one point Gary Midgeley was surrounded by what witnesses said were up to 20
youths after he left his home in Ingol to remonstrate with a teenager.

Preston Crown Court prosecutor Julie Taylor said Mr Midgeley heard a racket
outside his home and believed a youth had urinated next to his front door.

After remonstrating with Craig Watters who had tried to punch him, Mr Midgeley
eventually pinned him to the ground before letting him go.

But Watters, who had been with his 17-year-old girlfriend, was uttering verbal
threats that he would return with others.

Miss Taylor said he did so, with a large group of young people and Mr Midgeley
was surrounded outside his home last July.

He was punched and kicked and hit by a piece of wood to the back of his head
before neighbours chased the gang off.

The court heard that the victim was so traumatised he has had to leave the
property and still suffered nightmares about what happened. He was treated in
hospital for a cut to the back of his head.

Ringleader Watters, 18, of Miller Road, Ribbleton, pleaded guilty to affray and
was sent into youth custody for six months.

His girlfriend, who cannot be named, also admitted affray and was sentenced to
120 hours community punishment.

Two other youths, aged 17 and 15 who also pleaded guilty to affray were also
sentenced.

The 17-year-old received 60 hours community punishment with 12 months community
rehabilitation and the 15-year-old a 12-month supervision order together with a
three-month night-time curfew.

All three, who were told by the judge they had come close to joining Watters in
custody, were ordered to pay £ 200 in compensation and costs.

Kenneth Grant, representing Watters, said he had drunk 15 cans of strong lager
on the day of the offence and had felt a sense of grievance after the earlier
incident with the householder in which he was pinned to the ground and hurt his
head.

He is thoroughly ashamed of himself, added Mr Grant.

Counsel for the other three said they had been caught up in the incident.

Judge Barbara Forrester said the defendants had embarked on the sort of incident
greatly feared in the community.

Watters, the eldest defendant and the youth who had started the trouble, had
previous convictions and now only custody could follow, she added.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                                 March 26, 2004

Student Activism Falls After Terror Attacks

BYLINE: Rebecca Warden, Rabat

SECTION: No.1633; Pg.13

LENGTH: 380 words


The numbers of young women wearing headscarves, young men sporting beards and
people selling religious tracts on Morocco's university campuses are higher than
ten years ago.

But there are signs that the popularity of politicised Islam, or Islamism - the
biggest movement among Moroccan students - was waning before the terror attacks
in Madrid.

Some believe that the fall in support began with the bombs in Casablanca in May
2003, which, like the Madrid bombs, have been linked to the banned extremist
group Salatia Jihadia.

Mokhtar El-Harras, lecturer in sociology at Mohamed V University in Rabat, said:
"Some young people are asking: 'If Islamism leads us to such extreme violence,
what link does it really have with Islam?'"

Islamism established itself in the 1990s, but since the government tried to
discourage student Islamism after 1997, activists have diverted their attentions
to setting up student associations.

Affiliates of the non-violent Justice and Spirituality, the country's largest
Islamist movement, account for the majority of student representatives in
Moroccan universities.

Mohamed Darif, lecturer in politics at Hassan II University in Mohammedia, said:
"Not all students are Islamists, most are not particularly active, but until now
the Islamists are the ones who can mobilise the students."

The rise of Islamism on campus has driven a wedge between students and often
left-of-centre academics. "Academics criticise the Islamist students and refuse
to cooperate with them," Professor Darif said.

He said police repression on campus radicalised students. One of Professor
Darif's students was among the 14 suicide bombers linked to an extremist
Salafist group that killed 32 people in Casablanca in 2003.

"I believe he was just a student Islamist, but witnessing repression made him
more radical," Professor Darif said.

Professor El-Harras said there were more activists among science students than
in the arts. "They tend to have less intellectual baggage and so less of a
critical approach to analysis and debate," he said.

He added that western foreign policy was shaping Muslim public opinion. "If you
adopt an aggressive attitude towards other cultures, there will inevitably be an
aggressive reaction."


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 2004 TSL Education Limited

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             March 26, 2004, Friday

BASRA CROWD ATTACK TWO 'TERRORISTS'

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 188 words


An Iraqi mob set upon two suspected terrorists following a car bombing in Basra,
it was revealed today. One man was killed and the other badly beaten before
being handed to British troops, Cabinet ministers heard. Defence Secretary Geoff
Hoon told colleagues about the incident at their weekly Downing Street meeting.

Speaking afterwards, the Prime Minister's official spokesman said, 'Mr Hoon said
this was an indication of the desire of a very large part of the Iraqi people to
see progress being made and for there to be peace in their country.'

A Coalition convoy had just passed the Mercedes used in the attack when the
200lb-300lb bomb went off last Friday afternoon.

No soldiers were injured but three Iraqis were killed, the Ministry of Defence
said. A crowd of around 2,000 gathered and turned on the two men who were said
to have been seen fleeing from the car.

The suspected terrorist who survived was 'pretty badly beaten' and is still in
hospital, a MoD spokesman said. The incident showed that most Iraqi people 'are
just as outraged' by the terrorist campaign as those in the West, he added.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                            March 27, 2004 Saturday

Town 'not ready' for a terrorist attack

BYLINE: DAVID POWLES

LENGTH: 480 words


EMERGENCY services have been warned that they are not yet ready to cope should a
Madrid-style terrorist attack or major incident occuring in Burton.

The warning was issued by health chiefs following a mock disaster day aimed at
testing the borough's Major Incident Plan. Health bosses, hospital staff,
police, fire and ambulance services, East Staffordshire Borough Council and the
Environment Agency took part in the exercise, in which major flooding of Burton
and the surrounding areas was used as the scenario. Following the exercise, Alex
Fox, council leader and chairman of East Staffordshire Primary Care Trust (PCT),
said that many lessons had been learnt.

He said: "Following this operation, it is obvious that we all, including the
PCT, emergency services and hospital staff have a big part to play towards
emergency planning. "What came out of it was that clearly we are not ready and
we may have to be ready pretty quickly." Councillor Fox says that the recent
tragedy in Madrid, in which more than 200 people were killed and hundreds more
injured, shows just how quickly organisations need to be ready to react
immediately in order to save more lives. He said: "The Spanish emergency
services had problems in some areas in coping with the several hundreds of
people who were killed, injured or traumatised during the incident. "Obviously,
in light of certain incidents like September 11, and some of the risks
associated with global warming, such as the flooding which hit Burton quite bad
in recent years, the situation needs to be adressed by the organisations in the
area that serve the public. "The main issue we need to look at is how to make
sure that emergency personnel attend the scene as quickly as possible.   "The
quicker we become at responding to a major emergency the more lives will be
saved. We need to be able to call up individual personnel immediately.  "We have
made a significant improvement on how we deal with major incidents, but it will
never be perfect and there will always be room for more work to be done."
Although the Government believes London would be the target for any major
terrorist strike, all local authorities have been ordered to review their
procedures. Burton has important strategic transport links, including the A38
and A50 trunk roads as well as the main Cross-Country rail line and, with Coors
Brewers, is also home to one of the largest American-owned companies in Britain.
Dr Nic Coetzee, the PCT's director of public health, said: "There is still room
for a lot of improvement in terms of how we react and mobilise to major
emergencies and some very specific areas that we need to address." The purpose
of the exercise, run by the council and the PCT, was to test each organisation's
readiness to respond to a major incident and the ability of key organisations to
work together in launching an appropriate response.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2004 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 27, 2004

Hangar on stand-by for terror attack

BYLINE: Lucy Adams Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 541 words


FEARS of an imminent terrorist attack in the UK have driven plans for huge
temporary mortuaries across Scotland to cope with hundreds of casualties.

An aircraft hangar near Glasgow airport has been selected as a mass mortuary in
the event of a major terrorist attack in the west of Scotland.

Under contingency plans for a disaster, local emergency planners have selected
dozens of smaller locations that could hold substantial numbers of victims.

Following September 11 and the terrorist attack in Madrid, Scotland's local
authorities, police and fire brigades are planning for every contingency.

The Barnsford hangar, near Glasgow airport, has been chosen as the preferred
site to cope with an "extraordinary" event such as a terrorist attack or plane
crash.

The military-owned building would have to be cleared to make space for the
storage and pathology examinations and identification of the casualties.

Pathologists and equipment would be sent to the mass mortuary site, which could
receive back-up from hospitals, refrigerated vehicles, and inflatable pathology
laboratories.

In the event of a large-scale disaster all the emergency planners have selected
and equipped offices, from which they would co-ordinate procedures and liaise
with the police and fire brigade.

Lee Maxwell, vice-chair of the Scottish branch of the emergency planning
society, says the agencies were working together to ensure they could cope with
every eventuality.

Lessons had been learned from the Lockerbie disaster and Scotland was leading
the way in emergency planning. "The structures in Scotland are stronger than
they are in other parts of the UK," said Ms Maxwell.

She added: "A plan is very close to completion in terms of how we would activate
this. We

will want to have half-a-dozen facilities and one main facility for the west of
Scotland.

"Across the regions there are different plans for mortuaries, depending on what
they have in their area."

She added: "This type of site would be for multiple fatality situations - for an
extraordinary number of deaths."

In the past week, emergency planners met in London to discuss how to cope with a
terrorist attack in the capital.

Police have warned that such an incident is "inevitable" and that, while the
agencies are trying to prepare for every contingency, not every incident can be
prevented.

Scottish emergency planners say they could cope, but they have more training and
preparation to do after events in Madrid.

Ms Maxwell said: "We are looking at what additional procedures we might need in
place to deal with a terrorist incident. We could respond to it - but it is
about sustaining that response.

"There is a lot of work to do, but we are not disheartened."

A spokesman for the Scottish Executive said: "The recent horrific events in
Madrid have confirmed that terrorism is a threat for every European country, and
Scotland, like the rest of the UK, remains on a high level of alert.

"Security remains under constant review to ensure we are as prepared as we can
be and we are continuing to work very closely with our counterparts across the
UK and EU on this. The public message remains the same - be alert but not
alarmed."

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                 March 27, 2004

Firm develops camera to use against terror attack

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 202 words


A BARNSLEY firm has developed an airport camera system that will sound the alert
if a suspected terrorist attempts to board a plane.

Instinctive New Media says the system will be a significant weapon in the war
against terror and could protect against another September 11.

Cameras snap the faces of everyone boarding a plane and send images to an FBI
computer database for checking against terror suspects.

Airport staff are instantly alerted if there is a match.

A version of the face recognition software is already on trial at Huddersfield
University. Instinctiv-e New Media employs nine staff at the Barnsley Business
and Innovation Centre.

Neil Brennan, co-managing director, said: We are confident the system will make
a huge difference in the war against terrorism and the fight against other
serious crime such as drug smuggling.

The system depends on suspected terrorists being on the records of the security
services.

A lot of Al-Qaeda suspects are known by the FBI.

Rogue suicide bombers are another matter but there are other systems already in
place at big airports to deal with most of them.

The system needs more development, with funding we can produce it easily.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bedford Today

                                 March 28, 2004

Expansion the key for terrorist attack experts

LENGTH: 312 words


European base for security pioneers A Mid Beds company is expanding into Europe
to provide frontline services in the event of a terrorist attack. Two week after
the devastating Madrid bomb blasts which blew up four commuter trains in the
Spanish capital, Professional Protection Systems (PPS) has announced plans to
set up headquarters in the industrial city of Cologne, Germany. It will give the
company easy access to the rest of Europe, although its main manufacturing base
will continue to be in Woburn Sands. PPS was awarded a £600,000 contract last
month to supply the Italian civil defence organisation with mobile
decontamination showers. They can be set up within five minutes and treat up to
200 casualties an hour. Mark Whitcher, managing director of the Station
Road-based company, said: "We have had a flood of enquiries across the
continent. Spain and Greece have shown a keen interest, while Germany looks
potentially to be our biggest market of all. "The horrifying attacks in Spain
have made other countries realise how vulnerable they are and how everyone in
Europe is now under the threat of terrorists. "Last year the New South Wales
emergency services used us for the Rugby World Cup where we provided life-saving
decontamination showers, at stadiums in Sydney, Canberra and Melbourne where a
majority of the games were held. "We are hoping this summer the Greek
authorities will use our products for the Olympic Games in Athens".

 Following the Sarin gas attack on the Tokyo underground in 2000 and the
September 11 attacks in 2001, the company has found a world-wide niche in the
market for its decontamination units and protective suits. PPS now supply the
Hong Kong fire service, Japanese defence forces and Taiwan emergency services,
as well as equipping hospitals, fire and ambulance services in the UK with
inflatable showers.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 28, 2004

'POLITICAL RIVAL' IS BLAMED FOR HQ ATTACK; TORY MP'S FIREBOMB TERROR

BYLINE: By Stephanie Condron and Simon Belgard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 397 words


MP ANDREW Rosindell blames a "mentally unhinged political rival" for firebombing
his local party HQ and fears the man may go even further in a future attack.

He made the claim after the Conservative Party centre in his Romford, Essex,
constituency was gutted in the early hours of Friday morning. And he wants MPs
to be given specialist advice and extra funds to improve security.

Mr Rosindell said: "There have been a number of incidents over the past 18
months or so. It started with verbal abuse but it quickly escalated and bricks
have been thrown through windows.

Thus far the attacks have happened in the middle of the night but I am obviously
very worried someone could get hurt.

"I believe that the person responsible knows the registration number of my car
and my home address and that is a very worrying thought.

"Obviously it would be wrong for me to go into details about the steps I have
taken, but I am changing my routines and I have installed a number of security
measures to my home.

"The police have given me some very useful advice and I have acted upon it."

Mr Rosindell, who achieved one of the largest swings to the Tories in the
country when he snatched Romford from Labour in 2001, believes other local party
members have been targeted and the attacks are all the work of one man who
harbours a hatred for him and his party.

He said: "In common with many MPs, I have a few constituents who can become
very, very unpleasant and aggressive. I have informed the police about these
people."

Stressing the need for extra cash to tackle security, Mr Rosindell, 38, said:

"Because there is no special allowance it is something that is pushed down the
list of things to do. Our offices had no smoke alarms, no burglar alarm, nothing
of that sort. I shall be pressing for this situation to be looked at. It cuts
across party boundaries.

"We all place ourselves in the firing line when we take this job. But is
something isn't done to ensure our safety then nobody is going to stand up for
the job."

Mr Rosindell has been outspoken on issues from asylum to the European Union. A
member of the right wing Monday Club, he is in favour of the death penalty and
firearm ownership.

But last night a Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: "We are keeping an open mind.
Politics does not seem to come into it at all at the moment."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 28, 2004, Sunday

Bush is brought to book Following last week's publication of Richard Clarke's
attack on the President's anti-terrorism policy, the propaganda battle has been
bloody, ruthless and fed by pre-election panic, reports JULIAN COMAN

BYLINE: by JULIAN COMAN

SECTION: News; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 2041 words

In the heart of the White House on Wednesday afternoon, as Richard Clarke spoke
to the September 11 Commission on Capitol Hill, groups of officials huddled to
watch monitors in anxious silence.

While the President's former counter-terrorism chief testified that the Bush
White House, despite repeated dire warnings, did not consider al-Qaeda terrorism
an urgent issue before 9/11, an unwatched office television showed pay-per-view
coverage of the Chelsea versus Arsenal European Cup tie.

Improbably, among the White House ranks of baseball fans and American football
followers, one senior official is a fanatical Arsenal supporter. Two days after
Mr Clarke's tumultuous delivery, the official still had no idea of the Chelsea
result.

"There's been no time for anything," he told The Sunday Telegraph. "Since Clarke
we've been working 14- or 15-hour days. In his book and testimony, Clarke is
claiming that one of the most tragic events in our history could have been
prevented, and his accusations are completely, completely unfounded."

Mr Clarke's book, entitled Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror,
was published last Monday - rushed out a week early to coincide with his 9/11
testimony. Washington has never seen a book launch like it. On Friday, one
senior Democrat was still coming to terms with what he had witnessed. "A
respected counter-terrorism tsar leaves the administration after the worst
terrorist attack in America's history," said the official. "Then he writes a
book placing most of the blame on the White House. Then he gives the same
testimony to a congressional committee, filmed by national television, and is
applauded by watching relatives of the attack's victims. All this happens just
as the criticised President is running for re-election on the platform of
keeping America safe. Did I dream this?"

The Bush administration is still hoping to wake up from the nightmare.
Wrongfooted by Mr Clarke, "Team Bush" has begun to add surreal touches of its
own to the drama. During a journalists' dinner on Wednesday, hours after Mr
Clarke had accused him of needlessly focusing military resources on Saddam
Hussein, President Bush presented a spoof slide-show. As images appeared of the
President searching high and low in the Oval Office, he provided a commentary:
"Those weapons of mass destruction must be somewhere. Nope, no weapons under
there." The laughter was immediate. The angry objections from the families of
dead American soldiers came the next day.

This is not the first time an unflattering book has been written about the Bush
White House. Paul O'Neill, the President's former Treasury Secretary, who was
unceremoniously sacked, recently gave his account of events in The Price of
Loyalty by Ron Suskind. In acerbic style, Mr O'Neill disdainfully recalled an
intellectually weak President who led cabinet meetings "like a blind man in a
roomful of deaf people".

Asked to comment, administration officials noted airily that it was not their
role to provide "book reviews". But Mr Clarke has got under the collective skin
of the White House. For President Bush, the price of losing the loyalty of his
former counter-terrorism chief is proving prohibitive.

"The President is running for re-election," said Stephen Hess, a senior aide in
the Nixon administration. "And Clarke's text is aimed at the place that could be
most damaging - the argument that he is the best wartime president for America."

Washington is agog. Less than a week after its publication, Against All Enemies
is into its fifth printing run. The Washington bookshop Politics and Prose was
obliged to re-order copies three times in three days. Soundbites from Mr
Clarke's testimony before the September 11 Commission, chaired by Thomas H.
Kean, a Republican senator, have been re-played endlessly on television.

Mr Clarke, who before last week was an obscure ex-apparatchik, has appeared on
Larry King Live, ABC news and the CBS 60 Minutes show. In a poll taken at the
end of last week, nine out of 10 Americans said that they had heard of the
Clarke allegations, an extraordinarily high percentage, and for President Bush,
one that indicates a dangerous level of interest from the heartland.

Already, the Clarke allegation of negligence has entered the pantheon of
memorable smears. Presidential scholars have summoned up comparisons with the
Watergate hearings, when another senior aide, John Dean, turned on his boss,
Richard Nixon.

The details of Mr Clarke's career are a testament to his credibility: service in
counter-terrorism under four presidents - Ronald Reagan, George Bush Snr, Bill
Clinton and George Bush Jnr. All are generously praised in his book, except
president number four.

In the White House, Condoleezza Rice, President Bush's National Security
Adviser, to whom Mr Clarke reported before he resigned last year, is said to be
as angry as any of her aides have seen her. Mr Clarke's charges are as
incendiary as the timing of their release. Over the course of 291 pages, he
accuses Dr Rice of rebuffing requests for an urgent, cabinet-level meeting on
the burgeoning threat of al-Qaeda. A memo on September 4, 2001 is cited, in
which he urges Dr Rice and others "to imagine a day after a terrorist attack,
with hundreds of Americans dead at home and abroad, and ask themselves what they
could have done earlier".

Such exhortations, claims Mr Clarke were ignored. The book reports that Paul
Wolfowitz, the Deputy Secretary of Defence, believed that making al-Qaeda an
absolute priority would be to "give bin Laden too much credit".

President Bush, suggests Mr Clarke, like the Secretary of Defence, Donald
Rumsfeld, and Vice-President Dick Cheney, divided his energy before 9/11 between
domestic policy and planning an attack on Iraq and Saddam Hussein. The day after
the World Trade Centre atrocity, he allegedly told Mr Clarke: "I want you, as
soon as you can, to go back over everything, everything. See if Saddam did this.
See if he's linked in any way."

President Bush has said he does not recall that conversation. And, in any case,
Mr Clarke's version of events is directly contradicted by an earlier,
well-sourced account of the days immediately following 9/11. According to Bush
at War, by the Washington Post's veteran Watergate reporter, Bob Woodward, it
was in fact the President who, at the Camp David crisis meeting that followed
September 11, finally ruled against an Iraq invasion, against the wishes of Mr
Rumseld and his deputy. "If we tried to do too many things - two things for
example, or three things - militarily, then the lack of focus would have been a
huge risk," he later said to Mr Woodward.

The new administration's overriding pre-occupation with domestic matters before
9/11 is also simply explained. Bill Clinton had been a foreign policy president,
taking American military force into Bosnia, Kosovo, Somalia and Haiti. George W.
Bush had been elected as a president who would focus on the home front. The Bush
administration, he assured supporters, would not engage in the futile project of
"nation-building" overseas.

Yet Mr Clarke, throughout 2001, had only one thought on his mind: in Langley,
Virginia, CIA officials were running from office to office with their "hair on
fire", as repeated intelligence suggested an imminent al-Qaeda attack, possibly
involving aircraft.

It is a portrait of a feckless White House that, at the very least, took its
"eye off the ball" during the eight months in office leading up to September 11.
That is a charge that the White House immediately decided must not stand. "It's
just wrong," said the senior administration official. "This is a guy who was
there for years. There when the USS Cole was sunk [in Aden in 2000] and when the
US embassies were bombed [in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998]. In all those years
when the threat was growing."

The subsequent propaganda battle has been bloody, ruthless and fed by
pre-election panic. "Book reviews" have come thick and fast.

At 8:30am on Monday, at a White House communications staff meeting filled with
foreboding, it was quickly decided that for every public appearance by Mr
Clarke, there would be multiple rebuttals from the administration.

The CBS interview given by Mr Clarke the previous evening, his first, had been
worse than anyone foresaw. In particular, Dr Rice, Mr Clarke's superior, had
been singled out for damaging criticism. The White House decided to discredit Mr
Clarke before he discredited the President and his team. "Everywhere you see
him, you'll see three of us," said Dan Bartlett, the White House communications
director.

The normally taciturn Mr Cheney phoned into the populist Rush Limbaugh radio
programme. On air, he disparaged Mr Clarke as a bit player who was "out of the
loop". Dr Rice appeared on Fox television, just as Mr Clarke was answering his
first questions from Larry King.

Against all precedent, the White House had just leaked a background briefing by
Mr Clarke from 2002. Dr Rice pointed out that in it, Mr Clarke robustly defended
administration policy prior to 9/11. "It would seem there are two Mr Clarkes,"
she concluded. A resignation letter from the counter-terrorism chief was also
released, full of praise for the President's courage after September 11.

Administration officials variously described Mr Clarke as a "geek", "obsessed",
"aggressive" and "over-ambitious". Under President Bush he had been passed over
for the new role of Homeland Security director. It was suggested that he may
have borne a grudge ever since.

Mr Clarke's close friendship with the former State Department official, Randy
Beers, was also brought to light. Mr Beers heads the foreign policy team of the
Democratic presidential nominee, John Kerry. As well as being obsessive, it was
implied, Mr Clarke is politically motivated.

"They [the Republicans] are vulnerable, which is why they are attacking so
hard," said James Thurber, the director of the Centre for Congressional and
Presidential Studies at American University. "You have to go back to Vietnam or
Watergate to get the same feel about the structure of argument coming out of the
White House against Clarke's statements."

President Bush, playing to his strengths as the week progressed, has steered
clear of forensic discussion of memos while appealing directly to the voters. On
Thursday, aides persuaded the president to add an unscripted introduction to a
stump speech on the economy in New Hampshire.

"Had I known that the enemy was going to use airplanes to strike America, to
attack us," Mr Bush told his audience, "I would have used every resource, every
asset, every power of the American government to protect the American people."

The applause that greeted the President's words was spontaneous and loud. But
this weekend, there was a creeping awareness in the administration that the week
had not gone well.

"Listen," said one former official close to the White House, "they were very
angry. Clarke broke the fundamental Bush rule of loyalty. He stabbed Condi Rice
in the back. And he accused the President of being obsessed with Iraq the day
after 9/11, when it was the President who made the call to focus on Afghanistan.
But, in my opinion, they were too personal in their response. It didn't look
good."

Behind closed doors in her office, Dr Rice seethes and broods. The September 11
Commission, backed vociferously by organisations of the victims' families, has
repeatedly called on her to testify before it, publicly and on oath, just like
Mr Clarke. President Bush has reportedly insisted that she resist a public
interrogation, citing executive privilege. Again, it does not look good.

The final impact of the week that Mr Clarke's book was launched is still
uncertain. The Democratic presidential nominee, John Kerry, perhaps unable to
believe his luck, has so far said nothing.

Mr Hess predicts it will all blow over. "The economy is the key issue for
voters. And latest polls show that Bush holds a whopping lead over Kerry on
national security."

There is no doubt, however, that President Bush and his team are badly shaken.
National Security is the President's home turf, and last week Mr Clarke rampaged
through it.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 March 29, 2004

Street attackers jailed after terrorising town

SECTION: News; Courts; CrownCourt; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 538 words


A Gang of men who mugged three people in Chippenham has been jailed.  Richard
McKenzie, 21, Jelani Nicholson, 18, Justin Stewart-Nicholson, 20, and a
16-year-old were sent to prison for a night of street attacks in the town
centre.

The gang threatened and frisked two teenagers, but they found nothing worth
taking, before launching a third attack on a man in Monkton Park.

In that incident McKenzie racially- abused victim Alexander Thompson before he
was floored by a head-butt.

The gang then stripped the 22-year-old victim of his personal CD player, mobile
phone, a key ring and cigarettes before he managed to flee the scene in terror.

Robert Davies, prosecuting, told the hearing at Swindon Crown Court that the
four men were in Chippenham on the afternoon of Thursday, October 23 last year
when the incidents happened.

He said the gang first struck in an alleyway behind Hardy's restaurant shortly
after 5.30pm when their teenage victim was surrounded by them.

They uttered threats as they searched his pockets and rucksack after demanding
to see his mobile phone, which they laughed at because it was 'old fashioned',
telling him it wasn't worth anything.

A second youth was also searched by Nicholson but he was found to have nothing
worth taking.

Having left empty handed, the group went into Monkton Park where Mr Thompson was
approached.

Mr Davies said McKenzie racially abused him before head-butting him and saying
'Give me everything you've got on you, boy'.

They stole his CD player, some keys and his mobile phone. McKenzie then head
butted him again causing him to sink to one knee. The youngest of the attackers
then punched him.

The gang was arrested at the town's train station and Stewart-Nicholson was
found to have the CD player and phone in his pockets.

All four pleaded guilty to attempted robbery. All but Stewart-Nicholson admitted
robbery although he did admit a charge of handling the goods stolen in that
offence.

The 16-year-old, who cannot be identified because of his age, also admitted two
other robberies and handling stolen goods in incidents in Swindon.

Sentencing the youths, Judge Charles Wade said: "Street robbery and attempted
street robberies are regarded as some of the most serious crimes, especially
when they are accompanied by violence as these were.

"The impact of such crimes on victims is often very serious indeed. There is
evidence in this case in some of the cases of victims being very frightened and
terrified.

"You were on the hunt for mobile phones, cash and anything else you could take
from your victims.

"I accept some of you went out without the intention of committing these crimes
but I take this as a joint enterprise. You were in it together.

"I take the view that the combination of four young men in close proximity of
the victims, even if only some are offering threats, has a very intimidating
effect." He jailed McKenzie, of Lodge Road, Croydon, South London, for 21
months, Nicholson, of Rolleston Street, Swindon, and Stewart-Nicholson, of
Kirkstall Close, Toothill, Swindon, were jailed for 18 months, and the judge
passed a two-year detention order on the 16-year-old.


LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004 2903BATHCH394stree

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             March 29, 2004, Monday

2,500 ATTACKS SINCE TERRORISTS' CEASEFIRES

SECTION: 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 89 words


THE underlying price of peace in Ulster has been revealed.

Government figures show there have been more than 1,600 shootings and 900
bombings since the Agreement was signed.

Republican and loyalist terrorists have continued to wage war on their
communities, according to the statistics which were provided in an answer to a
parliamentary question from Laurence Robertson, MP for Tewkesbury.

Loyalists are responsible for more shootings, bombings and punishment attacks
than republicans since Good Friday, 1998.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Century Newspapers Limited

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Microscope

                                 March 29, 2004

Dealers prepare for the worst;
Heightened fears that the capital could be the next target for a terrorist
attack lead to renewed focus on disaster recovery

BYLINE: Paul Kunert

SECTION: News; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 325 words


The recent terrorist bombing in Madrid and Al Qaeda's claims that Britain is
next may give dealers in the storage space fresh impetus and a lead to review
their customers' disaster recovery and business

continuity strategies.

Of course, there is a danger of cynically cashing in on user fears, but with an
attack on London looking increasingly inevitable, disaster recovery is topical
and also serves to highlight other potential problems, including burst water
pipes, fires and closed access to premises.

One reseller located in central London said: "We have a good disaster recovery
strategy and we advise all of our clients to do the same."

He warned that some users in the capital operated disaster recovery close to
their offices, which meant the back-up might also be affected by any disaster.

"A lot of companies in the City have disaster recovery within a few miles of
their building, but if a clever terrorist were to blow up a significant power or
communications cable, it could bring them down," he added.

A source at one corporate reseller agreed: "Disaster recovery is everything, but
only a few have heeded the warnings of a potential disaster. A lot of customers
aren't willing to spend the amount of money a true solution requires and are
cutting costs."

Ian Lockhart, head of professional services at Ideal, said terrorism was adding
fuel to the disaster recovery fire, but warned there was "a risk of playing that
card too heavily" and less dramatic problems were more likely.

According to Gartner research, one of the major priorities for CIOs was
protecting their

businesses, but paradoxically they were unwilling to significantly increase the
budget to

allocate more resource.

Gartner research vice-president Alan MacNeela believed disaster recovery was a
significant opportunity for dealers, but the channel needed to build a
compelling business case that addressed ROI because "fear, uncertainty and doubt
is not a sustainable sales approach".

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH; ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright  2004 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 March 29, 2004

Blunkett Calling For 'Balance' Over Terror Attack Warnings

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 440 words


Warnings that an al Qaida terror attack in Britain was inevitable may be
counter-productive because they make the public "jumpy", Home Secretary David
Blunkett said yesterday.  He was speaking on the eve of the launch of proposals
for new police powers designed for use against organised crime gangs, but which
will also be powerful weapons in the war against terrorism. Mr Blunkett told a
Sunday paper that the authorities must be careful to strike a balance between
alerting people to danger and reassuring them.

In an apparent rebuke to Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens, Mr
Blunkett said he was concerned about the "knock-on effect" of chilling warnings
such as Sir John's claim in the wake of the Madrid train bombs that it was
inevitable London would be a target.

"I have not used that phrase," the Home Secretary said. "Of course, I cannot
guarantee that we will not have an attack, because of the nature of the threat
and the dangers of suicide bombers.

"Prevention, not cure, is the order of the day. Resilience is important for
dealing with the aftermath, but what we are concentrating on is stopping it.
There has to be a balance between telling the truth and reassurance. Otherwise,
people are jumpy without it having a good effect." Speaking on March 16 about
police efforts to prevent terror attacks in the UK, Sir John said: "We do know
we have actually stopped terrorist attacks happening in London but, as the Prime
Minister and Home Secretary have said, there is an inevitability that some sort
of attack will get through, but my job is to make sure that does not happen."
Today's White Paper on plans for a so-called "British FBI" - the Serious
Organised Crime Agency - will set out proposals for a national witness
protection scheme to encourage gang members to turn Queen's evidence. And it
looks set to include provisions to permit the use of evidence obtained from
phone taps in court cases. Mr Blunkett told the newspaper: "A year ago, if you
had asked me, I would have been very sceptical. I am much more convinced that,
in a limited range of cases, intercept evidence would make sense." Liberal
Democrat home affairs spokesman Mark Oaten said: "The Home Secretary will have
to tread a tightrope between sensible measures to tackle terrorism without
breaking long-held principles that underpin our liberty. As liberals in today's
world we have to accept greater use of intercept communication, surveillance and
plea-bargaining. But the threat of terrorism should not be used as an excuse to
fundamentally change our society with ID cards or changes to the burden of
proof."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            March 30, 2004, Tuesday

US ally is hit by wave of Islamist terror attacks

BYLINE: By Daniel McLaughlin in Moscow and Ahmed Rashid in Lahore

SECTION: News; International: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 594 words

ISLAMIST terrorists were blamed yesterday after two suicide bombings, an
explosion and a series of gunfights left at least 19 people dead in Uzbekistan,
a crucial American ally in the war against terrorism.

The attacks coincided with claims that the leader of an Uzbek Islamist terrorist
group fighting with al-Qa'eda had been wounded during battles in Pakistan's wild
borderlands.

They marked the largest outbreak of Islamist violence in the former Soviet
republics of central Asia since the September 11 attacks unleashed the war
against the Taliban and al-Qa'eda in nearby Afghanistan.

Two terrorists, possibly women according to Uzbek police, blew themselves up in
a central bazaar in the capital, Tashkent, killing three policemen and a child.

The night before, three policemen died in at least two gun attacks. At about the
same time, an explosion killed 10 people in the ancient city of Bukhara, in what
officials called a hideout for extremists.

Sadyk Safayev, Uzbekistan's foreign minister, said his country was stable last
night, despite an urgent warning from the US embassy in Tashkent that "other
terrorists are believed to be still at large and may be attempting additional
attacks". The embassy urged US nationals to be on the "highest alert".

Mr Safayev insisted: "The terrorists aimed to create panic and chaos, but they
didn't manage to do so."

He said the explosives were similar to those used by the Islamic Movement of
Uzbekistan, a group linked to al-Qa'eda. Tashkent blames IMU bombers for an
attempt to assassinate the autocratic Uzbek leader Islam Karimov in 1999.

Pakistani officials said one exiled leader of the IMU, Tahir Yuldashev, was
wounded during 12 days of fighting close to Pakistan's border with Afghanistan.
He was described as the tenth most senior figure in al-Qa'eda.

Uzbek officials declined to comment on a possible link between the attacks in
Tashkent and Bukhara and the fighting in the Waziristan region.

Pakistan said yesterday that 63 al-Qa'eda guerrillas were killed along with one
of the organisation's intelligence chiefs, identified only as "Mr Abdullah",
although terrorist experts did not immediately recognise him.

Mr Safayev said the attacks in Uzbekistan were aimed at damaging one of
Washington's key allies.

He said that not only the IMU but Hizb ut-Tahrir, another banned group that
wants to establish a pan-Islamic state in central Asia, could be linked to the
attacks.

In a statement from London, Hizb ut-Tahrir denied any involvement. It is an
avowedly peaceful group, but Uzbek authorities insist it is a nest of dangerous
radicals intent on violently toppling the regime of Mr Karimov, 66, who has been
in power since 1989.

International human rights groups have repeatedly accused Tashkent of torturing
and killing political opponents, and of using the threat of Islamic extremism as
a cover for ruthlessly silencing all dissent in Uzbekistan.

The former Soviet state of 25 million people was the first in the strategically
vital region to lend support to Washington's plans to oust the Taliban after
September 11. US troops based in Uzbekistan still fly sorties into Afghanistan
and have pledged to remain until the country is fully secure.

The IMU was implicated in a series of abductions in the mountains of central
Asia, where US climbers and Japanese geologists were kidnapped in 1999 and 2000.

Guerrillas from the IMU are said to have suffered severe losses while fighting
with the Taliban, and the group's leader, Juma Namangani, was reported to have
been killed.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 30, 2004, Tuesday Edition 1

Tennis ace fears terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Mark Sage, The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 43

LENGTH: 428 words


   Tennis ace Serena Williams may stay away from the summer Olympics in Greece
over fears she could be targeted by terrorists.

Just days after the FBI said it feared al Qaida could attempt a terrorist
spectacular at the games, the Wimbledon champion said her life was a "little bit
more important than tennis".

She said: "If it became a real concern to where I personally wouldn't feel
comfortable, then I wouldn't go to Athens.

"You can't stop living your life because you're scared something is going to
happen.

"But at the same time, I'm very aware of things that are going on in the world
It's definitely a concern of mine. I'd be kind of naive to say it isn't."

She was speaking after winning in the third round of the Nasdaq-100 Open in
Florida.

It made her the first American athlete to admit that security concerns could
keep her away from the games.

Serena and her sister Venus won gold in the doubles at the 2000 Sydney Games.

Serena is due to play singles and doubles at this year's games, which run from
August 13 to 29.

Last week FBI Director Robert Mueller said he feared the recent train bombings
in Madrid may have given al Qaida a boost, and that bombers could launch an
attack on the Olympics or attempt to influence the November presidential
election in the US with an attack.

"We understand that between now and the election, there is a window of time in
which terrorists may well wish to influence events, whether it's in the United
States or overseas," he said.

Mr Mueller said he was awaiting a review of a recent anti-terrorism exercise to
"see again what we could do if there are areas that need to be shored up" in
advance of the Olympics.

Asked if security would be adequate by the time the Olympics began, Mr Mueller
said: "It's premature to make any definitive judgment as to where we are in the
stages of preparations."

The worst terrorist act at an Olympics was in 1972, in Germany, when eight Arab
terrorists stormed into the Olympic village and raided the building housing the
Israeli squad.

Two Israeli athletes were killed and nine more were taken as hostages. The
terrorists demanded the release of over 200 Palestinians from Israeli jails.

A day later a gun battle broke out at Munich airport as the terrorists attempted
to leave the country for the Middle East.

The nine athletes, one policeman and two terrorists were killed in the
shoot-out.

In July 1996, during the Games in Atlanta, a bomb was detonated at the
Centennial Olympic Park, killing one person and injuring more than 100 others.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2004 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 30, 2004, Tuesday

TERRORIST ATTACK SCOT MOURNED

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 113 words


HUNDREDS of mourners gathered yesterday for the funeral of a Scot killed in
Baghdad during a terrorist attack.

Scott Mounce, 29, who was born in Inverness, was killed when a car bomb exploded
close to the five-storey Mount Lebanon Hotel on March 17. He had been due to fly
home the next day.

Yesterday his hometown of Hedon,Yorkshire, was brought to a standstill for the
funeral.

Scott's friend, Andy Edwards, who was with him in Baghdad, said: "He lived life
for the moment, but he was also loyal and trustworthy."

The Rev Ivan Howitt, vicar of Hedon, said Scott knew the risks involved in
working and travelling in war-torn Iraq, but had shown no fear.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 March 30, 2004

Uzbek terror attacks leave 19 dead;

SECTION:  Pg. 2

LENGTH: 299 words


TWO suicide bombings, attacks on police and an explosion at an alleged terrorist
bomb-making factory in Uzbekistan have killed 19 people and injured 26,
ProsecutorGeneral Rashid Kadyrov said yesterday.

Mr Kadyrov said that the events had begun on Sunday night with an explosion that
killed 10 people at a house which was being used by an extremist in the central
province of Bukhara.

There were also two attacks on police on Sunday night and early yesterday,
killing three policemen, and two suicide bombings near the Chorsu bazaar in the
Old City of the capital Tashkent, which killed three policemen and a young
child, he said.

Mr Kadyrov said that the attacks had been carried out by Islamist extremists,
singling out the banned Hizb-ut-Tahrir group and followers of the strict Wahhabi
sect of Islam.

"A preliminary investigation shows all the events are interconnected and aimed
at destabilisation of the country, " he said.

He said that one person had been arrested and that authorities were searching
for other suspects, but he declined to say how many people might have been
involved in the planning or execution of the attacks.

He said that the tactic of suicide bombings was previously unknown to Uzbekistan
and indicated foreign involvement in the attacks.

If the link to Hizb-ut-Tahrir is confirmed, it would be the first time that it
has been implicated directly in a terror attack.

The group says that it is non-violent, but, in the past, Uzbek authorities have
claimed that it was a breeding ground for terrorists in order to justify their
crackdown on independent Muslims.

Opposition Erk party leader Atonazar Arifov said that he feared a new crackdown
on the opposition after the attacks and that there were suspicions of an
official set-up.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 31, 2004

Rice will be grilled over terror attacks

BYLINE: WILLIAM LOWTHER

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 566 words


PRESIDENT Bush last night backed down and agreed his national security adviser
should testify in public and under oath over the September 11 terrorist attacks
on the U.S.

Condoleezza Rice will appear before the commission investigating the atrocities.

Mr Bush also offered to go before the commission himself, along with Vice
President Dick Cheney, to be grilled on how seriously they regarded the threat
of Osama Bin Laden and Al Qaeda before the 9/11 strikes.

But that would be in private session and not under oath.

Mr Bush claims that to give public evidence on oath to an independent commission
would set a precedent which could be abused in the future.

The U.S. constitution makes no provision for a president to be forced to give
evidence in such circumstances.

Although the Rice move is a huge climbdown by the White House, she has appeared
on numerous TV shows over the last few weeks to explain her role in the months
leading up to the attacks in which nearly 3,000 people died, and no major new
revelations are expected.

Mr Bush's refusal to let her appear had put him under huge political pressure
and was beginning to cause the president real damage in an election year.

He had argued that national security advisers may not be so frank with foreign
policy advice given in private if they know that at some time in the future they
might be called on to reveal what they said in public.

Even now, Mr Bush is insisting that the Congressional commission acknowledge
that Dr Rice's appearance and the appearance of himself and Mr Cheney does not
set a precedent and that the panel seeks no further public testimony from White
House officials.

Previously, Mr Bush had offered to appear in private for a strictly limited
period before the chairman and vice-chairman of the commission only.

The White House reversal and resulting loss of face, follows the shock
allegations from former counter-terrorism chief Richard Clarke that Mr Bush and
his top aides ignored an urgent threat from Al Qaeda in the months before 9/11.

In particular, Mr Clarke has accused Dr Rice of not doing her job and of failing
to get vital information from the FBI about Al Qaeda terrorists who were in the
U.S. before the attacks.

Dr Rice vehemently denies the charges and has met the commission in private to
answer questions.

Both Republicans and Democratson the commission had urged the White House to let
her testify in public because they said it was 'essential to get a full
accounting of the events preceding and following 9/11'.

Commissioner Slade Gorton, a former Republican senator from Washington, said: 'I
think the White House would have been better off if it had made the agreements
sooner, but I'm delighted.

'I have felt all along that her public testimony would be good for the country.'
Commissioner Bob Kerrey, a former Democratic senator, said Rice's testimony will
be critical in determining what the Bush administration could have done to
prevent the attacks and that the White House 'made the right decision'.

White House counsel Alberto Gonzales did not set a date for Dr Rice's appearance
but said: 'we can schedule a time as soon as possible.' Dr Rice is considered a
key witness for the commission, which is looking into policy against the terror
threat before 11 September 2001, and the response afterwards.

END

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 March 31, 2004

MANIACS PLANNED MASSIVE ATTACK; TERROR OF THE TEEN BOMBERS

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 815 words


INTELLIGENCE agents and anti-terror police yesterday foiled a suspected al-Qaida
truck bomb attack on London.

The No 1 targets for the planned massive blast were Arsenal's Highbury stadium
or the world famous Stringfellow's nightclub, security sources revealed.

Half a ton of the deadly bombmaking chemical ammonium nitrate was seized during
24 dawn raids.

Eight British Muslim men - mostly teenagers - were arrested by armed officers.

The explosive has been used repeatedly by Osama Bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorists.

It is thought those held may belong to an al-Qaida splinter group planning a
"spectacular" in London similar to the Madrid bombings.

MI5 intelligence officers say the ammonium nitrate, a common fertiliser, would
have been mixed with fuel oil then packed into a van with Semtex explosive as a
detonator.

Soft targets such as pubs, shopping centres, football grounds and clubs were
thought to be lined up.

Stringfellow's in the West End and Arsenal's football ground in north London
were named as likely targets.

But Parliament, the US Embassy, Canary Wharf and Leicester Square could also
have been in the terrorists' sights.

Those arrested, mostly Pakistanis aged between 17 and 32, may also have been
planning to ram their truck into a railway station or airport terminal.

A number of addresses raided were near Heathrow and Gatwick.

At least one of those held worked for a firm supplying in-flight meals for
holiday jets operating out of Gatwick.

The man was said to be an employee of LSG Sky Chefs, owned by German airline
Lufthansa.

Two more are believed to have worked at the airport at some time.

Several family members at another raided home are taxi drivers working from
Gatwick.

Two rooms at the Gatwick Holiday Inn were also sealed off after an arrest was
made there.

Officers wearing masks and chemical protection suits swooped on the GBP
140-a-night hotel.

A guest was detained and a new silver Suzuki Grand Vitara seized.

In nearby Crawley, an internet cafe thought to have been used by suspects to
contact people abroad was also raided The fertiliser seized in the raids, which
involved 700 officers from five forces, has long been used by terrorists
including al-Qaida and the IRA.

The amount seized, found in a west London self-storage warehouse near Heathrow,
would have been capable of causing huge destruction and mass casualties.

There was enough to make a bomb three times the size of the biggest device used
in Bali.

Experts said enough had been stored in a white 6ft by 2ft builder's sack to
cause an explosion similar to the devastating 1996 bombings at Canary Wharf or
Manchester's Arndale Centre.

Ammonium nitrate, widely used in farming and gardening, was recently used by
terrorists in bombings against British targets in Turkey, in a blast at the US
embassy in Nairobi in 1998 and also the 1995 Oklahoma bombing that killed 169
people.

The 1993 World Trade Center bombing and an explosion at the US Embassy in
Pakistan in 2002 were triggered with ammonium nitrate.

Police have confirmed they have thwarted at least five major attacks on the
capital since the September 11 attacks.

Scotland Yard deputy assistant commissioner Peter Clarke, head of the Met's
anti-terror branch which co-ordinated the raids, said yesterday's arrests were
part of their ongoing probe into "international terrorist activities".

He said the threat remained "very real" and the public had to stay alert.

The ammonium nitrate was found at Access Storage Solutions depot in Hanwell,
west London after an undercover intelligence operation.

Mr Clarke said two men were arrested in Uxbridge, one in Ilford, one in Horley,
one in Slough and three in Crawley.

There were also raids in Reading, Colindale and Luton, which MI5 suspects is a
major European base for al-Qaida.

Mr Clarke added that they were not linked to Irish Republican terrorism or to
the recent attack in Madrid.

Terror expert Dr Magnus Ranstomp, of the University of St Andrews, said
obtaining ammonium nitrate was difficult.

He added: "It is listed as an explosive, even though it is used as an innocent
fertiliser by farmers.

"You buy it from chemical companies, but you have to have an account with them.

"You cannot just drive up in a lorry and collect a load of the stuff.

"But it is easily obtainable on the black market, and a terrorist may even buy
it from a farmer.

"It is popular with terrorists because you do not have to have much know-how to
make a bomb."

Home Secretary David Blunkett praised the raids as a "first class police and
security operation".

The Daily Star broke the news to Peter Stringfellow that his famous club was
named as a possible target.

He accepted terrorists might go after his venue but said the club already took
security very seriously.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           March 31, 2004, Wednesday

Terrorists step up attacks in Tashkent

BYLINE: Giles Whittell in Tashkent

SECTION: Overseas news; 14

LENGTH: 566 words


GUN battles between Uzbek police and alleged Islamic terrorists raged through a
residential district of Tashkent yesterday, leaving at least 21 dead and dozens
injured.

An undisclosed number of policemen were killed by suicide bombers as security
forces swept through the capital rounding up suspected Islamic militants.

Special forces stormed a building described as a terrorist hideout close to the
President's residence in the north of the city, killing 16 suspected militants.

Some of the dead had been shot by police, but others killed themselves with
grenades, one security source said.

Close to the house in Yalangach district, three policemen who had stopped a car
died when two suicide bombers emerged and set off their bombs. There were
reports of explosions and gunfire in several locations, capping three days of
violence in which at least 42 people have died.

Not all the reported killings could be verified, but German Ten, 59, showed The
Times around what remained of his home in Yalangach after a day-long siege. "I
went to work at eight o'clock and war had already begun," he said. "They were
shooting at the kindergarten 500 metres up the street. I wanted to go home, but
the police wouldn't let me."

By last night he had found out why. "At last they let me back into my house.
They had chased four terrorists there and shot them. Their bodies were lying
there in my yard and there was blood everywhere."

The Itar-Tass news agency reported the deaths of eight alleged terrorists who
had attacked a police checkpoint near the President's official residence. Four
women were seen pulling up to a police checkpoint in an old red car. One of the
women, dressed entirely in black, got out and was shot in the legs by police.
Then she detonated a bomb.

The security forces and Interior Ministry troops who deployed across Tashkent on
Monday night are a symbol of an ineffective and widely hated regime. President
Karimov is another. In a televised address after two bombings shut Tashkent's
main bazaar on Monday, he called on Uzbeks to "unite and protect our country
from enemies like this, to come forward against them as one fist". His security
forces delivered some swift results, but whether they or their victims have the
support of ordinary Uzbeks is another matter.

Since the country's last wave of violence five years ago, the regime has
suppressed suspected Islamic radicals, using alleged membership of the Hizb
ut-Tahrir movement or ties to Wahhabism as grounds for long prison terms and
systematic torture.

In the short term the violence has played into Mr Karimov's hands, ensuring that
he will not be second-guessed by his Western allies for the inevitable reprisals
now being planned. Uzbekistan is the springboard for American operations in
Afghanistan and host to 1,000 US troops.

Western observers agree that in the longer term Mr Karimov's suppression of all
opposition, whether religious or political, is untenable. The violence came as
Human Rights Watch launched a 350-page report on the regime's persecution of
independent Muslims.

In a document based on five years of reporting of trials of Muslims arrested for
worshipping outside strict state controls, it called on the international
community to use every means to force Mr Karimov to bring his judicial and
prison system in line with international norms.


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hertfordshire

                                 March 31, 2004

Prepare public for attack by terrorists'

BYLINE: Lawrence Marzouk

LENGTH: 284 words

DATELINE: Hertfordshire


The man in charge of preparing for the aftermath of a terrorist attack in Barnet
has said that more information should be released to the public to avoid chaos
in the event of an attack.

Roger Newark the borough's emergency planner said that the Government advice of
go in stay in tune in' must be publicised and endorsed calls from Liberal
Democrat London Mayoral candidate Simon Hughes for emergency information to be
included on official documents such as council tax bills.

London Resilience the organisation charged with coordinating the capital's
preparation for an attack has asked the Government to signpost emergency exits
from central London such as the A41 which runs through Barnet.

But the Government believes this would cause unnecessary panic.

The trunk road has been singled out as an escape route for people fleeing an
attack in central London. The A41 would become a one-way route with side-roads
blocked off and all lights turned to green to speed up evacuation.

Hendon MP Andrew Dismore who recently returned from a trip to swap security
measures with New York said: "There is always a balance to be found between
giving people information and scaring them. We are constantly reviewing the
situation."

Mr Newark also revealed that the issue of publicity was currently being reviewed
by the Government. There are official concerns that without proper information
people may panic and jam up motorways or overwhelm hospitals with requests which
he described as the worst thing that could happen'.

Mr Newark said: "I think preparing the public is a very good idea. I don't
believe it would cause panic and scaremongering. It should be seen as
preparation."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 March 31, 2004

Prepare public for attack by terrorists'

BYLINE: Lawrence Marzouk

LENGTH: 284 words


The man in charge of preparing for the aftermath of a terrorist attack in Barnet
has said that more information should be released to the public to avoid chaos
in the event of an attack.

Roger Newark the borough's emergency planner said that the Government advice of
go in stay in tune in' must be publicised and endorsed calls from Liberal
Democrat London Mayoral candidate Simon Hughes for emergency information to be
included on official documents such as council tax bills.

London Resilience the organisation charged with coordinating the capital's
preparation for an attack has asked the Government to signpost emergency exits
from central London such as the A41 which runs through Barnet.

But the Government believes this would cause unnecessary panic.

The trunk road has been singled out as an escape route for people fleeing an
attack in central London. The A41 would become a one-way route with side-roads
blocked off and all lights turned to green to speed up evacuation.

Hendon MP Andrew Dismore who recently returned from a trip to swap security
measures with New York said: "There is always a balance to be found between
giving people information and scaring them. We are constantly reviewing the
situation."

Mr Newark also revealed that the issue of publicity was currently being reviewed
by the Government. There are official concerns that without proper information
people may panic and jam up motorways or overwhelm hospitals with requests which
he described as the worst thing that could happen'.

Mr Newark said: "I think preparing the public is a very good idea. I don't
believe it would cause panic and scaremongering. It should be seen as
preparation."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 April 01, 2004

MAB warns Blair over root of terror;
 British foreign policy attacked

BYLINE: by BOB GLANVILLE

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 396 words


THE Muslim Association of Britain warned Prime Minister Tony Blair that a
radical rewrite of government foreign policy was the only way to tackle the
growing terrorist threat.

The organisation warned new Labour that its efforts at terror prevention were an
exercise in suppressing the symptoms of a disease that it had itself created.

The "root cause of terrorism is British foreign policy, " the organisation
claimed.

Muslim Association of Britain president Ahmed AhmadalSheikh asked why Britain
had "killed thousands of people in Iraq" and continually supported regimes that
suppressed Muslims.

As police continued to question eight young Muslim men suspected of plotting a
bomb attack in Britain, Mr AhmadalSheikh said that "the emphasis should be on
eliminating the root causes of terrorism."

"These stem from the foreign policies of Britain over the last few decades,
including unflinching support for Israel at the expense of the Palestinians,
supporting puppet dictators across the Muslim world, suppressing freedom and,
most recently, waging the illegal and immoral war in Iraq.

"Once these wrongs are righted, we will drain the swamp from which terrorism
emanates, " he added.

He went on to demand that the government take great care when discussing
"Islamic terrorists."

"All Muslims fear the link being made between Muslims and terrorism. It is
offensive to all of our society, " he said.

"A few mad people in society, who happen to be Muslims, are causing this
problem, " he said.

New anti-terror laws mean that the eight men in police custody face up to two
weeks of questioning without charge.

The arrests followed raids by 700 police on 24 homes and businesses and the
discovery of a large bag of ammonium nitrate fertiliser costing GBP 65.

But Mr Ahmadal-Sheikh reminded authorities that Muslim people had the same
rights and responsibilities as any other citizens.

"We hope that the arrested men see justice quickly, " he said. "If they are
guilty they should be tried and sentenced, if they are innocent they should be
freed.

"Too often this latter part has not happened and Muslims have been locked up,
detained, or searched with little or no evidence. This has led to a hysteria
surrounding the Muslim community which is palpably unfair.

He insisted: "The meaning of the Muslim religion is peace."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               PR Newswire Europe

                             April 1, 2004 Thursday

One Thousand More Fire-fighters Needed to Deal with Possible Terrorist Attacks

LENGTH: 499 words


LONDON, April 1 /PRNewswire/ --

LONDON, April 1 /PRNewswire/ --

The country needs at least 1,000 more fire-fighters to cope with major terrorist
attacks, the Fire Brigades Union has said. It points to a doubling in the size
of MI5, significantly more police and says other areas must follow the London
Fire Authority example and recruit more fire-fighters.

While the Government has provided councils with GBP56 million of equipment to
deal with chemical attacks most of them have not faced the problem of the staff
needed to use it. Only London - with an increase of 256 staff - has taken a more
realistic approach to staffing levels.

With another GBP132 million of equipment being provided to councils over the
next 12 months to handle conventional attacks, the problem will become even
greater. The union says councils and fire authorities are ignoring the fact that
labour-intensive equipment needs more people to use it.

The union says councils in major cities such as Liverpool, Manchester and the
West Midlands are simply ignoring the problem, cutting staff and hoping nothing
will happen. Liverpool went as far as rejecting one of the decontamination
showers offered by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, leaving the city
with only one.

Union General Secretary Andy Gilchrist said: "Councils have their head in the
sand on this issue. There are many strategic targets outside of London and the
South East.

"London doesn't have any nuclear power stations that terrorists could attack and
there are other strategic transport, industrial and commercial targets around
the UK.

"We need to be ready to react whenever and wherever they strike. Councils have
been given this equipment but they need people to operate it.

"London is taking on another 256 fire-fighters. Realistically we need at least
another 1,000 across the UK, a very modest increase of 2%.

"We are better prepared than we were 6 months ago but there is some way to go.
We have the equipment for a purpose but we need the people in place to make sure
we can use it if we have to.

"Knowing we are fully geared up rather than just trying to muddle through will
build public confidence that we can cope properly. Instead councils plan to cut
the numbers of rescuers. It's crazy to have state of the art equipment without
enough people in place to make sure we can use it to maximum effect."

Notes to editors

1] The initial GBP56 million includes 80 mass decontamination showers capable of
processing 200 people an hour, and protective suits and breathing equipment.
This should be fully operational by the end of April 2004.

2] Another GBP132 million is being spent on urban search and rescue equipment
which includes modern equipment for detecting signs of life under rubble, heavy
lifting gear to move collapsed structures and equipment to help stabilise
damaged buildings to enable rescuers to get in. This should be fully operational
in the next 12 months.The Fire Brigades Union

CONTACT:

Duncan Milligan +44-7736-818100

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 PR Newswire Europe Limited

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hertfordshire

                                 April 1, 2004

News Analysis: Preparing for a terror attack

BYLINE: Lawrence Marzouk

LENGTH: 848 words

DATELINE: Hertfordshire


Following the carnage in Madrid life in London has started to feel a little
different.

In the ten days following the Spanish bombing tragedy the number of suspect
packages reported in London and the south-east increased five-fold to 114. And
although Transport for London (TfL) has yet to release passenger numbers for the
Tube there are some indications that there has been a significant fall.

The Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens' message that a terrorist
strike in the capital is now 'inevitable' was hastily rebuffed by Home Secretary
David Blunkett. Quite rightly he wants to prevent a state of panic from taking
hold.

Barnet itself has been the target of four bombings in the last 15 years from
both the IRA and Palestinian terrorists. Thousands of commuters make their way
from Barnet to central London every day. So how safe are we in the hands of the
authorities?

The Madrid attack has raised worrying questions about the readiness of council
emergency planners who collate the local blueprint for dealing with disasters;
and British Transport Police (BTP) which guards the Underground trains and buses
across the capital; to deal with terrorism.

Barnet's emergency planner Roger Newark believes Barnet's make-up and its
strategic location means it is a terrorist target. "One sixth of Barnet's
population is Jewish that must be a consideration he said. As we have got a very
heavy transport infrastructure we are always faced with transport problems: rail
crashes and aeroplanes falling out of sky."

The Emergency Planning Society (EPS)which represents all emergency planners has
said civil defence plans for dealing with a terrorist attack were underfunded
could not cope with a major attack and would not meet the public's expectations.
Although Mr Newark refused to be drawn on the details of EPS's comment he
conceded that these problems also affect Barnet.

Barnet would play a key role in a central London attack as an evacuation route
and might be called upon to treat causalities.

The A41 which runs through Barnet has been singled out as an escape route for
people fleeing an attack in central London. The main trunk road would become a
one-way route with side-roads blocked off and all lights turned to green to
speed up evacuation.

Paul Hawkins emergency planner for Barnet and Chase Farm Hospitals NHS Trust
believes that disasters such as the Potters Bar rail crash have given the trust
invaluable experience.

But he has complained that communication between the police and the trust must
be improved to avoid chaos should panicked family members submerge the hospital
in search of their loved ones.

Mr Newark is supporting a call to release more information to the public about
what to do in an emergency to avoid chaos in the aftermath of an attack and
prevent worried residents choking stretched resources.

Barnet can cope with an attack on the scale of Madrid by working with other
London boroughs according to Mr Newark. But there is always a risk that existing
planning and equipment will not be sufficient for a larger disaster. "We can
only prepare for a reasonable number of evacuees he said.

The need to protect trains in London has been brought to the forefront after the
Madrid bombs. Despite a 20 per cent increase in funding from the train companies
this year, the BTP look set to make 50 officers redundant, while its top
officer, Alex Robertson, has claimed that there is an estimated funding
shortfall of £26million this year, and the force needs to expand from 22,000 to
30,000 officers.

A number of plain clothes officers are now policing the Underground, and
Government funding has equipped the force with chemical, biological,
radiological and nuclear testing kits. But the BTP complains that not nearly
enough has been invested into policing the railway stations, such as the
Thameslink and WAGN routes in Barnet.

Speaking last year, Mr Robertson, chairman of the British Transport Police
Federation, said: If we had direct funding then I believe the arguments for
additional money to pay for new sophisticated training to deal with the
biological and chemical terrorism threat would be more readily accepted.

"Instead the BTP which deals with more terrorist incidents than any other force
with the exception of the Met; which daily protects one of the most prestigious
and vulnerable targets that of the capital's travel infrastructure has to find
the money from its own resources."

Mr Robertson also revealed that the BTP were often deprived of police
intelligence such as information on asylum seekers and illegal immigrants. This
could have hindered any attempt to garner information on suspects such as those
arrested after the Madrid bombings.

Mr Robertson said: "Clearly it makes no sense for any police force especially a
national police service to be left out of the intelligence loop. Again this is
an anomaly which we would like to see removed urgently."

But no matter the level of preparedness we can only hope that the 'inevitable
never comes.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Roger Newark: Barnets emergency planner admits the borough could be a
target;

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 April 1, 2004

News Analysis: Preparing for a terror attack

BYLINE: Lawrence Marzouk

LENGTH: 849 words


Following the carnage in Madrid life in London has started to feel a little
different.

In the ten days following the Spanish bombing tragedy the number of suspect
packages reported in London and the south-east increased five-fold to 114. And
although Transport for London (TfL) has yet to release passenger numbers for the
Tube there are some indications that there has been a significant fall.

The Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens' message that a terrorist
strike in the capital is now 'inevitable' was hastily rebuffed by Home Secretary
David Blunkett. Quite rightly he wants to prevent a state of panic from taking
hold.

Barnet itself has been the target of four bombings in the last 15 years from
both the IRA and Palestinian terrorists. Thousands of commuters make their way
from Barnet to central London every day. So how safe are we in the hands of the
authorities?

The Madrid attack has raised worrying questions about the readiness of council
emergency planners who collate the local blueprint for dealing with disasters;
and British Transport Police (BTP) which guards the Underground trains and buses
across the capital; to deal with terrorism.

Barnet's emergency planner Roger Newark believes Barnet's make-up and its
strategic location means it is a terrorist target. "One sixth of Barnet's
population is Jewish that must be a consideration he said. As we have got a very
heavy transport infrastructure we are always faced with transport problems: rail
crashes and aeroplanes falling out of sky."

The Emergency Planning Society (EPS)which represents all emergency planners has
said civil defence plans for dealing with a terrorist attack were underfunded
could not cope with a major attack and would not meet the public's expectations.
Although Mr Newark refused to be drawn on the details of EPS's comment he
conceded that these problems also affect Barnet.

Barnet would play a key role in a central London attack as an evacuation route
and might be called upon to treat causalities.

The A41 which runs through Barnet has been singled out as an escape route for
people fleeing an attack in central London. The main trunk road would become a
one-way route with side-roads blocked off and all lights turned to green to
speed up evacuation.

Paul Hawkins emergency planner for Barnet and Chase Farm Hospitals NHS Trust
believes that disasters such as the Potters Bar rail crash have given the trust
invaluable experience.

But he has complained that communication between the police and the trust must
be improved to avoid chaos should panicked family members submerge the hospital
in search of their loved ones.

Mr Newark is supporting a call to release more information to the public about
what to do in an emergency to avoid chaos in the aftermath of an attack and
prevent worried residents choking stretched resources.

Barnet can cope with an attack on the scale of Madrid by working with other
London boroughs according to Mr Newark. But there is always a risk that existing
planning and equipment will not be sufficient for a larger disaster. "We can
only prepare for a reasonable number of evacuees he said.

The need to protect trains in London has been brought to the forefront after the
Madrid bombs. Despite a 20 per cent increase in funding from the train companies
this year, the BTP look set to make 50 officers redundant, while its top
officer, Alex Robertson, has claimed that there is an estimated funding
shortfall of £26million this year, and the force needs to expand from 22,000 to
30,000 officers.

A number of plain clothes officers are now policing the Underground, and
Government funding has equipped the force with chemical, biological,
radiological and nuclear testing kits. But the BTP complains that not nearly
enough has been invested into policing the railway stations, such as the
Thameslink and WAGN routes in Barnet.

Speaking last year, Mr Robertson, chairman of the British Transport Police
Federation, said: If we had direct funding then I believe the arguments for
additional money to pay for new sophisticated training to deal with the
biological and chemical terrorism threat would be more readily accepted.

"Instead the BTP which deals with more terrorist incidents than any other force
with the exception of the Met; which daily protects one of the most prestigious
and vulnerable targets that of the capital's travel infrastructure has to find
the money from its own resources."

Mr Robertson also revealed that the BTP were often deprived of police
intelligence such as information on asylum seekers and illegal immigrants. This
could have hindered any attempt to garner information on suspects such as those
arrested after the Madrid bombings.

Mr Robertson said: "Clearly it makes no sense for any police force especially a
national police service to be left out of the intelligence loop. Again this is
an anomaly which we would like to see removed urgently."

But no matter the level of preparedness we can only hope that the 'inevitable
never comes.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 1, 2004

Millions to face financial ruin by terror attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 640 words


A Blackhole in life insurance policies means millions of Britons would leave
nothing to their families if they died in a terror attack, it can be revealed.
The news comes after a terrorist attack on London was foiled after police
launched raids on suspected al-Qaeda-linked terrorists.

If a bomb or chemical attack was carried out in the UK, the loved ones of the
majority of victims would not receive any payout from insurance policies.

Alex Davies, head of life and pensions at Bristol-based financial advisers
Hargreaves Lansdown, said he was worried.

He said: "The wording is ambiguous on all the policies. They don't cover for
terror, it appears to be a loophole.

"It has only recently become a major threat so many companies don't cover for
it." Emergency workers rushing to save lives at the scene of an attack would be
left particularly vulnerable, it emerged last night.

FIREFIGHTERS and ambulance staff, who would be on the front line of any
incident, would not be covered.

The Fire Brigades Union said the Government was "disgraceful" for failing to
underwrite life insurance policies of crews.

While brigades up and down the country are being given £189million-worth of
training and equipment to deal with a terrorist attack, loopholes in life
insurance have not been tackled.

Tom McFarlane, secretary of the Fire Brigades Union, attacked the Government for
failing to act.

"It is disgusting," he said. "We are putting our lives on the line, but our
families could be left with huge debts. That cannot be right.

"The Government should underwrite the insurance policies of firefighters." Merv
Osborne, assistant chief fire officer at Avon Fire Brigade, said: "We as a
brigade have been talking to the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, hoping and
wishing that they would do something.

"We are very concerned that our firefighters should be covered in the event of a
terrorist attack." His comments were echoed by the union for ambulance staff,
which fears the lives of paramedics will be at risk while they try to save the
wounded.

Mark Weatherhead, general secretary for the Association of Professional
Ambulance Personnel, said: "It has happened in the Middle East where ambulance
staff have been killed when second bombs go off, or there is lethal gas in an
area.

"We are looking into this at the moment. If we find that there are serious flaws
in insurance policies we will be asking the Department of Health to underwrite
insurance policies for ambulance services." KEVIN Herniman, a firefighter of 22
years based at Speedwell station in Bristol, fears for the financial security of
his family if he is killed in a terrorist attack.

The 48-year-old father-of-three said: "If there is a terrorist attack I will be
there to save lives.

"But the last thing I want to do is leave my family with £13,000 of debt to pay
off.

"I am disgusted that the Government has not sorted this out yet.

"The threat of terrorism is clearly very real, and if they are spending so much
money training us up for a terror attack then they should be happy to underwrite
the insurance costs." The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister stressed it was
looking into the situation with regard to emergency workers.

A spokesman said: "At the moment we have been advised that there are some
insurance companies that are limiting the amount of personal cover.

"We are establishing if there is a problem and what the effects would be for our
emergency services." While their personal insurance might be redundant, families
of emergency service workers will be given compensation by forces if loved ones
die in the line of duty.

For the remainder of Britons, however, the life insurance loophole could leave
families penniless in the wake of a large-scale terrorist attack.


LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004 0104WESTDP3A5milli

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 April 2, 2004

'Bush had terror attack warning'

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 61 words


SENIOR US officials knew al Qaeda planned to fly planes into skyscrapers months
before the September 11 attacks, a former FBI translator claimed today.

Sibel Edmonds, 33, accuses the Bush administration of an "outrageous lie" in
stating it had had no warning. Mrs Edmonds said: "There was information about
the timeframe, methods, people in place."

END

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                              April 2, 2004 Friday

ONE THOUSAND MORE FIREFIGHTERS NEEDED TO DEAL WITH POSSIBLE TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; Families; Finance and Corporate Services;
News

LENGTH: 462  words



HIGHLIGHT: The country needs at least 1,000 more firefighters to cope with major
terrorist attacks, the Fire Brigades Union ha...


The country needs at least 1,000 more firefighters to cope with major terrorist
attacks, the Fire Brigades Union has said. It points to a doubling in the size
of MI5, significantly more police and says other areas must follow the London
Fire Authority example and recruit more firefighters.While the government has
provided councils with £56m of equipment to deal with chemical attacks most of
them have not faced the problem of the staff needed to use it. Only London -
with an increase of 256 staff - has taken a more realistic approach to staffing
levels.With another £132m of equipment being provided to councils over the next
12 months to handle conventional attacks, the problem will become even greater.

The union says councils and fire authorities are ignoring the fact that
labour-intensive equipment needs more people to use it.The union says councils
in major cities such as Liverpool, Manchester and the west Midlands are simply
ignoring the problem, cutting staff and hoping nothing will happen. Liverpool
went as far as rejecting one of the decontamination showers offered by the ODPM,
leaving the City with only one.Union general secretary Andy Gilchrist said:
'Councils have their head in the sand on this issue. There are many strategic
targets outside of London and the south-east.'London doesn't have any nuclear
power stations that terrorists could attack and there are other strategic
transport, industrial and commercial targets around the UK.'We need to be ready
to react whenever and wherever they strike. Councils have been given this
equipment but they need people to operate it.'London is taking on another 256
firefighters. Realistically we need at least another 1,000 across the UK, a very
modest increase of 2%.'We are better prepared than we were 6 months ago but
there is some way to go. We have the equipment for a purpose but we need the
people in place to make sure we can use it if we have to.'Knowing we are fully
geare d up rather than just trying to muddle through will build public
confidence that we can cope properly. Instead councils plan to cut the numbers
of rescuers. It's crazy to have state of the art equipment without enough people
in place to make sure we can use it to maximum effect.'Notes1. The initial £56m
includes 80 mass decontamination showers capable of processing 200 people an
hour, and protective suits and breathing equipment. This should be fully
operational by the end of April 2004.2 Another £132m is being spent on urban
search and rescue equipment which includes modern equipment for detecting signs
of life under rubble, heavy lifting gear to move collapsed structures and
equipment to help stabilise damaged buildings to enable rescuers to get in. This
should be fully operational in the next 12 months.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2004 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 3, 2004

AS SPY CHIEFS WARN OF NEW TERROR ATTACKS WHISTLEBLOWER SAYS: FBI TRIED TO BRIBE
ME; BUSH KNEW 911 WAS COMING

BYLINE: From Joanna Walters in New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 2

LENGTH: 486 words


A WHISTLEBLOWER with topsecret clearance claims she was bribed and then
threatened with jail over evidence the White House knew terrorists were
threatening to use planes to attack US cities.

Translator Sibil Edmonds' claims came as US law enforcement officials warned
terrorists may try to bomb buses and rail lines this summer, by hiding
explosives in duffel bags and backpacks.

Edmonds claims she was offered a pay rise and a full-time job to keep quiet
after uncovering clear-cut warnings in the summer of 2001 that an attack was
imminent.

When she refused, US Attorney General John Ashcroft took out a rare federal
gagging order against her - making it illegal for her to speak out.

"I have been silenced by Mr Ashcroft, the FBI follows me, and I was threatened
with jail if I went public, " Edmonds said.

The Turkish-American translator was hired soon after Al Qaeda terrorists
hijacked passenger flights on September 11, 2001 and flew them into the World
Trade Center, in New York, and the Pentagon, in Washington DC, killing more than
3,000 people.

Her job was to go over old FBI and CIA wiretaps of terrorist suspects to find
any evidence of the plot that might have previously been missed.

What she found shocked her so profoundly that she has now accused the White
House and, in particular, National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice of "an
outrageous lie" in their claims that they had no idea about the attacks and
could not have prevented them.

Edmonds will appear later this month before the federal commission investigating
the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

She has taken and passed an official lie detector test and been called credible
by several senior government figures.

Meanwhile, a US Government bulletin yesterday warned that terrorists might try
to bomb buses and rail lines in major US cities this summer.

According to the FBI and Homeland Security Department bulletin, the bombers
could attempt to conceal explosives in luggage such as duffel bags and
backpacks.

The bulletin cites uncorroborated intelligence as indicating that such bombs
could be made of ammonium nitrate fertiliser and diesel fuel, similar to that
used to blow up the Oklahoma City federal building, in April 1995, and found in
raids in Britain this week.

In a massive U-turn, Rice will testify in public in front of the commission next
Thursday and President George W Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney will address
the commission behind closed doors after refusing.

A programme requiring foreigners to be fingerprinted and photographed before
entering the US is being expanded to include millions of travellers from some of
America's allies.

The move affects citizens in 27 countries - including Britain, Japan and
Australia - who had been allowed to travel within the United States without a
visa for up to 90 days.

The changes will take effect from September 30.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 4, 2004

MI5 IS PROBING US ATTACK GANG; BOMB LINK TO TERRORIST SUSPECTS

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman and Gordon Thomas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 376 words


SECURITY chiefs are investigating links between nine held terror suspects and a
Pakistani Al Qaeda gang that tried to blow up the US consulate in Karachi last
month.

They believe a cell of Islamic extremists in the UK has had technical help with
bomb making from experts in Pakistan.

A well-placed security source told the Sunday Express that police anti-terrorism
officers and MI5 are trying to track down detonators and other bomb-making
equipment amid fears a cell of Islamic terrorists is at large in Britain.

The source, who has been briefed on the circumstances surrounding the arrests,
said security chiefs only acted because they feared a terror attack was close.
They moved in knowing the dragnet might push fanatics into an attack.

The nine men of Pakistani extraction are being held after half a ton of ammonium
nitrate fertiliser explosive was found in raids across the country. Police last
night were told they have more time to question them.

Security chiefs believe there may be connections between that discovery and a
fertiliser bomb which was defused four minutes before it would have devastated
the US diplomatic building in Karachi on March 15. That attack was believed to
have been planned by a group called Harkat-ul-Mujahedeen AlAlmi. The Sunday
Express has also learned the CIA provided British intelligence with information
that led to some of the arrests and the FBI were involved.

The involvement of the American intelligence community and the arrest of a tenth
suspect in Canada reinforces claims that British extremists have links to North
America as well.

MI5 boss Eliza Manningham-Buller is asking for the help of Muslim leaders in
tracking down a fanatic preparing young Muslims to be suicide bombers.

Israeli intelligence believes the fanatic may be in Britain. Mossad has sent MI5
a file that reveals the man was born Abu Saba in a Palestinian refugee camp.

He learned about bomb making during the civil war in Lebanon before becoming a
pupil of Fathi Shiqaqi, a terrorist assassinated by Mossad.

Mossad has told MI5 the two Britishborn Muslim suicide bombers at a Tel Aviv
club in April last year - Asif Hanif, 21, and Omar Khan Sharif, 27 - were
"graduates of Saba's manipulation".

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             April 6, 2004, Tuesday

BOY, 15, PUNCHED IN STREET ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: Warwickshire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 125 words


A TEENAGER was punched three times in the face after a gang of youths chased him
and a friend.

The 15-year-old was treated at Warwick Hospital for cuts and bruises to his eye
and ear after the vicious assault, which took place in Stratford- on-Avon,
between 9.30pm and 10.30pm on Saturday.

Police said a group of youths followed the boys out of the town's McDonald's
restaurant up to the Greggs shop, in Bridge Street. The boy was hit by three
different people and the group and ran off.

One of the youths was white, 6ft and wore a blue sports-type jacket. The second
was 6ft 3in and wore a baseball cap and the third was about 5ft 5in, stocky with
dark hair.

Anyone who can help should contact PC Paul Hammond on 01789 414111.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 April 6, 2004

TERROR GAS ATTACK FOILED

BYLINE: JAMES LANGTON

SECTION: A; Pg. 1; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 469 words


POLICE have foiled a poison gas attack on the Tube or Gatwick airport, it was
claimed today.

The plan was to use a chemical weapon which would produce deadly fumes that
effectively "drown" victims by choking them, according to intelligence sources.

A report on US television said the plot was foiled by British anti-terror
operations experts.

ABC news said the attack would have involved an easilyobtained chemical called
osmium tetroxide which produces deadly fumes that cause an asthma-like attack
known as " dryland drowning".

Intercepts by MI6 and GCHQ, the electronic listening centre, are said to have
alerted authorities that the chemical was involved in the plot, which could have
seen a conventional bomb laced with osmium tetroxide exploded in a crowded area.

It is likely that some people would have died in the initial blast but that
scores of others could have been killed from the chemical fallout.

Today a source close to the security service told the Evening Standard: "We
don't want to get into details of what was being planned." But he said
fertiliser could have been used to ignite the bomb. Osmium tetroxide is widely
used by laboratories in liquid form for testing chemicals under electron
microscopes and is obtainable through the internet, with few questions asked, at
least in the United States.

One American supplier offers sealed glass tubes for around £100 through the post
with the warning that the chemical is "very hazardous and dangerous".

It is described as "a nasty piece of work" by Dave Siegrist an American bio
terrorism expert at the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies near Washington DC.

Its fumes are almost invisible and cause blindness and choking, irritating the
eyes, nose and throat and attacking the soft tissues.

Officers have said that they believed a plot had been stopped at an early stage.

But al Qaeda experts have long warned that while terror groups will talk of
ambitious plans, and have produced training manuals talking about chemical and
dirty bombs, its determination to wreak havoc means its far more likely to use
conventional means.

This means many intercepted communications will mention chemical attacks, but
the reality is that terrorists will simply use normal explosives.

There has never been a successful al Qaeda chemical attack.

. Police have been given extra time to quiz eight terror suspects arrested in a
huge operation across London and the South-East last week. Two men were seized
in Uxbridge, three in Crawley and one each in Ilford, Slough and in Horley,
Surrey, at a Holiday Inn near Gatwick.

A ninth man was arrested on Thursday in Crawley. Police in Canada also arrested
a 24-yearold computer programmer, Mohammad Momin Khawaja, in connection with the
UK arrests.

END

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             April 6, 2004, Tuesday

POLICE FOIL POISON GAS TERROR ATTACK'

SECTION: Extra Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 171 words


POLICE have foiled a poison gas attack in Britain, it was claimed today.

A highly toxic chemical called osmium tetroxide was to be used in a device, ABC
News reported in the US.

The chemical compound, which can be bought on the internet,causes victims to
choke to death in agony. It can also cause blindness.

The gas could have been used by terrorists to target the Tube in London,Gatwick
airport or a busy shopping centre, ABC News said.

Police and security services in the UK were alerted after mention of the
chemical was picked up at the GCHQ electronic listening centre, ABC News said.

They moved to stop any possibility of it being used.

Osmium tetroxide has a pungent smell and comes from the Greek word for "stench".

It is used in research laboratories as a staining agent in electron microscopy.

Despite being considered extremely hazardous, small amounts can be obtained
through the internet for about pounds 100.

Experts say it could be "piggy-backed" on to a conventional bomb.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            April 7, 2004, Wednesday

AGENTS THWART POISON GAS PLOT;
 ANTI-TERROR CHIEFS FEAR DEADLY BOMB ATTACK

BYLINE: NICK ALLEN

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 309 words


POLICE and the security services have foiled a terrorist plot to launch a poison
gas attack on Britain.

A plan to use a highly toxic chemical called osmium tetroxide was uncovered
after messages between terror suspects were monitored.

The chemical compound, which can be bought on the internet for pounds 17 a
gram,causes victims to choke to death in agony and turns skin black. It also
attacks the eyes.

Anti-terrorist chiefs fear the target for an attack could have been the London
Underground system,Gatwick airport or a crowded public area like a shopping
centre.

Experts say the chemical could have been "piggy-backed" on to a conventional
bomb which would see the invisible fumes dispersed into a crowd of people.

Suspects' conversations were eavesdropped on at the GCHQ electronic listening
centre and police moved to disrupt the plot at an early stage before any osmium
tetroxide was obtained.

While al-Qaidahas included plans for chemical attacks in training manuals,it has
so far used conventional devices and the use of poison gas would have marked a
new departure in its strategy for causing chaos.

Conservative homeland security spokesman Patrick Mercer said: "There is no doubt
that terrorists are very keen on looking at biological and chemical weapons so
any stories like this don't surprise me."

Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy said reports of the plot were "very
troubling".

"It is reassuring at the same time, obviously, that apparently the security and
intelligence services have been able to foil something,"he said.

But the security services faced an "almost impossible conundrum", Mr Kennedy
said.

"You don't,of course, want to compromise your sources and at the same time you
don't want to en gender unnecessary alarm which cuts across our civil liberties
and everyday lives."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           April 07, 2004, Wednesday

Rare poison linked to terrorists planning an attack in Britain

BYLINE: By John Steele and Roger Highfield

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 713 words

EVIDENCE that terrorists are making preparations for a chemical attack in
Britain has been uncovered by police and the security services.

Suspected terrorists sympathetic to al-Qa'eda and Osama bin Laden have studied a
highly toxic chemical known as osmium tetroxide, it has emerged.

Security sources said it was too early too say how far advanced plans were to
use the chemical, either on its own or as an ingredient of a large, possibly
fertiliser-based bomb.

However, one source said: "We may have stopped a plot. We believe it was
certainly in their mind to use chemicals at some stage."

Though experts yesterday argued that osmium tetroxide is "expensive and
inefficient" as a terrorist weapon, security sources regard the new evidence as
a sign that terrorists are seeking potentially lethal chemicals to use alongside
bombs in a terror campaign.

The evidence has emerged in a highly sensitive operation by police and the
security service, MI5, few details of which have been disclosed.

So far, it is understood, none of the chemical has been found and there is no
evidence that the terrorists control any. There is also not thought to be
evidence that attempts have been made to buy osmium tetroxide.

However, police and MI5 are understood to have intelligence - from intercepted
telephone calls or, possibly, records of internet searches - that the terrorists
have been researching and discussing the chemical. News of the discovery
surfaced yesterday in a report on the ABC news network in America.

It suggested the potential targets were Gatwick airport, the transport system or
shopping centres.

British security sources, though, said there was no clear evidence of targets.
However, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir John Stevens, among others,
has recently warned about the threat to "soft targets" such as bars and clubs.

Osmium tetroxide's details can be found on the internet, where it can also be
bought.

Although it is highly toxic, there is thought to have been only one recorded
death linked to the chemical.

The threat was played down yesterday by Prof Barry Sharpless, a Nobel laureate
from the Scripps Research Institute, California, who has worked with the
chemical, and Prof Ken Seddon, a British chemist writing a book on chemical
weapons.

Osmium, the densest natural metal, forms the tetroxide when combined with
oxygen. The compound is often used in electron microscopy, to stain specimens to
provide better contrast, and to highlight fingerprints. It costs about pounds
100 per gram and is typically sold in small quantities in sealed ampoules.

Osmium tetroxide is a highly volatile liquid. Vapour deposits a layer of osmium
dioxide on anything it comes into contact with, which is why it is a powerful
staining agent. But the dioxide also stains the human cornea black, which can
lead eventually to blindness. As Prof Kendall Houk, of the University of
California, put it, "many of us old timers, before good hoods [used for
protection], got halos around light sources for a few hours if too much osmium
tetroxide reached our corneas".

The vapour can deposit dioxide powder in the throat and lungs. At low
concentrations, this can cause a burning sensation, cough and shortness of
breath. At high concentrations, it could oxidise the lungs and cause "dry land
drowning", but this is unlikely to happen in practice, according to Prof Ken
Seddon of Queen's University, Belfast.

"You could disable people but you would need a lot to kill them," he said. "This
would not scare me the way that a nerve agent such as tabun would. "This report
is bizarre," he added. "The chemical is extremely expensive and you have to be a
chemist to know about it. Osmium tetroxide is not listed in the Chemical Weapons
Convention."

Prof Sharpless added that "many commodity chemicals would kill a lot more people
in almost any comparative scenario I can imagine".

The only recorded fatality attributed to the chemical was in 1874. A worker in a
platinum extraction factory near Paris died from pneumonia brought on by
breathing in osmium tetroxide.

There is little evidence that exposure causes chronic effects. Indeed, it is
used to treat rheumatoid knees in some countries, commented Dr Valery Fokin, who
works with Prof Sharpless.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 7, 2004, Wednesday

TERROR GAS ATTACK ON TUBE FOILED BY SECURITY AGENCIES SERVICE

BYLINE: KIM SENGUPTA The planned poison gas attack targeted the Tube as well as
airports PA

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 498 words


A PLANNED poison gas attack, with the London Underground as a likely target, has
been foiled by the security agencies, it was claimed yesterday.

The plot allegedly involved detonating a combined chemical and explosive "dirty
bomb", producing fumes that can choke victims in a confined place. The
conspiracy was uncovered after British and United States intelligence
intercepted telephone calls within this country, as well as calls to Pakistan.

As well as Tube trains, passenger terminals at London Gatwick and Heathrow
airports are believed to have been in the list of targets. However, it is
believed the plot was exposed before the alleged terror cells had reached the
position to carry out an attack. Security sources said yesterday that the attack
involved the use of a chemical called osmium tetroxide in an explosion. However,
security experts last night questioned whether such a chemical could be used in
an attack by terrorists.

The substance turns from solid to gas in confined space and is highly corrosive
to eyes, skin tissue and lungs, producing a symptom called "dry land drowning".
It is believed that a fertiliser-based explosive would have been part of the
package.

The telephone calls between the alleged plotters were intercepted by GCHQ in
Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, and the US National Security Agency. Al-Qa'ida
leaders have been warning of a chemical attack since the 1999 bombings of the
World Trade Centre in New York, and handbooks have been produced on how to
manufacture "dirty bombs".

However, so far, the organisation and its affiliates had only carried out
attacks with conventional explosives, and some experts pointed out yesterday
that osmium tetroxide, which has a legitimate scientific use, did not fit the
usual profile of a typical chemical warfare agent. They said handling the
chemical would be potentially dangerous for would-be bombmakers.

Professor Alastair Hay, professor of environmental toxicology at Leeds
University, said the substance, known as a "rare catalyst" a chemical that
speeds experiments, could be used to speed up an explosion.

But he added: "It would not be in the same category as some radioactive
substance which would continue to emit radiation and cause a problem in terms of
clean-up. This would be something present, like a heavy metal lead, in the
environment. I don't think it would be a major hazard and clean-up would not be
a major problem."

Dr Steve Simpson, a senior lecturer in chemistry at the University of Salford,
who works with the substance, said: "If you get the vapour in your eyes, even a
small amount, it can turn them brown or black and you could be permanently
blinded. It is so volatile that one could be in appreciable danger just opening
a bottle. If one had 10 grams and opened it up in a normal-sized room, within a
couple of minutes it would cause people's eyes to stream. Some people might feel
a bit tight in the chest. It would cause massive panic."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 7, 2004, Wednesday

Most people believe Britain is bound to face terror attack

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 524 words


Warnings about a terrorist atrocity in Britain have led to a large majority of
the population believing that an attack is inevitable, a Times poll shows.

However, only a tiny minority of people have altered their plans or normal
routines because of the possible threat.

A Populus poll for today's Times, undertaken at the weekend, shows that the
public has an attitude of robust fatalism about the possibility of an al-Qaeda
attack in Britain.

Tony Blair's plans to speed up the introduction of compulsory ID cards received
a boost as the poll showed that 72 per cent of people believe that the
"introduction of compulsory ID would significantly help to combat the threat of
a terrorist attack in Britain". Only 15 per cent disagree strongly.

David Blunkett will publish a draft identity card Bill this month, with support
highest among Labour voters (80 per cent) and the working class (77 per cent),
and lowest (68 per cent) among professionals and managers and Liberal Democrat
voters, the poll shows.

Over-65s are much more strongly in favour of ID cards than any other age group.

About 73 per cent of people interviewed regard it as "inevitable" that Britain
would suffer a major terrorist attack by al-Qaeda "before long".

However, a mere 12 per cent say that they have "changed any plans or normal
routines when it comes to things such as travel, holidays or trips to Central
London as a result of the possible threat of a terrorist attack on Britain",
while 88 per cent have not.

Voters in London and the South East, where there are many potential terrorist
targets, are no more likely than those in other regions to have changed their
plans, but people in the 25-44 age range are more likely than others to have
changed plans.

There is a widespread view, shared by 80 per cent of voters, that "Muslim
leaders in Britain should do more to root out and condemn terrorist sympathisers
in their commu-nities". The poll was under-taken after the arrest last week of
nine people under the Terrorism Act and the letter warning against extremists
sent by Muslim leaders to mosques.

A narrow majority (51 to 43 per cent) rejects the proposition that "British
troops should be withdrawn from Iraq to try to dissuade al-Qaeda from a major
attack on us".

There is a gender gap on what may be called the Spanish option. Men strongly
disagree (by 61 to 36 per cent), but women favour withdrawal (by 49 to 41 per
cent). This ties in with the greater hostility to the Iraq war among women than
men. Majorities of both younger people and pension-ers also favour withdrawal.

Nearly two thirds of voters (65 per cent) believe that the fact that Britain has
not had a terrorist attack "is a tribute to our anti-terrorist police".

A slightly higher percentage, 71 per cent, believe that "an attack on Britain by
al-Qaeda would be further evidence of why we have to wage war against
terrorism".

These two propositions receive widespread backing from all social and political
groups.

* Populus interviewed 1,045 adults aged over 18 by telephone between April 2 and
4.

Leading article, page 17


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                                 April 7, 2004

Anti-terror services uncover poison gas attack on Britain

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: The North East


Police and the security services have foiled a terrorist plot to launch a poison
gas attack in Britain.

A plan to use a highly toxic chemical called osmium tetroxide was uncovered
after communications between terror suspects were monitored.

The chemical compound which can be bought on the Internet for £17 a gram attacks
the eyes turns the skin black and causes victims to choke to death in agony.

Anti-terror chiefs fear the target for an attack could have been the London
Underground system Gatwick Airport or a crowded public area such as a shopping
centre.

Experts say the chemical could have been "piggy-backed" on to a conventional
bomb which would disperse the invisible fumes into a crowd of people.

As they died victims would have suffered asthma-like symptoms known as "dryland
drowning".

Suspects' conversations were eavesdropped at the GCHQ electronic listening
centre and police moved to disrupt the alleged plot at an early stage before any
osmium tetroxide was obtained.

While al Qaida has included plans for chemical attacks in training manuals it
has so far used conventional devices and the use of poison gas would have marked
a departure in its strategy for causing chaos.

Andy Oppenheimer a nuclear biological and chemical weapons expert for Jane's
Information Group said osmium tetroxide was an unusual choice as a chemical
weapon but it could kill.

He said if terrorists were going to use it they would be likely to do so in a
small bomb in a confined space.

"You can't get hold of barrels of this stuff but if you were going to set off a
small device and frighten people you wouldn't really require that he said.

You don't think of it being used in a bomb but you would get dispersal of the
chemical in a bomb and in an enclosed space it would harm people. If people
breathed in enough gas they could die."

Mr Oppenheimer said the main impact of such a bomb would be to spread panic.

* A 17-year-old arrested during anti-terror raids across the South-East was
charged yesterday with conspiracy to cause explosions. Extensions of the custody
period have been granted for a further eight men held under the Terrorism Act

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 April 7, 2004

Poison terror attack foiled

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 764 words


James Reed

A TERRORIST plot to launch a poison gas attack in Britain using a chemical
available on the Internet has been foiled by police and the security services.

The plan to use osmium tetroxide was uncovered after communications between
terror suspects were monitored by the GCHQ listening centre and police moved in
before the chemical was obtained.

Osmium tetroxide, which can be bought on the Internet for £17 a gram, causes
victims to choke to death in agony and turns skin black. It also attacks the
cornea in the eye and can lead to blindness.

Anti-terror chiefs fear the target could have been the London Underground
system, Gatwick airport or a crowded public area like a shopping centre.

Experts say the chemical could have been "piggy-backed" on to a conventional
bomb which would disperse the invisible fumes among a crowd of people.

As they died victims would have suffered asthma-like symptoms known as "dry land
drowning".

Alastair Hay, professor of environmental toxicology at Leeds University, said it
was used as a catalyst in the chemical industry.

He said: "You can get hold of small quantities relatively easily but in a bomb
they would be diluted in the air and be much less of a problem than the blast.

"If you have significant amounts that would be different".


Professor Hay urged the Government to inform people of risks.

He said: "There is a real need for the Government to engage with people and say
that this is what could happen, what the response of the authorities would be
and what should people do.

"The Government is probably nervous about worrying people but, equally, people
get worried if they don't know what is going on".


While terror group Al-Qaida has included plans for chemical attacks in training
manuals, it has so far used conventional devices and the use of poison would
have marked a new departure.

Andy Oppenheimer, a nuclear, biological and chemical weapons expert for Jane's
Information Group, said osmium tetroxide was an unusual choice as a chemical
weapon, but it could kill.

He said if terrorists were going to use it they would be likely to do so in a
confined space.

"You can't get hold of barrels of this stuff but if you were going to set off a
small device and frighten people you wouldn't really require that," he said.

"You don't think of it being used in a bomb but you would get dispersal of the
chemical in a bomb and in an enclosed space it would harm people.

"If people breathed in enough gas in an enclosed space they could die".


He said the main impact of such a bomb would be to spread fear and panic.

"It would be used to up the ante, to frighten people. It's just the very idea
that anything could be used even if it was a common chemical".


Politicians congratulated the security services on their success but warned the
apparent plot was a sign of the times.

Conservative homeland security spokesman Patrick Mercer said: "There is no doubt
that terrorists are very keen on looking at biological and chemical weapons so
any stories like this don't surprise me".


Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy described reports of the plot as "very
troubling" and said the security services faced an "almost impossible
conundrum".

He said: "You want to be able to inform people for reassurance purposes that the
closest possible surveillance and infiltration does take place.

"You don't, of course, want to compromise your sources and at the same time you
don't want to engender unnecessary alarm which cuts across our civil liberties
and everyday lives".


Chemical companies selling osmium tetroxide warn that it is "extremely
hazardous" but offer it for sale in glass containers which can be stored in an
ordinary fridge.

One company seals the glass vials with nitrogen and another packs them in
full-cream powdered milk to deactivate the fumes if the glass breaks during
delivery.

A US firm offers to deliver its osmium tetroxide in solid form for $ 30 a gram
or $ 180 (£102) for 10ml in liquid form.

Osmium is one of the heaviest metals known to man. Its name comes from the Greek
for stench and reflects the pungent odour of the substance.

n A 17-year-old arrested during a series of anti-terror raids was last night
charged with conspiracy to cause explosions with intent to injure or damage
property.

The teenager was among those arrested last Tuesday in a series of raids across
South East England. He is due to appear at Bow Street Magistrates' Court, in
London, today.


james.reed@ypn.co.uk




LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            April 8, 2004, Thursday

SUICIDE TERRORISTS WERE PLANNING ANOTHER ATTACK

SECTION: 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 212 words


THE terrorists who died in last weekend's Madrid suicide blast planned another
major attack in the Spanish capital, possibly during this week's Easter
celebrations, a court official said yesterday.

Police also fear last Saturday's suicide explosion that may have killed seven
suspects, and the subsequent arrests of other suspects, could stir a "sleeper
cell" to mount a holy war in Spain, said the official.

The latest detainees, both Moroccan men, were questioned in court yesterday in
connection with the March 11 train bombings in Madrid that killed 191 people and
injured more than 1,800 others.

One was arrested in the town of Illescas near the Spanish capital on Tuesday, a
court official said. That detention raised to 17 the number of people in
custody. The suspect was not publicly identified.

The other, Fadual Aqili, was arrested on Friday at the border in Ceuta, a
Spanish enclave on Morocco's northern coast.

The court official said explosives and other evidence found in the apartment
after Saturday's suicide blast indicated the suspects planned an imminent
follow-up to the March 11 attacks.

The national celebrations end on April 11 on Easter Sunday, a hallowed date in
the calendar of the largely Roman Catholic country.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Century Newspapers Limited

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                             April 8, 2004 Thursday

FIRE UNION SOUNDS TERROR ATTACK WARNING

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; News

LENGTH: 134  words



HIGHLIGHT: An extra 1,000 fire fighters are needed to cope with the threat of
terrorist attacks, the Fire Brigades Union has c...


An extra 1,000 fire fighters are needed to cope with the threat of terrorist
attacks, the Fire Brigades Union has claimed.It said fire authorities around the
country should follow the example of the London Fire & Emergency Planning
Authority and recruit more fire fighters.London is taking on an extra 256 posts,
and is the only authority to 'take a more realistic approach', the union
said.Equipment worth some £188m is being provided to councils by the government
to handle both conventional and chemical attacks, but the union said there are
not enough trained personnel to use it.'Councils have their heads in the sand on
this issue,' said general secretary Andy Gilchrist. 'There are many strategic
targets outside the south-east.An increase of 1,000 firefighters would add 2% to
the total workforce.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2004 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 April 8, 2004

What do you think...Is a terrorist attack inevitable?

LENGTH: 616 words


TERRORISM is the current fear playing on the minds of the Government and the
public.

With recent attacks in Madrid and Bali the ongoing suicide bombings in Palestine
and Israel and the ever present threat of al-Quaeda following the disaster of
September 11 officials in many nations are working fervently to draw up plans in
case their country is hit by catastrophe.

Recent exercises by the British government the police and the emergency services
have been hailed by the media as proof that we are not ready should disaster
strike.

Last September's Osiris II exercise which simulated a chemical attack at Bank
underground station was criticised for its circumstances - a bomb is more likely
than a chemical attack - and for the fact that various items of equipment were
ill fitting and prevented those involved from doing their job.

Reports that communication equipment does not work underground in London's Tube
system is also cause for concern although in all these cases officials have
stated that it is better to find out where they are going wrong while they are
merely practising rather than when a terrorist strikes.

Various targets are now seeing an increase in security as officials prepare for
when rather than if an attack happens.

The Houses of Parliament are considering removing their ornamental railings and
replacing them with high concrete walls as well as erecting a perspex screen to
prevent terrorist throwing acid at passing MPs. There has also been an increase
in anti-terror police circulating on Tube trains and patrolling stations.

The Times visited Chiswick only a few miles from central London to see if
residents felt the threat of terrorism was casting a shadow over their lives.

Dan Caren was not worried about the local area being attacked.

He said: "Honestly I don't think Chiswick would be a prime target and there's a
lot of scare mongering. But it's inevitable that London will be hit at some
point."

Gareth Jones felt that the threat of terrorism is always present in major
cities: "I remember when the IRA bombs were in London. It's a dreadful thing but
it's happened before and most people expect it to happen again."

Mary Aherne who has moved to Chiswick from Ireland feels that recent events have
brought the threat into the public eye. She said: "I am worried. I got worried
when Madrid happened." And she believes the Government should be reassuring the
public that they are acting on the threat adding: "When they make security
announcements on the Tube it heightens awareness and explains why they are doing
things."

Simone Baruffi originally from Australia was glad to hear that Hounslow Council
has prepared emergency plans although she was disappointed by the Government
restrictions: "I think it's good they have a plan in place but it defeats the
purpose of it if they don't tell us what we have to do."

John Koski could not rule out Chiswick as a target: "It could happen any time
anywhere. The targets seem to be indiscriminate and whatever precautions are
being taken it won't be sufficient to prevent an attack. The only way to do that
is to catch the terrorists before they do it."

On such a sensitive issue many people interviewed by the Times wished to stay
anonymous.

One lady who did not wish to give her name said: "If we let them get to us and
we spend all our time tiptoeing on eggshells then they have won." But a slightly
more pessimistic view was expressed by one man who is not convinced of the
Government's intentions: "I don't think they have any contingency plans.

"The only arrangements will be for the Government ministers to hide in a bunker
somewhere safe."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 April 8, 2004

Suicide terrorists were planning madrid attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 423 words


The terrorists who died in last weekend's Madrid suicide blast planned another
major attack in the Spanish capital, possibly during this week's Easter
celebrations, a court official said yesterday.  Police also fear last Saturday's
suicide explosion that may have killed seven suspects, and the subsequent
arrests of other suspects, could stir a "sleeper cell" to mount a holy war in
Spain.

The latest detainees, both Moroccan men, were questioned in court yesterday in
connection with the March 11 train bombings in Madrid that killed 191 people and
injured more than 1,800 others.

One was arrested in the town of Illescas near the Spanish capital on Tuesday.
That detention raised to 17 the number of people in custody. The suspect was not
publicly identified.

The other, Fadual Aqili, was arrested on Friday at the border in Ceuta, a
Spanish enclave on Morocco's northern coast.

The court official said explosives and other evidence found in the apartment
after Saturday's suicide blast indicated the suspects planned an imminent
follow-up to the March 11 attacks.

The national celebrations end on Easter Sunday, a hallowed date in the calendar
of the largely Roman Catholic country.

The court official said police found a substantial quantity of money, including
a roll of 500 euro notes, on the body of one of the suicide victims.

On Tuesday, prosecutor Olga Sanchez asked Juan Del Olmo, the investigating
magistrate, to issue four more international arrest warrants. No information was
available on those four suspects. Del Olmo last week issued a similar warrant
for six suspects.

The government previously said three of those six were among at least five
suspected terrorists who blew themselves up as special forces prepared to storm
their apartment in the Madrid suburb of Leganes. The court official said
yesterday that police now believe recovered body parts belonged to seven people.

Police are looking for possibly three people who may have fled the apartment
before the suicide blast and are in hiding near Madrid. Those who escaped may
include one or more of the people sought in del Olmo's warrants.

Authorities believe ringleader Sarhane Ben Abdelmajid Fakhet of Tunisia and
Moroccan Jamal Ahmidan - described as his right-hand man and the person who
rented the house where the bombs used in the March 11 attacks allegedly were
assembled - were among those killed in the suicide blast.

Police claim that as early as mid-2003, Fakhet was campaigning for a holy war in
Spain.


LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 April 9, 2004

Campaign of terror continues;
 Family attacked in their new homeFamily attacked in their new home

BYLINE: By Kim Kellynewsdesk@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 390 words


A CO Antrim family whose pet rabbits were mutilated and torched in a sickening
arson attack have had their new home attacked just six hours after moving to a
neighbouring town.

Father of seven Jim Hughes said his family was terrified when a bottle was
thrown through the front window of their new house in a Coleraine housing
estate.

Mr Hughes, his wife Caroline and children fled to the new Housing Executive
property following a vicious attack at their home in the Dhu Varren estate in
Portrush last week.

Heartless thugs broke into the family's back yard and stole rabbits from
hutches, before setting fire to rubbish in the garden.

The dead rabbits, which belonged to Mr Hughes son Alexander (8), who attends a
Coleraine special school, were later found a few streets away by horrified
police officers in a burning stolen car.

The pet rabbits had their heads cut off by the thieves who had fled the scene.

Mr Hughes and his family were immediately re-housed by the Housing Executive.

The family, who are originally from Monkstown, say they faced a two-year
campaign of intimidation at the Portrush estate.

Mrs Hughes said the pet rabbits had been targeted before by a gang of youths who
broke into her yard with dogs and her home had been the target of vandals,
burglars and arsonists.

The night before the family moved from Portrush their house was once again
attacked with glass bottles and a phone box outside their front window was
torched.

Offensive graffiti was also daubed on the gable wall of their house.

The Hughes family had hoped that the move to the new house in Coleraine would
see an end to their torture.

"It's unbelievable we were just getting unpacked and a bottle flew though the
front window, hopefully this was just a one off and we don't get any more
trouble," said Jim Hughes.

"The police came out quickly which was good but it was very frightening."

Since the attack the Hughes family have been inundated with offers from
concerned people throughout Northern Ireland offering them replacement rabbits.

Police at Coleraine have had a collection and will buy three new rabbits when
the family has settled into their home.

Meanwhile two juveniles and two men have been arrested in connection with the
attack, they were later released on police bail.


LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            April 10, 2004, Saturday

TOP AL QUAIDA MAN SET UP MADRID TERROR ATTACK'

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 192 words


SPANISH police believe a top al-Qaida operative in Europe put two key suspects
in the Madrid bombings in contact with each other and gave the planned attack
the blessing of Osama bin Laden's terror organisation.

Alleged attack coordinator Sarhane Ben Abdelmajid Fakhet of Tunisia met with
alQaida operative Amer Azizi in Turkey to ask for fighters to stage an attack in
Madrid.

Azizi,a Moroccan who remains at large, was indicted on terrorism charges last
September by Spanish Judge Baltasar Garzon as part of his probe into an al-Qaida
cell he accused of helping prepare the September 11 attacks.

Azizi, approached by Fakhet, apparently told Fakhet he could not supply
mujahedeen fighters but urged him to contact Moroccan compatriot Jamal Zougam in
Madrid, the paper added, citing unidentified police officials.

Zougam is one of six people charged with mass murder in connection with the
Madrid attacks, which killed 191 people and wounded more than 1,800.

Fakhet was one of up to seven suspected terrorists who blew themselves up last
Saturday when their apartment south of Madrid was about to be stormed by Spanish
police.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 10, 2004, Saturday

BOMBER'S AGONY;
 OMAGH TERRORIST HAS 'HEART ATTACK' IN PRISON

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE BY JOANNE MCELGUNN AND JILLIE BEATTIE

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 357 words

HIGHLIGHT: DEVASTATION: Omagh bomb scene in 1998; GUILTY; Murphy was sentenced
to 14 years in prison; SECURITY; Murphy collapsed in Portlaoise Prison


THE only person jailed in connection with the Omagh bomb suffered a suspected
heart attack in jail yesterday.

Colm Murphy - a fanatical Real IRA man - was taken to hospital after collapsing
in maximum security Portlaoise Prison. Murphy, 51, who was jailed in January
2002 for his part in the blast which killed 29 people and unborn twins, was
treated in intensive care at Portlaoise General Hospital.

He was rushed there at lunchtime amid tight security.

A source said: "There was massive gardai and army security around the hospital
to ensure that no one tried to spring Murphy.

"Security was watertight. It has to be when you are dealing with this calibre of
prisoner."

Murphy collapsed on a prison landing at 12.45pm just after eating his lunch.

A source said: "He fell in a heap and some of his republican fellow prisoners
rushed to his aid.

"It appears his condition was very serious, otherwise he wouldn't have been
brought to hospital, as the prison has highly qualified medical staff."

Last night he was returned to his cell.

Murphy, from Ravensdale, Dundalk, Co Louth, was found guilty at Dublin's Special
Criminal Court of conspiring to cause the 1998 bombing atrocity.

The dissident republican loaned two mobile phones to the bombers and their
scouts.

The court ruled that he knew the phones would be used in the bombing.

Sentencing Murphy to 14 years, Justice Robert Barr said: "The accused is a
long-time republican extremist and member of a dissident group opposed to the
peace agreement of Northern Ireland."

Murphy, a millionaire publican and businessman, claimed he was innocent and said
his conviction was a "miscarriage of justice".

However, the father-of-four was refused leave to appeal.

The Omagh bomb on August 15, 1998, also left more than 300 people injured.

As sentence on Murphy was passed, relatives of the dead stood up and applauded.

Murphy, who will serve at least 10 years, has also been served with a civil writ
by the families of the bereaved.

They are taking a civil action for compensation because no one has yet been
charged with the murders.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             April 11, 2004, Sunday

IRAQ & TERROR: ATTACK VICTIMS WILL BE STRIPPED'

BYLINE: GEOFFREY LEAN AND SEVERIN CARRELL

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 329 words


Tens of thousands of people within a quarter of a mile of a terrorist chemical
or biological attack would be stripped of their clothes - including watches and
wedding rings - an official document seen by The Independent on Sunday reveals.
Only "in exceptional circumstances" would they be allowed to keep items such as
the keys to their own front doors.

The document, prepared by the Home Office in late February, adds that even the
largest police forces would be stretched to cope with such an attack, and
provides further evidence that Britain is not yet fully prepared for one.

The revelations follow last week's announcement that terrorists had been
planning to launch an attack in Britain with a chemical called osmium tetroxide.
Security experts cast doubt on whether the chemical would prove an effective
weapon, but David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, claimed that the plot justified
his introduction of draconian measures to combat terrorism.

The document shows that an area with a radius of at least 600 yards would be
sealed off after an attack. Everyone within a 400-yard "hot zone" would be
"decontaminated" - stripped of clothing and possessions and washed down.

It shows that, two and a half years after the 9/11 attacks, plans are still
"being developed" to vaccinate key workers. Sources in the Government said the
Office of the Deputy Prime Minister had to delay issuing guidance on
decontaminating buildings last month because it could not find the money to give
to local authorities to do the work. Yesterday the ODPM would only say that the
guidance will be published "soon".

t The European Union will simulate a major biological weapon attack this year,
which hits several countries at the same time, after Brussels admitted to
serious gaps in the ability of different countries to plan for and cope with
mass casualties. The desktop exercise - the largest of its kind ever staged by
the EU - will link all 15 EU capitals.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             April 11, 2004, Sunday

Sir John Stevens says a terrorist attack is inevitable

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: Features; News; 21

LENGTH: 64 words


Sir John Stevens says a terrorist attack is inevitable, but other chief
constables seem more relaxed. John Giffard, Old Etonian chief constable of
Staffordshire, will today be opening his home to the public.

It's not just any old home either but Chillington Hall, home to the Giffard
family since the 18th century. Would that be anywhere near Letsby Avenue?
(Geddit?!)


LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Atticus

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                                 April 11, 2004

"We are the guardians of the world";These people stand betwee n Britain and a
9/11-style attack. The Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence,
based in St Andrews, is ten years old this year, a decade in which terror has
become as common a subject as the weather. Vicky Allan asks director Paul
Wilkinson and his team how scared we should be, and discovers what kind of
person spends their life targeting bombers and gunmen

BYLINE: Vicky Allan

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 3488 words


The most quoted British academic in the United States has an office down a
narrow, anonymous alley in genteel St Andrews. The roads outside are empty, just
the occasional car and lone, out-of-term student. It would only take a couple of
minutes to walk to the luminescent stretch of East Sands, five minutes to the
Old Course and some indeterminate length of time to spot Prince William. But, on
the walls of Magnus Ranstorp's room, are pictures from very different corners of
the globe. There is Ranstorp with a group of Hamas children in Gaza. Ranstorp in
grim black and white at the Oklahoma bombing memorial. Two Tamil Tigers, dressed
in combat uniform, a stuffed tiger in the corner of the shot. And a newspaper
cutting questioning how the IRA had managed to plant a Semtex bomb underneath a
lectern at a London conference. Ranstorp was at that event in 1990, as was his
boss Professor Paul Wilkinson, due to deliver a lecture. At the time there was
speculation in the media that Wilkinson was one of the intended targets of the
bomb.

This is the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, a
politically independent research facility licensed by St Andrews University,
powered by a small group of academics and 40 interns who gather endless material
in an attempt to build up a portrait of 21st-Century world terrorism. Put
simply, the people whose job it is to prevent a September 11-style attack on the
UK, rely on the men and women of the Centre to provide the information they need
in the fight against terrorism.

The Centre is based not, as you might expect, in a glassy modern tower in New
York or London, but in two small houses in St Andrews. The second of these is a
white-washed cottage with a blue plaque saying 'History of Art Annexe'. This
seeming camouflage and the fact that students and staff swipe security cards to
come and go, helps lend the impression that there is some covert activity going
on inside. But, in fact, it turns out these are new residences and they just
haven't got round to changing the sign. Instead, they are much more preoccupied
with the substance of what they do: jetting off round the world to discuss
ideology with members of terrorist groups and advising those in power on
counter-terrorism. Experts from the centre have briefed or lectured to the
Colombian Military Cabinet, advisors to Tony Blair, the chief-of-staff of the
Israeli Defence and UN Secretary General Kofi Annan. They have also advised the
Pentagon, the FBI, the insurance industry, the maritime industry, as well as
major businesses and banks. They have three former under secretaries of the UN
on their advisory board.

Ranstorp, the centre's director, is a tall, restless Swede, a touch flamboyant
in his ochre-yellow jumper. His floor is littered with carpets from Iran. One of
the core team of four academic staff, he has a long history in the study of
terrorism. He has spent many long months in the Middle East, talked to Israeli
Defence staff, members of the Lebanese militant group Hizbollah, conducted
studies into al-Qaeda and interviewed many leaders of Hamas, the largest
Palestinian militant Islamist organisation.

There's a story Ranstorp tells about one of those meetings. He was in Jordan,
sitting with one of the Hamas leaders who was receiving command instructions
from the West Bank, unstapling them carefully and reading them. "I was very
nervous," says Ranstorp, "about meeting him, particularly given this was in 1998
after the Israelis tried to assassinate one of the leaders. All of a sudden, he
tells me that the local brigade in the Hebron, the military wing, had come to
him with a new idea of conducting an operation against Israeli targets. He asked
them, 'What do you have in mind?' They told him they should kidnap a politician.
So he messaged back. 'Who?' They came back with the name Ariel Sharon. He
relayed an instruction saying, 'Don't be ridiculous. Have you seen the size of
that man? It would be logistically impossible. Scrap that idea."'

When Ranstorp first met Ariel Sharon, the Israeli leader, in the Knesset,
Israel's parliament, he told him that story. "He was fascinated, fascinated."

In the world of terrorism experts, Ranstorp is a real authority. He is an
advisor to CNN. He spoke before Clinton at the inauguration of the Oklahoma City
memorial. He was the first person to speak at America's official investigation
into September 11 in March last year. You can read his contribution on the web.
Much of it is an outline of his understanding of al -Qaeda as an organisation.
But even Ranstorp never saw September 11 coming. "That summer, that spring was
quite unique. I think if anyone tells you that they knew what was going to
happen, they don't know what they're talking about.

"I was invited out (to America) by CNN. There was a documentary being made
entitled One Day Soon. It was based on the fact that the then DIA (Department
Intelligence Agency) director Thomas R Wilson, had written in a congressional
testimony that terrorists would use weapons of mass destruction within two
years. You ask yourself a simple question, why two years? Not your customary ten
years? So I spent six weeks out there before 9/11. You get to know the people
you meet, you feel a sense of buzz. CNN never completed that documentary because
9/11 happened, which nobody could have foreseen. It came completely out of
leftfield."

Has he, I ask, met members of al-Qaeda? "al-Qaeda doesn't have membership
cards," he says. "I met individuals who belonged to different groupings that
belonged to al-Qaeda. And I've met a lot of radicals. I've met radicals here, in
London. I've met Abu Hamza (the radical Muslim cleric based in the UK) outside a
Finsbury Park mosque. I haven't met anyone in captivity. So have I met any?
Well, I've met individuals who espoused the ideology."

Ranstorp becomes almost poetic when talking about al-Qaeda. Rather than
specifics, he would rather talk about what it is in essence: more a movement, an
ideology than an organisation, and one that is ever-changing. "Lawrence of
Arabia has a wonderful quote in one of his books. - I'm not sure if it's the
Seven Pillars Of Wisdom - where he talks about the Bedouin fighting the Turks,
and describing the Bedouin as an amorphous gas. It's very difficult to get a
handle on al-Qaeda. It changes and shifts."

Ranstorp and his colleagues are the voices we turn to in these times. They are
the people who are called on a day like the day I meet him, March 31, when the
newspapers are littered with the story of an alleged bomb plot in southeast
London; eight men are arrested after dawn raids in which half a tonne of
ammonium nitrate is seized. Ranstorp has been interviewed earlier in the day by
a Swedish reporter. "Do you think we need to be worried about the England
-Sweden game in Gothenburg?" he was asked. "I said, 'Look it's an ordinary major
sporting event. Of course there are going to be security arrangements, but in
terms of speculating about likelihoods I think one can safely say that it's
quite low priority. You have an advantage being on the periphery of those
frontline countries, and those are Spain, France, Italy and, of course, the
United Kingdom."

Terrorism has emerged in the soup of our collective subconscious as our ultimate
horror. Visiting London, days earlier, I noticed frenzied chatter about not
going into Zone One of the underground and what would happen if there was a
dirty bomb down there, and where in Britain would be safest. Scotland was one
option. There isn't the same fear here, but we do talk about terrorism. People
everywhere these days talk about it like they talk about the weather. It's not
just that it fills the gaps where there's nothing to say. It's also that it
feels like a part of our lives, our climate. We look at the skies and think,
there will be thunder. It's not a matter of if, but when.

Is Scotland a likely target for a terrorist attack? Ranstorp says, "I live in
one of the safest places in Europe. Of course airport security is a priority. Of
course there's always a heightened sense when we have an event. But you also
have to look at it proportionately; why would they prioritise Scotland over any
other place? London would be a natural target, in terms of being able to blend
in, in terms of being able to get a mass effect."

But, as his colleague Professor Paul Wilkinson tells me, there is no place of
ultimate safety. "The idea that terrorism is only a threat to London is
unrealistic. I think there is something of that feeling that it must be the
capital. The capital's the only place they would bother with. That's a dangerous
assumption. If you know a particular city is well-prepared and likely to have
means of reducing the impact of your terror, then you might go for a target that
is less well prepared. I think the wise attitude is not a question of creating a
panic or unnecessary alarm. It's realism."

Wilkinson set up the centre in 1994, six years after Lockerbie, the year the
relatives of the victims of Pan-Am Flight 103 filed lawsuits against Libya. It
was a time when a small town in Scotland was at the centre of world terrorism
concerns. Wilkinson is a genuine pioneer in the field. He was studying the
gunmen and bombmakers before anybody else, long before 9/11, long before
terrorism became a fashionable and legitimate area of study, before every
American university felt the need to produce its own terrorism expert. "An
extraordinary man with a vision," says Ranstorp, "I would wish he had more
recognition for what he has done."

The political complexion of the world has changed in those ten years, both
explosively on September 11, 2001, and more creepingly as the texture of
relations between powers has evolved. Tony Blair can now shake hands with
Colonel Gaddafi. There is precarious peace in Ireland. Wilkinson has been a
consistent voice through this time. He was there after Lockerbie, an expert in
aviation security. He was there before 9/11, criticising security on domestic US
flights. After the Madrid bombs, he was the first voice on television talking
about who might have been responsible. "I was saying I thought we ought to have
an open mind, and al-Qaeda was a key suspect. Because of the scale and because
ETA had never done anything like this. I must have said that about four times in
succession. And still the government was claiming it was ETA."

I meet him in his office, surrounded by boxes of books that remain unpacked.
Grey-haired, bespectacled, just a little shambling at 67 years old, his measured
English accent carries a polite assurance - as if he really is someone you can
rely on in this world of shifting uncertainties. But the things he says are not
so reassuring. For instance, a terrorist attack on Britain is almost inevitable.
While our intelligence - as a result of experience with Northern Ireland - is
advanced, it is still likely something will slip through the net. We need to
think about how we deal with an attack, how our emergency services react, how we
recover and bounce back.

Wilkinson's interest in "terrorism as a tactic" began in the Fifties when, as an
education officer in the RAF, he travelled the country "sorting out libraries"
and, because there wasn't much to do, spent plenty of time reading. He carried
that interest through when he went on to research politics at Aberdeen.
"Terrorism," he says, "was a specialised minority area in the Seventies and
early Eighties but it should have become rather more developed by the Eighties
because it had become clear that it had become a more serious problem, with
groups emerging, with much more fanatical ideologies, claiming to be acting in
the name of religion."

Later Wilkinson moved to St Andrews and set up the Department Of International
Relations in 1990 at a time when the Cold War was melting off the political
agenda. Arms control had been the core issue of International Relations for
decades, but in this brave new world Wilkinson was free to set his own agenda,
to push his interests into the waiting void.

Wilkinson has more than 30 years of study behind him. He sees the bigger
picture, he sees with a distance and perspective rather than through any
ideology or theoretical system. He can talk with authority about the "few
instances" he believes terrorism has been effective in producing government
change. "They are limited to the colonial period. It is Algeria, in particular,
that is the example many groups look to. If it worked there, why shouldn't it
work for us? But, of course, the circumstances are not identical." He also has
his political opinions. "I'm well known," he says, "for my opposition to the
idea of using war as an instrument of combating terror."

One of Wilkinson's prime interests is in calibrating the balance of security and
civil liberty, in ensuring that our counter-terrorism efforts don't fracture
democracy. He helped draft the Terrorism Act of 2000, a law that was later
superseded by David Blunkett's Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act of 2001.

"This new act includes Section 4 which makes it possible to detain people
without trial," he says. "There are, it's true, only a small number and they're
a special category - foreign arrivals in UK whom the authorities suspect of
involvement in terrorism but claim they do not have the evidence to present the
case in court. Thirteen people, I understand, are still being detained without
trial in Belmarsh prison. And, in my view, that is regrettable and I'm not
alone. A number of my academic colleagues feel similarly and we have given
evidence to the privy council committee which was set up to examine this."

The Centre is currently conducting a major research project funded by the
European Social Research Council on how the UK would cope with a terrorist
attack. The messages are similar from all those working on it: vigilance not
fear; the importance of resilience, particularly for business. "Be alert, not
alarmed," says researcher Anthony Richards quoting the Metropolitan Police. The
four key academic staff working on this project gather on the beach along with
Gillian McIlwaine - the project secretary and fundraiser - for photos. They make
a tight and idiosyncratic team: Tamara Makarenko, a Canadian expert in organised
crime, Wilkinson, an ex RAF officer, Anthony Richards, a one-time British Gas
facilities manager whose research has focused on political fronts in Northern
Ireland and the Swede, Ranstorp.

They are not, as Makarenko says, "the most normal bunch of people". Most
importantly, they share a desire to understand the motivations behind violence.
They talk the same language, if with slightly different accents. There is a
quote pinned to the door of Makarenko's office: "Nothing is easier than to
denounce the evil doer. Nothing is more difficult than to understand him.
Dostoevsky."

How, I ask, did she end up studying crime

and terrorism? "I wanted to understand why violence happens," she says. "I was
very curious." When Tamara Makarenko was a child, she wanted to be a garbage
collector. "And, if you think about it," she says, "I am a garbage collector.
Because you collect pieces of information, you collect comments, you collect
perceptions, you collect everything that nobody else wants to look at. Really,
the things that nobody wants to touch. You take that and you try and make sense
of it."

Her parents wanted her to be a lawyer. Instead, she ended up researching the
"organised crime-terror nexus" of trafficking routes, of services bought and
paid for, and of groups that sit uneasily at the boundary between crime and
political terror, ie, are they about crime or politics? It is, she says, "not a
nine to five job", involving travel to many parts of the world, long stretches
spent "on the ground", the following of drug routes in Central and south-east
Asia. She has also been at many sites where bombs have gone off - including
Tashkent, Uzbekistan and Afghanistan last year.

Makarenko has a matter-of-fact manner in discussing violence. She wears her hair
tied back, functional shirt and jeans. Once she had a few Laura Ashley suits,
but, these days, this is what she wears when she jets down to London for
briefings with policy-makers. She spends much of her time in the field with war
reporters and, she says, once considered that as a career. Recently she lost a
friend who was reporting in Chechnya.

Makarenko was, by her own admission, not a "normal child". She read
Machiavelli's The Prince when she was 13 and was intrigued by the darker side of
human nature. She is vague about events, as if not wanting to give away too much
of her research. Bits of her life come at you like random bits of shrapnel. She
was in the military, an officer in the Canadian reserve forces. "Survival
skills," she says, "are somewhat important. Although I love my five -star
hotels, you have to know how to get on without them."

Drawn by Wilkinson's reputation, she studied for an MA in International
Relations at St Andrews. She went to the northern borders of Greece to
investigate what was going on in the Balkans. The bits that don't quite

join up she sums up as "travel" and "work in

the private sector". She is wonderfully descriptive of the highlights of the
time she has spent in Central Asia. "If you stay in Kabul," she says (she was
there in December), "as the sun rises you see the absolute beauty of the
mountains around. It's a beautiful territory. Why is it luck hasn't been on
their side? What differentiates the people of Afghanistan from the people of the
UK? History, geography, political manipulation you can just say 'fate'. I don't
want to be a fatalist, but one can just say it's 'fate'."

For her, this work is "a calling". "My father's a priest," she says, "so I tell
him, it's the same thing really. It's a calling. It's a vocation, not a
profession. There are two views on how to study something; there are academics
and then there are some of us who don't quite go about it that way."

What's remarkable is how these four people extract personal lives out of the
spaces between flights and conferences. Richards has a girlfriend who is
finishing a PhD on political assassinations. Makarenko has been in a
relationship for seven years. Wilkinson has three grown-up children. Ranstorp
has a Danish girlfriend. "You know," he says. "I always say that it's not an
occupation, or career, it's a lifestyle. It never finishes."

They play down the dangers of their jobs. They say what everyone says: you're
more likely to get knocked down by a car than killed by a terrorist. Only in
Colombia has Ranstorp felt worried. "When I'm in the Middle East," he says, "I'm
not afraid. I'm not afraid when I meet these groups. But I'm sometimes afraid
when I'm walking in the streets."

"What's impressive," says Makarenko, "is the world of a war reporter, because
they constantly try and go in the midst of it. I don't need to do that. Because
that defeats my purpose, which is to try and find the answers."

As academics go, they are remarkably engaged. The subject, perhaps demands it.
It is almost impossible not to become morally and emotionally involved. "I am a
Swede," says Ranstorp. "We are the moral guardians of the world." After
September 11, Ranstorp was invited to London to do television interviews. "It
was very depressing," he says. "Can you imagine being a dispassionate academic,
sitting in a studio with an earpiece, looking into camera? You're hearing family
members who are distraught, who are shocked, who are talking about the human
angle. We are only human. When I go to Lockerbie and visit the memorials, it
brings it home. It may sound silly, but we are talking about an activity that
affects people's lives. We are academic observers on this issue. But it never
hurts to forget that there are people whose lives are affected by this
phenomenon."

How do they deal with it? How do they keep collecting the garbage, the severed
fragments of destruction, and transform it into coherent thoughts, ideas and
theories? When Ranstorp comes home from months in the desert in Gaza, he says,
he revels in the "peace and quiet, the rain, the green hills of St Andrews".
It's this, he says that makes it possible to do his work.

"This is sanity," echoes Makarenko, looking around at the grey buildings in the
dampened light. "I would describe St Andrews as a little piece of heaven. I
never imagined I would end up in a small town. I always thought Chicago, New
York, London or Paris. I love them all, but I go to them enough. It's too much
of a contrast if you come back from, say, Tajikistan and then you go to a city
like London where people have everything. That would be unbearable. That's why
it's important to be able to come here the most you might get annoyed is at a
bunch of students."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Members of the team at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and
Political Violence, photographed on the beach at St Andrews. From left to right:
Anthony Richards, Tamara Makarenko, Magnus Ranstorp, Gillian McIlwaine and
Professor Paul Wilkinson;A young Palestinian boy, left, wears a traditional
headscarf and holds a toy gun during a demonstration of the militant group Hamas
in the Bureij refugee camp last month; the team, above, at the Centre for the
Study of Terrorism and Political Violence in St Andrews;Libya has now accepted
responsibility for the 1988 bombing of Pan-Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie which
killed 270 people; Tony Blair and Colonel Gaddafi shake hands last month;The
September 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Centre killed more than 3000
people, and a scene from the bombings of Madrid trains on March 11, in which 191
people died

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 11, 2004, Sunday

Cashpoint fraud funded terror attacks in Spain

BYLINE: By Damien McElroy

SECTION: News; International:Pg. 27

LENGTH: 428 words

THE MOROCCAN-dominated al-Qaeda cells responsible for terrorist attacks in Spain
were funded by bank robberies and sophisticated cashpoint machine fraud in
France, investigators believe, writes Damien McElroy.

Security officials suspect that the Moroccan-dominated cells based in Spain were
sent hundreds of thousands of pounds by fellow extremists on the French side of
the border, suggesting the al-Qaeda bombings in Madrid last month were the
result of international planning.

Last week, French police arrested Moustapha Baouchi, a Moroccan veteran of
al-Qaeda training camps in Afghanistan, where he was known for his electronics
expertise. Baouchi was able to forge bank cards with information gathered using
micro-cameras implanted in automatic teller machines, said one European
intelligence official. The duplicate cards were then used to withdraw money.

As well as cloning cards, Baouchi's gang staged bank robberies in France. His
brother Hassan, who was also among the six "hardcore" al- Qaeda suspects
arrested in Paris, was a security guard for a bank. One delivery of cash that he
was supposed to be guarding went missing early last month after the vehicle was
held up by six men. The amount of money seized has not been revealed.

"These are people trained in Afghanistan to act as leaders for the network,
performing different tasks in different countries, including raising money in
France," the security official said. "These plots discovered in Europe clearly
identify how the network operated."

Spanish police have not yet tracked down senior leaders of the Moroccan Islamic
Combat Group, which has been blamed for the Spanish bombs that killed more than
190 people. They include Abel Azizi, who co-ordinated cells across Europe, and
Karim Mejjati, who is said to be the link between the group and Ayman Al
Zarqawi, the Jordanian-born senior al-Qaeda leader.

Arrests of middle-ranking group members, however, have allowed officials to
track links between cells across Europe. Last week, the Spanish newspaper El
Mundo reported that Azizi met Sarhane Ben Abdelmajid Fakhet - the alleged
ringleader of the train bomb gang - at the turn of the year. Fakhet, who died
when the gang members blew up their apartment in Madrid before a police raid
last Saturday, is believed to have been ordered by Azizi to plot the train
attacks.

Spanish investigators believe that Azizi was a leading figure at camps run by
Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a one-legged extremist thought to be in Iraq directing the
insurgency against the American-led occupation.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             April 12, 2004, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: MEMO TOLD BUSH THAT ATTACKS WERE POSSIBLE

BYLINE: JAMIE MORGAN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 638 words


A secret US government memo released yesterday reveals President George Bush
knew al Qaida had reached America's shores more than a month before September
11.

Mr Bush was told the FBI had detected suspicious activity that might involve a
hijacking plot.

Since 1998, it had observed 'patterns of suspicious activity in this country
consistent with preparations for hijackings or other types of attacks,'
according to the document. Presidential aides and outside experts said they
could not recall a sitting president ever publicly releasing the
highly-sensitive document, known as a PDB, for presidential daily briefing.

The memo -dated August 6, 2001 -referred to evidence of buildings in New York
possibly being cased by terrorists.

It also said the CIA and FBI were investigating a call to the US embassy in the
United Arab Emirates in May 2001 'saying that a group of bin Laden supporters
was in the US planning attacks with explosives'.

The commission investigating the September 11 asked the US administration to
declassify the document on Thursday.

The memo is significant because the President read it, so it offers an idea of
what Mr Bush and his top aides knew about the threat of a terrorist strike.

The PDB made plain that bin Laden had been planning to strike the US for at
least six years. It warned of indications from a broad array of sources,
spanning several years.

Democratic commissioner Bob Kerrey, a former US senator, said the memo's details
should have given Bush enough warning to push for more intelligence information
about possible domestic hijackings.

'The whole argument the government used that we were focusing overseas, that we
thought the attack was coming from outside the United States -this memo said an
attack could come in the United States. And we didn't scramble our agencies to
that,' he said.

Richard Ben-Veniste, a Democratic commissioner, said this called into question
national security adviser Condoleezza Rice's assertion the memo was purely a
'historical' document.

'This is a provocative piece of information and warrants further exploration as
to what was done following the receipt of this information to enhance our
domestic security,' he said.

Senior US administration officials said Mr Bush saw more than 40 mentions of al
Qaida in his daily intelligence updates during the first eight months of his
presidency.

One said the CIA prepared the document 'in response to questions asked by the
President about the possibility of attacks by al Qaida inside the US'.

But the officials refused to say what his response to the memo was. Republican
commissioner James Thompson, a former state governor, said the memo 'didn't call
for anything to be done'.

Mr Thompson added the memo's details confirmed the Bush administration had no
specific informationregarding an imminent attack involving planes as missiles.

'The PDB backs up what Dr Rice testified to. There is no smoking gun, not even a
cold gun,' he said.

'Clandestine, foreign government, and media reports indicate bin Laden since
1997 has wanted to conduct terrorist attacks in the US,' the memo to Bush
stated.

In US television interviews in 1997 and 1998 bin Laden implied his followers
would follow the example of World Trade Centre bomber Ramzi Yousef and 'bring
the fighting to America'.

After President Bill Clinton launched missile strikes on bin Laden's base in
Afghanistan in 1998, in retaliation for bombings of US embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania -'bin Laden told followers he wanted to retaliate in Washington,' the
memo said.

It also stated al Qaida members, some of them American citizens, had lived in or
travelled to the United States for years.

'The group apparently maintains a support structure that could aid attacks,' it
warned.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Evening Gazette

                             April 12, 2004, Monday

SEX ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: RON LIVINGSTONE

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS LOCAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 280 words


A sex attacker who carried out a terrifying Easter Sunday assault on a
17-year-old girl was being hunted today.

The victim was left "absolutely horrified" by the assault as she walked home
alone in east Middlesbrough in the early hours of yesterday.

Detective Sergeant Mark Dimelow said: "We were with her most of yesterday and
we'll be speaking to her again today.

"She is very, very shaken, absolutely terrified.

"She has a number of scratches but her physical injuries are not serious - it's
the mental state she's been left in, thinking about what could have happened."

And he added the girl's brave attempt to battle with her attacker may have
prevented a more horrific sexual assault.

"It's quite possible this may have turned into a much more serious assault.
Thankfully this didn't happen and she managed to fight him off," Det Sgt Dimelow
said.

"This type of incident is not regular in this area and I would not like it to
happen again. I want him caught."

The frightening assault took place as the teenager walked alone in Spencerfield
Crescent near The Greenway, Thorntree.

The man who police want to speak to is aged about 40, around 6ft tall, of thin,
gaunt appearance, with dark hair and stubble on his face.

He wore a blue Reebok jacket with a cream horizontal hoop, a navy blue baseball
cap and distinctive black trainers with white stripes running from toe to ankle.

Detective Constable Graham Stuart said: "We would appeal for help in identifying
the man responsible and ask anyone with information, or who witnessed the
incident to contact us."

* Anyone who can help is asked to contact DC Stuart on 01642 301543.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Gazette Media Company Ltd

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 12, 2004, Monday Edition 1

Fish restaurant workers attacked in terror raid

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 181 words


   A terrified restaurant worker had a knife held to his throat after two masked
men burst in at closing time.

Staff at Kristian's fish restaurant and takeaway, on North Shields Fish Quay,
were counting the day's takings when the robbers burst in at around 9pm on
Saturday.

They demanded cash and, when the three staff members refused to hand over the
takings, one of the robbers, brandishing the blade which police described as a
machete-type of knife, grabbed an assistant and held it to his throat.

When he still refused to hand over cash his accomplice grabbed it in an envelope
and the pair fled.

A spokesman for Northumbria Police said they got away with an undisclosed amount
of cash. The robber who held the knife to the assistant's throat was short and
stocky, with a Tyneside accent.

Anybody with information, or who was in the area at the time of the robbery, is
urged to contact North Shields CID on [0191] 214-6555.

Nobody at Kristian's, where the restaurant would have had a busy Easter
Saturday, was prepared to comment on the robbery yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2004 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            April 13, 2004, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: BACK-UP AFTER EASTER ATTACK

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 167 words


Hundreds of police reinforcements flew into Indonesia's Sulawesi island
yesterday, after gunmen opened fire on an Easter church service, wounding seven
people.

Saturday's attack sparked fears of a return to open fighting between Muslims and
Christians that erupted in 1999, killing about 1,000 people.

More than 300 members of the Mobile Brigade paramilitary police unit are
arriving in the region.

No-one has been arrested over the shooting in the town of Poso, 1,000 miles
north east of Jakarta.

Two of the injured remain in hospital, although their injuries are not believed
to be life-threatening.

Police have declined to speculate on the identity of the attackers, who wore
black uniforms and were armed with automatic weapons.

Attacks last year against Christian villages were blamed by intelligence
officials on Jemaah Islamiyah, the al Qaida-linked regional terror group accused
of the 2002 attacks on Bali. Indonesia is the world's most populous Muslim
nation.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            April 13, 2004, Tuesday

BUSINESS LIFE: WARNING OF TERROR ATTACK ON COMPUTER SYSTEMS

SECTION: Coventry Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 223 words


ADECS, the Coventry-based IT support solution provider, is backing calls to
raise the awareness of the importance of business planning to deal with the
growing risk of terrorist attacks in the UK.

Following calls from the CBI for Prime Minister Tony Blair to raise the profile
of business community planning after the Madrid bombings, ADECS is sending the
message that small and medium-sized firms play a vital role in the UK's supply
chain and cannot ignore the risk of attack.

There are growing concerns that a major terrorist attack could leave businesses
or their suppliers without access to vital computer systems or could cause
disruption to internet communications.

ADECS claims research shows that only one-third of small businesses have
contingency plans for terrorist attacks or disasters.

ADECS managing director Amrik Bhabra says: "Although most large firms have
business continuity plans covering their IT system, there are concerns about
smaller companies in this area.

"A terrorist incident could leave computer systems inaccessible for months or
years. Most firms would struggle to cope with the implications of that, so it is
essential that they have a contingency plan.

"We also advise that firms insist their key suppliers have business continuity
plans in place before awarding contracts."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 April 13, 2004

Hi-tech fire station ready for terror attack

LENGTH: 392 words


FARNWORTH fire station is home to a new hi-tech post-attack unit designed to
deal with terror strikes across the country.

The fire station is one of 80 nationwide and one of just two in Manchester to be
equipped with new government-funded Incident Response Units designed to deal
with terrorist attacks.

The £750 000 unit is designed to form part of a fleet of decontamination
vehicles that can reach the scene of a terror attack within hours and offer
treatment to casualties who have come into contact with chemical biological or
nuclear weapons.

After six weeks of intensive training around 40 firefighters at Farnworth and
other crews in the area including one from Salford are now ready to man the
vehicles in an emergency.

The other unit is based at Ashton-under-Lyne with both locations hand-picked for
their closeness to the motorway network.

Firefighter Bob Clitherow said: "This actually arrived here about six weeks ago
but we have only just gone fully operational.

"The main function is the decontamination of the public after a chemical
biological or nuclear attack similar to the one which was allegedly foiled in
London recently.

"It could be absolutely anything and it could be in a football stadium tube
station or shopping centre so really we would be feeling our way but we're
confident that we can cope.

"In any given scenario we can travel to any part of the country on a single tank
of fuel and we could be anywhere in the country travelling with eight further
pumps to act as back up."

The Marshall Specialist Vehicles will carry decontamination tents for both
civilians and firefighters as well as chemicals to help treat people. Each unit
will be able to deal with up to 200 civilian casualties per hour.

The units also carry state-of-the-art satellite navigation and communications
equipment to allow crews to contact any other fire services they might
encounter.

Mr Clitherow added: "We hope that we never have to use them but we now know that
we have the equipment and skills to deal with anything that we might encounter.

"Decontamination work is nothing new to us and most of the training we've
undergone is designed to help us use this vehicle and help people much faster.
If we're running at full capacity we can use each of the units to treat 200 per
hour."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                            April 14, 2004 Wednesday

DOORSTEP TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: NERMIN OOMER

LENGTH: 336 words


A COUPLE have today told of their terror after being beaten by thugs in an
unprovoked attack on their own doorstep.

Fred and Doris Kent of Sycamore Road, Stapenhill, were attacked as they were
taking the rubbish out on Monday night. Mr Kent, 63, was beaten so severely with
his own walking stick that he needed stitches in a head wound, while his
36-year-old wife suffered bruising to her stomach. Mrs Kent said: "My husband
was taking the rubbish out between 8pm and 8.30pm on Monday and was approached
by two men who grabbed his walking stick from him and hit him over the head.

"I was stood in the doorway of the flat and the men then came up to me and
punched me hard in the stomach.  "My husband couldn't walk after he was hit. He
had to crawl back to the flat."  Mrs Kent said the thugs also shouted abuse at
the couple and threatened to kill them.  She called the police and an ambulance
and the couple were taken to Burton's Queen's Hospital, where Mr Kent received
six stitches to his head.  Mrs Kent said: "I was checked over too and am badly
bruised around my stomach." Now the couple say the incident has left them
terrified in their own home. "It's scared me out of my life" said Mrs Kent. "You
expect to be safe in your own home.  "We don't know why they did this and if
anyone has any information could they please contact the police." A police
spokesman today confirmed the assault had been reported and was being
investigated.  Police were today hunting two young men in connection with the
incident. One is described as being in his late 20s, white, slim, 5ft 5in, with
closely cropped brown hair. He was wearing a black hooded top with a deep blue
logo on the front, dark blue trousers and trainers. The other was in his mid
20s, 5ft 8in, slim and wearing a blue hooded top, trainers and baggy trousers
with a stripe down the side of each leg . Anyone with information about the
incident is asked to contact Pc Ben Lucas of Burton police on 01283 565011 or
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2004 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 April 14, 2004

FBU fears over terror attacks

LENGTH: 234 words


BRITAIN needs at least 1 000 more firefighters to cope with major terrorist
attacks.

That is the belief of the Fire Brigades Union (FBU) which last week revealed
plans by councils across the country to cut staff levels and appliances
including 70 jobs in Greater Manchester.

The FBU points to a doubling in the size of MI5 significantly more police and
says other areas must follow the London Fire Authority example and recruit more
firefighters.

While the Government has provided councils with £56 million of equipment to deal
with chemical attacks and another £132 million of gear to handle conventional
attacks the FBU says most town halls have not faced up to the problem of too few
staff to use it. Union general secretary Andy Gilchrist said: "Councils
including those in Greater Manchester have their head in the sand on this issue.
There are many strategic targets outside of London and the South East.

"London doesn't have any nuclear power stations that terrorists could attack and
there are other strategic transport industrial and commercial targets around the
UK.

"We need to be ready to react whenever and wherever they strike. Councils have
been given this equipment but they need people to operate it. London is taking
on another 256 firefighters.

"Realistically we need at least another 1 000 across the UK a very modest
increase of two per cent."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 15, 2004

THREE YEARS ON FROM A TERROR ATTACK THAT NEARLY KILLED HIM, STEPHEN MENARY IS AN
INSPIRATION TO EVERYONE HE MEETS; IRA BOMB ROBBED ME OF MY HAND AND SIGHT BUT
NOT MY ZEST FOR LIFE

BYLINE: MARCUS DUNK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  35

LENGTH: 1233 words


IT IS a sunny, spring morning and 17year-old Stephen Menary is about to play a
game of golf against his hero, Chelsea footballing legend Peter Osgood. As Peter
prepares himself, Stephen smiles slyly. "Of course I'm going to win, " he says.
"I've got a plan."

While you'd be forgiven for thinking this was just the everyday bluster of an
average 17-year-old on meeting an idol, anyone who knows or sees Stephen
recognises that there's nothing average or everyday about him.

Blind, one-armed and able to hear in only one ear, Stephen may be the most
unlikely golfer ever to walk the green - but as soon as he moves into action
it's clear he is a force to be reckoned with. With the help of professional
player Tom Talbot, Stephen lines up his shot, and then drives the ball straight
up the fairway. "Oh dear, " says Osgood, who must be thinking he should have
played Stephen at football. "I think I'm in trouble."

While Stephen is more active than many his age, there was a time when it looked
like he would be lucky to ever do anything again.

In February 2001 the then 14-year-old army cadet found his life turned upside
down by a Real IRA terrorist attack.

Attending the London barracks where he went on Saturdays to practise map-reading
and circuit training, Stephen turned up early, eager to get started. "I was
waiting inside when I heard a gate rattle, " he says. "I went outside and
couldn't see anything but then I found a torch on the floor. I thought someone
had dropped it so I picked it up. I walked to the stores so they could put it
away for when someone came to report it lost. I was playing around with it as I
walked in and it went off."

The explosion tore apart Stephen's left side, his left hand and his face.
"Everything went white, " he says. "My first thought was that the torch was
really bright, blinding."

Rushed to hospital, the surgeons immediately amputated his left hand, and set to
work trying to save his left eye. The situation was made even more desperate by
the fact that when Stephen was four his right eye had to be removed when it
developed a cancerous tumour. "There was a two-inch piece of shrapnel embedded
in his left retina, " says his mother Carol. "The surgeons operated for nine
hours but it wasn't looking good."

WHEN the operation was over the doctors were convinced that the eye would be
lost. When one surgeon shined a torch in it, he was shocked to discover Stephen
was responding. "The doctors couldn't believe it, " says Carol. "A whole group
of them came along to look at it, just to make sure."

More operations followed, including two corneal grafts. Although Stephen can
only make out lights, colours and small variations with his remaining eye, there
is the hope that with the eye intact, one day more vision will be restored as
new procedures and medical breakthroughs occur.

While his eye was saved, Stephen's troubles were far from over. "When they
operated on my ear, they basically had to rebuild the whole thing, " says
Stephen. "Every single bone was either out of place or broken and they had to
re-create the ear drum. It will never hear - but at least it's comfortable."

Stephen has returned to the hospital for 13 operations. "I've been back so many
times, the anaesthetist doesn't even go through the routine with me any more, "
he smiles. "The operations don't bother me. In fact, I like them, they're fun."

This is Stephen in a nutshell. Quick-witted, constantly joking and always ready
with a snappy comeback or one-liner, he refuses to succumb to self-pity. "You
can't afford to feel sorry for yourself, " he says, sitting bolt upright. "So
many disabled people expect to be treated differently but, as far as I'm
concerned, if you want equal rights you should be equal. I've always wanted to
be independent and just get on with things."

This has been Stephen's attitude ever since he returned from the hospital to the
west London home he shares with his mother Carol, father Steve and two sisters.

From a refusal to learn Braille ("it makes you feel blind") through to his
sporting pursuits, he has treated his disabilities as distractions rather than
dead-ends.

Much of this get-up-and-go attitude was sparked after he spent time at the St
Dunstan's centre near Brighton for servicemen blinded in action. Here he learned
how to cook, type - and it is where he first caught the golfing bug.

"When I was there they invited me to an open day of golf, " he says. "I didn't
have a clue about the game but they taught me how to play. I've definitely been
improving.

I go with somebody - usually Tom - and they line me up, point me in the right
direction, give me a few tips and then I'm off. I know my technique has been
getting better. I'm taking it more seriously and I'm hoping to play in the World
Blind Golfing Championships, maybe next year in Japan.

"I feel more independent about everything. I can ring up and book things. I can
book sessions at the gym and I'm planning on learning the route so I can make my
own way there."

Golf is not the only sport that Stephen is getting to grips with - and excelling
at. Swimming, shooting, archery, skiing and even skydiving are all activities he
pursues. And if he has his way there will be many more.

Part of what drives him on is also his passion for fund-raising. Along with
parachute jumps for charity, Stephen has also set about raising money for
various veterans' associations, as well as St Dunstan's, Children In Crisis and
for the Linden Lodge School for the Visually Impaired. "I feel like I need to
give something back" is all he has to say on the matter.

When not raising money, he is weighing up his options for the future and doing
work experience. "I spent some time at the Met which was fantastic, " he says.
"I got to try out a whole lot of new equipment and tested some new police
software. But I'd also like to finish the cadet course and maybe become an
instructor.

I'm going back to college in September."

Hard as it is to believe, question Stephen about luck and he insists that
despite everything that has happened to him, he has been lucky. "I didn't have a
lot of challenges before.

I'm not resentful. It's given me opportunities that I wouldn't have had."

Mum Carol interjects: "But Stephen, there are some drawbacks."

"Yeah, " fires back Stephen with a smile. "I have to spend more time with you."

If there is one thing that seems to weigh slightly on him, it is that the attack
has left him more isolated than other kids his age. "I don't see my friends as
much as I did, " he says.

"They're off doing stuff.

HE IS confident that will change now he is more independent.

"You just have to keep on going. I don't always get my hopes up for things. I
just try to make goals and work towards them. It's important to keep busy. I get
asked if I'm angry with the people who did this to me and to be honest I don't
feel particular anger towards them. What can you say? They're terrorists.

They injured me but they haven't destroyed me.

They haven't even disrupted me."

Back on the golf course and things are looking grimmer for Peter. Here to help
raise awareness for Stephen's charities, he is obviously amazed by the young
man. "It's incredible, " he says. "Knowing all that he has been through - it's
just inspiring. There's no other word for it."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                                 April 15, 2004

Attack victim tells of terror at hands of robber

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 384 words


A hairdresser who was confronted by a would-be robber on her way to work has
told a court the terrifying experience was "the worst thing that has ever
happened to me."


In a statement read to Preston Crown Court, Miss Laura Harwood said she was
still experiencing after-effects from the early morning assault by a 17-year-old
male last December.


The court heard that Miss Harwood was now scared of going to work alone, and
always got a taxi.


Judge Christopher Cornwall said the "terrible consequences" of the offence
became apparent when it was known that the victim's previous epilepsy had by
that time stabilised and she was about to apply for a driving licence.


But the ordeal and subsequent stress had brought about two attacks. The said she
had frozen with fear when the youth, Kevin Holme, swore and pushed at her
shoulder, ordering her to "give me your money".


Miss Harwood tried to run away, and said later she believed the youth was in
such a state that he "did not know what he was doing".


After being accosted in the morning rush hour at the junction of East Street,
Leyland, she managed to escape to a nearby newsagents, only for Holme to follow
her in.


However, a customer, seeing she was in apparent distress escorted her outside,
explained prosecutor Louise Whaites. After getting to work the distressed victim
told about what had happened and the police were alerted.


Holme was arrested but denied he had been in the area. However, he was
identified by his victim and, on the day of his trial, pleaded guilty to
attempted robbery .


Holme, now 18, of The Mill, Longmeany Gate, Leyland, had eight previous offences
on his record and was on bail at the time, the court was told.


Judge Cornwall told him that what he had done was "dreadful" but there was
evidence that since a serious knife attack on him he had realised the error of
his ways.


The judge sentenced him to two years community rehabilitation with conditions,
and imposed an 8.30pm to 7am curfew for four months.


"Be under no illusions - if you breach this order I have made a serious
misjudgment and I won't make the same mistake again. You will go to a young
offenders institution for a considerable time", the judge warned Holme.


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                 April 16, 2004

Passenger in rock attack train terror

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

LENGTH: 400 words


BY BRUCE SMITH



AN international charity worker was showered with glass when a hooligan
shattered a railway carriage window.

Claire Fitzgibbon spoke of her amazement at escaping with scratches after a rock
was thrown at the train.

I have started to believe in miracles again, joked 66-year-old Mrs Fitzgibbon,
of Knaresborough. When you think what might have happened. I am still marvelling
at it.

I expected to find my face covered in blood, but I just had a few scratches on
my hands.

I was very badly shaken, but it could easily have been much worse.

Thump

The former Macmillan nurse is a worker for Hospice Uganda, which cares for the
terminally ill in that country.

She had been returning from an important meeting in Liverpool with senior
officials of the charity when her Leeds to York via Harrogate train was attacked
between 7.35pm and 7.40pm on Wednesday.

Mrs Fitzgibbon was in the first of three train carriages with her head resting
against the window as it passed through a fenced cutting between Hawksworth and
Horsforth.

Suddenly there was a huge explosion sound and a very very severe thump at the
side of my face. I had no idea what it was.

For a moment I thought it was a train crash. I was covered with the shattered
glass and I put my hand to my face expecting it to be covered in blood, but
there was nothing, not a mark. I just had a few scratches on my face.

The rock thrown at the train was the size of a brick and after punching a hole
in the window came to rest on the seat between Mrs Fitzgibbon and the carriage
side.

Witnesses

When I looked around, everyone in the carriage was shaken and stunned. The train
came to a stop and the crew came through to us and were very calming.

The train continued to Harrogate where Mrs Fitzgibbon was met by her husband
Brian. The couple have three sons, two of whom work abroad - one in Africa.

Today Sgt Mick Jackson of British Transport Police, said: This mindless act is
viewed extremely seriously by the police and it was only by good fortune that
more serious injuries were not caused.

We understand the area where the stone was thrown is popular with people walking
their dogs and I urge anyone who witnessed the attack or has any information to
ring us urgently on 0800 405040 quoting the reference 632/14/04/2004.

The carriage had to be taken out of service for repairs.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 18, 2004

SCOTS TO FIGHT BIOLOGICAL ATTACKS GO UNPROTECTED; TERROR JABS SCANDAL

BYLINE: By Mike Merritt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 7

LENGTH: 806 words


HEALTH Minister Malcolm Chisholm has come under pressure after it emerged only
half the medical staff needed to fight a biological terror attack in Scotland
have been immunised.

Key NHS personnel have still to receive the jabs required to survive a killer
smallpox attack.

The Scottish Sunday Express can reveal just 26 health workers - doctors, nurses
and technicians - have been inoculated.

There are now demands for an inquiry over fears the lack of medical cover leaves
Scotland vulnerable to a bio-terror attack.

MSP David Davidson, the Scottish Tories' health spokesman, said last night: "I
am astounded by these figures. It is bad enough for the Health Service in
Scotland to lose people to go to Iraq, but not to have enough immunised people
here to deal with a biological attack is a total failure. We cannot afford to
run this kind of risk."

Under strict guidelines announced by the Government last year, a minimum number
of NHS staff have to be immunised against a possible biological attack. The
vaccinated doctors, nurses, laboratory technicians, microbiologists and
ambulance drivers are crucial to keeping the health service running.

But while England has reached its target of 260 workers, the takeup among
Scottish NHS workers has fallen short. So far, only 26 health workers have been
vaccinated against smallpox despite the campaign being launched in 2002.

Health Minister Malcolm Chisholm wants more than 50 staff immunised to form
vital core teams in the event of a terror strike.

Not only would the teams deal with casualties, they would also vaccinate
thousands more NHS staff in the immediate aftermath.

The situation now leaves Scotland seriously under-prepared to deal with a
smallpox terrorist attack.

Officials at the Department of Health, at Westminster, said 269 people in
England and Wales had been vaccinated. A spokesman also said more people were
being immunised each week.

The Department of Health has taken the biological attack so seriously it is
planning a public information campaign south of the Border to advise people how
to act in the event of an attack.

However, Executive officials refused to even reveal which members of the NHS
workforce have been vaccinated.

Sources say the low take-up rate is due to a fear of health problems from the
vaccine and the belief there will never be a smallpox attack in Scotland.

One key NHS insider said: "I think many feel the vaccine is unnecessary because
they see the main risk as London.

"I also doubt if 26 key health workers have been vaccinated in Scotland. Perhaps
that is why the Executive refuses to give a breakdown of what type of workers
have been immunised. I believe the number of key frontline staff is less than a
dozen."

Smallpox is a highly infectious virus, which kills approximately one in three of
those infected. The disease, which claimed 300 million lives in the 20th
century, was eradicated in its natural form after a global vaccination campaign.

However, it still exists in labs and there are fears it could have been obtained
by terrorists.

The UK Government announced the creation of Regional Smallpox Response Groups,
which would be called in the event of an attack.

The groups consist of infectious disease specialists, paediatricians, public
health doctors, microbiologists and virologists.

Specialist disease control nurses will also be on the teams.

In 2002, it was revealed military personnel and frontline health service staff
in Scotland would receive smallpox jabs.

UK ministers stressed there was no specific threat of an attack and the
vaccination measures were "a precaution."

The Scottish Ambulance Service said eight mobile decontamination units are on
standby around the country, in readiness for a possible biological attack.

One of Britain's leading scientists yesterday said he was disappointed by the
poor take-up in innoculations in Scotland.

Hugh Pennington, professor of bacteriology at Aberdeen University, has worked on
the deadly virus.

He said: "It is disappointing there has been a low take-up, but you only need a
modest 'flying squad' immunised at this stage.

"People have obviously made their own risk assessment and decided, for whatever
reason, not to have the vaccine.

"You have to vaccinate around the outbreak and control the virus by focusing on
the source.

"Some people suffer brain inflammation and others who already have a weak immune
system are also at risk.

"When hundreds of thousands were infected, in India, in 1972, it was eradicated
within months by firefighting the virus."

The Government has improved its stocks of the smallpox vaccine, with England's
Chief Medical Officer, Professor Sir Liam Donaldson, telling the BBC recently
there was "a very effective plan in place".

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             April 18, 2004, Sunday

HOSPITAL SEX ATTACK TERROR OF NURSE, 37

BYLINE: BY NORMAN SILVESTER

SECTION: NORTH Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 227 words


A MAN has been arrested after an alleged indecent assault on a nurse.

The incident was in accident and emergency at the Queen Margaret Hospital,
Dunfermline.

The 19-year-old accused was getting treatment at the time.

Fife Police confirmed yesterday that a man had appeared at Dunfermline Sheriff
Court in connection with an alleged assault on a 37-year-old nurse on April 2.

A spokesman for Fife Acute Hospitals Trust said they encouraged staff to report
all assaults to police.

He added: 'We take the security of our hospital staff very seriously.'

It is not known if the nurse has been able to return to work.

A survey by health service union Unison showed 40 per cent of hospital staff
have been attacked in the last three years. And more than 60 per cent of
ambulance workers have been the victims of violence in the past 12 months.

Jim Devine, Scottish organiser for Unison, said yesterday: 'We are appalled to
hear yet another allegation of assault against a hospital worker just doing her
job. We are working with the Scottish Executive to create a zero tolerance
policy towards violence against staff.'

Last year, two nurses were stabbed and another threatened with a gun.

Earlier this month, drug addict William Kerr, 34, was jailed for life for
attacking staff nurse Pauline Dunnery in Perth Royal Infirmary.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Danger zone: Dunfermline's; Queen Margaret Hospital

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 19, 2004, Monday

Insurers cut back payout if staff die in terror attacks

BYLINE: Christine Seib

SECTION: Business; 22

LENGTH: 559 words


RELATIVES of workers killed in terrorist attacks will be denied full life
insurance payouts under tough new rules being adopted by reinsurers.

Reinsurers fear that they would face huge life insurance payouts if thousands of
highly paid City workers were killed in a terrorist attack similar to New York's
World Trade Centre atrocity three years ago.

To reduce the risk, reinsurers, which insure the risks taken on by insurers,
have forced employers to limit the life cover offered through company pension
funds.

Many companies offer a life insurance payout of two or four times salary as a
benefit to workers who are members of the organisation's pension scheme.

Pension scheme trustees buy the cover from life insurers, which then protect
themselves against the cost of a payout by buying reinsurance.

Reinsurers, however, have warned life insurers that they will not cover payouts
for employees who have died in terrorist attacks. Over the past month, life
insurers have started to pass this message on to employers.

Jardine Lloyd Thompson (JLT), the insurance broker, said that the widows and
children of workers killed in terrorist attacks could be left destitute by the
new rules.

"When joining a pension scheme, employees assume that in the event of their
death, dependents will be provided for," Clare Dare, a director in JLT's
employee benefits division, said. "But following 9/11 and more recent terrorist
activity, the life assurance market has been re-evaluating how it assesses the
potential accumulation loss from one event to determine the worst-loss scenario
at any one location," she said.

Ms Dare also said that some life insurers had limited the total amount they
would pay out for a company hit by a terrorist attack to just £35 million.

This means that a payout of £35 million would have to be stretched to cover
benefits for all staff killed in an attack, leading to some benefits being
reduced or cut out entirely.

Other life insurers, meanwhile, have warned employers that they would not pay
out if their staff were killed in fires or earthquakes.

One insurance broker pointed out that £35 million would not come close to
covering the salaries of senior executives in some City offices, let alone two
or four times their wages.

"Before the twin towers (atrocity), the biggest conceived exposure would have
been having a number of workers travelling on the same aircraft," he said.

"But in the EC3 postcode you've got office block after office block full of
well-paid executives. If terrorists hit just one of those offices, the cost
would be enormous," he said.

Ms Dare said that it was possible for employers to buy additional insurance in
the wider insurance market to ensure that they were able to cover the payouts
they had promised workers.

She said that insurers were willing to provide additional cover of up to Pounds
150 million but the cost of that cover depended on the location of the company
and the security measures that it had in place to combat terrorist attacks.

"We've seen the increasing imposition of nuclear, chemical and biological
terrorism exclusion clauses across most sectors of the insurance industry," she
said.

"Our principal concern is to try to mirror the original scheme and provide cover
for as many eventualities as possible."


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 April 20, 2004

Hunt for sex fiends after man is raped;Night out ends in terror as victim
dragged into lane and attacked

BYLINE: By Alex Robertson Crime Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 365 words


A man was raped in Glasgow city centre after he was attacked by two men and
dragged into

a lane.

The 25-year-old victim, who cannot be identified, was

walking in Buchanan Street when he was approached by two men who started talking

to him.

But they then dragged him into a lane at Morrison Court, where he was raped.

The attack happened between 1.30 and 2.30am yesterday as the man walked home
following a night out.

A police help point that incorporates CCTV with a direct radio link to force
control is located yards from the scene of the attack.

The men were white and in their mid-30s and detectives were today studying
closed-circuit television film taken in the area in an attempt to identify the
attackers.

Detective Sergeant David Summerhill, of Central CID, who is leading the
investigation said: "The victim did not require hospital treatment,

but was very distressed by

his ordeal.

"I would like to hear from anyone who may have been in the area around that time
or has information that may assist this investigation to call me ."

The rape follows a spate of vicious assaults on men by

a sex attacker in the city's west end.

Police are still hunting three men following three sex attacks on males in the
Belmont Street area of Hillhead.

One happened on September 13 as a 22-year-old was walking along Queen Margaret
Drive towards Kelvin Drive.

He was assaulted by three men, dragged to a park next to the River Kelvin and
sexually assaulted by all three.

Hours later, a 25-year-old man was sexually assaulted by three men in Belmont
Street, near Doune Gardens.

Police believe a third incident may also be connected.

Last July 6, a 25-year-old man was walking home alone, again in Belmont Street
near Doune Gardens, when he was attacked in an attempt to sexually assault him.

The west end attacks are

not believed to be linked to the latest attack in Glasgow city centre.

Detective Sergeant Summerhill can be contacted at Glasgow CID on 0141 532 3036.

Information can also be passed to Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111, where calls are
free and can be anonymous.

alex.robertson@

eveningtimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ATTACK SCENE: the 25-year-old man was dragged into a lane at Morrison
Court

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            April 20, 2004, Tuesday

TERROR ALERTAT MATCH;
 CHEMICAL ATTACK FEARS AT OLD TRAFFORD

BYLINE: MATT SLATER

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 85 words


SECURITY will be stepped up amid fears of a terror attack at Liverpool's match
with Manchester United this weekend.

United chiefs will meet detectives to discuss security after 10 terrorist
suspects were arrested - seven of them in Manchester.

It is claimed the suspects were planning a suicide or chemical attack at Old
Trafford on Saturday.

The security discussions are standard practice but concerns that the stadium may
have been a prime target will be looked at during the meeting.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 April 20, 2004

TERRORISTS were planning a devastating attack at Manchester United's match
against Liverpool on Saturday - and it could have been chemical

BYLINE: by martin dillon and nicola dowling

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 250 words



TERRORISTS were planning a devastating attack at Manchester United's match
against Liverpool on Saturday - and it could have been chemical Tickets for the
sell-out Premier League clash at Old Trafford are understood to have been
recovered during a series of anti-terrorist raids across Greater Manchester
yesterday. One theory that police are believed to be investigating is that
extremists planned to launch a chemical attack.

The game is one of the most high profile in the sporting calendar with millions
across the world watching on television, so any attack would have maximum
publicity. Whatever the chosen method of attack, thousands could have been
killed or injured if the alleged plot had succeeded at what is the country's
biggest football ground.

United were due to play Charlton in the league tonight at Old Trafford but
police do not believe this match was the intended target. A spokesman for
Manchester United said they had not been told by police of any threats that Old
Trafford could have been a target.

Police are believed to have acted as a matter of urgency when a suspected terror
boss arrived in Manchester - possibly to supervise the attack. Around 400
officers were involved in the operation to smash what police believe to be a
"sleeper" terror cell in the north. Ten people have been arrested and police are
sifting through a mass of paperwork siezed from properties.  Seven people,
including a woman, were arrested in Greater Manchester. Three other

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Manchester Evening News

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 April 20, 2004

THIS weekend's Manchester United clash with Liverpool would be a natural target
for a terrorist attack.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 245 words



THIS weekend's Manchester United clash with Liverpool would be a natural target
for a terrorist attack. Any incident would be guaranteed to receive huge global
coverage far beyond the realms of sport.

The annual fixture is one of the most fiercely contested clashes in the football
calendar - on and off the field.  More than 67,000 supporters will descend on
Old Trafford. And the fans will not just be drawn from Manchester and Liverpool,
but from across the world.  Both teams attract supporters from all over the
globe, with people travelling from Europe, Australia, the Far East and America.
Millions of other fans will also be tuning in to watch the match on television,
while others will follow the action on radio or via the Internet.  Arsenal may
now be United's main foe when it comes to battling for the Premiership title,
but the rivalry between United and Liverpool fans is still intense.  United
manager Sir Alex Ferguson admits that this rivalry makes it the biggest game of
the season - and the players will be fired up for the occasion.

These days football dominates the front and back pages as interest in the game
has grown massively. So any terror organisation would gain maximum publicity for
an atrocity at the home of the richest club in the world.  United have steadily
increased the capacity of the ground over the last decade. Any attack would be
devastating, rivalling even the September 11 atrocity in New York.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Police seal off Dolphins fast food takeaway on Upper Brook St; Forensic
haul . . . police take items from a house yesterday

                     Copyright 2004 Manchester Evening News

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 20, 2004, Tuesday

KIDS TERROR AS CAR ATTACKED IN GAA RIOT;
 FANS GO ON RAMPAGE AFTER U-18 MATCH

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 309 words

HIGHLIGHT: INJURED: Dad Paul Byrne Picture courtesy RTE


A GAA official went berserk during a riot at a hurling match, shattering a car
windscreen as three children cowered inside, it was claimed yesterday.

The terrified children suffered serious injuries minutes after an under-18 game
was cut short by rampaging supporters.

As they screamed in terror, their father Paul Byrne was assaulted by a gang of
men.

He said: "I got a bang over the head with a hurley, if they had hit me another
way I might not be here today."

The Wicklow League game between rivals St Pat's and Glenealy was abandoned by
referee Jimmy O'Shaughnessy when opposing fans clashed with 20 minutes left and
St Pat's leading.

The riot allegedly kicked off when one fan went on to the pitch and attacked a
player during Sunday's game.

Fans then flooded the pitch at St Pats' Dunbur Park GAA grounds.

One witness said: "The referee was forced to call the game off when fans
produced hurleys of their own. The melee moved to the car park and another row
erupted."

Referee, and Wicklow councillor, Mr O'Shaughnessy said: "I can't comment on the
precise details of the incident as I will be sending a full report to the County
Board.

"All I will say is that the game was a very sporting one and all the players
behaved impeccably."

A GAA source added: "The row didn't involve any of the players but happened away
from the sideline and the action on the field. The game had been a good one and
the referee had handled it well."

A Garda spokesman said: "A fight broke out between spectators and an official is
alleged to have smashed the window of a car.

"The incident is currently under investigation."

Wicklow County Secretary Michael Murphy added: "We are not aware of any official
getting involved.

"However, the full facts have yet to be established and we're awaiting the
referee's report."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 21, 2004

ARREST AFTER FEARS OF UNITED STADIUM ATTACK; 'TERRORIST' IN HOUSE FOR ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By Richard Moriarty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 372 words


A TERROR suspect arrested during a police operation to prevent an alleged
suicide bomb plot at Manchester United's Old Trafford stadium was living in a
safe house for illegal immigrants, it was claimed last night.

The Kurdish man, thought to be from Iraq, was seized along with six other men by
armed police as part of a huge surveillance operation which resulted in nine men
and one woman being held under the Terrorism Act.

According to neighbours, the raid on the house, in Coventry, on Monday was not
the first by police as the address has a reputation for harbouring immigrants
who have sneaked into Britain.

During the raid - which was synchronised, with further raids in Staffordshire
and Greater Manchester - six other men were arrested in Coventry on suspicion of
breaking immigration rules.

Detective Inspector Matt Markham, of West Midlands Police, said: "I can confirm
that seven Kurdish men were arrested at this address in the early hours of
Monday morning.

"Six were arrested on immigration matters and are being dealt with by
immigration officials while their status is enquired about. A seventh man was
arrested under the Terrorism Act by officers from Manchester. He has been taken
to Manchester where he will be dealt with."

Another man was arrested yesterday, also on immigration matters.

Last night thousands of defiant football fans flocked to Old Trafford,
undeterred by fears that suicide bombers had been only days from launching a
spectacular attack on the ground.

Some of the swoops by armed police took place only a few miles from the
67,000-seater stadium - but United's Premiership game against Charlton was still
a total sell-out.

Scores of police were deployed outside the ground.

Spectators were told not to bring bags and faced searches at the turnstiles.

One United fan, Rob Andrews, from Manchester, said: "The security here is
fantastic.

"I'm not worried about coming to the game and if I was I certainly wouldn't
bring my kids with me."

Police refused to confirm reports that the suspects arrested on Monday all had
tickets for United's home game against Liverpool this Saturday and planned to
detonate bombs in front of a TV audience of millions.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            April 22, 2004, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: CONSTANT THREAT OF ATTACK STALKS STREETS OF BASRA Iraqis surround
the scene of one of three explosions which hit the Basra killing at least 45 and
injuring more than 200

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 425 words


British forces in Basra have enjoyed a positive relationship with the
inhabitants of Iraq's second city but growing tension and violence threatens to
tear that apart.

Yesterday's series of attacks appeared to be a deliberate attempt to undermine
the coalition's work in the region.

Although much work has been done to rebuild Basra, instances of aggression
against British troops have been occurring for some time.

In the aftermath of the war, troops made a much publicised and concerted effort
to win the 'hearts and minds' of the local Shia population.

The Shiite people were suspicious after the last Gulf war when they rose up
against dictator Saddam Hussein but were left to face the devastating
consequences when coalition troops pulled out of Iraq leaving the Sunni leader
still in charge.

When President George Bush announced the end of formal combat on May 2, British
troops made a point of patrolling the streets of southern Iraq wearing berets
rather than helmets.

They were determined to gain the trust of the Iraqi people as well as restoring
electricity and water supplies.

But on June 24 last year, the apparent peace was shattered by the deaths of six
British soldiers killed in an Iraqi ambush near Basra.

The Royal Military Police were involved in a two-hour gun battle which resulted
in their deaths.

At the time, military experts warned the attacks could trigger more violence
towards British troops.

In October, the British head of the coalition authority in Basra, Sir Hilary
Synnott, insisted the Iraqis were giving troops the 'benefit of the doubt'.

But still the attacks continued in a sporadic fashion.

In November, an Army lorry was damaged by a home-made bomb, but no one was
injured.

Relations improved with the news of Saddam Hussein's capture at the hands of the
US forces last December.

Speaking after the dictator's capture, Sir Hilary said locals had fired shots in
the air in celebration and were 'delighted' to see his incarceration.

He said coalition forces had worked hard to earn the trust and respect of the
Iraqi people.

The beginning of 2004 saw a concentration on attempts to train Iraqi soldiers
and police officers.

In March, British forces revealed that more than 5,000 Iraqis were being formed
into the Iraqi Civilian Defence Force which should be up and running when
Britain and America hand over power on June 30.

In recent weeks, insurgents have vented their anger on British forces, carrying
out attacks and staging several protests.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 April 22, 2004

New agency to cope with biological terror attack

BYLINE: PAUL WAUGH

SECTION: A; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 394 words


A NATIONWIDE decontamination agency is being set up to cope with chemical and
biological terror attacks on Britain, ministers revealed today.

In an interview with the Evening Standard, Fire Minister Nick Raynsford said
that the move was the latest part of the Government's efforts to prepare for an
atrocity on the scale of September 11.

With London likely to be the main target of an al Qaeda strike, Mr Raynsford
revealed that the Metropolitan Police and intelligence agencies had already
foiled a "significant number" of plots.

But the new national decontamination service would coordinate a response in the
event of a successful release of deadly germs or gases on the capital.

The agency will offer expert advice to the emergency services and local councils
on cleanup operations after a biological, chemical or even "dirty" nuclear bomb
strike.

The move comes amid heightened fears of a terror attack on the UK.

Scotland Yard and MI5 scuppered a plot earlier this month to fill the
Underground with lethal osmium tetroxide gas. Police in north London also
unearthed traces of the poison ricin last year.

It also follows a report by the Royal Society yesterday which claimed there were
flaws in the country's state of readiness for a non-conventional strike.

Mr Raynsford said most Londoners were "very realistic" in their perception that
their city faced attack from fanatics but wanted to offer reassurance that every
possible step was being taken.

He said that a national decontamination agency was likely to be one of "a whole
series of measures". The idea is being worked on jointly by the Home Office and
Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.

The budget and functions of the service have yet to be determined but
Environment Minister Elliot Morley said that "further details will be given as
soon as practicable".

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens hit the headlines when he
warned earlier this year that a terror attack on the capital was now
"inevitable". The minister agreed, saying that the police chief was "being
wholly realistic".

Mr Raynsford, who chairs the London Resilience committee overseeing the
capital's security, added that the Government was making provision for further
funds on top of £188 million already earmarked for anti-terror defence.

END

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 April 22, 2004

Terrorist attack in Saudi kills nine;

SECTION:  Pg. 2

LENGTH: 249 words


A SUICIDE attacker and a police officer were among at least nine people killed
and dozens injured yesterday when two car bombs exploded outside the Saudi
police headquarters in the capital Riyadh.

Facades were torn off buildings at the site, revealing rooms on fire. Cars
parked nearby had been smashed by debris.

Clouds of dust and black smoke rose from the building and settled over the
neighbourhood.

"The explosion resulted from two car bombs that were parked about 15 metres away
from the building, " a police official said.

Officials from the three hospitals in Riyadh where the casualties were taken
said that at least nine police officers and civilians had been killed and at
least 125 people injured.

The injured included police officers, a number of them in critical condition, as
well as civilians, including three children.

The General Security building was severely damaged by the explosions, which took
place just days after a US warning of possible terror attacks.

General Security officers have been on the front lines in a Saudi crackdown on
Islamist militants, manning checkpoints as part of stepped up security and
occasionally engaging in fire fights with suspects.

Last month, a purported al-Qaida message appeared on the internet threatening
Saudi police, members of the intelligence forces and other security agents.

The explosions occurred at about 2pm, when workers would have been leaving their
offices for the Saudi weekend.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 April 22, 2004

Terrorist attack is almost certain

LENGTH: 201 words


So what if we have nuclear weapons as long as we live in a country with moderate
liberal views such as ours that would only ever use them in truly dire
circumstances?

As much as people have lost faith in this Government I for one do not think Mr
Blair Mr Brown Mr Prescott or any of

our current Government would allow themselves to be forced into such a
compromising position.

What any of these so-called peace campaigners hope to gain from marching against
our possession of nuclear weapons is quite beyond me.

Do they not see these weapons act as a much-needed deterrent against the
irrationality of terrorist states and their nonsensical anti-Western ideologies?

Without them we might well leave ourselves exposed to the vagaries and
unthinking whim of people whose only form of communication is through vicious
rhetoric cant and violence.

I have faith in this Government. I have faith in the great British public. We've
all read Nevil Shute's On The Beach but that is the stuff of past Thatcher-era
sensations.

Our modern worry lies in the almost certain terrorist attack that will take
place on our glorious city.

GEORG VANDERSTL

Mandrake Road

Upper Tooting

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 April 23, 2004

Terror attack exercise in city

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 258 words


The emergency services will next week be testing their readiness to deal with
the aftermath of a terrorist attack in the north-east.  A make-believe chemical
attack will hit Grampian Fire and Rescue Service's headquarters in Anderson
Drive, Aberdeen, on Monday.

Volunteers will be doused in a safe substance - supposed to represent anthrax or
some other deadly chemical - and then put through the decontamination procedures
which the fire service would use in the event of a genuine terrorist incident,
before being sent to hospital.

The exercise will give firefighters the opportunity to use the New Dimension
equipment they received as part of a £5million investment from the Scottish
Executive after the September 11 attacks on America.

Four Scottish fire services were given new equipment in the package, which was
aimed at improving the ability of agencies to cope with the possible threat of a
chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear release involving large numbers of
people.

Grampian now has a major incident unit with trained staff. Firefighters in
Lothian and Borders and in Strathclyde also have major incident units, while
Central Scotland has a mass decontamination vehicle.

Andy Coueslant, assistant divisional officer with Grampian Fire and Rescue
Service, said the aim was to prepare the emergency services for "when rather
than if" terrorists strike.

He said the Grampian firefighters could be called in to deal with incidents
throughout Scotland and the north of England at a moment's notice.


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2004 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             April 23, 2004, Friday

TEENAGE GIRL IN SEX ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: ANNETTE MORGAN

SECTION: Warwickshire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 348 words


A WARWICKSHIRE teenager was seriously sexually assaulted as she walked home in
Rugby last night.

The 18-year-old girl was attacked between 11.30pm and 12.30pm as she walked near
to the railway bridge on Lawford Road, Rugby.

The victim managed to call her friends for help on her mobile phone following
the attack.

They called the police after going out to find her.

A police spokesman said she did not know the extent of the girl's injuries.

She said officers would be speaking to her later today.

She said: "We are still at a very early stage in our investigation and are
trying to establish what has happened.

"Officers are still at the scene examining the area and will be making inquiries
during the day."

The attack comes just two days after a 13-year-old boy was abducted as he walked
along Clifton Road, near to its junction with Whitehall Road, in Rugby town
centre.

He told officers he was forced into a car by two men, who drove him to the A5
before releasing him unharmed.

Detective Inspector Richard Denny, of Rugby CID, appealed for anyone with
information on last night's assault to come forward.

Witnesses should contact Rugby CID on 01788 541111.

A NINE-YEAR-OLD girl was pestered for sex by a motorist in Coventry, police
revealed today.

Detectives are hunting the driver who targeted the terrified girl in Swan Lane,
Stoke, on Wednesday.

The girl was propositioned by the motorist near Coventry Plumbing and Heating
Supplies as she walked towards Gosford Green in Walsgrave Road, at about 7.30pm.

Police said the male driver stopped as the girl walked along Swan Lane towards
Walsgrave Road, opened the passenger door and started to talk to her and said,
'Do you know sex? Where do you want to go?'

The frightened girl made her way home and the vehicle drove off towards
Walsgrave Road.

The man was driving a dark green car, possibly a Rover hatchback.

He is described as white, aged 40, fat, with fair, balding hair, wearing a black
T-shirt.

Anyone witnesses should phone DC Wilson on 0845 113 5000.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 April 24, 2004

I THOUGHT I'D BEEN SHOT BY VANDALS IN TERROR TRAIN ATTACK;RAIL WOMAN NEEDED 16
STITCHES IN FACE WOUND

BYLINE: By Alex Robertson

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 94 words


A WOMAN conductor thought she had been shot when thugs attacked a busy train.

The 35-year-old had 16 stitches put in a face wound, after a stone crashed
through a window.

She said: "I didn't know what it was at first, I was hysterical ... there was so
much blood.

"I did not know if part of my face was missing or if I had been shot.

"I was screaming and crying and struggling to breathe."

The incident happened as the train was approaching Uddingston station,
Lanarkshire. A second train was attacked minutes later.

FULL STORY - PAGE 5

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 24, 2004

RYAN GIGGS: MY FEARS OF TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: By Richard Moriarty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 314 words


FOOTBALL star Ryan Giggs told last night how his Manchester United team mates
fear their club will be the target of a devastating terrorist attack.

Worried players held a changing room summit ahead of today's Old Trafford clash
with Liverpool after police swooped on a suspected terror cell thought to have
been planning a suicide bomb plot at the 67,000-seater stadium.

Giggs revealed how the build-up to today's match against their arch enemies has
been overshadowed by the Al Qaeda terror threat.

The 30-year-old Welsh winger - who is engaged to Stacey Cook, the mother of his
baby daughter Liberty - said: "The players have talked about it in the dressing
room.

"The threat of terrorism is sadly something everybody in this country has to
live with these days, and footballers are no different.

"Packed football stadiums are a prime target, I suppose, but let's hope that
something like that never happens. It's impossible to imagine how terrible it
would be if it ever did."

Earlier this week more than 400 officers from four forces arrested 10 suspects
in Manchester under the Terrorism Act 2000 - and security sources believe their
target was the Manchester United stadium.

Giggs added: "I saw the story on the news the same as everybody else, and was
quite shocked about it.

"It is a bit of a concern to think that something may have been planned by these
people. All we can do is carry on as normal."

The star's comments came as police confirmed that extra rigorous security checks
will be carried out at today's game in the wake of the security scare.

The club said it was not aware of any specific threat but that precautionary
checks would be carried out before the 3pm kick-off.

A police statement said: "It is likely supporters will be subjected to more
rigorous security checks as well as increased stop-and-search procedures.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Spectator

                                 April 24, 2004

Recipe for terror;
 Gerald Kaufman attacks Bush for supporting Ariel Sharon's 'disengagement' plan,
which, he says, will inevitably result in more Israeli deaths

BYLINE: Gerald Kaufman

SECTION:  Pg. 28 29

LENGTH: 1496 words


One morning this week I got into conversation with a smartly dressed,
middle-aged woman at the 274 bus stop in St John's Wood. She told me that she
was having an apartment built in Israel and that her daughter, on aliyah (the
Hebrew word for immigration to the Holy Land), was a doctor in Jerusalem.

This nice lady told me, 'I would defend Israel with my last breath.' So, it
might be thought: here was exactly the kind of person who would have been
delighted by last week's accord between the President of the United States and
the Prime Minister of Israel at the White House in Washington and who, though a
peaceable soul, would not have been displeased by the death in Gaza of the Hamas
leader Abdel Aziz Ratissi, whose murder was authorised as soon as Sharon got
back from the US.

Dream on. My bus-stop conversationalist was appalled that a situation had been
so exacerbated as to impel Palestinian terrorists to murder even more Israelis
(some of which earlier victims her daughter had known personally), which would
emphasise still further the contrast between relative Israeli affluence and
Palestinian impoverishment, and which would delay into the indiscernible future
any chance of peace for the long-suffering Israeli people.

She said that her daughter's original idealism at going to live in the land of
her forefathers had vanished, to be replaced by continual apprehension at living
in the middle of a powder keg. This decent, thoughtful Jewish woman, far from
being beguiled by the facile cliches uttered by George W. Bush, saw only tragedy
ahead for the Middle East.

Almost exactly two years ago in the House of Commons I described Ariel Sharon as
a 'war criminal'. I added that, even worse, he was a fool. That verdict has been
emphasised by the Dead Sea fruit that he bore away from Washington with such
triumphalism. For this victory for his home-made 'disengagement' policy will
mean many more deaths of Israelis at the hands of Palestinian terrorists,
preying on the despair of Palestinians who now see no future for themselves
other than as serfs under the occupying Israelis' desert boots.

In the Seder service for the Passover, which was recited in religious Jewish
homes in Israel and the diaspora earlier this month, there is a telling
reminiscence:

'Avadim hayinu b'Mitzrayim' - 'We were slaves in Egypt.' What the Egyptian
Pharaoh did to the Jews, the Jews have now done to the Palestinians - except
that the Palestinians have no Moses to bring them salvation, and no Red Sea will
part for them.

If Sharon's policy of disengagement is a calculated political ploy that
deliberately will delay indefinitely the peace settlement to which he pays lip
service while undermining it in every way possible, Bush's endorsement of that
policy is even more dangerous. For a hardline Israeli policy endorsed by the
President of the United States transforms the political landscape in the Middle
East. What Sharon left implicit by talking about withdrawing all 7,000 Jewish
settlers from the Gaza Strip and a handful of settlers from the West Bank, Bush
made explicit in his statement of endorsement, in which he spoke of the growth
of Jewish settlements on the West Bank as 'new realities on the ground' and of
realism requiring any final agreement for separate Israeli and Palestinian
states to reflect 'these realities'.

And, at a stroke, he dismissed any aspirations for a right of return by
Palestinian refugees as something that could not be included in the final status
agreement, even though, whatever the outcome, it had previously been accepted as
one of the major negotiating points to be resolved.

So, as the consequence of one presidential paragraph, the 200 Israeli West Bank
settlements, with 350,000 inhabitants, all of which are illegal under United
Nations Security Council resolutions, were suddenly not negotiable any more.

Bush had the nerve to talk about the 'chance' for the Palestinians 'to create a
reformed, just and free government' in 'a Palestinian state based upon a solid
foundation' with international aid to 'help a Palestinian economy grow'. What
chance, when the only government the Palestinians have, under their
internationally recognised Prime Minister, was not even consulted by the
Bush-Sharon deal, let alone invited to the White House to discuss it?

What 'solid foundation', when there is no continuous or contiguous Palestinian
entity, but only tiny fragments of land under the heel of the Israelis? What
economy capable of growth, when industry scarcely exists, tourism is moribund, a
brand-new Gaza airport is prevented by the Israelis from operating, agriculture
cannot sell its products even when it is able to farm them, and unemployment is
at levels unthinkable in any genuine market economy?

With existing Palestinian territory already split into more than 300 fragments
by 482 Israeli army checkpoints (and large chunks of that territory eaten away
by the illegal Israeli wall being built to protect those very settlements), the
Palestinian state cheerfully forecast by Bush would be even more derisory than
the Bantustans under South African apartheid.

But at least apartheid was eventually ended and a democratic South Africa
created, which has just re-elected its government in what was universally
recognised as a free ballot. That wondrous change came about as a consequence of
international economic sanctions which turned South Africa into a pariah. Israel
is busy turning itself into an international pariah state, but not only are
there no economic sanctions whatever imposed upon it, but its sagging economy is
buttressed both by American support (and arms supplies) and even by economic
preferences by the European Union, which is theoretically one of the architects
of the road map and whose leaders are so pious in condemning acts such as the
murder of Ratissi, but do precisely nothing about them.

While Sharon's approach can be understood, if not forgiven, as an expression of
brutal realpolitik, Bush has no such excuse.

It is a long time since any realist expected anything approaching principle or
morality from Bush. His calculations on this issue are as crude as one might
expect from the man who, in the 2000 presidential election, got fewer votes than
his Democratic opponent, was never actually elected as President of the United
States, but was appointed eventually by the Supreme Court after allegations of
vote-rigging in Florida.

Even before this summer's nominating conventions, John Kerry as Democratic
candidate-presumptive is edging ahead of Bush in the opinion polls. There are
concentrations of Jewish votes that could swing key states (including Florida);
a more-pro-Israeli-than-thou policy might garner some of those crucial votes.
And if such a policy entails more Jewish victims of Palestinian terrorists, more
Palestinians shot down by Israeli troops and an indefinite postponement of peace
in the Middle East - well, you can't have everything.

Pity poor Tony Blair ('Tony, as I like to call you', as Bush addressed him,
giving the signal for the production of sick bags), who arrived in Washington
immediately after the Bush-Sharon handshake-from-hell. He was assigned the
unenviable task of reasserting the principles of the Middle East peace road map,
to which Bush and Sharon are both in theory parties, while not overtly
repudiating his host. He managed this with the finesse of someone gingerly
tiptoeing around a turd on the livingroom carpet, welcoming Sharon's proposal of
disengagement in Gaza while not saying a dicky-bird about Bush's endorsement of
continuing Jewish mass-settlement of the West Bank.

Safely back home in Britain, Blair ('Tony', as I have liked to call him for the
past 21 years) was able to say what he really thought. Replying to a Commons
question by me on Monday, he reaffirmed Britain's adherence to the Security
Council resolutions declaring illegal the Jewish settlements on the West Bank
and stressed that the Israeli wall 'must not become part of a political
settlement', nor be 'used to annex territory'.

There is only one President of the United States; the British Prime Minister
cannot choose the devil with whom he is obliged to sup. But, if the road map is
anyone's, it is Blair's, without whose pressure it would never have become even
a paper concept. Bush owes Blair an enormous debt for his support in the war
against terror in Afghanistan and as a partner in the invasion of Iraq. On the
White House lawn last weekend, Bush promised to 'work to end longstanding
sources of bitterness and conflict in the Middle East'.

His deal with Sharon gives the lie to those brave words. If Blair has any real
influence with the President of the United States, as distinct from being the
recipient of honeyed, meaningless praise, he must press Bush to live up to the
sentiments he has voiced -- or, like so many of us, pray for a Kerry victory on
2 November.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 The Spectator Limited

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             April 25, 2004, Sunday

Judge attacks Ulster terror trial system

BYLINE: Liam Clarke

SECTION: Home news; Ulster News 7

LENGTH: 741 words


AN American judge has accused British courts of convicting IRA suspects on
"purely political grounds", and described terrorists released early under the
Good Friday agreement as former political prisoners.

Judge Rose Peters made her comments as she refused the American government
permission to deport Sean O'Cealleagh, who was convicted of aiding and abetting
the murder of two British army corporals at an IRA funeral in 1988.

In a ruling that will have implications for other former paramilitaries seeking
sanctuary in America, the judge said: "The court has come to the conclusion that
there are problems with this conviction, which leads me to the belief that the
conviction was a purely political offence. Everything in this case from
beginning to end labels this as political."

Citing several studies by human-rights groups, she said the Belfast courts'
handling of the case had "failed to satisfy international fair trial standards".

She ruled that O'Cealleagh should be allowed to live permanently in America. The
government has 30 days in which to appeal and has said that it may do so.

Sean Kelly, 35, was released early under the Good Friday agreement and has
always protested his innocence. In 2001, he adopted the Irish version of his
name, O'Cealleagh, and went to America. He was granted permanent residency under
the Green Card scheme and now works in O'Malley's, an Irish bar on Seal beach
near Los Angeles.

Immigration officials told the court they were unaware of his background until
they picked it up as a result of new security measures introduced in the wake of
9/11. They arrested him in February as he stepped off a plane after a trip home
to Belfast.

Peters found that he had adequately disclosed his conviction and incarceration
to immigration officials and that those officials determined that his offence
was based on political grounds. She noted that the case had gained "a lot of
notoriety" over the years. Human rights groups, attorneys' associations,
politicians and experts had all been quoted as being highly critical of the
arrest of the so-called Casement Three.

"None of the defendants in the Casement Three were members of the IRA and none
were present when (the corporals) were, in fact, shot," she said.

In a swingeing attack on the British legal system she added that O'Cealleagh was
tried in a politically charged atmosphere and that the deck was stacked against
him from the beginning. She noted that he was convicted in the controversial
Diplock courts, held in an infamous political prison -Long Kesh -and released in
1998 as part of an agreement "only applicable to political prisoners".

In 1991, O'Cealleagh, from Rockville Street in west Belfast, was sentenced to 15
and 10 years, to be served concurrently, for false imprisonment and causing
grievous bodily harm to Corporals Derek Wood and David Howes, both of the Royal
Signal Regiment. Howes and Wood had driven their unmarked car into the path of
the funeral of Kevin Brady, an IRA member shot dead by the loyalist killer
Michael Stone at a republican funeral.

Crowds of mourners dragged the two soldiers from their car, bundled them into a
black taxi and took them to Casement Park GAA grounds.

Much of the evidence at the original trial consisted of TV footage and
surveillance videos shot from security force helicopters. It was claimed that it
showed O'Cealleagh forcing Wood into a football ground. The Belfast court also
found he had remained there while both corporals were beaten and stripped before
being thrown over a 9ft wall and driven off to their deaths.

O'Cealleagh later made an unsuccessful appeal against conviction. Finbarr Hill,
Ireland's honorary consul in Los Angeles, told the court the Irish government
still had serious doubts about the conviction.

In the California immigration hearing, much of the original evidence was reheard
and tapes of BBC and RTE documentaries alleging a miscarriage of justice were
played.

O'Cealleagh denied taking part in the murder of the soldiers, saying he had been
returning from baby-sitting for relatives and was only on the edge of the crowd.

Judge Peters found that the tapes produced by the British authorities did not
identify O'Cealleagh beyond doubt. An immigration official in Los Angeles said
the government would appeal against the ruling within 30 days and O'Cealleagh
will remain in custody during that time.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 April 26, 2004

Donaldson attacks Blunkett's moans over terrorist bail;

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 223 words


FORMER Master of the Rolls Lord Donaldson attacked Home Secretary David Blunkett
at the weekend for moaning about a decision to release an Algerian terror
suspect on bail on mental-health grounds.

Mr Blunkett has branded the decision by the Special Immigration Appeals
Commission to free the suspect, known as G, as "extraordinary, " claiming that
others would consider it "bonkers."

But top lawyer Lord Donaldson reminded the Home Secretary that SIAC had merely
been carrying out the role for which it was created - to act as a check to the
minister's draconian powers.

"SIAC is a court - it had to reach an impartial decision on this problem, " he
told BBC radio.

Labour MP Bob MarshallAndrews QC added: "If you are going to lock people up
without trial, to which I am totally opposed, then what is essential is that the
person who does it should be judicial, measured, temperate, sane, sensible.

"To start using words like bonkers is precisely the reverse of all that, " he
added.

Mr Blunkett provoked further doubt about his suitability for the job yesterday,
when he suggested that the foreign terror suspects currently imprisoned could be
handed over to repressive regimes.

He suggested that they could be deported as long as the regimes in question
promised not to have them executed "immediately."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 26, 2004

TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Rikki Brown

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 48 words


THERE were fears a terrorist attack was planned at Old Trafford.

In response, the club announced a measure in place whereby the stadium could be
emptied entirely in two minutes. The club spokesman said this will be easily
achieved by playing Victoria Beckham songs on the Tannoy.


LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 26, 2004

West scientists in race to beat threat of terror attack with killer nerve gas

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 894 words


West scientists are involved in a race against time to develop antidotes for a
deadly nerve agent amid fears terrorists will unleash it as a devastating weapon
of mass destruction, it emerged yesterday.  A team from the MoD research base at
Porton Down in Wiltshire is working on treatment for VX nerve gas, as concerns
mount it could be favoured in chemical warfare strikes.

The odourless liquid is three times deadlier than Sarin, the chemical used with
horrific results in the Tokyo underground attack in the mid-1990s.

Exposure to VX, either through the skin or inhalation can trigger breathing
difficulties, convulsion, coma and death.

A tiny pinprick of the liquid, which turns to gas at high temperatures, is
enough to kill. But yesterday the research, part of a decade-long programme to
find a barrier cream, was slammed as "unnecessary and cruel" after it was
revealed domestic white pigs were poisoned with VX.

Animal rights campaigners claim the "torturous" nerve agent left the animals
twitching and writhing in the hours before death.

The National Anti-Vivisection Society (NAVS) is calling for a halt to the
experiments after it discovered scientists from Porton Down jetted out to Canada
to administer the deadly poison.

It killed three of the animals within 180 minutes. A fourth pig lingered on
before it was put down.

NAVS claim VX - which was developed at Porton Down in 1952 and is believed to
have been stockpiled by Saddam Hussein - was tested on animals half a century
ago.

It says the effects on animals and humans are already well documented and the
latest tests, thought to have been carried out last year, were unnecessary.

PORTON Down confirmed the tests took place but said the pigs were placed under
general anaesthetic during the study.

The experiment was carried out at the Canadian Army base in Medicine Hat,
Alberta.

A Porton Down spokeswoman said: "The work was conducted in Canada and was part
of a long-term programme of joint co-operation between the UK, US and Canada to
develop new, more effective therapies against chemical warfare agents. The study
will help produce the first-ever barrier cream to protect the skin against a
range of chemical warfare agents such as VX. It has also provided important new
information on how to save lives after exposure to a military or terrorist
chemical warfare attack." The spokeswoman added that the study revealed a key
insight into contamination properties of VX.

The nerve gas, which featured in the 1995 thriller The Rock, starring Nicholas
Cage and Sean Connery, rapidly spreads across the skin.

The researchers said emergency teams would need to decontaminate vast areas
around the release site as VX spreads.

Porton Down said the experiments were necessary and carefully controlled under
the Animals Scientific Procedures Act 1986.

"Although we endeavour to find alternative models, animal research is
necessary," the spokeswoman said.

"Porton Down exists to provide safe and effective protective measures for the UK
armed forces and the UK against the threat of chemical and biological weapons."
SHE added: "Assessment of the toxic hazard posed by chemical and biological
agents and evaluation of the effectiveness of medical treatments cannot be
carried out on human volunteers. The use of animals is strictly controlled.
Before a study is carried out three separate licences have to be obtained from
the Home Office.

"These have to satisfy stringent criteria, including that the study is vitally
important to ongoing research." But the use of pigs in the study cut no ice with
NAVS, which is staging World Lab Animal Week until Friday.

Its chief executive, Jan Creamer, said: "It's disgraceful that British taxpayers
have paid for such cruel and unnecessary tests, especially when the effects of
these poisons are already known.

"The results of killing these pigs in such a terrible way were inconclusive. VX
was tested on animals as far back as the 1950s and its effects on humans are
already known.

"It has long been recognised that there are clear species differences between
animals and humans but more animals than ever are suffering in the name of
so-called research." Daily Press Fact File VX is the most potent of all nerve
agents. It is a light brown odourless liquid, which looks similar to high-grade
motor oil.

It was developed as a pesticide alternative to DDT at Porton Down in 1952. Its
chemical name is O-ethyl S-(2-diisopropylaminoethyl).

Its chemical formula is CH3CH20-P(O)(CH3)-SCH2CH2N(C3H7)2.

VX causes involuntary contractions by blocking enzymes that stop nerve endings
from firing.

Highly toxic, it can contaminate water supplies.

People can be exposed to the nerve agent by drinking contaminated water, or
getting it on skin.

It could also contaminate the food chain.

VX is the least volatile of all nerve agents. It is slowest to evaporate from
liquid to vapour. This makes it very persistent in the environment.

It can stick for days on objects it has come into contact with, and for months
in cold weather.

Symptoms of exposure can emerge within seconds or hours. They include: Runny
nose, watery eyes, blurred vision, drooling and excessive sweating.

Diarrhoea, confusion, vomiting, weakness and headache can also quickly develop.


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004 2604WESTDP5F6wests

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 April 26, 2004

Exercise tests response to terror gas attack against soccer ground

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 400 words


William Green

PICTURE the scene, if you can. One minute, everyone is cheering your football
team and then there is a huge bang. It becomes difficult to breathe, while your
eyes and nose are streaming.

Parents and children are crying out. None of you yet know, but you have are the
victims of Britain's first terrorist gas attack.

Such a terrifying incident has not happened but the emergency services have to
be ready - which is why such an attack was simulated at Barnsley Football Club
yesterday. While it may seem far-fetched, reports of Manchester United's ground
being at the centre of a terror plot show how vital such exercises are.

Martin Oldknow, divisional officer with South Yorkshire fire service, said it
was a coincidence as the exercise was planned from October. But he added: "It
just shows that we have got to prepare for those things now".


Mr Oldknow, who is responsible for civil protection, said the exercise was good
training and that the public should be reassured.

Jeremy Pease, director of operations for South Yorkshire's ambulance service,
said: "You can never be too prepared because you never know what might happen
when and where".


In yesterday's exercise, ambulances crews at the game alerted control. People's
symptoms allowed them to work out that phosgene gas had been used.

The gas makes breathing difficult and was used in the First World War.

Emergency crews did not enter the ground immediately. Instead, a careful
assessment was made so rescuers did not become casualties while mobile
decontamination units - inflatable tent-like structures - were erected in a car
park.

South Yorkshire firefighters in bulky green air-sealed suits then went to
victims, assisting them into their decontamination unit.

Affected fans had to remove contaminated clothing and put on orange capes,
before disrobing to enter a soap and rinse shower and exit in green clothing -
to signify the process was complete - and rubber shoes. About 200 people can go
through the unit in an hour.

Paramedics wearing fluorescent yellow protection suits slid those unable to walk
onto stretchers along rollers through the South Yorkshire ambulance service
decontamination unit.

Volunteer John Morrisey, from West Melton, near Wath upon Dearne, said the
exercise had felt very real and praised how the emergency services had
"decontaminated" him.


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 April 27, 2004

Terrorists' chemical attack on aberdeen - to help our emergency services

BYLINE: Karen Grant

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 794 words


It Could be Aberdeen Airport, Pittodrie Stadium, a shopping centre or the St
Fergus oil and gas terminal. These are just some of the potential North-east
terrorist targets. And the threat is real.

But an exercise to see if Aberdeen's emergency services were prepared for an
attack was a far cry from the horrors broadcast daily from around the world.

In a yard behind Grampian Fire and Rescue Service's HQ on Aberdeen's North
Anderson Drive, I and about 30 other adults had to "contaminate" ourselves with
flour.

We were getting in character for our roles as "casualties" in a mock
decontamination exercise staged by the region's chief firefighters.

An extra £5million Scottish Executive funding means the fire and rescue service
is now better equipped to deal with the threat of a chemical, biological,
radiological or nuclear attack But yesterday, in Aberdeen, it quickly became
clear that more than just new equipment was needed to prepare for the worst.

All we were told was that after being "contaminated" with the flour agent,
firefighters would throw us packages containing potentially life-saving gear -
complete with 16-step instructions.

From then on it was every man for themselves.

As station officer Ally Swift explained, the whole point of the exercise was for
Grampian fire crews to assess both their response and the victims' reactions to
the situation.

But a vital element was missing - the hysteria and pandemonium such an attack
would inevitably create.

No frantic screaming.  No-one frozen to the spot in sheer terror.

Instead "casualties" set upon tackling their life-saving packs like something
out of TV's Generation Game.

Step One was the challenge of opening the thick plastic kit container.

"Casualty" Roddy Hayes, a Red Cross volunteer, felt an elderly person with
arthritis would be unable to open it.

Step Two was to put on protective rubber gloves.  Step Three was to open a
sachet containing a face wipe - not the easiest of tasks while wearing gloves
Volunteer Denise Mullen, a nurse, said: "You read the instructions but it is
done in such a hurry, you miss out bits. In a real situation you would be in a
complete panic.

"The exercise was good but there were a lot of pitfalls." Like many, she was
anxious about the showering part of the process.

This involved entering a narrow decontamination unit that sprayed warm jets of
soapy water for about three minutes.

The specially-designed unit can decontaminate up to 200 people per hour.

Denise, 39, who works at Aberdeen Royal Infirmary's blood transfusion unit,
said: "You go in there and start to scrub but as soon as the soap came on you'd
panic. It stings your eyes and if the contaminated agent was burning your skin
it would be worse.

"I'm thinking from a nurse's point of view. Small children would be in a panic
and there would be the walking wounded who could be asthmatic or whatever.

"There was also no sense of time and how long you should spend there. You just
didn't know what you were supposed to do." For Roddy, 42, and fellow Red Cross
volunteer Jackie Stephen, 44, they trust that invaluable lessons will be learned
from yesterday's trial.

Both Roddy, of Aberdeen, and Jackie, of Peterhead, have taken part in numerous
training exercises, including a mock rail crash in Ayr.

The qualified first aid volunteers are also recruited to assist at major events
such as football matches and T In The Park music festival.

Roddy said: "Not all crowds are going to be like us. We were very docile.

"But if the exercise has opened us up to deficiencies then good. So long as we
learn from it that's the most important thing." Jackie added: "It would have
been more real if there had been more people who weren't so comparative - such
as children - and not just adults. I also think it would have been an advantage
to have other background noises.

"But on the whole it was very true to life and it has been an eye opener. You
never know what is going to happen so it is important to be prepared." Incident
commander Rae Cameron agreed the exercise had flagged up the issue of mass
hysteria.

"Certainly something we have learned is crowd control," he said.

"We will have to sit down and see how we can improve it.

"But we have also got to remember we have started from scratch and we have got
to prepare.

"You hope something like this will never happen but you have still got to
prepare." Rae said he has watched television reports of bombings and wondered
how he would cope in a similar situation.

And his conclusion?  "We are used to dealing with people who are in shock or in
need of assistance," he said.

"We just get on with the task in hand." Comment, Page 6.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2004 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 April 27, 2004

Lessons in surviving a terror attack

SECTION: News; 999; Disasters; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 659 words


On The ground lay groaning casualties, their bodies splattered in the same
strange white powder which coated my clothes, my hair and my face.  Around me,
dozens more "walking wounded" were staggering in a daze, trying to brush the
powder from their clothes and noisily talking over the orders of the men in blue
plastic spaceman suits and giant see-through helmets, who were trying to keep us
away from other passers-by.

The terrorist threat we have all been primed to expect over the last three years
arrived on the streets of Aberdeen yesterday, but thankfully these chaotic
scenes were just a dummy run for the real thing.

As one of around 30 volunteers who had agreed to play casualties for the day to
let firefighters and ambulance crews test their new-found skills for dealing
with a terrorist attack, I got a glimpse of how frightening and bewildering a
genuine incident might be, and how important it is that the emergency services
are well prepared to deal with it.

Participants, who included nurses, Red Cross workers and fire service support
staff, were given only the briefest of briefings beforehand to heighten the
sense of panic and confusion which would inevitably follow a real chemical
spill.

This time round the chemical was only flour, but the rest of the incident was
terrifyingly realistic.

While emergency workers rushed to erect the decontamination unit and treat the
most seriously injured, the rest of us were herded into a cordoned-off area and
thrown decontamination kits, containing rubber gloves, face masks, a wrist tag
with our own identity number and a plastic knife so we could cut our own clothes
off.

This was no time to be precious about a favourite jumper or T-shirt - if your
clothes really had been splattered with a poisonous chemical, the last thing you
would want to do is pull them off over your face and risk inhaling the substance
or getting it into your eyes.

Each kit contained easy-to-follow instructions on the correct order - put on the
gloves first, then wipe your face and dispose of the towel in a bag before
putting on your face mask and stripping off the rest of your clothes.

As you might expect in a real incident, however, panic swept through the group
and soon most had abandoned their instructions and were rushing through the
process in random order.

That might not be a problem when flour is the worst thing you have to worry
about but if we had been dealing with something more volatile it could have
meant the difference between life and death.

Wiped and stripped, we covered our blushes in hideous one-size-fits-all plastic
suits in a fetching shade of orange which, teamed with long grey socks and black
plastic bootees made for a far from fetching ensemble.

Suitably attired, we lined up and were herded five at a time into the
decontamination unit, where we were sprayed with warm jets of soapy water for a
good five minutes before being given a clean set of disposable clothes -
including paper pants - to change into at the other end.

Warm water and towels might seem like a pretty low-tech solution to the threat
of 21st-century terrorists but deputy firemaster David Dalziel insists it's an
effective weapon.

He said: "Warm water is one of the best decontaminants around. In general terms
warm, not hot, water will remove 90% of contaminants." Mixed with flour,
however, it also makes a pretty effective wallpaper paste and a few of my fellow
"casualties" were clearly regretting being so liberal with the flour at the
beginning of the exercise as they realised they were going to have to walk out
of the fire station with their hair sticking up like Oor Wullie.

It was with some relief that I returned to reality, grateful that the men and
women of our emergency services are better prepared to deal with a genuine
incident than the rest of us and thankful that terrorism has yet to raise its
ugly head in the north-east.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2004 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 April 27, 2004

Lessons in how to survive a terrorist attack

SECTION: News; 999; Disasters; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 659 words


On The ground lay groaning casualties, their bodies splattered in the same
strange white powder which coated my clothes, my hair and my face.  Around me,
dozens more "walking wounded" were staggering in a daze, trying to brush the
powder from their clothes and noisily talking over the orders of the men in blue
plastic spacemen suits and giant see-through helmets, who were trying to keep us
away from other passers-by.

The terrorist threat we've all been primed to expect over the last three years
arrived on the streets of Aberdeen yesterday - but thankfully these chaotic
scenes were just a dummy run for the real thing.

As one of around 30 volunteers who had agreed to play casualties for the day to
let firefighters and ambulance crews test their new skills for dealing with a
terrorist attack, I got a glimpse of how frightening and bewildering a genuine
incident might be - and how important it is that the emergency services are well
prepared to deal with it.

Participants, who included nurses, Red Cross workers and fire service support
staff, were given only the briefest of briefings beforehand to heighten the
sense of panic and confusion which would inevitably follow a real chemical
spill.

This time round the chemical was only flour, but the rest of the incident was
terrifyingly realistic.

While emergency workers rushed to erect the decontamination unit and treat the
most seriously injured casualties, the rest of us were herded into a
cordoned-off area and thrown decontamination kits containing rubber gloves, face
masks, a wrist tag with our own identity number and a plastic knife so we could
cut our own clothes off.

This was no time to be precious about a favourite jumper or T-shirt - if your
clothes really had been splattered with a poisonous chemical, the last thing you
would want to do is pull them off over your face and risk inhaling the substance
or getting it into your eyes.

Each kit contained easy-to-follow instructions on the correct order - put on the
gloves first, then wipe your face and dispose of the towel in a bag before
putting on your face mask and stripping off the rest of your clothes.

As you might expect in a real incident, however, panic swept through the group
and soon most had abandoned their instructions and were rushing through the
process in random order.

That might not be a problem when flour is the worst thing you have to worry
about but if we had been dealing with something more volatile it could have
meant the difference between life and death.

Wiped and stripped, we covered our blushes in hideous one-size-fits-all plastic
suits in a fetching shade of orange which, teamed with long grey socks and black
plastic bootees made for a far from fetching ensemble. Suitably attired, we
lined up and were herded five at a time into the decontamination unit, where we
were sprayed with warm jets of soapy water for a good five minutes before being
given a clean set of disposable clothes - including paper pants - to change into
at the other end.

Warm water and towels might seem like a pretty low-tech solution to the threat
of 21st-century terrorists but deputy firemaster David Dalziel insists it's an
effective weapon.

He said: "Warm water is one of the best decontaminants around. In general terms
warm, not hot, water will remove 90% of contaminants." Mixed with flour,
however, it also makes a pretty effective wallpaper paste and a few of my fellow
"casualties" were clearly regretting being so liberal with the flour at the
beginning of the exercise as they realised they were going to have to walk out
of the fire station with their hair sticking up like Oor Wullie.

It was with some relief that I returned to reality, grateful that the men and
women of our emergency services are better prepared to deal with a genuine
incident than the rest of us and thankful that terrorism has yet to raise its
ugly head in the north-east.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2004 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 April 27, 2004

Most people expect attack by terrorists

BYLINE: PAUL WAUGH

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 702 words



MORE than eight out of 10 Londoners believe that the capital will suffer a
September 11-style terror attack, a new poll reveals today.

The MORI survey also shows that a majority of the public are willing to pay more
council tax to fund extra police to combat the menace of al Qaeda and other
groups.

The poll, which was commissioned by the Greater London Authority as part of its
regular London Omnibus survey, also found that voters believe there are more
police on the streets since Ken Livingstone came to power.

The Mayor's popularity rating has risen to plus 26 points, up 10 points on a
year ago.

But the most striking finding was that 84 per cent of Londoners think that a
"major terror attack" is now certain, very likely or fairly likely.

Just four per cent felt that such an event was very unlikely.

The figures underline remarks made by Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John
Stevens earlier this year that an attack on London is now "inevitable".

The issue is sure to dominate the mayoral election race as law and order have
been put centre stage by Mr Livingstone, Tory Steve Norris and Liberal Democrat
Simon Hughes.

Sixty-one per cent considered that the publicity campaigns across London to
increase public vigilance against terror attacks would be very or quite
effective.

In addition 59 per cent of those questioned believed that the Met's work with
communities, such as Muslim communities, would help in deterring terrorist
attack.

But, in a warning to the Mayor, most of the public do not believe their local
bobby should be sent to police the centre of the city against terrorists.

When asked if they wanted police to concentrate on reducing crime in local
areas, 26 per cent agreed, compared with just 14 per cent who wanted policing in
the centre to be given priority. Nearly six in 10 felt both should be given
equal priority.

It emerged last week that most local areas had seen officers pulled off duty in
the suburbs to boost numbers in and around Whitehall, the West End and the City.

But Mr Livingstone was delighted by the finding that 45 per cent of the public
have noticed a rise in police numbers on the streets over the past year.

He said: "Clearly Londoners are starting to see the benefit of the extra
investment my budgets have provided in London's police service over the last
four years, with nearly half of Londoners saying they have seen more uniformed
officers on the streets.

"As the new Safer Neighbourhoods scheme is rolled out to neighbourhoods across
London, people will start to see more police in their local community, tackling
crime and fear of crime at a local level."

Government minister Nick Raynsford, who chairs the London Resilience group in
charge of civil defence, revealed that a pager system was being developed to
alert businesses in the event of an attack.

KEY FINDINGS

84 per cent of Londoners think a major terrorist attack in London is likely - of
those, 16 per cent see an attack as "certain", 33 per cent believe that an
attack is "very likely" and 38 per cent believe it would be "fairly likely".

More than six out of 10 Londoners believe advertising campaigns to increase
public vigilance would help deter terrorist attacks.

58 per cent say tackling local crime and deploying police for antiterrorist work
should be given equal priority; one in four say crime should take priority,
while 14 per cent think antiterrorist patrols are most important.

43 per cent of Londoners are unwilling to pay any extra for police on
antiterrorist duties, while just nine per cent would pay £5 or more per week for
such purposes. On average, Londoners are willing to pay £1.26 per week more for
an increase in antiterrorist officers.

55 per cent are satisfied with Mayor Ken Livingstone's performance in the past
year, while 29 per cent are dissatisfied.

42 per cent of Londoners say they are aware of more uniformed police officers in
their neighbourhood in the past year, while 16 per cent believe the number of
police has fallen.

45 per cent say police numbers across London have gone up, while 31 per cent say
they have seen fewer uniformed officers.

END

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           April 28, 2004, Wednesday

FOUR DIE IN SYRIA TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 189 words


FOUR people were killed in running gun battles yesterday after terrorists
attacked the former United Nations HQ in Damascus.

Syria's interior ministry said the dead were two terrorists, a policeman and a
local woman.

Diplomatic sources said four attackers detonated a car-bomb, setting the
building on fire and destroying at least three vehicles.

They tried to flee in another car while shooting and hurling hand grenades.

Up to 15 explosions were reported across the Syrian capital, several near
embassies including the British ambassador's residence.

The fighting broke out in the Mezza district, close to the Iranian, Canadian,
Saudi and British embassies.

Nobody at the British embassy was hurt in the blasts, according to the Foreign
Office.

A spokesman said: 'There were no injuries to UK embassy staff. There was no
damage to the British embassy.'

A foreign student studying in Damascus said: 'We were working in the library and
heard lots of gunfire and explosions.

'Everyone was terrified and we ran out of the building. We saw some big puffs of
smoke, but things are closed off now.'

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Fife Free Press

                                 April 28, 2004

FAMILY TERRORISED BY HATE ATTACK

LENGTH: 362 words


AN INNOCENT Methil family is living in fear after a vigilante group mistook
their home for that of an alleged sex offender.

Caroline Pattie and Jimmy Linton's home was targeted by a group late on Thursday
evening when their front door was smashed and a large stone thrown through the
living room window.

Hate-filled posters carrying their address were also placed on cars, telephone
boxes and bus shelters in the area, which Jimmy had to remove himself.

One of the posters read: ''(the named person] should be locked away and throw
away the key.

''He beast a three year-old girl and should be punished. We should act now!''

The couple, of 123 Oakvale Road, are pleading to be left in peace but are
frightened there maybe further repercussions.

Caroline, whose daughter Nicola also lives with them, said: ''We were in our bed
at 11.40 p.m. on Thursday when we heard shouting and bawling. I looked out the
window and saw three lads.

''I heard my front door smash and saw a bottle of Buckfast thrown in. I thought
it was filled with petrol and dialled 999.

''One of them then threw a boulder through the window.

''I was too scared to go to the door as I didn't know what they might have with
them.

''I have been devastated by this. I am frightened and embarrassed all rolled
into one.''

Jimmy believes the action of the vigilantes could have far worse consequences.

He said: ''What if someone was drunk and read one of these posters and decided
to put a petrol bomb through our window?

''We just want a peaceful life - surely that's not asking too much.''

The police have spoken to three suspects and they are continuing inquiries into
the incident.

And Inspector John Jenks of Levenmouth police is warning members of the public
to leave crime fighting to the police.

He said: ''Anybody who takes the law into their own hands risks being dealt with
severely themselves.

''If there is anything of a criminal nature the police are the professionals and
should be notified.

''With any emotive subject such as this it is natural for tempers to run high,
but forming vigilante groups is not a good situation.''

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           April 28, 2004, Wednesday

PEACE SHATTERED IN SYRIA AS TERRORISTS ATTACK UN BUILDING

BYLINE: ANNE PENKETH DIPLOMATIC EDITOR A woman stands in the bombed out shell of
the former UN offices in Damascus Louai Beshara/AFP/Getty Images

SECTION: Final Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 771 words


SYRIA'S tightly-policed calm was shattered last night after a car bomb exploded
outside a former United Nations building in Damascus, and gun battles raged in
the city's streets.

Four people were killed after a "terrorist band" was confronted by security
forces in the diplomatic quarter, where the empty UN offices were badly damaged
by fire and other buildings were hit by bullets and grenades during prolonged
fighting. Initial reports said that two gunmen, a policeman and a civilian,
died. Syria's ambassador to Washington, Imad Moustapha, blamed "unidentified
terrorists" for the attacks.

The attackers were apparently armed with automatic rifles and grenade launchers.
The incidents, lasting more than an hour, began when five or six large
explosions rocked a shopping mall owned by the Syrian President Bashir al-Assad
at about 7.20pm local time. After the detonation of the main bombs there was a
series of smaller explosions.

This was followed by shooting on the Mazza boulevard outside the Canadian and
Iranian embassies, about 150 metres from the British residence. A Foreign Office
spokeswoman said that there were no injuries to any British members of staff.
She added: "We understand it was not aimed at the British ambassador's
residence. " Iranian embassy officials also seemed to play down suggestions that
their building was a target.

One witness said that four gunmen emerged from a white van on the main Mazza
Boulevard in front of the Canadian embassy and started shooting
indiscriminately. A police car on patrol in the area rushed to the scene and
immediately came under attack. The occupants of the vehicle returned fire and
waited until reinforcements arrived. Three gunmen were killed and a fourth was
taken into custody, the witness said.

Five cars were gutted and a fire broke out at the building which previously
housed United Nations offices.

Marie Okabe, a spokeswoman in New York for the United Nations, confirmed that a
building formerly occupied by the UN in Damascus had been hit. She said the
building may have been the former offices of the UN Disengagement Observer Force
(Undof), which oversees an agreement between Israeli and Syrian forces in the
Golan Heights.

"It is our understanding that a building formerly occupied by Undof, which is
still known as a UN building, may have been hit," she said.

But she added that no UN staff had been hurt.

The United Nations Development Fund and its Children's Fund are also in Mazza.

Police explosives experts were taken to the scene to examine the bodies of the
dead gunmen to confirm that they were not suicide bombers.

Another witness said the attackers were riding in two cars, who said that two
explosions were followed by an exchange of gunfire, and a series of more than 15
smaller explosions.

The official news agency Sana reported that following the clash with police,
"the situation is totally under control".

It is the first sign of serious unrest in Syria since ethnic clashes between
Kurds and Arabs in the north-east of the country in March, during which 30
people are said to have died.

Tanks were sent to the border with Turkey after riots which began at a football
match at which Kurdish fans waved posters of President George Bush while being
taunted by Syrian supporters holding up pictures of Saddam Hussein.

Independent information is difficult to obtain because of the repressive nature
of the Syrian regime. The Syrian authorities have always put down dissent
without mercy. In 1982, in the wake of a rebellion by the Muslim Brotherhood in
the northern province of Hama which threatened the regime of president Hafez
al-Assad, Syrian forces razed much of the city. As many as 10,000 people were
killed, but the Brotherhood was crushed after a five-year war. Syria has not had
an extremist Muslim problem since.

America's relations with Syria remain poor. The Bush administration has
frequently accused Syria of allowing fighters to cross its borders into Iraq to
fight US soldiers. During the war to overthrow Saddam Hussein, US officials
accused Syria of allowing senior regime figures to slip across the border.

Jordan has accused Syria of allowing suspected terrorists across the border last
month in a foiled plot to attack the American embassy, the prime minister's
office and the secret service agency's headquarters, all in Amman.

Syria has denied the accusations that suspected terrorists entered Jordan from
Syria, and has said it is trying to stop foreign fighters from crossing into
Iraq, but that the long, porous border is hard to police.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 28, 2004

TERROR 2 KILLED IN BOMB ATTACKS

BYLINE: Harriet Arkell

LENGTH: 208 words


TWO terrorists were killed and another injured after a series of explosions near
the British ambassador's residence in Syria last night.

Blasts were heard as security forces confronted the gang, who were armed with
automatic rifles and grenade launchers. A policeman and a civilian also died.

Witnesses said four gunmen got out of a white van on a main street in the
capital Damascus and began spraying bullets.

Security forces were called in after a police patrol came under fire.

More than 15 explosions were heard, along with heavy gunfire.

Grenades

The attacks came in the west of Damascus, home to diplomatic buildings also
belonging to Canada, Iran and Saudi Arabia.

Arab TV station Al-Jazeera said car bombs, hand grenades and guns were used in
the clashes, which began at 7.20pm and continued for more than an hour.

A Foreign Office spokesman said the attack was not aimed at the UK ambassador
and no British staff were believed injured.

Syria, named by America as part of the "axis of evil", has been accused of
harbouring terrorists by President George Bush.

Its regime, headed by British-educated President Assad, is said to shelter
groups linked to al-Qaeda and others that have attacked Israel.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 28, 2004, Wednesday

Damascus shaken by terrorist attack

BYLINE: Nicholas Blanford in Beirut

SECTION: Overseas news; 11

LENGTH: 608 words


EXPLOSIONS and gunfire shook Damascus last night as Syrian security forces
fought gunmen in what appeared to be an almost unprecedented terrorist attack in
the heart of the Syrian capital.

Syrian officials said that two "terrorists", a policeman and a woman bystander
had been killed and that the two other assailants were severely wounded during
the gunfight in the Mezze suburb of Damascus, where the British Ambassador's
residence and several embassies are located. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office
said that no British embassy staff had been injured.

One eyewitness reported hearing a massive explosion followed by another smaller
blast five minutes later. "We think the first explosion was a car bomb. There
was a huge cloud of black smoke.

"After the second explosion, there were ten to fifteen smaller explosions and
constant shooting. They are still firing. It's literally non-stop," the witness,
a book-store owner, said as the shooting continued for several hours.

A four-storey building near the Canadian Embassy was gutted by the flames, the
windows were blown out, with shards of metal protruding from the inside. Cars
parked near by were damaged and shop fronts shattered. Residents of Mezze said
that electricity to the area was cut and all roads blocked to traffic.

According to a Syrian Interior Ministry official, the four gunmen emerged from a
white van on the main Mezze boulevard and started shooting. The gunmen then
detonated a bomb under a car, which damaged a nearby building, before security
forces surrounded them and opened fire. The gunmen then tried to flee in another
car while hurling grenades at their pursuers.

Their main target appears to have been an empty building formerly housing the
United Nations Disengagement Observer Force which oversees Israeli and Syrian
forces in the Golan Heights. Syria described the attack as a "terrorist
incident".

"The security and political unrest and chaos the region is witnessing create an
atmosphere for such criminal acts which threaten the security and stability of
all countries of the region," the Interior Ministry official said.

Later the security forces claimed to have discovered a cache of arms and
explosives in a raid in the diplomatic quarter. State-run television showed
footage of a room stacked with rocket-propelled grenades, gas cylinders and bags
of unidentified yellow powder. It said that the makeshift depot had been used by
the group responsible for last night's violence.

The attack came days after Jordan foiled an al-Qaeda plot to strike at the US
Embassy and other Western targets with chemical and gas bombs. Five of the
plotters are said to have come from Syria.

Syria is more accustomed to accusations of sponsoring terrorism than
experiencing terrorist attacks on its soil. The Syrian Government has come under
strong pressure from the United States over its support for militant anti-Israel
groups such as Hamas and Hezbollah.

However, Damascus has little sympathy for the brand of militant Islam espoused
by Osama bin Laden, having fought a bitter war of insurgency against Muslim
radicals in the early 1980s. It has won praise from the US for sharing
intelligence on Islamic groups.

Despite the secular nature of the Baathist Government in Damascus, Islamic
sentiment has been on the rise in recent years, particularly in Sunni Muslim
cities such as Aleppo, Hama and Homs. That sentiment has become further inflamed
since the American-led invasion of Iraq. Syria's 400-mile border with Iraq is
regarded as the preferred route for Islamic militants seeking to join the Iraqi
insurgency.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 April 28, 2004

Cabbie 'choked in attack terror'

LENGTH: 393 words


A THREATENING passenger tried to strangle a taxi driver during an early hours
terror journey a jury was told.

Burnley Crown Court heard Mohammed Ramzan who had picked up two fares in Burnley
town centre was told he was going to be killed - and believed he was living his
last moments.

He was so frightened he later abandoned his cab and ran off after managing to
escape his attacker's grasp.

And Mr Ramzan still had marks on his neck when he was seen by a doctor 12 hours
later.

But Anthony Hyatt who the prosecution argue was responsible for the attack told
police he had never laid a finger on the alleged victim.

Hyatt 33 of Bowness Road Padiham denies making a threat to kill and assault
causing actual bodily harm last July 13.

John Marsh prosecuting told the court Mr Ramzan picked up two men who wanted to
go to Padiham.

The front seat passenger allegedly the defendant said he did not have enough
money and the man in the back got a £20 note from a house on Gawthorpe Street.

The taxi set off again and suddenly Hyatt asked Mr Ramzan: "Why do you hate
Jews?"

The alleged victim said he didn't hate anybody but the defendant then started to
wave his arms about and threatened to smash up the cab and kill the driver.

The defendant then grabbed the ignition keys.

As the back seat passenger handed over the £7 fare Hyatt was yelling to the
driver: "I want to kill you. I am going to do you in."

Hyatt is then alleged to have ordered his friend from the taxi went to the
driver's door abused Mr Ramzan and got hold of him as the cabbie shouted to him
to let him go.

The prosecutor said that Hyatt then pushed Mr Ramzan into his seat grabbed his
neck and started to strangle him asking him if he felt pain.

Mr Marsh said the defendant squeezed again adding: "Mr Ramzan thought he was not
going to go home that evening that this was his last night."

Mr Ramzan then managed to struggle free abandoned his cab and ran off.

He was chased by Hyatt threatening to get him but returned to his taxi when the
coast was clear.

Mr Marsh said Hyatt claimed he had never laid a finger on Mr Ramzan and that
nobody assaulted him.

The defendant claimed he couldn't assault anybody as he had brittle bone
problems in his hands and ran the risk of shattering his bones.

(Proceeding)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 April 28, 2004

Four Killed In 'Terrorist Attack' In Syria'S Capital

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 361 words


Four people were killed in fierce armed clashes between terrorists and police in
a diplomatic quarter of Damascus late yesterday, an Interior Ministry official
said.  The attack occurred in the Mazza district of west Damascus and centred
around a empty former UN building, which was extensively damaged during fighting
that lasted 70 minutes between police and militants firing guns and grenade
launchers.

Two attackers, a policeman, and a woman who was in the area, died in the
fighting.

A UN spokeswoman said the building, which was formerly occupied by the UN
Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) that oversees an agreement between Israeli
and Syrian forces in the Golan Heights, may have been hit in the attack.

The Interior Ministry official told the state-run news agency, SANA, that four
gunmen detonated a bomb placed under a car, which damaged an unidentified nearby
building, before Syrian security forces surrounded the group and exchanged gun
fire.

The gunmen tried to flee in another car while hurling hand grenades at security
forces, the unidentified official said.

The statement described the violence as a "terrorist incident" which the
government condemned, and blamed regional troubles for instigating the attack.

"The security and political unrest and chaos the region is witnessing create the
atmosphere for such criminal and condemned acts which threaten the security and
stability of all countries of the region," the official said. The official did
not elaborate, but he was apparently referring to the escalating violence in
Israeli-occupied Palestinian territories and in neighbouring Iraq, where
insurgent attacks are increasing against US-led forces.

A UN employee in Damascus said UN offices in the capital, including the United
Nations Development Fund and its Children's Fund, will be closed today. An
official in Washington also said the US Embassy would be closed today.

During the late 1970s and early 1980s, Syria's hard-line government fought a
fierce war with Islamic fundamentalists of the Muslim Brotherhood, which was
blamed for a 1980 assassination attempt on President Hafez Assad.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 29, 2004

Business Solutions: Continuity planning: Carry on regardless: The threat of a
terrorist attack is at the top of every security agenda except, it seems, of the
small business. Jamie Milne helps you prepare for the not-so-unexpected

BYLINE: Jamie Milne

SECTION: Guardian Special Supplement, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1050 words


Hardly a day goes by without a warning that a terrorist attack on Britain is a
matter of "when" rather than "if". Consequently, the issue of personal security
is more deeply engrained in the public consciousness than ever and safety advice
is issued by the authorities with increasing regularity and gravity. Is the same
vigilance being exercised by businesses?

"Business continuity" is a blandly corporate expression that masks a chilling
concept - namely, ensuring that banks, companies and financial institutions can
function as normal after a terrorist atrocity or other disaster. Most large
organisations have had some form of continuity planning that assesses the
likelihood and severity of a range of risks, including terrorism, in place for
decades.

But 9/11 and subsequent terror attacks have upped the ante. The contingency
planning industry is snowballing, with businesses being offered a range of
solutions from basic consultancy to backup office space and ultra-secure storage
for computer servers and documents.

The Financial Services Authority (FSA), HM Treasury and Bank of England have
been working to co-ordinate business continuity planning within the financial
sector (the initiative's website at www.financialsectorcontinuity.gov.uk has a
variety of resources). The Civil Contingencies Bill, which has a section
relating to business continuity, has further increased awareness of the need to
be prepared. Yet the "ever ready" ethos has yet to trickle down to the smaller
firms.

"Disaster recovery tends to go above the heads of small companies," says Stephen
Alambritis of the Federation of Small Business (FSB). "They can't fathom events
such as terrorist attacks affecting them, so they don't take action".

The FSA recently estimated that more than a third of the 11,500 firms it
regulates have no backup IT systems. Among smaller firms the proportion that
have no strategy in place is almost certainly far higher. While terrorism is
more of an issue for the dotcoms and IT firms congregated around the fringes of
the City of London, for example, the threat is relatively remote. But disaster
can strike any organisation at any time and a continuity plan can be used to
counter a spectrum of setbacks, whether natural or not.

"While we concentrate on the top 50 UK firms with regards to continuity
planning," says an FSA spokesman, "our advice is that all firms, no matter what
size, should have some form of contingency planning, at least for their IT
systems."

Continuity Systems offers training to help businesses cope with problems caused
by terrorism, power cuts and natural disasters such as fire and flooding.
According to the firm's founder Ian Charters, 9/11 was too big an event for
small businesses to relate to. Instead, the wake-up call in terms of planning
came from the IRA's bombing of the Arndale Centre in Manchester in 1996 and the
"rolling power outages" that brought California to a halt in 2001.

"Suddenly businesses realised how precarious things like the power supply could
be, even in a country like America," says Charters. "With the IRA bomb, people
saw that problems like having a telephone out of action for a few days or not
being able to get to the office could cause serious problems and they had no
idea of how to cope."

Staffing levels is another key issue, according to Charters: "There are a number
of scenarios that mean there aren't the people necessary to run the business -
staff may be injured, contaminated, or unable to get into the premises. The SARS
outbreak last year was a prime example. There is more emphasis now on having
adequate human resources backup for these kinds of events."

Larger companies have the resources to invest in backup office space where they
can move into immediately. But if you want to draw up an emergency plan for your
business, where do you start? According to the somewhat Orwellian-sounding Home
Office Civil Contingencies Secretariat (www.ukresilience.info), the basic idea
is to have a framework for you and your organisation to respond to any crisis
which is clear and understood by all members of staff.

As a first step, Charters suggests looking at the functions that are urgent to
the business and prioritising what needs to be done immediately to safeguard
them. Then you can look at what can be left until tomorrow, next week, a month's
time and so on.

Critical functions include computer systems, which hold information such as
order books and staff details. Essential equipment to be safeguarded covers PCs,
desks, telephones, photocopiers and off-site resources such as company
chequebooks and files. You need to identify the minimum staff needed to maintain
a service to your customers while recovery from disaster is underway. Other
issues to consider include IT security and regular backing up of information and
storage of that information in a secure, fire-protected environment. You will
also need to define the length of time you can afford for disaster recovery to
take place as this will shape your recovery plan.

Businesses should be aware of what their insurance policies cover - the maximum
indemnity period, extent of cover, exclusions, business interruption and legal
liability to staff and public. Photographs of high-value items are invaluable
when dealing with insurers and loss adjusters. Ensure that one up to date set is
kept off-site.

Being prepared for the unthinkable does have unexpected benefits, says
Alambritis. "Businesses with contingency plans have a better opportunity to
access extra finance as it impresses the bank manager," he says. "Financial
institutions aren't asking for continuity plans in business plans at the moment,
but where proffered there is a greater likelihood that you will be admired as
someone who is thinking ahead."

Small businesses could in future benefit from a more holistic approach to
continuity planning, says Alambritis. The FSB hopes to see a contingency package
available one day which would be taken up by big high street players, for
example Marks & Spencer, then offered to their smaller neighbours at a reduced
rate. "They're there anyway," says Alambritis, "and it's in their interests to
safeguard the whole high street, whether against terrorists or viruses."


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 29, 2004

Mock terror attack tests emergency services

BYLINE: David Ward

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 357 words


A British city was subjected to chemical gas attack - simulated rather than
actual - by terrorists yesterday as emergency services tested their response to
a major disaster.

More than 200 people fled after the attack at the civic centre in Newcastle upon
Tyne, scene of a lecture by a prominent but controversial industrialist.

Hundreds of doctors, nurses, ambulance staff, firefighters and police officers
took part in the operation, dubbed Exercise Magpie and staged by the Health
Protection Agency. The agency was established last year to plan a nationwide
response to national catastrophes, both natural and terrorist-inspired.

Emergency staff dealt with audience members who had lost consciousness when
deadly nerve agents were released into a theatre's air conditioning system.

Others were choking, nau seous, and suffering from headaches and intense eye
irritation. Fourteen members of the audience "died".

Fire crews wore protective chemical suits and police were issued with black gas
masks as decontamination suits were prepared. The exercise also involved the
city's General hospital, the Royal Victoria hospital, and two GP surgeries.

The simulated attack follows last year's operation at Bank station on the London
Underground, an exercise modelled on the sarin poison gas strike in Tokyo in
1995.

The health minister John Hutton, who watched the exercise, said it was the
biggest of its kind in the UK.

"We are testing our ability to respond, to decontaminate and finally provide
treatment," he said.

"It is particularly important for the emergency services to test their plans and
(this) is a very important part of that process."

The exercise cost about £200,000, with the cash coming from £2.6m given by the
government to stage this and 10 similar exercises across the UK.

Nigel Lightfoot of the Health Protection Agency said: "We will be studying the
footage we have recorded to look at ways of improving how we respond to
emergencies."

He added: "The public can be reassured we are doing everything we can to make
sure we are prepared for any emergency of this type."


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 29, 2004, Thursday

Syria remains on high alert after terrorist attack

BYLINE: Nicholas Blanford in Beirut

SECTION: Overseas news; 19

LENGTH: 470 words


SYRIA remained on high alert yesterday after a suspected Islamic terrorist
attack that left four dead and the realisation that two decades of immunity to
domestic terrorism was over.

Suspected Islamic militants blew up a car and fought Syrian security forces for
several hours in the city's affluent Mezze suburb. The authorities blamed
"chaos" in the Middle East for the rare attack, which rekindled memories of the
bloody insurgency waged by the Muslim Brotherhood in the early 1980s.

The identity of the attackers remained unknown yesterday, but analysts said that
they were almost certainly Islamic militants.

Coming days after a suicide bombing in Saudi Arabia and the foiling of a
terrorist plot in Jordan, the attack in Damascus suggests that Islamic militants
are exploiting the Baathist Government's weakening grip on society.

"This is a manifestation of a war led by these militants that is a holy struggle
not only against the United States and other allied countries, but also against
Arab regimes," Nizar Hamzeh, Professor of Politics at the American University of
Beirut, said.

The attack appeared to be an amateurish affair. The gang of four was seen
placing an explosive device beneath a car parked outside a building that once
housed United Nations offices. The blast set the empty building alight. Syrian
security forces exchanged fire with the militants for several hours. The nearby
Canadian Embassy was slightly damaged, but the British Ambassador's residence
and the Iranian Embassy, also in the vicinity, escaped undamaged.

The Syrian Interior Ministry said that four people were killed in the fighting:
two militants, a policeman and a woman passer-by. Another militant was captured
and is said to be in a coma in hospital. The fourth gunman escaped in a car, but
crashed shortly afterwards. He was arrested and led police to an arms cache
containing rocket-propelled grenades, automatic weapons, gas cylinders and bags
of a yellow powder.

Ahmad al-Haj Ali, an adviser to the Syrian Information Minister, told the Arabic
al-Jazeera television channel that the attackers "wanted to give the impression
that there is no area or place safe from these acts, particularly as Syria has
been enjoying a state of stability. They wanted also to give the impression that
American or other targets can be found anywhere," he said.

The US Embassy closed for 24 hours as a precaution. Other Western Embassies
remained open, but told their citizens to take extra safety measures.

The attack in Damascus is an unwelcome additional headache for Syria. There are
indications of contacts between Syrian Sunni Islamists and their Iraqi
counterparts. Some Iraqi Islamist fighters have sought temporary refuge in Syria
to evade coalition forces.

Leading article, page 25


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                                 April 30, 2004

Villages to plan for terror attack fallout

BYLINE: Ian Read

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 337 words


Chiddingstone and nearby villages should be prepared for the knock-on effect of
a major terrorist attack on London, community leaders have warned.  Parish
council chairman Paddy Cooke said if an extremist group struck or there was a
major accident in the capital, a mass evacuation would see people swarming into
surrounding counties.

Speaking at the annual parish meeting in Chiddingstone Causeway on Wednesday
last week, Mr Cooke told the audience the area would be a prime refuge because
it is just 36 miles from London.

He now wants to draw up a directory of residents who would be useful in a crisis
of that scale, such as people with medical expertise and key holders for
buildings that could be used as emergency meeting places.

The council is planning to send letters to all the households in the
Chiddingstone parish asking for help in compiling the document.

His calls came just weeks after the Al-Qaeda Madrid train bombings which claimed
200 lives and the day before 1,850 homes were destroyed after a collision
between two fuel-loaded trains in North Korea.

On Friday Mr Cooke told the Kent and Sussex Courier: "It wouldn't even have to
be in London.

"If there was a disaster at Gatwick we would get a lot of people coming back
here and we wouldn't have any facilities, we wouldn't know who were doctors and
who were nurses.

"We need to have a file, in a quickly accessible position, of anybody with
medical expertise, any fire personnel, anybody in the social services and also
people with things like village hall keys and people who have got large
vehicles." His calls won the backing of county councillor Peter Lake, who
slammed Kent County Council for not planning for the potential problem.

He said: "I don't think any preparations whatsoever have been made in connection
with any possible terrorist attack in the south east.

"Whenever I ask the question at County Hall my questions are dismissed out of
sight and I find that very disappointing it is all wrong."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Kent and Sussex Courier

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                                 April 30, 2004

Villages to plan for terror attack fallout

BYLINE: Ian Read

SECTION: Public Services; Other; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 336 words


CHIDDINGSTONE and nearby villages should be prepared for the knock-on effect of
a major terrorist attack on London, community leaders have warned. Parish
council chairman Paddy Cooke said if an extremist group struck or there was a
major accident in the capital, a mass evacuation would see people swarming into
surrounding counties. Speaking at the annual parish meeting in Chiddingstone
Causeway on Wednesday last week, Mr Cooke told the audience the area would be a
prime refuge because it is just 36 miles from London.

He now wants to draw up a directory of residents who would be useful in a crisis
of that scale, such as people with medical expertise and key holders for
buildings that could be used as emergency meeting places.

The council is planning to send letters to all the households in the
Chiddingstone parish asking for help in compiling the document.

His calls came just weeks after the Al-Qaeda Madrid train bombings which claimed
200 lives and the day before 1,850 homes were destroyed after a collision
between two fuel-loaded trains in North Korea.

On Friday Mr Cooke told the Kent and Sussex Courier: "It wouldn't even have to
be in London.

"If there was a disaster at Gatwick we would get a lot of people coming back
here and we wouldn't have any facilities, we wouldn't know who were doctors and
who were nurses.

"We need to have a file, in a quickly accessible position, of anybody with
medical expertise, any fire personnel, anybody in the social services and also
people with things like village hall keys and people who have got large
vehicles." His calls won the backing of county councillor Peter Lake, who
slammed Kent County Council for not planning for the potential problem.

He said: "I don't think any preparations whatsoever have been made in connection
with any possible terrorist attack in the south east.

"Whenever I ask the question at County Hall my questions are dismissed out of
sight and I find that very disappointing - it is all wrong."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Kent and Sussex Courier

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 2, 2004

Two Britons die in Saudi terror attack

BYLINE: David Smith

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 636 words


TWO BRITONS were murdered in Saudi Arabia yesterday by terrorists who hijacked
cars and reportedly dragged one naked victim through the streets.

The militants opened fire in a Western-run oil company in the port city of Yanbu
and are also believed to have killed two American engineers, two Australians and
a Saudi in what an official called an 'indiscriminate evil rampage'.

Press reports said the gunmen demanded that the Westerners move into a separate
group from the Saudi staff, then opened fire on the Westerners. Three of them
died at the scene, while a fourth was stripped naked, tied to a vehicle and
dragged as the assailants fled in two separate cars, according to witnesses
cited in the Saudi Gazette , an English-language paper in nearby Jeddah.

Three of the gunmen worked at the targeted Saudi contractor's office and used
their entry cards to walk into the building and sneak a fourth attacker in with
them through an emergency gate, said an Interior Ministry source quoted by the
official Saudi Press Agency.

'Using different arms, they started firing at the offices of the company's
personnel before leaving the scene in a hurry to begin attacking a residential
compound,' said the official.

The gunmen then led security forces on a chase through Yanbu. They fired
randomly at a McDonald's restaurant and other Western shops before exchanging
fire with their pursuers outside a hotel .

The Interior Ministry said three of the attackers were killed and one was
captured after a shoot-out. At least one members of the Saudi National Guard was
killed and 28 Saudis and foreigners were wounded.

The assault marked the first US deaths in Saudi Arabia since eight Americans
were among 34 killed by suicide bombers in the capital, Riyadh, a year ago.

US officials have warned recently of attacks against foreigners in Saudi Arabia.
Saudi opposition sources speculated that the attack had originally been planned
for the coming weeks, but was brought forward in revenge for the newly-published
photographs of US soldiers torturing Iraqis.

Tony Blair, in Dublin last night with fellow European Union leaders, denied that
the attack proved he was not winning the war on terror.

'The fundamentalist threat, the extremist fanatical threat, is there in every
single country today,' he said. 'And making sure that Iraq is stable and
democratic and a properly run country is one important part of that. But this
isn't going to end in a week or a month or even a year. This is is a continuing
battle that we're going to have to fight.'

The oil company, ABB-Lummus, is co-owned by Exxon Mobil, parent company of Esso,
and the Saudi firm SABIC in Yanbu.

The Saudi Interior Ministry said: 'Four men entered the headquarters of a Saudi
contractor in Yanbu and fired at random on Saudis and foreigners.

'Security forces chased them and they took refuge in residential areas and
hijacked some cars. Three of them were killed and a fourth was wounded. There
were a number of deaths and injuries among Saudis and foreigners.'

Saudi television broadcast footage of a body slumped in a police car peppered
with bullets and a fire-gutted vehicle after the shooting. Local journalists
said there had been more than one attack, and a Western resident claimed a pipe
bomb had been thrown at a school in Yanbu.

Prince Turki al-Faisal, Saudi Arabia's ambassador to Britain, said: 'We will not
be discouraged by this brutal incident in which innocent lives were lost -
British, American and Australian as well as Saudi Arabian - and many people
injured in an indiscriminate evil rampage.'

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said Britain's ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Sherard
Cowper-Coles, was heading to the scene while consular staff were investigating
what had happened.


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                  May 2, 2004

Potteries man killed in saudi terror attack

SECTION: News; 999; Murders/violentcrime; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 616 words


* Worker one of seven gunned down * Foreign Secretary condemns terrorist attack
Exclusive Michael McGillan from Stoke-on-Trent was one of two Britons who lost
their lives in an attack at an oil refinery yesterday morning which left seven
people dead.

Mr McGillan, known to friends and family as Mick, was believed to have been
working for global oil engineering and construction company ABB-Lummus or for
one of their engineering sub-contractors, Canatex. Both companies have sites in
Stone.

Two Americans, two Australians and a member of the Saudi national guard also
died when four gunmen burst into offices and fired randomly on staff at the
complex in the port city of Yanbu on the Red Sea coast, north of Jeddah.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said last night that he was "shocked and sickened
by this act of terrorism" while Saudi Arabia's ambassador to Britain described
it as "an indiscriminate evil rampage".

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said Mr McGillan's family had been notified of his
death and were said to be "very distressed".

The shooting began at 6.45am local time (4.45am British time) when, according to
the Saudi interior ministry: "Four individuals entered the offices of a Saudi
contractor and randomly shot at Saudi and foreign employees." The assailants
then fled into residential neighbourhoods of the town and in a gun battle
outside a Holiday Inn Saudi security forces killed three gunmen and captured the
fourth, a spokesman for the ministry said.

Witnesses said the gunmen had driven through the town, shooting indiscriminately
but mainly at Westerners.

ABB-Lummus, the energy arm of multinational engineering company ABB, confirmed
that two American engineers and a British man working for the company, a British
contractor and an Australian employee were killed in the attack.

Last night a second Australian was reported to have also been killed but no
further details were available. At least two American ABB-Lummus employees were
also wounded, one critically.

Mr Straw said: "I am shocked and sickened by this act of terrorism. My
sympathies are with the friends and families of all of the victims of this
horrific attack." He added: "We cannot let the terrorists succeed. Saudi
authorities have our full support and are working hard to tackle terrorism. We
stand ready to offer assistance." US officials had warned in recent weeks of
possible attacks against foreigners in Saudi Arabia.

The Foreign Office has also issued warnings to businesses and travellers to only
make "essential" trips to the country.

In a warning posted on the Department's website: 'There is a continuing high
threat of terrorism in Saudi Arabia. We believe that terrorists remain
determined to carry out further attacks in Saudi Arabia, and that these may be
in the final stages of preparation.

'Some suspected terrorists have been arrested and others killed in exchanges of
fire with the Saudi authorities, including five deaths in Jeddah on 22 and 23
April.

The Saudi authorities have recently seized quantities of arms and a number of
vehicle bombs.' One Stoke-on-Trent man who has worked in Saudi Arabia said there
were several Staffordshire workers currently out there who were now planning to
return home since the shooting.

The man, who did not want to be named, said the workers, including several who
had worked with Mr McGillan, who is thought to be in his 50s, over many years in
the Middle East, had met to discuss whether to return to the UK.

"You don't think of workers from round here being in the firing line," he said.

"But there are quite a few of them and this has really frightened them."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                                  May 2, 2004

Seven dead in Saudi terror attack

BYLINE: By James Hamilton

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 200 words


FOREIGN Secretary Jack Straw last night led condemnation of a terror attack at
an oil refinery in Saudi Arabia which left seven people dead, including two
Britons.

Mr Straw said he was "shocked and sickened by this act of terrorism", while
Saudi Arabia's ambassador to Britain, Turki Al Faisal, described the attack as
"an indiscriminate evil rampage".

Two Americans, two Australians and a member of the Saudi national guard also
died after gunmen opened fire at 6.45am local time yesterday (4.45am GMT) at the
complex, co-owned by Exxon Mobil and the Saudi company Sabic, in the port city
of Yanbu, north of Jeddah on the Red Sea coast.

The attackers, who at present remain unidentified, tied the body of one victim
to their car and dragged it down the street, according to a witness. The Saudi
interior ministry said there was a gun battle before security forces killed
three of the gunmen and captured a fourth.

ABB-Lummus, the energy arm of engineering company ABB, said both Americans
killed were employees. A British employee, a British contractor and an
Australian employee were also killed. A European diplomat said a second
Australian was also murdered in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: May 03, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 2, 2004

WARNING AS GUNMEN KILL SIX IN HORROR ATTACK; TERROR THREAT TO 30,000 BRITS

BYLINE: By Rob Griffin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4 5

LENGTH: 570 words


TWO British workers were among six people murdered yesterday when gunmen went on
the rampage in Saudi Arabia.

The atrocity was the latest in a wave of attacks on foreigners and left 30,000
Britons fearing for their lives.

Last night the Foreign Office warned that further outrages were imminent and
advised people against travelling to Saudi Arabia.

The other four victims were two Americans, an Australian and a Saudi. They died
when gunmen burst into the offices of an oil engineering firm in Yanbu at 7am.

It was not immediately clear who was behind the atrocity.

"We continue to believe that terrorists remain determined to carry out further
attacks in Saudi Arabia, " said a spokesman for the Foreign Office. "These may
be in the final stages of preparation."

Expats in Saudi Arabia were warned to "keep a low profile" over the coming
months and avoid public gatherings. The attack, the first on a Saudi oil
facility, started when a gang of four burst into the offices of Swiss-based ABB
Lummus "Four individuals entered the offices and randomly shot at Saudi and
foreign employees, " said a spokesman for the Saudi Interior Ministry.

The gang then fled through the streets of Yanbu and commandeered cars in a bid
to escape.

A furious gun battle erupted outside the Holiday Inn hotel which resulted in
three of the terrorists being killed and the fourth captured.

All the victims, apart from one British subcontractor, were employed by the
company.

Michael Cousins, managing editor of the English language daily newspaper Arab
News, based in Jeddah, described the shocking scenes.

He said: "The gang drove through town shooting at everything in sight - cars,
people the lot.

"They also targeted a McDonald's and a hotel, shooting at whatever moved. They
seemed to be targeting westerners."

It is believed the Yanbu region was targeted because it is home to many oil
refineries and petrochemical plants.

The attacks will raise questions about the safety of western workers.

Saudi Arabia relies heavily on six million expatriate staff to run its oil
industry. Western oil executives said the attack demonstrated that despite tight
security, the kingdom's facilities were vulnerable.

"We were fearing the worst, and now it has happened, " said a western oil
company official in Saudi.

"Everybody is vulnerable now."

The Saudi ambassador to Britain Prince Turki al-Faisal said: "Our hearts go out
to the families of the innocent victims of the horrific attack in Yanbu early
this morning.

"We will not be discouraged by this brutal incident in which innocent lives were
lost and many people injured in an indiscriminate evil rampage."

The attack follows the suicide bombing of a Saudi security building in the
capital Riyadh which killed four people and injured 150 on April 21.

In May last year, more than 30 people, including two Britons, were killed when
terrorists detonated car bombs in housing compounds for foreigners.

Later in the year a British national was shot and killed while his car was at
traffic lights in Riyadh.

Moroccan security forces seized three sabre-wielding suspects yesterday in
connection with suicide bombings that killed 45 people in Casablanca a year ago.

The men were arrested and injured after an exchange of gunfire during an
overnight police raid on a house in the Hay Hassani district of Casablanca.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 2, 2004

EXPOSED: TERROR ATTACK DANGER TO NUKE WASTE FIRMS

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 434 words


TRUCKS transporting nuclear waste are terrorist bombs waiting to go off because
of lax security, a former SAS sergeant claimed last night.

Eddie Stone, who presents SAS Are You Tough Enough? on BBC2, hit out after
investigating truck firms.

He slammed the Government for failing to pay for transport bosses to receive
anti-terrorist training after uncovering a catalogue of catastrophe that lays
Britain open to a dirty bomb or chemical truck bomb attack.

And he described the laughable security at one Scottish firm he visited which is
said is open to abuse by Al Qaeda.

He said: "I was astounded at what I found. Eight out of 10 terrorist incidents
are caused by truck or car bombs. We walked into one depot without anyone trying
to stop us.

"I could have jumped into a rig and driven it out. The backup they would have
had if it had been hijacked was nonexistent.

"As soon as truckers cross on to the continent, they get a police escort, but
here they drive around on their own.

They should be given grants for a system that makes them hijack proof and to
give the management and drivers more idea of the threats to look out for."

Mr Stone is now designing a terrorism awareness syllabus for truckers on behalf
of transport firm TransConsult, who provide dangerous goods security advisers to
the industry, but even the few precautions already demanded are misunderstood or
ignored.

Mr Stone said: "When they receive instructions regarding the load they are
supposed to use a secure fax. They thought that meant it should be locked in a
padlocked room, rather than an encoded system. It was farcical. I thought he was
having a joke.

A clever terrorist could intercept that and get details of the load or the
route.

"They use satellite navigation to track the vehicles but there's no driver
recognition system, so they could be hijacked and held under duress. The first
anyone would know that the truck was in the hands of terrorists would be when a
bomb went off. Drivers should have a panic button in the cab and it should be
the load, not the cab that has a GPS system attached.

"The Government is spending GBP 3billion on ID cards but the money would be
better spent on greater terrorism awareness."

Tory homeland security spokesman Patrick Mercer said: "Nuclear waste products
would be the single biggest gift we could give the terrorist.

"The past few weeks have seen Al Qaeda and the other thugs increasingly using
vehicle borne improvised explosive devices. This is exactly the sort of material
with which a few could wreak complete mayhem."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 02, 2004, Sunday

Two Britons die, 19 hurt, in Saudi terrorist attack

BYLINE: BY PAUL GRANT in Jeddah and DANIEL FOGGO

SECTION: News; Pg. 02

LENGTH: 597 words

TWO BRITONS and at least four other people, among them two Americans, were shot
dead by terrorists in Saudi Arabia yesterday in an attack that left up to 19
people injured.

Gunmen opened fire on the office of an oil contractor in the Saudi coastal city
of Yanbu with AK47 and M16 assault rifles killing the Britons and also fatally
shooting at least two Americans and an Australian.

The terrorists are said to have attached the bodies of the Americans to the rear
of a vehicle and dragged them through the streets before being cornered by
police.

During the subsequent gun battle, three terrorists were killed and another
captured. One report described them as teenagers. At least one of the dead was
reported to have been wired with explosives, which he had failed to detonate.

A Saudi national guard was shot dead while a fifth attacker may have escaped. It
is believed that the wounded include a number of Westerners and a Saudi police
captain was also said to have been seriously injured.

Turki Al Faisal, the Saudi ambassador to Britain, described the attack as "an
indiscriminate evil rampage".

He said: "We will not be discouraged by this brutal incident in which innocent
lives were lost, British, American and Australian, as well as Saudi Arabian, and
many people injured. Instead, it will strengthen our long-standing resolve to
eradicate terrorist activity and to combat this evil wherever we find it, in
every corner of the kingdom."

Yesterday's incident began just before 7am in the industrial district of Yanbu
on the Red Sea coast about 550 miles west of the capital. Witnesses said the
terrorists first tried to storm an oil plant, but were unable to gain access.

Dressed as coastguards and driving three four-wheel-drive vehicles, they then
made their way to the Royal Commission district of the city and attacked the
offices of oil contractors ABB Lummus Global, spraying the occupants with
machinegun fire.

Some of the bodies were pulled out and the dead Americans were attached to the
back of one vehicle and dragged around for up to an hour. A branch of McDonald's
was also said to have been hit with gunfire during the drive.

Police officers and members of the national guard stopped the cars in two
separate areas of the city and gun battles began, during which most of the
terrorists were killed. At least one of their vehicles caught fire and exploded.

Bjorn Edlund, a spokesman for ABB Lummus Global, said that one of the dead
Britons worked for the company, while the other was a sub-contractor. None of
the dead has yet been named, but the families are said to have been informed.

ABB Lummus Global is under contract to work for the Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical
company. An executive said its operations at a nearby petrochemical plant were
continuing as normal.

No group has so far claimed responsibility for the attack, but suspicion is
likely to fall on al-Qaeda. Last May, 34 people were killed, including eight
Americans, and 200 injured in a series of co-ordinated attacks on Western
targets in Riyadh and in November an assault on a housing compound killed 17.

Saudi security forces have stepped up their hunt for Islamic militants,
resulting in frequent deadly clashes in recent months.

Last month the United States ordered all non-essential US government employees
and family members to leave Saudi Arabia and also urged private citizens to get
out. Shortly before that evacuation order, the US embassy issued a warning of
"credible indications of terrorist threats aimed at American and western
interests in Saudi Arabia".

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 2, 2004, Sunday

BRITS DIE IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: STEPHEN HAYWARD

SECTION: 2 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 186 words

HIGHLIGHT: BLOWN UP: Gunmen's hijack car


TWO British workers were among six Western civilians killed when gunmen went on
the rampage in a Saudi Arabian port yesterday.

Twenty-eight people were also injured in the bloodbath, which began at 6.45am
local time when four terrorists stormed an industrial complex in Yanbu opening
fire on workers. The attackers then hijacked two cars and drove off with guns
blazing before targeting a McDonald's restaurant and a Holiday Inn. Witnesses
said a body tied to the back of one of the cars was dragged through the streets.
One said the gunmen were shouting "Jihad, Jihad". Saudi security forces say they
killed three of the terrorists.

Michael Cousins, editor of the English language newspaper Arab News, said: "They
were shooting at everything in sight - cars, people, the lot." It was the latest
in a series of terrorist attacks aimed at expat workers in the country which
have been blamed on al-Qaeda. One of the Britons was an engineer working for the
Swiss company ABB.

Last night the Saudi Arabian ambassador to the UK, Turki Al Faisal, said: "Our
hearts go out to the families of the victims."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 2, 2004, Sunday

BRIT TROOPS IN IRAQI ABUSE SHAME: BRITS DIE IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: STEPHEN HAYWARD

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 188 words

HIGHLIGHT: BLOWN UP: Gunmen's hijack car


TWO British workers were among five Western civilians killed when gunmen went on
the rampage in a Saudi Arabian port yesterday.

Twenty-eight people were also injured in the bloodbath which began at 6.45am
local time when four terrorists stormed an industrial complex in Yanbu opening
fire on civilian workers.

The gunmen hijacked two cars and drove off guns blazing before targeting a
McDonald's restaurant and then a Holiday Inn hotel. Witnesses said a body tied
to the back of one of the cars was dragged through the streets. One said the
gunmen were heard shouting "Jihad, Jihad". Saudi security forces say they killed
three of the terrorists. Michael Cousins, editor of the English language
newspaper Arab News"They were shooting at everything in sight - cars, people,
the lot."

It was the latest in a series of terrorist attacks aimed at expat workers in the
country, which has been blamed on al-Qaeda. One of the Britons was an engineer
working for the Swiss company ABB.

Last night the Saudi Arabian ambassador to the UK, Turki Al Faisal, said: "Our
hearts go out to the families of the victims."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              May 3, 2004, Monday

FAMILIES FLEE SAUDI AFTER TERRORIST ATTACK KILLS FIVE

BYLINE: LIAM CHRISTOPHER

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 493 words


AMERICAN and European families packed their bags yesterday after a deadly attack
on foreigners in Saudi Arabia killed five Westerners,including two Britons.

Traumatised Saudi school children recounted how the attackers proudly summoned
pupils to watch them drag a victim's body through the streets, then urged the
boys to battle against US troops in Iraq.

Michael McGillen,from Stoke-on-Trent inStaffordshire, was confirmed as one of
the dead. The other Briton has not yet been named,although his family have been
informed. Two Americans, an Australian and a Saudi also died,along with the four
attackers.

The streets of Yanbu were eerily quiet a day after the four brothers went on a
bloody rampage. But behind closed doors,foreigners scrambled to book flights.

After spraying the office of Houston-based oil contractor ABB-Lummus
withgunfire, the four bearded attackers tied the body of one of their victims to
the bumper of a car and headed for the Ibn Hayyan Secondary Boys School.

They drove into the parking lot and fired into the air to attract attention to
the bloodied corpse attached to their car by its right leg."This is the
president of America!" the men screamed.

"God is great! God is great! Come join your brothers in Fallujah," they shouted,
referring to an Iraqicity where US troops are battling insurgents.

Students and school officials said some of the boys ran crying from the scene.

"I was shocked and terrified when I saw them. I just froze. I didn't know what
todo," 18-year-oldRayyan said."This is not right. This is un-Islamic."

The gunmen were killed by police after a chase.

Saudi troops deployed heavy weaponry to guard foreigners' houses and offices.
Troops patrolled the empty streets in armoured vehicles.

Britain's ambassador toSaudi Arabia,Sherard Cowper-Coles, visited Yanbu, 220
miles north of the Red Sea port of Jeddah, to insist that the attack would not
cause "a mass exodus" of foreigners.

But behind closed doors,dozens of Westerners prepared to leave.

"It's not safe here anymore. I don't thinkI can stay any longer," said a
Canadian engineer, walking inside a foreigners'compound with his young daughter.
Like many Westerners,he refused to give his name out of concern for his safety.

Families of Americans walked quietly through theRadhwa housing compound,across
the street from the Holiday Inn,but wouldn't speak to reporters.

Many Westerners were visibly nervous.

"It's a little freaky out here," said Nick Dockett,a 36-year-old engineer from
London.

The more than 100 employees of ABB-Lummus inYanbu all decided to leave with
their families within days,company spokesman Bjorn Edlund said. Most of the
employees are Americans but they also include Britons,Australians,Filipinos and
Indians.

"Not surprisingly,everyone wanted to go home,"Edlund said.

Gina Abercrombie-Winstanley, the US consul general advised Americans to leave
the kingdom.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                              May 3, 2004, Monday

OIL STAFF FLEE AFTER TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 248 words


MORE than 100 Westerners are to be evacuated from an oil refinery in Saudi
Arabia after a terror attack left six people dead.

Workers and their families have asked to leave after Saturday's shooting, when
gunmen opened fire in an office.

Two of the dead were from Britain.

Two Americans, one Australian and a member of the Saudi national guard also died
in the shooting in Yanbu on the Red Sea coast, north of Jeddah.

One of the Britons killed has been identified as Michael McGillen, from Stoke
-on-Trent in Staffordshire.

He was working for the multinational engineering company ABB.

The five Westerners were working on a project to revamp the oil complex co
-owned by Exxon Mobil and the Saudi company SABIC.

Linda Shepherd, Michael's 56-year-old partner, released a statement through her
sister Margaret Ball.

She said: 'Mick has worked for many years as a field project manager in the
engineering industry, including four years in Saudi.

'His death and the tragic circumstances surrounding it leave Linda, his partner,
and a large extended family devastated.

'We would like to thank everyone for their kind thoughts.'

An ABB spokesman said 50 workers and their families would be leaving the area
soon.

He said: 'Employees and their families were asked if they wanted to stay with
stricter security or whether they wanted to leave.

'They will go home in the next couple of days.

'The security of our people is what comes first.'

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRIEF: Margaret

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 3, 2004

'Athens is an unmitigated public relations disaster': John Rawling says the
Olympic ideal is being badly hurt by fears of drug cheats and terrorist attacks

BYLINE: John Rawling

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1068 words


Have there been any positive headlines written yet about August's Olympic Games
in Athens? If so they have been few and far between and it is hard to avoid the
conclusion that, with this Wednesday marking 100 days to go to the opening
ceremony, just about everything to do with this sporting showpiece has so far
amounted to an unmitigated public relations disaster.

Athens is a building site, athletics is consumed by potentially the most
damaging drugs scandal the sport has known and this week one of the greatest
Olympians of all time, Mark Spitz, articulated the unspoken fears of many,
particularly Americans, that the security in Greece may be inadequate to cope
with the threat of terrorist attack. In that climate Spitz said he would not be
surprised if the United States went so far as to withdraw their team from the
games. If they did, a mass exodus of competing nations would surely follow.

Can it get much worse?

Only last week a delegation representing athletics' governing body, the
International Association of Athletics Federations, visited Athens to see for
itself whether or not the scare stories of unfinished sporting venues and
accommodation facilities were accurate. One prominent IAAF member said: "At best
there will still be the smell of wet paint when things start. They have had
seven years to get this right but spent the first three doing nothing as various
factions rowed about how money would be spent and who was actually in charge.
And it still looks a mess. My feeling is they will be ready in time - but it's
going to be a close thing."

And he was similarly concerned about security issues, fully understanding the
Spitz argument that it would not take much for the Americans to walk out.

An unprecedented sum, around euros 800m, is being spent to ensure safety at the
games. As the official website explains: "Athens 2004 is working in close
partnership with the Hellenic Police, the Greek government and international
security experts to host a safe and secure Olympic Games." Those "experts"
include representatives of the British, United States, Australian, French,
German, Israeli and Spanish security forces who, we are assured, are masters of
their trade, even if they have been conspicuous by their absence in the Greek
capital. What is clear is that the games' organising committee is not doing
enough to allay the fears of competitors and public alike.

"Somebody should be saying exactly who is in charge in the case of a genuine
emergency," said the IAAF source. "Who is going to be leading this
multi-national force? Because nobody seems to know at the moment."

It is a fair point. For obvious reasons nobody expects precise security
arrangements to be disclosed but it would make sense for basic facts to be made
public - like who ultimately calls the shots. And, after reporters wandered
unchallenged last week through the new apartment blocks that will soon be
housing athletes, it is high time some sort of visible security policed the
Olympics rather than an unseen force that, as yet, is not doing its job. The
bobby on the beat may make little difference to crime figures but it is
profoundly worrying that two Express reporters were able to walk through the
athletes' village without being confronted.

And, as if the very real worries about the organisation of the Olympics were not
enough, the investigation and pending court case concerning the affairs of the
Bay Area Laboratory Co-operative (Balco) could have a damaging effect on the
entire credibility of the games. Athletics may never have had a particularly
good name because there will always be those who try to cheat in one way or
another but the sport appears threatened as never before.

Somebody apparently in a prominent position in the Balco investigation - which
hinges on the allegation that its owner Victor Conte and others manufactured and
supplied illegal performance-enhancing drugs - has made sure the American media
is fully aware of the involvement of two of the country's biggest stars, Marion
Jones and her partner Tim Montgomery, in the case. Both profess their innocence
but still it has been reported that the best female sprinter in the world and
the men's 100m world record holder are on a list of 27 names - supposedly
provided to investigators by Conte - who have received illegal drugs from Balco.

After years of apparent indifference to drug taking and associated positive
tests there is a hawkish element nowadays within American athletics. Only last
week Bill Martin, the acting president of the United States Olympic Committee,
said: "Our image is going to be just fine if we send a clean team. America does
not want to send a dirty team." So attempts could yet be made to ban athletes
from the games, even though they have not tested positive for anything illegal.
According to the rules of the United States Anti-Doping Agency, proof of
possession of the drugs would be enough.

What the sport and American athletics in particular cannot countenance is for
gold medals to be won in Athens by athletes who might subsequently be ensnared
in the Balco court case. The million-dollar question for the American
authorities, however, may be whether they are ready to omit athletes who are
implicated in court even though they protest their innocence - because
millionaire athletes will not hesitate to employ legal muscle to protect what
they see as their right to run in Athens.

Privately, some officials may be hoping America's athletes are not at the 2004
games, for whatever reason, so that the whole Balco scandal might be laid to
rest away from the Olympic limelight.

Goodness knows what the Athens sponsors make of it all, not to mention
sportswear manufacturers whose names are linked to athletes involved in the
case. And it will be interesting to see what effect the Balco scandal will have
on the viewing figures for athletics, as an ever more sceptical public is set to
hear evidence and, possibly, proof that excellence is sought by some of the
elite from the contents of a test tube.

Naturally one hopes slightly forlornly that the games do somehow go ahead
without being shrouded in controversy or dogged by violence. But the current
climate seems a long way from the values of peace and sportsmanship espoused by
the Olympic movement just as the games prepare to return to their spiritual
home.


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                  May 3, 2004

UK Government: Foreign Secretary condemns Saudi terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 186 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-3 May 2004-UK Government: Foreign Secretary condemns Saudi
terrorist attacks ©1994-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The Foreign Secretary Jack Straw issued a statement following the terrorist
attack in the Red Sea town of Yanbu in Saudi Arabia today.

He said: "I am shocked and sickened by this act of terrorism. My sympathies are
with the friends and families of all of the victims of this horrific attack. A
team of British consular officials are in Yanbu to assist the authorities. The
British Ambassador will arrive early tonight to offer support to the families
and wider British community in Yanbu.

"The perpetrators of this atrocious attack clearly have no respect for innocent
lives. We cannot let the terrorists succeed. The Saudi authorities have our full
support and are working hard to tackle terrorism. We stand ready to offer
assistance."

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH; ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2004 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  May 3, 2004

Britons killed in saudi terror attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 614 words


The partner of one of two Britons shot dead in a terror attack at an oil
refinery in Saudi Arabia said yesterday she was devastated by his death.  THE
partner of one of two Britons shot dead in a terror attack at an oil refinery in
Saudi Arabia said yesterday she was devastated by his death.

Michael McGillen, from Stoke-on-Trent in Staffordshire, was one of six people
killed yesterday when gunmen burst into offices and opened fire on staff in the
city of Yanbu on the Red Sea coast, north of Jeddah. The 52-year-old was working
for the multinational engineering company ABB and had spent four years in the
country.

His partner Linda Shepherd, aged 56, released a statement through her sister
Margaret Ball outside their semi-detached home in Stoke yesterday.

"Mick has worked for many years as a field project manager in the engineering
industry including four years in Saudi," the statement said. "His death and the
tragic circumstances surrounding it leave Linda, his partner, and a large
extended family devastated.  We would like to thank everyone for their kind
thoughts but the family would like time to grieve and come to terms with their
loss." Two Americans, one Australian and a member of the Saudi national guard
also died in the shooting. The five Westerners were working on a project to
revamp the oil complex co-owned by Exxon Mobil and the Saudi company SABIC.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said he was "shocked and sickened" by the attack
and offered the UK's full support to the Saudi authorities. "The perpetrators of
this atrocious attack clearly have no respect for innocent lives," he said.

In light of Saturday's shootings, more than 100 Westerners - including
Americans, Britons, Australians, Indians and Filipinos - will be evacuated from
the refinery.  ABB spokesman Bjorn Edlund based in Switzerland, said 50 workers
and their families would be departing soon. He said: "They were asked if they
wanted to stay with stricter security in place or whether they wanted to leave.
They wanted to leave and in the next couple of days people from that project -
with their families - will go home." Describing the atmosphere at the refinery,
Mr Edlund said: "It is desperate, you never expect a situation like this. You
cannot imagine what they feel; you go to work and there is a terror attack on
five of your colleagues. It is terrible." The British ambassador, Sherard
Cowper-Coles, arrived in Yanbu on Saturday night to offer support to the
families and other Britons, but said he did not expect "a mass exodus" among
foreign workers.

The Foreign Office has updated its travel advice, urging against all but
essential travel to the country.

The next of kin of the second Briton, who has not yet been named, has been
informed of his death.

Saudi authorities said four armed men burst into the offices at the refinery
early Saturday morning and "randomly shot at Saudi and foreign employees".

The attackers tied the body of one of their victims to the back of their car and
dragged it down the street, past pupils at a high school, according to
witnesses.

Students told how the men drove into the car park of Ibn Hayyan Secondary Boys
School as lessons began, with the corpse in tow.

The assailants then fled into residential neighbourhoods of the town before
being involved in a shoot-out with police, outside a Holiday Inn. Three gunmen
were killed at the scene and the fourth died later as reports of the number of
wounded varied from 25 to 50.

One of the attackers was believed to be on the Saudi's list of most-wanted
terrorists, in connection with last year's suicide attacks in the capital,
Riyadh.


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 3, 2004

Westerners quit as six shot dead in terror attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 422 words


A Group of more than 100 Westerners was being evacuated from an oil refinery in
Saudi Arabia yesterday after a terrorist attack left six people dead, including
two Britons.  The workers and their families asked to leave after the shooting
when gunmen burst into offices and rained bullets on staff in the city of Yanbu
on the Red Sea coast, north of Jeddah.

One of the Britons killed was identified as Michael McGillen, from
Stoke-on-Trent in Staffordshire, who was working for the multinational
engineering company ABB.

Two Americans, one Australian and a member of the Saudi national guard also
died. The Westerners were working on a project to revamp the oil complex
co-owned by Exxon Mobil and the Saudi company SABIC when the incident happened.

ABB spokesman Bjorn Edlund, based in Zurich, Switzerland, said 50 workers and
their families would be leaving the area soon.

"They were asked if they wanted to stay with stricter security in place or
whether they wanted to leave," he said.

"They wanted to leave and in the next couple of days people from that project,
with their families, will go home." The ABB employees who have asked to leave
are mainly American, British, Australian and Filipinos.

"It may be that the project (at the refinery) will be put on hold for a little
while but the security of our people is obviously what comes first," said Mr
Edlund.

Linda Shepherd, Mr McGillen's 56-year-old partner, released a statement through
her sister, Margaret Ball, outside their semi-detached home in Stoke.

The statement said: "Mick has worked for many years as a field project manager
in the engineering industry, including four years in Saudi.

"His death and the tragic circumstances surrounding it leave Linda, his partner,
and a large extended family devastated.

"We would like to thank everyone for their kind thoughts but the family would
like time to grieve and come to terms with their loss." The next of kin of the
second Briton, who has not yet been named, has been told of the death.

The Australian killed was identified by his government as Anthony Richard Mason,
57.

The attackers tied the body of one of their victims to the back of their car and
dragged it down the street, past horrified students at a high school, witnesses
said.

Students told how the men drove into the car park of Ibn Hayyan Secondary Boys'
School as lessons began, with the corpse in tow. Pointing to the badly injured
body, they reportedly urged the boys to fight in Iraq.


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2004 0305WESTDP3B4weste

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                              May 4, 2004, Tuesday

TURKEY FOILS TERROR ATTACK ON SUMMIT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 497 words


Turkey claimed yesterday it had foiled a plot by al Qaidalinked militants to
launch a bomb attack on a Nato summit in Istanbul next month that Tony Blair and
George Bush are to attend.

Sixteen men linked, suspected members of Ansar al-Islam, a group linked to Osama
bin Laden's terror network, appeared in a Turkish provincial court yesterday
where the local governor said the attack plan has been 'rendered ineffective'.

The men were arrested in an operation last Thursday in the north-western
province of Bursa, said Governor Oguz Kagan Koksal. The suspects were also
planning to attack a synagogue in Bursa and rob a bank to raise funds for the
group, he said.

Nine others were detained in a simultaneous raid in Istanbul. They were
questioned yesterday, but later released, officials said.

The crackdown on the group comes amid heightened security in Turkey in the
run-up to the summit on June 28/29, following a string of bombings in Istanbul
in November.

More than 60 people were killed when suspected members of a Turkish al Qaida
cell bombed two synagogues, a London-based bank and the British Consulate.
Turkish officials have charged 69 suspects in connection with the bombings.
Their trial starts later this month.

Istanbul's governor, Muammer Guler, insisted yesterday that the city, which will
also host the Eurovision song contest later this month, and a meeting of foreign
ministers from Islamic countries in June, is safe.

'There is no question of a situation that will affect the Nato meeting,' Guler
said. 'We have taken every precaution.'

The 16 arrested men, believed to be members of the al Qaida linked group Ansar
al-Islam, yesterday appeared in a Bursa court, where they face charges including
membership of a terrorist group, possession of explosives, violating gun laws
and holding fake identity documents.

Koksal said the suspects in Bursa were caught following year-long police
surveillance.

The group's leader, identified as Alpaslan Toprak, was among those held, he
said. Television footage showed him being escorted by police, grinning.

Koksal said police also seized equipment to make remotecontrolled bombs, guns,
books on bomb-making, forged identity documents and CDs that served as training
manuals.

'The group, which was in the middle of an attack plan, has been rendered
ineffective,' the governor said.

Some of the suspects surveyed the site of a synagogue in Bursa as well as that
of a bank, Koksal said.

He said the suspects planned to flee to Iraq to fight US troops there once they
had carried out a major attack in Turkey.

An Islamic group based in northern Iraq also goes by the name Ansar al-Islam and
is suspected of bombings in Irbil that left 109 dead in February.

A police official said the Turkish group and the northern Iraq group shared 'the
same ideology and tactics.' The Turkish group increased in size following the
reaction to the US war in Iraq, the official said.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 4, 2004

Anti-terror team trains managers to deal with attacks

BYLINE: Stephen Stewart

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 281 words


TWO Scots universities have held the UK's first anti-terrorist training course
to teach managers of hotels, supermarkets and shopping centres how to deal with
chemical and biological attacks.

Experts at Strathclyde and Glasgow universities and fire brigade specialists
trained companies and other organisations on evacuation measures, access
control, recognising bombs and bomb threats and how people react in smoke and
gas-filled environments.

The course, in Edinburgh, targeted at managers of facilities such as ports,
local government, finance and business centres and colleges was a success and is
to be expanded.

Bob McNair, of the Centre for Advanced Maritime Studies, a joint department of
Glasgow and Strathclyde universities, helped organise the event.

He said: "In the UK we seem to find it hard to react, never mind overreact, to
such (terrorist) threats. We feel that it might not happen to us and that it is,
in any event, the responsibility of the police or the government. It is not . .
. it is the responsibility of public and private organisations to protect the
public."

The Scottish International Fire Training Centre (Sift), part of Lothian and
Borders Fire Brigade, hosts the course.

David Murray, of Sift, said: "Our facilities are unique in the UK other than for
military training and we are very pleased to use them to try to assist companies
to think about the effects of terrorist attacks."

Flora Neville, sales manager at the Travel Inn Glasgow, attended the first
course.

She said: "There were a few scary moments but it's all about how you react to
that. It really makes you think about your business and general safety."

LOAD-DATE: May 04, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Essex

                                  May 4, 2004

Southend: Escape from terror attack

LENGTH: 71 words

DATELINE: Essex


A Southend scaffolding manager is thanking his lucky stars after escaping a
terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia in which a colleague was murdered.

Danny Lee 31 was on holiday from the Exxon Mobil refinery in Yanbu when five
workers including Tony Mason from Southend were killed.

Published Tuesday May 4 2004

Brought to you by the Evening Echo
(http://www.thisisessex.co.uk/essex/about_this_site/hosts-echo.html)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                              May 4, 2004, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACKS NOW MUCH MORE DIFFICULT TO PREDICT

BYLINE: BY JAMES LYONS WESTERN MAIL

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 391 words


Britain's security forces need to 'rewrite the handbook' in the face of the
threat from suicide bombers, experts warned yesterday.

Academics said the security forces were now dealing with a totally different
threat to the one posed by the IRA in the 1970s and 1980s.

The new breed of terrorists do not work to the military- style structure used by
the IRA. And that meant the threat was now much harder to identify and predict.

Experts at Cranfield University in Bedfordshire have been working with the
Government to map out the risk of suicide bombings taking place on mainland
Britain.

Professor Chris Bellamy, director of the Security Studies Institute at the
university, said, 'This is a very different scenario to the one which was
presented when the IRA were active during the 1970s and 1980s, as the current
risk pattern is much harder to identify and predict.

'What's clear is that in order to manage this real and perceived threat to our
national security, we need an integrated approach, which in effect means
rewriting the handbook for dealing with the current security situation in the
UK.'

The university has spent the last 12 months analysing the risk of lone suicide
bombers targeting crowded areas such as bars, shopping centres or the London
Underground.

The head of the Association of Chief Police Officers insisted police were not
neglecting the threat to such venues and focusing solely on 'picture postcard'
targets such as the Houses of Parliament.

Chief Constable Mike Hedges said, 'We have been looking at the strategy and
tactics to employ, not only within the M25 and the picture postcard sites, but
also the malls, the shopping centres in our cities and towns around the
country.'

But he said people must not let terrorists put them off going about their
everyday lives.

He said there was a 'balance of threats' to everything. But the terrorists must
not be allowed to win by frightening people into staying at home.

'I think there is a balance of threats on everything we do,' he said.

'Whether it is going shopping in a very busy area, using the rail network or
going to these large well-publicised events.

'I think the important thing is the public should continue going about their
life as ordinarily planned. Otherwise the terrorist is getting the upper hand.'

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 5, 2004

TV drama on terror attack shows gaps in defence plan

BYLINE: HUGH DOUGHERTY; JUSTIN DAVENPORT

SECTION: A_MERGE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 493 words


THIS is the frightening image of a deadly toxic gas cloud drifting through the
streets of London after a terrorist strike in the City.

The fictional scenario is depicted in a BBC Panorama documentary, which focuses
on how the emergency services would cope with a multiple terrorist bomb attack
on London.

The "docu-drama" depicts three bombs exploding on the London Underground and a
chemical tanker containing deadly chlorine gas exploding in the City.

Police and the Home Office refused to take part in the documentary, in which
hundreds are killed on the Tube and more than 2,000 die from the effects of a
green cloud of dense chlorine gas.

Police sources described the scenario as "alarmist".

But the BBC says the programme, called London Under Attack, reveals gaps in
preparations to deal with a massive terror strike.

Among the concerns it raises are that 1,000 of Britain's 6,000-strong Civil
Contingency Reaction Force, which is supposed to defend against a terror attack,
are now serving in Iraq.

London Underground staff say they have not received training to deal with terror
attacks, and the programme claims that there is no national plan to alert the
public to a catastrophe; schools have not been issued with any emergency
guidance; and more than half of UK businesses have no crisis plans in place.

The documentary highlights how police and ambulance radios do not work deep
underground.

The programme also claims that only a fraction of police officers trained to
deal with a gas attack could be on duty at any time, while the fire service is
still waiting for delivery of new search and rescue equipment.

The claims come as an Evening Standard investigation reveals the Government has
no plans for the task of decontaminating buildings infected with chemical
poisons or biological agents.

The loophole emerged after a senior MP disclosed that MI5 had discovered a
"specific threat" of an anthrax attack on MPs.

This prompted the installation of a £1.5 million screen across the public
gallery of the Commons last month.

And it comes as the Government plans to set up a special agency to deal with
decontamination in the event of an "unconventional" terror strike.

The Standard investigation found:

* At least five government departments share responsibility for decontamination.
A Whitehall source described the situation as "a recipe for disaster".

* No guidance has been given to local councils, environment-protection
organisations or private-sector contractors on decontaminating buildings.

* Emergency planners are likely to rely on the same cleanup technology used in
the aftermath of the anthrax attacks in the United States, which would close
targeted buildings for years.

* Homeowners or the owners of buildings contaminated by an attack would have to
bear the cost of the cleanup that would follow.

Panorama: London Under Attack is on BBC1 on 16 May.

END

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: NIGHTMARE SCENARIO: A SCENE FROM THE PANORAMA PROGRAMME SHOWS
BISHOPSGATE IN A HAZE OF GREEN CHLORINE GAS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 5, 2004, Wednesday

WARNING TO EUROPE OVER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 61 words


BRUSSELS: Europe was given a stark warning yesterday over the scale of terrorist
threats, in a simulation showing how al-Qa'ida could kill 40,000 people and
cause chaos in Europe by exploding a crude nuclear device at Nato's headquarters
in Brussels. An organiser, the former US senator, Sam Nunn, said: "We are in a
race between co-operation and catastrophe."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 6, 2004

Palace errors left Queen exposed to terror attack

BYLINE: JOE MURPHY

SECTION: C; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 450 words


A CATALOGUE of security blunders at Buckingham Palace put the Queen in serious
danger of terrorist attack, an official report concludes today.

It lays bare in humiliating detail how palace officials overlooked a series of
clues that should have warned them footman Ryan Parry was an impostor.

The fiasco allowed Parry - a tabloid journalist - to access the Queen's private
quarters and even photograph her breakfast table on the eve of George Bush's
state visit to Britain last autumn.

But the inquiry into one of the worst ever royal security scandals admits he
could easily have been a terrorist intent on harming the Queen or the US
President. "The main significance of the case is that it showed existing
procedures were not sufficient to expose fraudulent and dishonest job
application," warns the report's author, senior judge Dame Elizabeth
Butler-Sloss.

"This weakness could be exploited by terrorists or others to endanger the Queen,
her family and official guests and thus to endanger national security."

A new criminal offence of trespassing on royal property may now be rushed into
law to prevent others repeating Parry's escapade.

Stressing the gravity of the incident, the report recommends an overhaul of
procedures, including a director of security at Buckingham Palace - named as
Brigadier Jeffrey Cook, 49 - annual reviews of security and tougher vetting of
job applicants for all the royal households.

Among the clues which nobody spotted were: . Parry's own father refused to give
him a reference for working at the family firm. But the Palace accepted his
explanation that this was because his father "did not want him to leave" and
instead accepted a forged letter from his "foreman".

. A Leeds delicatessen where Parry claimed to have worked as a student could
find no record of this and the manager did not remember him.

. His former university lecturer said he did a sociology and media degree -
contradicting Parry's application claim that he studied "management and
sociology". The discrepancy was not spotted.

. Parry gave conflicting dates for his employment history but nobody realised.

. A simple internet search would have shown Parry was a Daily Mirror journalist
who had investigated security at Wimbledon weeks earlier.

. Parry's P45 would have shown his pay and employment history was bogus - but
the palace failed to demand to see it.

Buckingham Palace said in a statement: "The royal household accepts that there
are lessons to be learnt from this case."

Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Mark Oaten said: "I find it deeply
worrying that basic security measures have never been in place."

END

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: POLITICAL EDITOR BOGUS: DAILY MIRROR REPORTER RYAN PARRY POSED AS A
ROYAL FOOTMAN

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 6, 2004, Thursday

STREETS OF TERROR: DAY 2: 12,000 ARE ATTACKED IN NORTH

BYLINE: MIRROR REPORTER

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 207 words

HIGHLIGHT: MEAN STREETS: Belfast city centre; HARM'S WAY: Derry can be a danger


MORE than 12,000 people have been the victim of violent crime in Belfast and
Derry in the past 18 months.

Shock figures released by the PSNI show that brutal assaults and attacks on the
streets of the two cities are on the increase.

There were almost 9,000 reported incidents of violent crime in Belfast and more
than 3,000 in Derry.

There were 12 murders and almost 1,000 assaults on police officers in the same
period.

And staff at the casualty departments at the Royal Victoria Hospital in Belfast
and Derry's Altnagelvin Hospital are taking extra security precautions to combat
the thugs. There also appears to be a rise in serious assaults on members of the
ethnic community.

Ulster Unionist councillor Jim Rodgers is appalled at the figures and said
Belfast is now suffering from a yob culture.

He added: "It's deeply worrying that violence is on the rise. The image of the
city is being spoiled and we can't sit back and let the situation deteriorate
further."

But high-profile policing in Derry has led to the number of attacks in the city
centre falling by 25 per cent this year compared to last year.

Outbreaks of violence were most common when revellers spilled on to the streets
as the pubs closed.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 6, 2004, Thursday

STREETS OF TERROR: DAY 2: ATTACKER LEFT GUIDO PARALYSED

BYLINE: FIONA WYNNE

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 192 words

HIGHLIGHT: VICTIM: Guido


ONE victim of Dublin's appalling street crime was Italian Guido Nasi.

The brutal attack on the student in 1999 shocked the nation.

Guido, who was studying in the city, was left paralysed and unable to talk after
thug James Osbourne smashed a bottle over his head.

The attack happened in Fairview Park in North Dublin as Guido chatted with
friends.

A young boy stole Guido's wallet and, when the Italian confronted him, Osbourne,
who had been drinking all day, charged and assaulted him.

Guido, who was only 17, suffered a double brain haemorrhage.

Osbourne, 32, was later jailed for eight and a half years.

Since the attack he has had several emergency operations.

Doctors have told the brave young man, from Turin in North Italy, he will never
walk again.

Guido's only way of communicating with his devoted mum, Simonetta, is through a
computer.

The hearts of Irish people went out to Guido and Victim Support raised
EUR200,000 for him.

In a statement after the court case in 2001, Guido said: "I died when I was 17.
I hated you, James, and I still hate you.

"Now you are caged in prison, but so am I."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                  May 07, 2004

Paisley jnr 'terrorist attack' is deplored;

BYLINE: By Sharon O'Neill Chief Reporter

SECTION:  Pg. 1

LENGTH: 351 words


A SENIOR UUP figure last night said he "deplored" the labelling of the leader of
the Catholic Church in Ireland as a "terrorist sympathiser" by a fellow
unionist.

The DUP's Ian Paisley jnr was reported in a newspaper yesterday as having
described the Primate of All-Ireland, Archbishop Sean Brady, as a "terrorist
sympathiser" in response to a wide-ranging speech he gave on policing,
paramilitarism and the peace process.

When challenged by the Irish News over whether he stood by the remarks, Mr
Paisley refused to clarify his position and said he would "stand over" what he
said in a statement that had been released.

However, there was no mention of Dr Brady being branded a "terrorist
sympathiser" in a statement released yesterday in which Mr Paisley said the
archbishop "has set down his prayer book and Mass card for a copy of An
Phoblacht to get his inspiration from".

Ulster Unionist Policing Board member Lord Kilclooney said he was outraged by
the remarks from Mr Paisley.

"I deplore them. Let me make it clear, I do not consider the Archbishop to be a
republican sympathiser, " he said. "I know the Archbishop personally as I do
live in Armagh, " he said.

Jim Rea, president of the Methodist Church said:

"Politicians in the unionist community who are critical, rather than simply
giving what I call a gut reaction, should read the 12page document and reflect
on it rather than hastily reacting."

SDLP MP Eddie McGrady described as "highly offensive" the comments attributed to
Mr Paisley about Archbishop Brady and called for their immediate retraction.

However, Mr Paisley said: "If Mr McGrady believes that there is mileage for him
in attacking the representative of the unionist community instead of actually
dealing with the issue of failed leadership within the Catholic and nationalist
community to support the police, then I think people will judge him on that
basis."

A Catholic Church spokesman said: "I'm sure that unionist politicians would want
to uphold their tradition of fairness and represent the archbishop's views more
accurately."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 The Irish News Limited

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  May 8, 2004

14 killed in terror attack on mosque

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 577 words


A powerful bomb exploded at a Shiite Muslim mosque packed with worshippers in
Karachi, Pakistan's biggest city, yesterday, killing at least 14 people and
wounding scores of others in a suspected suicide attack.  A POWERFUL bomb
exploded at a Shiite Muslim mosque packed with worshippers in Karachi,
Pakistan's biggest city, yesterday, killing at least 14 people and wounding
scores of others in a suspected suicide attack.

President Pervez Musharraf condemned the blast as a "heinous act of terrorism"
and ordered an immediate investigation to trace the culprits. The attack at a
mosque inside a government-run religious school, shattered windows and
pockmarked the walls with shrapnel and splattered blood.

The school, which houses students aged four to 18, has separate mosques for
Sunni and Shiite Muslim worshippers. Witnesses said the school had ended early,
as it normally does on Fridays. Most of the victims were adults who came to the
mosque for prayers.

The bombing triggered unrest in Karachi. Hundreds of Shiite youths burned cars,
petrol pumps and a government office in the city, which has been hit by frequent
acts of terrorism and sectarian violence.

Tariq Jamin, deputy inspector-general of Karachi police, said 14 people were
killed in the bombing and more than 100 injured.

Sadir Durrani, a police explosives expert at the site of the blast at the Sindh
Madrassah tul Islam school, said he had found no timing or radio devices,
indicating it may have been caused by a suicide bomber.

Chief investigator Manzoor Mughal said no crater was found at the blast point,
suggesting a person was carrying the bomb. Several injured people had described
a man in a black robe and black turban who was sitting near the column where the
bomb exploded.

"We are still investigating, but it seems it was a suicide bombing," he said.

One of the men injured in the blast described the devastation.

"I was inside the mosque for Friday prayers when a bomb exploded with a huge
bang," said Kalb e-Abbas, 23. Something hit my arm, and I saw blood all over my
body." E-Abbas said he could hear the cries of the injured people around him
before stumbling out of the building.

Aftab Sheikh, a senior politician responsible for law and order in Sindh
province, where Karachi is located, blamed anti-state elements for the blast,
but would not elaborate.

Sheikh said "today's bomb attack was carried out by those people who were behind
other terrorist attacks in Karachi. I condemn this attack, it was a barbaric
act." Rescue officials piled blood stained carpets outside the shattered mosque.
Victims lay on a hospital floor, bleeding and dazed, as doctors and nurses
hurried between them.

Muslim clerics appealed for blood from mosque loudspeakers throughout the city.

Police have been on alert in Karachi since April, when they found weapons and
explosives in a raid on a building.

It was not clear, however, if the mosque attack was linked to that weapons find.

About 80 per cent of Pakistan's 150 million people are Sunni, and the rest
Shiite. Most live together in peace, but radical groups on both sides are
responsible for frequent deadly attacks.

Mirza Yousuf Hussein, a local Shiite leader, claimed terrorists based in a
tribal region near the border with Afghanistan were behind the blast. He blamed
the government for giving amnesty to militants there after a military operation
in March.


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  May 8, 2004

Kofi Annan Taking Bin Laden Terror Attack Threat 'Seriously'

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 264 words


United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan said yesterday that the UN is taking
seriously a death threat against him and other officials made in an audio tape
attributed to Osama bin Laden.  The UN headquarters said it was taking steps to
"enhance the security of the secretary-general" and consulting US officials
after the 20-minute recording was posted on websites offering rewards in gold
for the killing of top US and UN officials in Iraq or of the citizens of any
nation fighting there.

"We take it (the threat) seriously, and we will have to take precautions and
then carry on with my life and my work," Annan told reporters.

The recording, which appeared on two websites known for militant Islamic
messages, promised rewards in gold for the deaths of Annan and his envoy to
Iraq, Lakhdar Brahimi, who is in Iraq meeting officials to prepare for the June
30 transfer of sovereignty from the US-led coalition to the Iraqis.

The speaker also promised rewards for killing Paul Bremer, the chief US
administrator in Iraq, the US chief commander and his deputy and others involved
in the coalition that topped Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's regime. A CIA
official said yesterday that the tape was probably authentic.

Speaking on Thursday before the release of the tape, Annan's spokesman Fred
Eckhard said the United Nations was planning a £12 million security upgrade at
its New York headquarters in the aftermath of attacks on UN installations during
the past year, including a Baghdad bombing that killed 22 people at the offices
there in August.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  May 9, 2004

TERROR AS AIR GIRL ATTACKED

BYLINE: by SUZANNE HARVEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 190 words


A PILOT radioed for police help after claims that two passengers tried to
sexually assault an air stewardess during a flight.

It's alleged the men, aged 31 and 32, pinned her against the fuselage of the
easyJet aircraft en route from Belfast to Liverpool's John Lennon Airport.

Police were waiting when the plane landed on Friday night.

The men, from Londonderry, were taken to a Merseyside police station for
questioning on suspicion of endangering an aircraft. The incident was revealed
yesterday when other passengers told how the incident had terrified them.

One said: "It was really very worrying.

You already have worries over what could happen during a flight and, when it
happened, I automatically thought of September 11 in America.

"There was panic because some of the passengers thought that we were being
hijacked. It makes you think that we might be better off with sky marshals on
all our flights."

Aspokesman for Merseyside Police said:"Two men became obstructive and assaulted
a female member of the cabin crew.

"The pilot requested police assistance and two men were arrested on landing."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                              May 9, 2004, Sunday

VULNERABLE TO TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: BY LUCY BALLINGER WALES ON SUNDAY

SECTION: North Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 744 words


A top police chief last night dramatically claimed parts of South Wales could
struggle in the wake of terror attacks.

As the region's emergency planning body prepares to break up in just three
weeks' time, Peter Anderson, chairman of the Gwent Police Federation, declared:
'It makes you wonder what would happen if something did happen.'

The Gwent Authorities Emergency Planning Service (GAEPS) covered five local
council areas, Blaenau Gwent, Monmouthshire, Caerphilly, Torfaen and Newport.

The 10-staff body was designed to react to emergencies, such as nuclear
disasters at Hinckley power station, flooding and terrorist assaults on
strategic targets, like the Severn Tunnel and M4 corridor.

But last year Torfaen decided to quit the group, which has led to the break-up
of the joint arrangement.

Bob Crimp, head of emergency management for Torfaen council, explained: 'We felt
we could probably get better value from assessing the specific needs of Torfaen
and could improve our ability to respond.'

Now each of the councils will have one or two emergency planners with a central
planning role by Gwent Police.

But each council is at different stages of implementing the new security
structure.

Monmouthshire council expects to have its service in place by November - leading
to claims by critics that potential targets could be vulnerable during the
catch-up period in the changeover.

Police in Wales have already acknowledged the need for vigilance and security in
the wake of the rise in terrorism.

And South Wales Police Chief Constable Barbara Wilding warned earlier this year
that high-profile buildings such as the Millennium Stadium were prime targets in
the aftermath of 9/11.

Last night, the Police Federation's Peter Anderson said: 'Central co-ordination
is being moved towards the police but there is no extra money coming to us from
local authorities and central government.

'We have only got a small office of three emergency planners for Gwent, and it
seems they are going to have to do that on their own. But expecting a few people
to deal with this is silly.

'Obviously, we are concerned about what will happen if there was an emergency.
We have one of the main flight-paths to North America through here and add to
that worries about terrorism and nuclear disasters.

'Considering we are supposed to be upgrading our emergency planning, it doesn't
make much sense to make such a move at such a time.'

Security expert Stuart Mulraney, deputy editor of Jane's Police Review, agreed:
'The police need a lot more training, especially on strategic targets like the
Severn Tunnel. There are a number of police officers who are pushing for attacks
on tunnels and bridges to have a higher priority.'

Mike Smith, Fire Brigades' Union for Wales member and deputy leader of
Monmouthshire council, is also concerned.

He said: 'The timing of the handover is pretty poor in the context of all these
terrorist threats. In an emergency, reaction might not prove to be as successful
as it should be because of lack of co-ordination and management.'

And Patrick Cunningham, chairman of the Emergency Planning Society's local
authority branch, added his fears.

'I am surprised a place with a joint arrangement wants to go back to individual
authorities,' he said.

'I would have thought that they would want to bind together, not go the other
way. The funding has been so miniscule that the majority of councils do it,' he
said.

'Local authorities have increased workloads because emergencies have gone from a
Lockerbie scale to something the size of the September 11 attacks.

'If you only have a couple of officers, as soon as somebody has a holiday, or is
off sick, it will be a big strain - you won't be able to provide 24-hour cover.
The practicalities will be difficult.'

But responding to the critics, a Monmouthshire council spokesman said the
'capacity and expertise' remained - the switch was merely bureaucratic.

He said: 'There will still be a liaison group between the authorities. The new
service will be more of a support role to the emergency services. The police
would take the lead.'

Tory Monmouthshire AM David Davies pledged last night to raise the issue in the
National Assembly.

He said: 'I share the concerns of the Police Federation completely. We obviously
hope we'll never need emergency planning, but we must be prepared. I am
extremely concerned.'

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 10, 2004

Blunkett blasts Panorama's terror attack docu-drama

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 63 words


DAVID BLUNKETT has condemned the BBC over a Panorama programme depicting a
fictional terror attack on London.

The Home Secretary called the docu-drama "irresponsible and alarmist" and
reportedly withdrew his support because the BBC refused to bow to his requests
to tone it down. London Under Attack, which the Home Office has not seen, will
be shown on Sunday.

END

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                     Pulse

                                  May 10, 2004

GPs cope with sarin attack by terrorists'

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 58 words


GPs' abilities to cope with a terrorist attack were tested when the Health
Protection Agency staged a mock sarin attack. Dr Julian Bromly, a GP at the
Saville Medical Group in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, took part in the exercise.

It was, for the practice, an excellent opportunity to learn how to cope with a
major incident,' he said.




LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                       Copyright 2004 CMP Information Ltd

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  May 10, 2004

Chechen president dies in stadium terror attack

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 490 words


The Chechen president was yesterday killed when a bomb exploded at a packed
stadium as he attended Victory Day observances.  THE Chechen president was
yesterday killed when a bomb exploded at a packed stadium as he attended Victory
Day observances.

The device - believed to be a land mine - was planted under the seats where
Chechen President Akhmad Kadyrov and other dignitaries were watching the
ceremonies marking the defeat of the Nazis in the Second World War, said Sergei
Kozhemyaka, a spokesman for the Emergency Situations Ministry.

It was detonated with a wire or timer, killing more than 20 people, among them
Hussein Isayev, head of Chechnya's State Council and Eli Isayev, the region's
finance minister, Russian news reports said.

A top Russian commander, Col-Gen Valery Baranov, had a leg amputated and was in
a critical condition. The city's emergency medical centre said 24 people in all
were killed and 46 wounded.

Reuters news agency said its photographer Adlan Khasanov, 33, was also killed.

The blast in the heart of the capital Grozny, where Russian troops are
omnipresent, underlined the intense security problems even as the Kremlin says
normalcy is being restored after nearly five years of fighting against
separatist rebels.

Grozny has a huge presence of Russian forces, but they have not been able to
purge insurgents from the city. Sappers inspect the city's main thoroughfares
for mines daily.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the blast, but suspicion
inevitably fell on the rebels. Police and soldiers launched an extensive search
after the blast and detained at least five people, news reports said.

"Justice will take the upper hand and retribution is inevitable," Putin said at
the conclusion of Moscow's Victory Day parade on Red Square, the ITAR-Tass news
agency reported.

Kozhemyaka, the Emergency Situations Ministry spokesman, said that a second land
mine was found near the VIP seats.

Russia marks the Allied victory over the Nazis every May 9 with military parades
and fireworks around the country.

Security was especially tight across Russia. In 2002, a bomb exploded during a
Victory Day military parade in the Caspian Sea port of Kaspiisk, killing 43
people, including 12 children. Last year, a police officer was killed and two
more people were wounded when a bomb exploded near the Grozny stadium.

Kadyrov was a rebel commander during the separatists' 1994-96 war that ended
with Russian forces withdrawing. However, he became disenchanted during the
period of Chechnya's de facto independence, complaining of the growing influence
of the Wahhabi sect of Islam in the republic.

He broke with Aslan Maskhadov, who had been elected Chechen president in 1997,
and in 2000 the Kremlin appointed him the republic's top civilian administrator.
He was elected president last October in a vote widely criticised as fraudulent.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                  May 11, 2004

Police tell of woman's terror in castle attack

BYLINE: Nicola Stow

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 480 words


Police have described the terrifying moment in which a German woman was attacked
by a masked man in the grounds of a famous Highland castle.  The 35-year-old
tourist was walking alone along a footpath in woods near Cawdor Castle when she
was assaulted by a man wearing a balaclava and gloves, police said.

It is understood that the woman struggled with her attacker for some time before
eventually escaping.

She fled to the castle where she was able to get help from staff.

The man took the woman's purse and glasses in the attack, which happened at
about 4.40pm on Saturday.

Police refused to comment on whether or not the assault was of a sexual nature,
but they did rule out rape.

Yesterday, Lady Angelika Cawdor said the woman, who has not been named, was
"hysterical" when she arrived at the castle.

She explained: "She burst into the restaurant screaming. She was absolutely
petrified and was asking for help.

"She told us that she had been attacked by a man who had been wearing a
balaclava and gloves." The Dowager Countess said she was appalled that such an
attack had happened in the grounds of Cawdor Castle.

"I have never known anything like this to ever happen, especially in an area
such as this. We (castle staff) are very distressed by this incident," she said.

Forensic officers yesterday combed the woods for clues while police carried out
door-to-door inquiries in the area.

There was a sighting of a man matching the attacker's description emerging from
Cawdor woods on to the Bridge of Dulsie road shortly after the attack.

Police believe it was the attacker, but want to speak to anyone who may have
been in the area at the time and who may have information.

Detective Sergeant Gavin Andrew, of Northern Constabulary, said such an attack
was very rare for the Highlands.

He explained: "We are not yet sure if the motive for the attack was robbery or
indecent assault. The woman did struggle with the man, but was able to escape."
Mr Andrew said the attack was not being linked to any other incidents in the
Highlands.

He added: "Attacks like this are very unusual in the Highlands, especially at a
tourist attraction.

"We would like to hear from anyone who may have seen this man or anyone acting
suspiciously in the area." The man was described as being 5ft 7ins, and of
average build. He was wearing a black balaclava and a blue jacket - the hem of
which was below his waist.

The man who was spotted coming out of the woods was described as being in his
early 30s, between 5ft 7ins and 5ft 10ins, of medium build with broad shoulders
and dark hair.

He was wearing a blue coloured jacket, dark trousers, dark coloured boots and a
dark coloured woollen-type hat.

Anyone with any information should contact Northern Constabulary at Nairn on
01667 452222 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2004 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 13, 2004, Thursday

Terrorist attack vehicle used for rescue

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 301 words


A NATIONAL emergency plan drawn up after September 11 was implemented for the
first time in response to the Glasgow factory explosion. Specialist firefighters
from five English brigades joined crews from across Scotland yesterday in the
rescue operation.

A high-tech urban search and rescue vehicle arrived in Glasgow from London last
night, the first time that such a unit has been deployed in Britain. Equipped
with search and retrieval equipment, including heavy cutting and lifting gear
and fibre-optic cameras, it is designed for rescuing people trapped in the
debris of demolished buildings.

The unit is one of 15 that will eventually be stationed across Britain under new
civil contingency plans. They are being acquired by the Government under a £132
million investment programme aimed primarily at dealing with the aftermath of a
terrorist attack.

Three of the vehicles entered service in London at the end of March and are
designed to work alongside a fleet of incident response units that carry mass
decontamination units, screens, conferencing and computer facilities and
satellite telephones. The eight-man crew of the unit, all of whom have received
training at a specialist facility in Texas, were flown to Scotland by RAF
helicopter.

The national response to the incident is being co-ordinated by the London Fire
Brigade, which has almost 300 staff trained in structural collapse and urban
search techniques.

Ken Knight, London commissioner for fire and emergency planning, said his team
was dispatched when it became clear that the rescue operation may last for
several days.

"This highlights the value of the national arrangements...and the fact that the
UK now has teams trained in the specialist techniques needed at this kind of
incident," he said.


LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 14, 2004

Legacy of terror attacks has revolutionised rescue

SECTION: ED_SC1_04; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 392 words


THERMAL IMAGING THE September 11 attacks on New York's World Trade Centre have
brought about a revolution in search and rescue equipment and techniques.

Government fears that terrorists could stage a similar incident here have seen
budgets for Scotland's six fire brigades soar.

Last year the Scottish Executive set aside an additional Pounds 250,000 Civil
Defence Grant for fire services, around Pounds 1.9million for local authorities
and just over Pounds 500,000 for the police to deal with major incidents.

The Executive also handed out Pounds 5million for additional equipment,
personnel training and support infrastructure to ensure brigades were
well-prepared to respond to serious incidents.

This has enabled firefighters to receive specialist training in thermal imaging
and sound and carbon dioxide detection equipment, which were used at the
Maryhill site. The money also bought 70 heat-seeking cameras, 20 sets of
heavy-duty rescue equipment used to clear rubble and free survivors, and 13
search cameras.

The benefits of the new equipment and training have been seen over the past two
days, with most of the people who were trapped in the ICL Plastics factory
brought out alive.

Lee Maxwell, chairman of the Emergency Planning Association's Scottish branch,
said the Executive had taken preparation for major attacks very seriously.

She said: 'While we will never get to a stage where we feel completely satisfied
with preparations, at the moment the focus is on giving emergency services the
capability to initially deal with a major incident.' Among the new equipment and
vehicles bought with post-9/11 funding were six major incident units with
decontamination equipment and chemical suits Heat is infrared is invisible to
the naked Special cameras can seen against the cooler rubble.

radiation pick it and a casualty can be capable of dealing with 200 people an
hour.

Funding also went to the NHS to allow hospitals and the ambulance service to
support their fire fighter colleagues in a major crisis.

NHS boards bought 250 sets of personal protective equipment to allow medical
staff to operate more safely in dangerous environments.

And the Scottish Ambulance Service was provided with 1,000 sets of the 'safety
suits' and eight chemical decontamination units.

that eye.

up

END

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              May 14, 2004, Friday

FIRE CREWS REFUSE TERROR ATTACK DRILLS

BYLINE: TOM BODDEN

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 244 words


FIREFIGHTERS in North Wales yesterday refused to crew special emergency units
designed to cope in a terrorist attack.

The action was the first in the UK as the national pay row re-ignited with
employers.

There are two instant response units which contain mass decontamination
equipment ready for a chemical attack.

But around 800 members of the Fire Brigades Union have halted training on the
vehicles in protest,claiming local authorities had reneged on a pay deal.

North Wales Fire and Rescue Service said last night the units would be used in
an emergency.

But Assistant Chief Fire Officer Colin Hanks added: "The FBU's instruction to
its members not to staff the units will seriously compromise the ability to
decontaminate the public after a serious incident.

"Our primary concern is,and always will be the safety of the public and we are
taking every precaution to ensure disruption is kept to a minimum."

North Wales Fire and Rescue Service was examining the June 2003 pay agreement,
in particular the circumstances concerning the legality of payment when the
agreement had been suspended,he said.

Union leaders said fire fighters decided not to operate the units from 6pm on
Wednesday night during meetings held across the three fire brigades in Wales.

Now the FBU is warning of fresh industrial action across the UK amid claims that
employers have tried to change the agreement drawn up to end the bitter pay
strike.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             May 15, 2004, Saturday

WEEKEND: IS IT A FEAR OR PHOBIA?;
 TERRORIST ATTACKS, CIRCUS CLOWNS, SPIDERS, THUNDER STORMS, THE DARK,

BYLINE: PAUL GROVES John Fashanu was forced to face his demons several times
during his stint on I'm A Celebrity, Get Me Out of Here, confronting eels,
spiders and assorted creepy crawlies

SECTION: First Edition; SPORT; Pg. 43,44

LENGTH: 1321 words


I blame my mum and my older sister. I'm sure it was watching their reaction
while I was still very young and impressionable that made my fear the irrational
beast of burden that dogs me to this day.

Spiders. I can take just about anything, but spiders send me into a gibbering
wreck.

I have no fear of heights; I like the dark; snakes are cute; I like being
cocooned on my own in small places and I like venturing out into the great
outdoors; swimming with sharks remains a dream; wasps and bees are fascinating;
my bank manager is a decent chap; I sleep soundly at night; a crack of lightning
is exciting; I'll even stand up in a crowd of strangers and make a speech if I
have to.

But spiders, no way. Put one within ten feet, even a small one, and I start to
get anxious. Put a big one any where near me and I'll run. No, really. I will
run.

I'm even scared of going on one of these 'conquer your fears' courses. The very
idea of trying to get over my fear of spiders beings me out in a cold sweat.

I sometimes think to myself: 'Well at least I only have one irrational fear. At
least I'm not paralysed by fear by lots of things.' Then a spider will scuttle
across the room as I'm pondering this silver lining and after jumping up on the
sofa I'll be too busy running for the door to think about anything other than
escape.

So why am I afflicted by this arachnophobia? Why can I take on all of life's
challenges, apart from spiders?

Understanding what fear really is can help us to cope. According to Professor
Alex Gardner, chartered psychologist and psychotherapist, there is a crucial
difference between fears and phobias.

'Fear is an emotional response you have to something that is real and tangible
whereas a phobia is the same emotional response but to something that is
imaginary or fantastical. The difference is the way in which people perceive
situations,' he explains.

Prof Gardner says that fear often arises because we learn early on that some
things are a real threat and, through experience, we know that threats often
herald the onset of pain.

'Fear is a red light that goes on to say stand back, don't go there. This red
light stops us from being hurt which is why it is such a powerful conditioning
process.

'Phobias, however, tend to come either through learned behaviour or a practical
expe-rience. You can be educated into a phobia through your parents or peer
groups, for example.

'If your parents are scared of dentists it is very likely that you will be, too;
not necessarily to the same extent but these kinds of emotions can easily rub
off on children.'

In order to try to overcome fears and phobias, Prof Gardner points out you need
to believe you can be cured. 'For phobias the best general technique is called
desensitisation through cognitive behavioural therapy, basically making people
reframe things in their mind, changing their perspective.'

But when it comes to fear itself, he believes that it is actually a very useful
emotion as it stops you from doing irrational things. It is there as a mechanism
to protect you.

'People shouldn't try to get rid of their fears,' he advises, 'they just need to
get rid of their irrational fears or phobias.'

According to a recent nationwide survey on fears and phobias, my arachnophobia
is shared by most people in the North. The survey found: 26 per cent of
Midlanders have nightmares about being late for an important meeting; 48 per
cent of those in Northern Ireland have nightmares about falling from a cliff of
tall building; 32 per cent of Scots are afraid of being alone in a graveyard;

37 per cent of those in the South are scared of unexplained noises at night;

and 22 per cent of Northerners are terrified by spiders. I'm in good company. No
real surprise there. What I am cheered by is that it is good to have this fear
of spiders. I just need to reign in the irrationality of it.

But, then again, that is probably easier said than done.

Sit back and relax -easy steps to conquer your irrational fears

Ros Taylor has written a guide to get over fear. She recommends we should all:

Sit in a comfortable position with a straight back, eyes closed and breathe
naturally through your nose.

Spend a little time identifying your deluded, unhealthy fears, such as the fear
of dying, the fear of loss or the fear of failure.

Try to understand that all these fears,and all dangers, arise because of your
deluded minds and negative actions.

Visualise these fears together with their actual causes (negative minds and
actions) in the form of dense thick smoke and breathe it out. This smoke leaves
your nostrils and disappears to the furthest reaches of space, where it
completely disappears, never to return. As you inhale, imagine you are breathing
in pure, inspiring energy and fearlessness in the form of blissful white light,
which fills your body and mind.

After meditating like this for a while, feel that your body is now light and
supple, and your mind is clear, peaceful, and fearless.

The Ultimate Book Of ConfidenceTricks by Ros Taylor is published by Vermilion,
priced pounds 7.99.

Unaccustomed as I am to public speaking . . .

Public speaking is the UK's second biggest fear (behind fear of spiders) -but
it's one many people have to face in the course of work or social activities.
Here's how:

Be yourself: People want to be entertained and formality is old hat.

Involve the audience: It will deflect the spotlight from you, loosen up the
audience and equalise the relationship so you are not left pontificating.

Use mind maps: Don't use notes as they will inevitably distract you from your
audience and what you are really trying to say.

Use case studies and stories:These will highlight your main points and help your
audience to remember what you want them to.

Relax: Try a relaxation tape or some simple meditation techniques. When you are
relaxed you are focused on others, able to problem-solve more quickly and better
at vocal projection due toTwo great orators Margaret Thatcher and Winston
Churchill did not suffer from glossophobia -the fear of public speaking

better breathing.

Be enthusiastic: Body language is very important and the smile is the most
important element. Also remember to make eye contact with your audience.

Evaluate: After every presentation ask yourself how it could have been better
and try to involve at least one new idea into your next talk. Never be afraid to
ask someone for their feedback and practise your responses to tough or difficult
questions.

Volunteer: Practice makes perfect so the more you speak the better you will be
at standing up in public.

Fears and their names

An A-Z of phobias . . . well, almost (in order for those with an atxaophobic
-fear of disorder and untidiness-nature):

A is for: Alektorophobia -Fear of chickens.

B is for: Bibliophobia -Fear of books.

C is for: Cainophobia -Fear of novelty.

D is for: Decidophobia -Fear of making decisions.

E is for: Erotophobia -Fear of sexual feelings.

F is for: Febriphobia -Fear of fever.

G is for: Geniophobia -Fear of chins.

H is for: Hylophobia -Fear of forests.

I is for: Iophobia -Fear of poisons or rust.

J is for Japanophobia -Fear of Japanese.

K is for: Kyphophobia -Fear of stooping.

L is for: Lachanophobia -Fear of vegetables.

M is for: Metrophobia -Fear of poetry.

N is for: Novercaphobia -Fear of stepmothers.

O is for: Ostraconophobia -Fear of shellfish.

P is for: Panphobia -Fear of anything and everything.

R is for: Rhytiphobia -Fear of getting wrinkles.

S is for: Skiaphobia -Fear of shadows.

T is for: Tropophobia -Fear of changes.

U is for: Uranophobia -Fear of heaven.

V is for: Vestiphobia -Fear of clothing.

X is for: Xerophobia -Fear of dry places, like deserts.

Z is for: Zelophobia -Fear of jealousy.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 15, 2004

London readies its terror attack evacuation plan

BYLINE: Sarah Hall Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 411 words


The government issued plans yesterday to evacuate up to 300,000 Londoners if
terrorists launch an attack on the capital - as a leaked Metropolitan police
report condemned some preparations as "outdated and incoherent".

In the event of an attack, police would commandeer transport to move Londoners
out of the capital by coach, car and possibly train. Councils would post
officials at stations to shepherd people to designated shelters, which are
believed to include the Tube, if it was not under attack, or football stadiums.

The local government minister, Nick Raynsford, stressed there was "no specific
threat" and indicated yesterday's announcements were part of ongoing
preparations.

"There is no intelligence which leads us to believe this is likely but
government has a duty to plan and to have preparations in place for every
eventuality," he said.

But the London Resilience Team, which is overseeing contingency plans, wrote to
London's local authorities yesterday asking them to identify "venues" capable of
accommodating large numbers and to make arrangements to direct people to
shelters.

The government also published advice to help compa nies with decontamination of
buildings in the event of a terrorist attack.

Since September 11, emergency services, health experts and local authorities
have been working on generic mass evacuation plans which could be used in any
part of the capital which comes under attack.

As well as moving large numbers of people a key part of those plans is ensuring
that drugs needed to cope with the aftermath of a chemical or biological strike
can be brought in to affected areas quickly.

The plans do not relate to the entire capital because it moving eight million
people would be an unrealistic aim. They would be applied to the area attacked
and would be expected to cater for as many as 300,000 people.

Yesterday, a leaked report - the Unicorn Project, which looked at the
contingency plans - said there was a "lack of a coordinated and struc tured
government counter-terrorist communications policy," and said the commercial
sector found the present policy "outdated, condescending . . . and at times
incoherent".

The shadow home secretary, David Davis, called for a designated homeland
security minister and said: "This leaked report is a damning indictment of a
government who does not have the first idea how to organise contingency planning
surrounding an emergency."


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 15, 2004, Saturday

How London is to be evacuated in terror attack

BYLINE: Richard Ford Home Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 10

LENGTH: 616 words


THE Army and police will commandeer coaches and trains to move hundreds of
thousands of Londoners out of the city in the event of a massive terrorist
attack.

They will set up roadblocks to create fast exit routes for vehicles, and
councils outside London, particularly in the Home Counties, would arrange
temporary accommodation for evacuees, according to contingency plans disclosed
yesterday.

A letter from the Government to councils across the capital suggested that a
large-scale chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear attack could trigger
an exodus of an estimated 250,000 workers, residents and tourists to surrounding
counties.

London boroughs were asked to identify venues where large numbers of people
could gather but officials refused on the ground of security to confirm which
sites would be used for shelters.

However, during the Cold War emergency planners suggested using the big parks on
the outskirts of the capital and gave warning that the main problems would be
providing hot drinks and food for 150,000 people in the 12 hours after a nuclear
attack.

Nick Raynsford, the Minister for London, said that the guidance sent to local
authorities was not linked to a "specific threat".

He added: "We do not want to cause alarm. It is part of sensible preparations to
cope with any eventuality.

"In the event of an incident in part of London, there must be contingencies in
place. The aim is not just to help people to leave the city but to provide
information for those authorities receiving them."

Councils will use different modes of transport, including trains and buses, to
get people away from the threatened areas. They have been instructed to post
officials at stations to shepherd fleeing Londoners to the designated shelters.
In the event of a large-scale attack the Army would be called in to calm mass
panic among those heading for the shelters.

Since September 11, emergency services, health experts and local authorities
have been working on mass evacuation plans that could be used in any part of the
capital that comes under attack.

As well as moving a large number of people, a key part of those plans is
ensuring that drugs and other medicial supplies needed to cope with the
aftermath of a chemical or biological strike could be shipped into affected
areas quickly.

Plans are also being drawn up to "swamp" any area of London hit by a terrorist
strike with mobile phone text messages. It would allow all mobile phone users to
be advised instantly on how best to protect themselves.

Ministers say that the technology needed to do so is already available.

Other plans provide for a unified command-and-control centre for emergency
services and a "fallback" police headquarters if New Scotland Yard is rendered
useless.

Buildings that can be used as temporary mortuaries are also being identified.

There have also been discussions with officials from neighbouring counties about
how to deal with aerial fallout spreading from the capital. It is not thought
that there will be mass leafleting of the public in the event of an attack.
Instead, authorities would rely on radio and television broadcasts to keep
people informed of any danger as it arose. Ministers are keen that such
broadcasts do not "overdramatise" the scale of the crisis, thereby contributing
to mass hysteria. A statement yesterday from the Office of the Deputy Prime
Minister said: "These plans are unlikely ever to be used but we have to prepare
for the very worst.

"There is no intelligence which leads us to believe that this is likely but
Government has a duty to plan and to have preparations in place for every
eventuality."


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                  May 16, 2004

Exposed: UK terror attack shambles

BYLINE: MARTIN DELGADO

SECTION: MID; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 345 words


THE Government's antiterrorism measures were under renewed criticism last night
after astonishing failures were revealed in its plans for dealing with the
aftermath of an attack on a British city.

Police, ambulance and fire service communications systems are incompatible with
each other in London and across the UK.

And the capital is at particular risk because police radios do not work in the
Underground thought to be the most likely target for a 'dirty bomb' or poison
gas attack.

The flaws are exposed by the BBC tonight in a fictionalised account of a series
of suicide bombs on the London Underground followed by a chlorine tanker
exploding in the East End.

According to Panorama, emergency workers would encounter huge difficulties in
dealing with hundreds, possibly thousands, of casualties because of
extraordinary failures in their communications equipment.

The 'docu-drama', called London Under Attack, also reveals that the
communications system used by the Civil Contingency Reaction Force a specialist
group of reservists trained in disaster relief work is incompatible with those
used by the 999 services.

In another blow to the Government's strategy, Panorama claims that the Met's
CBRN (chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear) specialist team has only
30 members and that 95 per cent of frontline police officers are untrained to
deal with the aftermath of a terrorist attack.

Intelligence expert Crispin Black said it was 'almost beyond belief' that London
Underground staff had received no training in how to deal with a terrorist
outrage.

Mr Black, who appears in the programme, believed the scenario envisaged by
Panorama 'might be at the lower end of what terrorists might achieve'.

The Home Office said: 'We are disappointed to learn that the BBC appears to have
adopted an irresponsible and alarmist approach.' But the BBC claimed it would be
'irresponsible not to explore the subject, given that the Government and
everyone else in civil defence is warning that an attack is imminent'.

END

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                  May 16, 2004

Fears of terrorist attack on Clyde nuclear subs

BYLINE: VIC RODRICK

SECTION: HI; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 323 words


THE military is to simulate a terrorist attack on a Royal Navy nuclear submarine
in the River Clyde this summer .

The war-game will stage an assault by 'terrorists' using small boats packed with
explosives at the entrance to the naval base at Faslane.

The exercise, mounted by Royal Marines, indicates there are real fears the UK's
nuclear capability could be vulnerable to attack by suicide bombers.

The detonation of a submarine fuelled by weapons grade uranium and carrying
nuclear warheads would cause devastation and thousands of deaths.

A terrorist bomb could detonate the 20 kilos of plastic explosive surrounding
each of the 48 nuclear warheads carried by every Trident class submarine and
ignite thousands of tons of highly volatile rocket fuel. That would vaporise the
10 kilo plutonium cores of the missiles, laying waste to hundreds of square
miles and spreading radioactive fallout over Glasgow and the West of Scotland.

Naval officials said the international military exercise involving 15 countries
was aimed at ensuring NATO ships could ward off a determined suicide attack in
inshore waters.

A spokesman for the Joint Maritime Course exercise said: 'There have been recent
terror boat attacks on ships in the Gulf .

That's why we're doing this exercise. While sailing down the Clyde, ships will
have to fight off simulated attacks by small boats operated by the Royal
Marines.' Scottish CND campaigner Phil Jones, who rammed a boat into HMS
Vanguard when it became the first Trident submarine to come up the Clyde, said:
'Someone could easily get a boat alongside a submarine. I drove an inflatable
craft right onto one.

They do have a police escort but a determined group of people, especially if
they were armed, would have no difficulty.

'Submarines have to spend several hours on the surface going from Faslane out to
sea, so they are incredibly vulnerable to attack.'

END

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 16, 2004

Guards filmed terror camp attacks

BYLINE: David Rose and Gaby Hinsliff

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 708 words


DOZENS of videotapes of US guards allegedly engaged in brutal attacks on
Guantanamo Bay detainees have been stored and catalogued at the camp, an
investigation by The Observer has revealed.

The disclosures, made in an interview with Tarek Dergoul, the fifth British
prisoner freed last March, who has been too traumatised to speak until now,
prompted demands by senior politicians on both sides of the Atlantic to make the
videos available immediately.

They say that if the contents are as shocking as Dergoul claims, they will
provide final proof that brutality against detainees has become an
institutionalised feature of America's war on terror.

In the wake of the furore over the abuses photographed at Abu Ghraib jail in
Iraq, US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has continued to insist they were the
work of a few rogue soldiers, and not a systemic problem.

The disclosures come as the American commander in Iraq, Lieutenant-General
Ricardo Sanchez, announced that he has barred all coercive interrogation
practices, including forcing prisoners into stress positions for long periods
and disrupting their sleep, except in very rare circumstances.

British military police made four arrests over allegations that UK troops abused
Iraqi prisoners. All were later released without charge, pending further
interviews. It is the case of Dergoul, however, that is likely to be the most
damaging. The 26-year-old, from Mile End in east London, spent 22 months at
Guantanamo Bay from May 2002. Today he tells The Observer of repeated assaults
by Camp Delta's punishment squad, known as the Extreme Reaction Force, or ERF.

The attacks, he says, would be prompted by minor infractions, such as refusing
to agree to a third cell search in one day - which he describes as deliberate
provocation. Dergoul tells of one assault by a five-man ERF in shocking terms:
'They pepper-sprayed me in the face and I started vomiting. They pinned me down
and attacked me, poking their fingers in my eyes, and forced my head into the
toilet pan and flushed.

'They tied me up like a beast then were kneeling on me, kicking and punching.
Finally, they dragged me out of the cell in chains, into the rec(reation) yard,
and shaved my beard, my hair, my eyebrows.'

After their release, Shafiq Rasul, Asif Iqbal and Ruhal Ahmed, the so-called
Tipton Three from Staffordshire, told of similar ERF attacks.

Rasul said they led to a verb being coined by detainees: 'to be ERFed'. That, he
said, meant being slammed against a floor by a soldier wielding a riot shield,
pinned to the ground and beaten up by five armed men.

However, it is Dergoul who now reveals that every time the ERFs were deployed, a
sixth team member recorded everything on digital video.

Lieutenant-Colonel Leon Sumpter, the Guantanamo Joint Task Force spokesman,
confirmed this, saying that all ERF actions were filmed so they could be
'reviewed' by senior officers. All the tapes are kept in an archive there. He
refused to say how many times the ERF squads had been used and would not discuss
their training or rules of engagement.

The Observer can also now disclose that a British military interrogator posted
to Abu Ghraib jail raised the alarm about maltreatment of detainees by US troops
as long ago as last March.

While ministers insisted that the three Britons working in the jail did not see
any of the systematic and sadistic abuse, an unnamed lieutenant - trained to
deal only with co-operative witnesses - made an official complaint to US
authorities after seeing what he considered 'rough handling' of prisoners.

But it is the revelations about Guantanamo Bay that are the most damaging for
the White House. Senator Patrick Leahy, senior Democrat on the Senate Judiciary
Committee, an outspoken critic of the Abu Ghraib abuse, said he would demand
that Rumsfeld produce the videos this week.

Menzies Campbell, the Liberal Democrat deputy leader and foreign affairs
spokesman, said: 'The government must demand that these videos be delivered up,
and the truth of these very serious allegations properly determined once and for
all.'

My ordeal in Camp Delta

Interview, pages 8-9

PLUS: Iraq news, 2

David Aaronovitch, 29


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 16, 2004

CHILLING SCENARIO EXPOSES WEAKNESSES THAT MEAN CERTAIN DEATH IN A CHEMICAL
ATTACK; HUGE GAPS IN TERROR RESPONSE

BYLINE: By Andrea Perry Crime Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 283 words


BRITAIN is being left wide open to a chemical attack because the security
services believe it will never happen, the Sunday Express can reveal.

Police and the Government assume terrorists won't launch a chemical attack for
fear of killing or alienating their own supporters.

But a Panorama investigation tonight w ill expose just how ill-prepared
emergency services are to respond.

Home Secretary David Blunkett failed to get the docu-drama toned down after his
department described it as "irresponsible and alarmist".

Jan Berry, chairman of police union the Police Federation said: "There are
officers who have had training but there are an awful lot who have no further
information than you or I."

London Under Attack will depict a day in which thousands are killed and injured
w hen three bombs are detonated on the Underground followed by a chemical
explosion. Experts react to the scenarios but crucial time is lost because of
basic flaws. The programme shows how:

The emergency services don't have a compatible communication system and it
doesn't work underground.

1,500 police officers in London have chemical, biological, radiological and
nuclear training but the expectation is that only 400 would be instantly
available.

Fewer ambulance and fire personnel are CBRN trained.

Schools and care homes have been given no special guidelines and more than half
of businesses have no emergency plan.

The Government has set up plans for a Civil Contingency Reaction Force of 6,000
Territorial Army members but 1,000 of them are serving in Iraq and the rest are
scattered around the country. The expectation is it would take 12 hours to
mobilise just 100.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 17, 2004, Monday

THE WEEKEND'S TELEVISION: SOME CAPITAL TIPS FOR TERRORISTS;
 PANORAMA: LONDON UNDER ATTACK SUN BBC1 LONDON: THE CROWD FRI BBC2

BYLINE: THOMAS SUTCLIFFE

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 627 words


I WAS so unsettled by Panorama's hypothetical disaster movie, "London Under
Attack", that I began having flashbacks. The command-centre set - staffed with
politicians, civil-defence experts and ex-spooks - swirled and vanished, to be
replaced by the vision of Private Frazer from Dad's Army, eyes rolling wildly in
his head as he intoned the words "We're all doomed".

And then I found myself looking at another of the black title cards with which
the programme underlined our abject state of unreadiness for an al-Qa'ida
spectacular. "The National siren network was dismantled in 1992/1993 and has not
been replaced," read one. What! No sirens! How will we know when to panic?! Back
came Private Frazer, patron saint of terrier- like pessimism.

The success of disaster movies makes it pretty clear that the public enjoys
having its blood curdled, even when the curdling agent is a genuine threat. But
the large question is whether the curdled blood provokes any useful action. This
had occurred to some of those who took part in the film: "I am wondering about
the purpose and effect of this very programme," said Michael Portillo, over the
closing credits. "It will alarm people, but may lead decision-makers to think
again."

But what were they supposed to think again? The film's findings were hardly a
scandal. "You would have to rely on my judgement at the time," said a London
Underground driver, outraged that he had received no training to deal with a
large-scale attack. Yet how many different contingencies would you train him
for? And how could you be sure that the training met the chaos of a real
atrocity?

There were more substantive gaps in our defences - not enough helicopters to
cope with post-attack gridlock, etc - but you couldn't help feeling that every
weakness identified was also an opportunity advertised. One assumed that
al-Qa'ida had already thought of bombs on Tube trains and maybe also fantasised
about blowing up a chlorine tanker in central London. But I bet the sales pitch
for mass murder has never been quite as polished and persuasive.

They perhaps didn't know, either, that there was a "Best Bombed Before" date on
some of their plans. The Fire Brigade won't have its new search- and-rescue
vehicles until September, so anyone who sought to bring death to the infidels
would have learned that they had to get their skates on.

Watching a digitally-conjured cloud of chlorine gas drifting along Bishopsgate,
I couldn't help thinking of "The Crowd", the second part of Peter Ackroyd's
London, because he could certainly reel off a list of historic miasmas that have
afflicted the city in the past. In the first episode of this engaging series,
Ackroyd came across as mildly deranged, a cross between a cashiered Indian major
and an inner-city shaman. He wandered around talking darkly about "ancient
imperatives", "instincts" and London's "animal will", the sort of street
mutterer who'd make you cross to the other pavement if you encountered him in
real life.

He'd calmed down this week, which made it easier to spot the series' virtues.
Ackroyd unpeeled London like an onion - showing you how its blemishes and street
patterns repeated on every historical layer - and he never forgot the dark side
in his passion for the city. This week, a hymn to the carnival scent of roast
pork in Bartholomew Fair flowed queasily into a description of the martyr
burnings that occurred on the same spot.

The series looks good, too: the cliche of speeded-up street footage had a
function - to squeeze a lot of topography into a small space - and the
projection of archive footage and reconstructions on to buildings was a lovely
device, a confusion of past and present which matched the mood exactly.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 17, 2004, Monday

Panorama's nightmarish film simulated a major terrorist attack on London. But
this was more than just scare-mongering

BYLINE: Paul Hoggart

SECTION: Features; Times2; 22

LENGTH: 926 words


The BBC has developed a taste for pseudo-documentaries in which it recreates
imaginary public disasters. The Britain of the near future has been ravaged by
smallpox, power cuts, lethal traffic gridlock and clouds of mutated killer
pollen.

OK, I made the last one up, but it could happen. I met this bloke down the pub
who said ...

These are small-screen, low-budget equivalents of Hollywood doomsday films where
civilisation is wiped out by asteroids, killer viruses or global warming. The
difference is that in the interests of public service broadcasting, the BBC's
doom-mongering is usually presented as a wake-up call to a complacent
government.

Many (though by no means all) of these spine chillers have been greeted with
derision, for the dodgy premises of the scenarios, the lamentable acting, or
both.

So it was quite brave of Panorama (BBC One, Sunday) to run its own disaster
simulation in London Under Attack. This time, one feels, they were not crying
wolf, but asking what the heck would happen, if and when a wolf actually gets
into the sheep-pen.

The programme reminded us that in the past two years the Prime Minister, the
Director-General of MI5, the assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan Police
and the Home Secretary have all said that a successful terrorist attack on the
UK, probably in London, is inevitable. However well the intelligence war is
conducted, someone who wants to kill as many of us as possible will eventually
slip through the net.

A cynic might say that such generalised alarm provided the Government with a
convenient blank cheque for all sorts of infringements of our civil liberties,
though if they thought that in Madrid, they will have changed their minds now.
It also serves to give us the impression that the Government takes this matter
very seriously, and that contingency plans should therefore be well in hand.
What this Panorama showed us emphatically was that this is not the case.

The programme imagined that three bombs went off on crowded Underground trains
in quick succession, strategically placed to bring the entire network to a halt.

Since this is far fewer bombs than exploded in Madrid the scenario is far from
outlandish. Shortly afterwards a tanker full of chlorine was blown up near
Liverpool Street, spreading a cloud of toxic gas through east London.

Simulated 24-hour news coverage talked us through the mounting crisis, as a
panel of experts discussed likely developments and the problems they would
raise. It was not reassuring. Underground workers have no training in dealing
with emergencies.

Firemen, paramedics and police would struggle to get to the victims trapped in
the darkened Tube trains. Their radios don't work underground, and anyway, they
all have different and incompatible systems.

Traffic would seize up. There is only one air ambulance in London. The police
would be hopelessly over-stretched. Military reservists are not trained to help
and take 12 hours to call up. A tiny proportion of the emergency services is
equipped to work in protective clothing, which severely reduces effectiveness
anyway. The hospitals would be overwhelmed by the number of casualties.

Most businesses do not have contingency plans for such emergencies either,
although well-rehearsed evacuation drills, apparently, saved thousands of lives
when the planes hit the Twin Towers. Clearly the first priority for the
Government is the intelligence war. But if an attack really is inevitable,
surely they could deal with at least some of the problems raised in this
programme? The acting in the simulations was as terrible as ever, but under the
circumstances we should probably let that pass.

Polluted, toxic, violent and crowded, the London of the late 19th century was
vile enough without terrorist intervention, yet, as Vincent: The Full Story
(Channel 4, Sunday) reminded us, Van Gogh spent the happiest year of his life
here, lodging in Brixton and walking to work in Covent Garden every day.

This three-part biography is presented with boyish enthusiasm by Waldemar
Januszczak, who is probably the only presenter on British TV with a four
consonant cluster in the middle of his name. I am still not sure how to
pronounce it, but am told that the correct response is "Bless you!"
Januszc...-let's just call him Jazzer, like the Scottish yob in The Archers -his
story was stuffed with bizarre and alarming details, none of which were covered
by Rolf Harris when he did his lurid version of his self-portrait. Vincent was a
neurotic, scruffy, self-flagellating, religious maniac loser, who failed at
everything except, eventually, his art.

Yet Jazzer kept showing the links between his strange obsessions and the
wonderful paintings that followed. The result was grimly entertaining,
depressing and illuminating all at once, which was also true, though less
dramatically so, of Football Diaries (BBC Two, Sunday).

I had expected to be bored senseless by this series, but caught up with it and
was pleasantly surprised by the dry, sceptical approach to a game which
generates more hot air than a beauty salon. The sports writer and Weymouth
chairman, Ian Ridley, discussed his players' interests. "They sit around all day
drinking and watching telly," he said sourly. "We had a quiz night recently and
they did really well on the children's television questions." Footballers' Wives
has missed a trick there.

"Jason! Get in the sauna and seduce my Mum, will you?" "Shut it,
Gewurtztraminer! I'm watching "Teletubbies!"


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  May 18, 2004

TERROR NERVE GAS ATTACK ON TROOPS

BYLINE: by NEIL CHANDLER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 259 words


TERRORIST fanatics have used a chemical weapon against US troops in Iraq, it was
revealed last night.

A roadside bomb exposed two bomb disposal experts to the nerve agent sarin when
it detonated.

The ambush signals a dangerous escalation in the battle against UK and US
troops. As militia attacks on British forces increase, military sources said
they were worried to learn the Iraqi rebels had access to terror weapons.

Iraqi fighters had rigged the 155-millimetre artillery shell filled with the
Nazi nerve gas, but only a small amount was released and it caused no injuries.

It is the first weapon of mass destruction found in Iraq.

Prime Minister Tony Blair and President Bush said their main reason to topple
Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein was because he was developing such weapons.

US military spokesman Brig Gen Mark Kimmitt said: "The round had been rigged as
an IED (improvised explosive device) which was discovered by a US force convoy.

"A detonation occurred before the IED could be rendered inoperable.

"This produced a very small dispersal of agent."

The shell contained two sections filled with different chemicals.

They combine to produce sarin, first developed by Nazi scientists in the 1930s.

A single pinprick-sized drop of sarin, which is around 25 times more deadly than
cyanide, will cause a quick, painful, choking death.

Brig Gen Kimmitt added: "Two explosive ordinance team members were treated for
minor exposure to nerve agent as a result of the partial detonation of the
round."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                  May 18, 2004

ATTACK: My terror at hands of mob

LENGTH: 507 words


TWO men, who were attacked by a baying mob that went on the rampage, today spoke
of their terror.

Ahmed Adil (22) and Abass Hamid (25) were struck with cricket bats and a hammer
after violence erupted in Gladstone Street, Peterborough.

They were also warned to get out of the house or face more violence by the mob,
which laid siege to a row of homes, breaking windows and doors and smashing up
cars.

Mr Hamid was struck with a hammer just above his eye and had to flee in terror
to a neighbouring home.

Mr Adil said the mob originally targeted their next-door property, at about 10pm
on Sunday, where he claimed the residents had caused problems with rowdy
behaviour.

But when the crowd discovered the occupants had moved on two days previously,
they turned their anger on nearby properties.

Mr Adil, an Iraqi Kurd, who came to the UK three years ago, said: "We just said,
'Don't break our windows', but they wouldn't listen, and they threw rocks
through the glass.

"They had cricket bats and a hammer and we got punched and hit. I was scared.

"We were told to move. or this would happen again, but we have nowhere to go. We
have been picked on for no reason."

Mr Hamid later received stitches to a head wound and treatment for a shoulder
injury at Peterborough District Hospital, caused by hammer blows.

The men claimed part of the motivation for the attack was because they are Iraqi
Kurds and viewed as allied with the US-led military action in Iraq.

The war has divided opinion in the country as a whole, but has been seen as a
war on Islam in some sections of the Muslim community.

Another resident, Nematollah Sarvari (20), who moved to Peterborough from
Afghanistan in June 2001, said his house was also attacked and his car smashed
up.

He said: "I called the police and said, 'Come and help me. I think they are
going to kill me'."

Meanwhile, city councillor Harmesh Lakhanpaul, who is director of Peterborough
Racial Equality Council, called for calm.

He said: "It is not right that anyone should say, 'You can't live here'. It
needs to be established what the real reasons are behind this.

"It is not the first time there has been a confrontation between Pakistani youth
and Iraqi Kurds, and there have been minor to serious skirmishes before. I call
for calm and a cool response to the situation from all agencies, including the
police."

But Abdul Choudhuri, chairman of the Peterborough Muslim Organisation, said:
"There is not a shred of truth in the claim that the Pakistani community has
anything against Iraqi Kurds.

"Kurdish people who live in Peterborough are being housed by the Pakistani
community, and there are no tensions being caused by the position in Iraq."

Inspector Steve Welby, of Peterborough police, said: "We are still looking for
witnesses to this incident. There were a lot of people there that night, and a
lot who were not involved but looking on.

"Smashing windows and houses and cars are criminal offences and need dealing
with."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 20, 2004, Thursday

For a moment it seemed that fears of a terrorist attack had come true

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan George Jones and Sarah Womack

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 875 words

TONY Blair was in full flow, answering a taunt from Michael Howard about being
"stitched up like a kipper" by Gordon Brown, when a projectile struck him
between the shoulder blades. A cascade of purple powder sprayed over the
Chancellor and the other senior ministers sitting beside him on the Government
front bench.

Above him in the public gallery there were shouts and a struggle. Two men could
be seen screaming towards the Prime Minister. One hurled something at the
Government front bench, protected by his accomplice who grappled with the
Commons door-keeper.

As a small explosion of dust burst over the heads of Labour MPs, leaving them
coughing and waving their papers to clear the purple haze from the air, the
Speaker, Michael Martin, ordered the sitting to be suspended and the Chamber was
cleared.

The Principal Doorkeeper, who directs the team of former non-commissioned
officers and policemen responsible for security in the Chamber, could be seen
frantically ordering his staff from below to rush to the scene.

Some MPs recalled later that for a moment it seemed that the MI5 warnings of a
terrorist attack on the Commons had come true. "Oh my God, here we go. This is
what they've warned us about," one Tory whip thought.

Instead it was a stunt by demonstrators protesting at the treatment of divorced
fathers. The attack at 12.18pm came weeks after a pounds 600,000 glass screen
was installed to protect MPs from a chemical or biological attack.

However, the protesters had been admitted to a special visitors' gallery,
outside the security screen, on tickets provided by a Labour peer, Lady Golding,
through a charity auction. She had been required to vouch for their good
behaviour and later offered her "unreserved apologies" to MPs.

MI5 had warned that without the screen a terrorist could potentially wipe out
most of the Cabinet at a stroke during Wednesday's weekly Prime Minister's
Questions. As the dust settled yesterday, Mr Blair looked briefly startled,
before collecting his papers and moving towards the exit, followed by the
Chancellor.

As he made his way the Prime Minister, sporting a streak of purple powder down
the back of his suit, smiled over at Mr Howard, with whom he had been locked in
a rowdy exchange about the impact of oil prices. Behind the Speaker's chair Mr
Blair made light of the incident, assuring him: "That was nothing to do with me.
I didn't organise it." Mr Howard replied: "For once I believe you."

Once through the double doors, Mr Blair and Mr Brown were ordered by staff to
remove their jackets and hand them over for analysis, amid fears that the dust
might be a chemical or biological agent. The Prime Minister went to his Commons
office.

Back in the Chamber, the Deputy Prime Minister, John Prescott, led frantic
attempts to contain the dust that covered the floor between the table and the
Government front bench by covering it with papers. Mr Prescott ordered his
colleagues away from the area.

Over on the Tory benches David Maclean, the Opposition chief whip, had taken
charge of clearing his MPs.

Waving the shepherd's crook he uses to help him cope with multiple sclerosis, he
could be heard urging them: "Get out, out, quickly now." Richard Ottaway (C,
Croydon S) said MPs were "just told to get the heck out". He added: "We didn't
need a second invitation."

Out in the Members' Lobby, MPs milled around, some dusting their clothes. There
were private complaints at the way the situation had been handled, with some
questioning the wisdom of allowing potentially contaminated MPs to leave the
chamber.

The projectiles used by the protesters from Fathers 4 Justice turned out to be
condoms filled with flour that had been coloured purple - the colour adopted by
the group.

One of the demonstrators also held up a poster that appeared to be upside down.
They were quickly hustled away by the Commons doorkeepers, but not before they
had shown up another glaring breach in Commons security.

Although the protesters had been through detectors for metal or explosives, the
flour and condoms stuffed down their trousers were not picked up by the
machines.

The condoms are believed to have been thrown by Ron Davis, who is protesting
about lack of access to his children. He was heard to shout: "I haven't seen my
daughter for five years."

The visitors in the galleries included a delegation from the Palestinian
Legislative Council. Only minutes before Mr Blair had reassured them that the
noisy exchanges with Mr Howard were not representative of Parliament.

The Speaker and a representative of the Tory front bench visited Mr Blair to
tell him that the House would remain suspended while the powder was
investigated. It was decided that when the Commons resumed business at 1.30pm
PMQs would be abandoned.

When the Commons re-assembled Mr Martin told MPs the substance had been found
"not to be harmful". He suspended the right of peers to sponsor visitors to the
Commons chamber.

As MPs tried to raise points of order, Mr Martin said: "This House has been
disrupted. Prime Minister's Question Time has been stopped. I think the best
thing we could do is get back to business as usual." Business resumed with a
10-minute rule Bill on mobile phone masts.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                  May 20, 2004

Man stabbed 12 times in terror attack;Police appeal for witnesses after ordeal

BYLINE: By Wendy Miller

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 412 words


POLICE have stepped up an appeal for witnesses to a frenzied knife attack on a
young disabled man.

The 31-year-old was stabbed 12 times by a masked gang who jumped out of a car
and set about him as he walked home from a night out with pals.

Today as he recovered at home the victim, who is too scared to be named, thanked
his best friend for saving his life.

He said: "I owe my best friend my life. He was about 50 yards behind me when I
was attacked.

"He stayed with me until the ambulance came, held me between his knees, put his
T-shirt over me and kept me awake.

"I was stabbed over and over again.

I didn't know what was happening."

The man, who has difficulty walking due to a twisted knee, believes he was just
in the wrong place at the wrong time.

He was rushed to Hairmyres Hospital in East Kilbride for emergency surgery and
treated for serious stab wounds to his back, chest area, stomach, legs and arms.

His worried parents were at his bedside until he was released six days later.

He said: The nurses in the hospital told me it was touch and go for the first
few hours after I was brought in. I was lucky to make it.

"I've still got stitches in my stomach and it hurts a lot.

"The painkillers are not really helping but I am feeling much better than I
did."

The attack took place in Margaret Road, Whitehill, Hamilton just before 2am on
Saturday, May 8.

The victim had been out with friends in nearby Harvey's Bar and was on his way
home when a gang jumped out of a black car which had pulled up beside him.

Three men wearing balaclavas knifed him 12 times before leaving him in a pool of
blood.

They then fled at high speed in the car along Hamilton's Auchinraith Avenue.

Police are keen to talk to a group of youths who were in the area at the time.

Detective Constable Colin McLean of Hamilton CID, who is leading the hunt for
the

attackers, said: "The inquiry is certainly

progressing but there are still a lot of questions unanswered.

"We believe a large group of young boys were standing nearby, and they may know
the identities of the men who carried out this vicious attack.

"I would urge them to call me immediately. We would like to speak to anyone who
can identify the black car or the men who jumped into it and sped off."

Anyone with information is urged to contact Hamilton CID on 01698 483 300 or
call

Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111. The call can be anonymous.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                  May 20, 2004

Robber grabs bag in terror attack

LENGTH: 157 words


A COMMUNITY leader in Accrington was left 'traumatised' after being mugged at
the weekend.

The 59-year-old who has not been identified by police is said to have been a
member of two 'worthwhile committees' in the area.

During the attack the victim had her bag stolen.

It contained a set of earrings which had a sentimental value.

Police are appealing for any witnesses to the crime to come forward.

They say the woman was walking with her husband in Pickup Street when a white
van pulled up across the street.

A man ran out and asked to borrow her mobile phone.

He then snatched her bag which contained cash cards house keys a phone top-up
card and the earrings which were silver in the shape of crosses with small
stones on the surface.

During the robbery the victim received a bruised hand.

The robber was tall young and wearing dark clothing. It is believed the van was
driven by another man.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 23, 2004

ROYAL WEDDING JOY AFTER THE SORROW OF TERRORIST ATTACKS; MADRID SMILES AGAIN

BYLINE: By David Paul

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  31

LENGTH: 622 words


JOY returned to Madrid yesterday - 10 weeks after the city wept for the 200
victims of the Al Qaeda train bombings.

In contrast to the grief and despair that followed the terrorist atrocity,
thousands of happy well-wishers gathered outside the Almudena Cathedral for the
royal wedding of the year as Spain's Crown Prince Felipe Borbon wed former TV
news reader Letizia Ortiz.

The guest list of 1,400 included 30 heads of state and several monarchs, not to
mention Prince Charles, who was there to represent the Queen, and Nelson
Mandela.

But like most weddings, not everything went quite to plan - the groom forgot his
lines, the city's archbishop fluffed his big moment and the choir was almost
drowned out by a thunderstorm.

The crowd at the cathedral hoped to catch a glimpse of 31-yearold divorcee
Letizia, who only began dating the heir to the Spanish throne 12 months ago.

But the torrential rain meant her limousine had to drive right up to the door to
avoid soaking her stunning off-white gown, complete with head-to-toe veil and
15ft embroidered train.

Performing Spain's first royal wedding for 98 years proved to be a nerve-racking
affair for Archbishop Rouco Varela.

The ceremony included the re-enactment of a centuries old custom in which the
bride and groom exchange ancient gold coins as a symbol of the possessions they
will share. But the archbishop dropped the money as he handed it to the crown
prince.

The 6ft 7in groom, wearing the crisp blue uniform of a Spanish army major, then
forgot the words he was supposed to say to his bride at the altar and had to
look down at a set of notes on a stand.

Things were not going quite to plan at the back of the cathedral either.

Crown Prince Felipe's five-yearold nephew, also called Felipe, was one of nine
page boys and bridesmaids. Not over impressed by the pomp and pageantry of the
event, he ran across the cathedral and took a well-aimed kick at his sister,
Victoria Federica.

The page boys had already caused much amusement to the assembled guests by
refusing to do anything they were told.

Moments before the ceremony began, three cracks of thunder echoed through the
cathedral and throughout the service rain was heard bouncing off the domed roof.

But despite the dismal weather and the slight hitches on their big day, it was
clear that the prince and his bride - the first commoner in line to be queen in
Spain's history - are in love. The bride, now officially known as Princess
Letizia of Asturias, tenderly placed her head on her husband's shoulder as they
emerged to greet the crowds.

The princess was previously married to a literature teacher, but was divorced
after less than a year.

Her first wedding was a civil ceremony, so she was given permission by the Roman
Catholic Church for yesterday's cathedral service.

The rain finally stopped just as the couple climbed into a vintage,
armour-plated black Rolls-Royce for a tour of the city.

Tens of thousands of people took to the streets waving tiny red and yellow
Spanish flags.

Restaurant owner Santos Sanchez said: "If I could, I would open a bottle of
champagne and offer them a toast. I wish them lots of luck."

In the wake of March's terror attacks, security was extraordinarily tight for
the wedding.

A total of 20,000 police were on duty, with one officer stationed every six feet
along the route of the wedding motorcade.

Marksmen stood on rooftops and F-18 fighter jets and two AWACS surveillance
planes patrolled the skies.

The procession ended at a church where the bride, honouring Spanish royal
tradition, left her bouquet of white lilies of the valley and roses to pay
homage to a statue of the Virgin Mary.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                              May 24, 2004, Monday

GIRL,17, IN ALLEY RAPE HORROR;
 TEENAGER DRAGGED OFF STREET TERROR SCENE: The alley where the attack happened
(above) and on the far right in Bolingbroke Road (right)

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS

LENGTH: 275 words


A 17-YEAR-OLD girl was dragged into an alleyway in Coventry and raped in the
early hours yesterday.

The teenager was walking in Bolingbroke Road in Stoke between 1.30-2am when she
was attacked by a man who fled with her tights and top.

After the attack a couple of people walked past but did nothing to help, police
said today.

Detectives are also investigating another attack on a woman, who was beaten up
in daylight as she went for a morning walk in Wyken.

Police hunting the rapist of the 17-year-old girl today urged any witnesses to
come forward.

DC James Hempstock, of Chace Avenue CID, said: "I know from speaking to the
victim that just after it happened a couple of people passed her in the street
and she was visibly shaken and upset, but nobody went to her assistance.

"I would ask for those people to come forward or any other witnesses in the
Stoke Green area at that time."

He said the rapist took his victim's tights and her black sleeveless top with a
clasp on the right shoulder, with him after the attack, probably in a bid to get
rid of forensic evidence.

The victim spent most of yesterday being interviewed by police.

She told detectives the attacker was white, in his early 20s, about 5ft 6in, and
he had an Irish accent. He had short dark hair and a black right eye which
appeared to be a fresh injury.

He also had a cut on his left arm. He was wearing a red T-shirt and blue jeans.
He was seen running off down Bolingbroke Road.

Anyone with information is asked to call police at Chace Avenue on 024 7653
9416, 0845 113 5000 or the anonymous Crimestoppers hotline on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              May 24, 2004, Monday

TERROR ATTACKS WARNING

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 121 words


THE Australian government warned yesterday that terrorists were planning attacks
against Western targets in Indonesia.

In a travel warning on its official website, the Department of Foreign Affairs
and Trade warned Australians to defer non-essential travel to
Indonesia,including the island of Bali, scene of the October 12, 2002, nightclub
bombings that killed 202 people, including 88 Australians. "We continue to
receive reports that further attacks are being planned against a variety of
targets," the government warned.

"Australians in Indonesia concerned for their security should consider
departing," the warning added.

The government said travellers should exercise particular caution in Jakarta.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Firefighters inspect debris at the 2E passenger terminal after a
section of the roof collapsed at Charles de Gaulle airport in Roissy,north of
Paris, yesterday Picture: JACQUES BRINON

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                  May 26, 2004

West facing attack from 18,000 terrorists

BYLINE: David Perry

SECTION: News; Politics; MPs; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 642 words


More than 18,000 al Qaida terrorists are waiting for the order to attack targets
in Europe and the US, preferably with weapons of mass destruction, a leading
London think tank said last night.  The respected International Institute for
Strategic Studies (IISS) warned the war in Iraq had strengthened the terror
network headed by Osama bin Laden.

The assessment of the terror threat in the IISS annual strategic survey brought
a new warning that although an attack in the north and north-east was less
likely than one in London, there were key targets which were at some risk.

Terrorism expert David Capitanchik, of the Robert Gordon University, Aberdeen,
said offshore oil installations were not at the top of the list because they
were inaccessible, but "places like the gas terminal at St Fergus and the oil
refinery complex at Grangemouth are potential targets because they are of
crucial importance since the whole of the UK would be affected if they were
damaged".

Mr Capitanchik said he was sceptical of the IISS estimate of al Qaida numbers,
despite their gaining a new base with Baathist rebels in Iraq after losing their
home in Afghanistan.

He claimed surveillance and counter-terrorist intelligence in the west had
improved enormously since the attack on the World Trade Centre in New York which
meant that although al Qaida was a real threat, it was less effective.

Mr Capitanchik said the threats of the use of weapons of mass destruction,
including biological attacks, had so far failed to materialise, adding: "There
is no doubt about it, they do present a threat and they would present a much
more serious threat were it not for the effect that counter-terrorism measures
have improved so much, particularly the sharing of intelligence." Mr Capitanchik
said the biggest danger now was, that if precautions prevented attacks, "people
will say they are not a threat and relax their guard", since anti-terror
measures were costly.

Aberdeen North Labour MP Malcolm Savidge, convener of the Commons all-party
group concerned about weapons of mass destruction, said Britain had been low on
the terrorists' hit list but had risen to second place after the US as a result
of the Iraq war and Britain's perceived anti-Arab foreign policies.

He said the estimate of al Qaida strength was "at best a guess" but that bodies
like IISS, of which he is a member "have to be taken seriously because they are
the leading organisation in this area".

Mr Savidge added: "The danger to people in the north and north-east is more
likely to be when they are holidaying abroad or visiting central tourist
attractions such as the Houses of Parliament.

"As last week's purple flour incident with the prime minister illustrates,
security cannot be perfect even somewhere like the Commons." The ISS report said
al Qaida still had a functioning leadership despite the deaths or capture of key
figures, and operates in more than 60 nations.

"Al Qaida must be expected to keep trying to develop more promising plans for
terrorist operations in North America and Europe, potentially involving weapons
of mass destruction," IISS director John Chipman said in London.

"Meanwhile, soft targets encompassing Americans, Europeans and Israelis, and
aiding the insurgency in Iraq, will suffice." The estimate of 18,000 fighters
was based on intelligence that al Qaida trained at least 20,000 fighters in
camps in Afghanistan before the US and its allies ousted the Taliban. Some 2,000
al Qaida fighters were killed or captured in the war.

The US remains al Qaida's prime target in a war it portrays as a cataclysmic
clash between civilisations where no compromise is possible, the report said. An
al Qaida leader has said 4million Americans will have to be killed "as a
prerequisite to any Islamic victory", the survey said.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2004 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  May 26, 2004

Al Qaida 'Has 18,000 Terrorists Waiting To Attack' Targets Across Us And Europe

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 311 words


Al Qaida has more than 18,000 terrorists waiting for the order to attack targets
in Europe and the US, preferably with weapons of mass destruction, a leading
think-tank said yesterday.  The war in Iraq has "focused the energies and
resources of al Qaida and its followers while diluting those of the global
counter-terrorism coalition", the International Institute for Strategic Studies
argued.

Despite the killing or capture of around 2,000 al Qaida fighters, including some
key figures, the group remains a powerhouse for Islamic terrorists operating in
more than 60 countries, the IISS annual Strategic Survey warned.

"The Madrid bombings in March 2004 suggested that al Qaida had fully
reconstituted, set its sights firmly on the US and its closest western allies in
Europe, and established a new and effective modus operandi that increasingly
exploited local affiliates," IISS director John Chipman told a London press
conference. "Al Qaida must be expected to keep trying to develop more promising
plans for terrorist operations in North America and Europe, potentially
involving weapons of mass destruction.

"Meanwhile, soft targets encompassing Americans, Europeans and Israelis, and
aiding the insurgency in Iraq, will suffice." The IISS's 18,000 figure is based
on intelligence estimates that al Qaida trained at least 20,000 fighters in its
camps in Afghanistan before the United States and its allies ousted the Taliban
regime.

Much damage has also been inflicted upon political and military affairs across
Europe since the Iraq war began in March 2003, the IISS contends.

The report said: "Politically, it split the US and major continental European
powers, leaving the United Kingdom uncomfortably in the middle, and induced
uncertainty in other governments about the extent of any contribution to the
post-conflict effort."

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 26, 2004

18,000 Terrorists Set For Attacks

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 205 words


Al-qaeda has more than 18,000 terrorists waiting for the order to attack targets
in Europe and the US, preferably with weapons of mass destruction, a leading
London think-tank warned yesterday.  The drawing power of the terror network's
multi-millionaire leader Osama bin Laden is as strong as ever - boosted by the
war in Iraq, said the International Institute for Strategic Studies.

The ISSS warned in its annual strategic survey that al-Qaeda would keep trying
to develop plans for attacks.

The group still has a functioning leadership despite the deaths or capture of
key figures and estimates suggest it operates in more than 60 nations, the
report states "Al-Qaeda must be expected to keep trying to develop more
promising plans for terrorist operations in North America and Europe,
potentially involving weapons of mass destruction," IISS director John Chipman
said in London "Meanwhile, soft targets encompassing Americans, Europeans and
Israelis, and aiding the insurgency in Iraq, will suffice," he added.

The estimate of 18,000 fighters was based on intelligence estimates that at
least 20,000 were trained at al-Qaeda camps in Afghanistan before the US and its
allies ousted the Taliban regime.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004 2605WESTDP26218T00

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

AL QAIDA PLANNING US TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: MARK SAGE

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 406 words


Al QAIDA is planning an attack on US soil "in the next few months",US Attorney
General John Ashcroft said yesterday.

Citing "multiple sources", Mr Ashcroft said Osama bin Laden's terror groupmay
use a series of high profile events in the coming months to launch a spectacular
attack.

He said at a news conference in Washington: "Credible intelligence from multiple
sources indicates that al Qaida plans to attempt an attack on the United States
in the next few months.

"This disturbing intelligence indicates al Qaida's specificintention to hit the
US hard."

Pictures of seven people were shown at the news conferenceand the FBI appealed
for information to find them.

They were described as a "clear and present danger" to the US.

Mr Ashcroft said: "Just after New Year,al Qaida announced openly that
preparations for an attack on the United States were 70% complete.

"After the March 11attack in Madrid,an al Qaida spokesman announced that 90% of
the arrangements for an attack on the United States were complete."

Mr Ashcroft said al Qaida believed that the Madrid train bombings, which killed
nearly 200 people,had "advanced their cause".

He said: "Al Qaida may perceive that a large scale attack in the United States
this summer or fall would lead to similar consequences."

He said forthcoming events could prove an "attractive target" for terrorists.

These include the G8 summit in Georgia and the political party conventions in
Boston and New York.

Mr Ashcroft said: "We ask our fellow citizens to be on the lookout for
individuals and in specific for each of these seven individuals that are
associated with al Qaida.

"They all are sought in connection with the possible terrorist threats in the
United States, they allpose a clearand present danger to America, they all
shouldbe considered armed and dangerous."

The FBI has developed a 2004Threat Task Force to counter the current threat.

Some 84national joint terrorism groups have been requested to gather and report
more intelligence to the task force.

Mr Ashcroft said the US government was seeking "unprecedented levels of
co-operationamong law-enforcement bodies" so the US could "act decisively to
disrupt any al Qaida presence in the United States".

Mr Ashcroft insisted that America was "winning the war on terror".

"But we should never forget that it is a war.Fighting terrorists is a tough
business."

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Derbyshire Times

                                  May 27, 2004

Teenager's terror sex attack ordeal

LENGTH: 183 words


A terrified teenager has been sexually assaulted while taking an early evening
walk in Old Whittington.

A terrified teenager has been sexually assaulted while taking an early evening
walk in Old Whittington.

The 16-year-old was walking along Broomhill Road, at 7.35pm, on Tuesday, when
she was approached by a man.

He followed her, blocked her path and then grabbed and indecently assaulted the
girl.

However, she managed to struggle free and ran to a friend's home where she
raised the alarm.

A police spokesman said: "The girl was uninjured as a result of the incident but
left very frightened.

"We would appeal to anyone who was in the area who may have seen something
suspicious to contact the police immediately."

The man is described as a white male in his 20s, of slim build with short curly
ginger hair.

He had a pock-marked face and a prominent nose and was wearing a faded, light
blue puffa jacket, light blue jeans and trainers.

* Anyone with information can contact Derbyshire police on 0845 123 33 33 or
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 27, 2004

War on terror 'attack on human rights';Amnesty report claims offensive has made
world more dangerous

BYLINE: Deborah Summers Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 491 words


THE war on terror has resulted in the most sustained attack on human rights and
international law in 50 years, Amnesty International said yesterday.

The organisation said the US-led offensive had made the world a more dangerous
place and it branded the strategy as being "bankrupt of vision".

Irene Khan, the secretary-general of the human rights group, condemned terrorist
assaults by groups such as al Qaeda, saying they threatened security of people
around the world.

However, she criticised governments in the "coalition of the willing" for
ignoring international laws and sacrificing human rights in the blind pursuit of
security.

In its annual report, published yesterday, Amnesty cited hundreds of foreign
nationals in indefinite detention without charge or trial in US custody at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. It also details alleged unlawful killings of civilians by
coalition troops in Iraq and allegations of abuse of Iraqi prisoners by US
troops.

Amnesty said hundreds of civilians were killed and thousands injured in last
year's coalition invasion of Iraq. Thousands then were arrested and detained
without charge.

"Many civilians were killed as a result of excessive use of force by coalition
forces," the report said.

"Torture and ill-treatment by coalition forces were wide-spread. Coalition
forces failed to live up fully to their responsibilities under international
humanitarian law as occupying powers, including their duty to restore and
maintain public order and safety, and to provide food, medical care and relief
assistance."

It singled out the Abu Ghraib prison and the now-closed Camp Cropper at Baghdad
airport, where prisoners were "invariably denied access to family or lawyers".

At a news conference, Ms Khan said: "The global security agenda promoted by the
US administration is bankrupt of vision and bereft of principle. Violating
rights at home, turning a blind eye to abuses abroad, and using pre-emptive
military force where and when it chooses have damaged justice and freedom, and
made the world more dangerous."

Ms Khan said Amnesty In-ternational wrote to the British and US governments a
year ago detailing reports of torture, ill-treatment, deaths in custody and
other abuses in Iraq. "We have some form of response from the British and none
to this date from the Americans," she said. "It seems that accountability in
Washington DC is better generated by Kodak."

The report also criticised Spain, France and Uzbekistan, for "regressive" anti
-terrorist legislation and restrictions on freedom since the September 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks.

Britain was singled out for holding 14 foreign nationals without charge or trial
and was also criticised for tough policies on asylum seekers. Downing Street
last night said the government would respond to the report after studying it in
full.

The White House claimed the war on terror had saved millions of lives.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

MAJOR' TERROR ATTACKS LIKELY IN THE SUMMER, WARNS US

BYLINE: RUPERT CORNWELL IN WASHINGTON John Ashcroft: Will urge Americans to be
on alert

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 506 words


MAJOR TERRORIST attacks are more likely in the US this summer, committed by
al-Qa'ida operatives already inside the country, the Bush administration warned
yesterday.

US security services had been picking up "a continuous stream of reporting",
suggesting such attacks might be in the offing, Tom Ridge, the Homeland Security
Secretary, said.

The so-called "chatter" picked up by eavesdropping and other electronic
surveillance was more intense than at any time since 11 September 2001, one
official said.

John Ashcroft, the Attorney General, and the FBI director Robert Mueller, are
expected to hold a news conference urging Americans to be on the alert for
suspected al-Qa'ida operatives who might be involved in a plot. As usual, there
are no specifics about precisely where or when a strike might come, and Mr Ridge
said the colour-coded national terror alert will not be raised from its current
level of yellow, or "elevated".

The list of high-profile events this summer that would make obvious targets is
unusually long, starting this weekend with the official dedication ceremony for
Washington's new Second World War memorial, to be attended by President George
Bush and several former presidents.

In June, G8 leaders hold their annual summit at Sea Island, Georgia, followed by
the Republican and Democratic conventions. Then comes the election itself which,
US counter-terrorism specialists fear, terrorist groups may try to influence
with an attack similar to the Madrid train bombings just before March's election
in Spain.

Spencer Abraham, the US Energy Secretary, has announced a $ 450m plan to prevent
terrorists getting hold of nuclear materials that could be used for a "dirty"
bomb attack on a major US or European city. He told the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) in Vienna, that the initiative, involving Russia and the
United Nations, would reduce the proliferation threat by cutting off access to
materials "as quickly and expeditiously as possible".

The US has given Greece radiation detection equipment to help guard against a
"dirty bomb" attack at the Athens Olympics in August, another prime target for
al-Qa'ida and other terrorist groups.

Mr Abraham said his first priority was to bring back to the US some 330 tons of
highly enriched uranium originating in Russia, by the end of 2005. Officials in
Moscow say 13 of 17 states that hold Russian-produced highly enriched uranium
have agreed to return the material to Russian keeping.

But the IAEA reckons that up to 110 countries do not have satisfactory controls
over radioactive material that could be used in a dirty bomb.

Among terrorist suspects are Adnan El Shukrijumah, a Saudi who had lived in
Florida, and Aafia Siddiqui, a woman from Pakistan who studied at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Both names are said to have come up
during interrogations of Khalid Sheik Mohammed, the al-Qa'ida operative captured
last year and believed to have been a prime organiser of the 11 September
attacks.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                  May 27, 2004

US braced for 'major terror attack';

SECTION:  Pg. 19

LENGTH: 537 words


THE US is facing a major threat of a terrorist attack as it prepares to host a
series of high-profile events including a G-8 economic summit, dedication of a
new war memorial, and election-year political conventions, Homeland Security
Secretary Tom Ridge said yesterday.

"I can confirm that we have seen for the past several weeks a continuous stream
of reporting that talks about the possibility of attacks on the United States, "
he said, "but not unlike what we've seen for the past several years."

Mr Ridge said of potential terrorists on US soil: "It's our job, obviously, to
try to identify who they are and apprehend them."

And authoritative British think tank warned yesterday that al-Qaida has 18,000
terrorists waiting to strike in Europe and the US, preferably with weapons of
mass destruction.

US counterterrorism and law enforcement officials said ay that new intelligence
indicates that a group of terrorists already deployed inside the United States
is preparing to launch a major attack this summer.

A senior counterterrorism official described the information as extremely
credible and said it was backed by an unusually high level of corroboration.

But Mr Ridge, said there are no current plans to lift the national alert status
from yellow, or elevated, where it currently stands. That's the midlevel alert
level on a five-step warning programme.

"Every day we take a look at the overall threat reporting that we receive, " Mr
Ridge said.

"There's not a consensus within the administration that we need to raise the
threat level. . . we do not need to raise the threat level to increase security.
Right now, there's no need to put the entire country on a (elevated) national
alert."

"At some of the higher-profile events, you had better believe there will be
additional security, " Mr Ridge said.

The intelligence does not include a time, place or method of attack but is among
the most disturbing received by the government since the al-Qaida attacks of
September 11, 2001, the senior counterterrorism official said.

"There is clearly a steady drumbeat of information that they are going to attack
and hit us hard, " the official said.

Attorney General John Ashcroft and FBI Director Robert Mueller were to give a
news conference later today to outline an intensive effort by security officials
to detect and disrupt any potential plots.

And the FBI was dispatching a bulletin to 18,000 state and local law enforcement
agencies warning of the threat.

Beginning with Saturday's dedication of the new Second World War Memorial in
Washington, the summer presents a number of high-profile targets in the United
States.

They include the Group of Eight summit in Georgia next month, the Democratic
National Convention in Boston in July and the Republican National Convention in
August in New York City.

The FBI and Homeland Security Department also are concerned about so-called soft
targets such as shopping malls.

Of special concern, the counterterrorism official said, is the possibility that
terrorists may possess and use a chemical, biological or radiological weapon
that could cause much more damage and casualties than a conventional bomb.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 The Irish News Limited

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

US IN TERROR ATTACK FEAR

BYLINE: MARK ELLIS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 163 words


AMERICA fears it will soon be "hit hard" by al-Qaeda, it emerged yesterday.

Attorney General John Ashcroft claimed the terror group is plotting an attack on
the US or its interests in the next few months.

"Disturbing intelligence indicates al-Qaeda's specific intention to hit the
United States hard," he said.

Mr Ashcroft believes an attack could be an attempt to influence the presidential
election in November. After the Madrid bombings in March, the pro-war Spanish
government was voted out.

He said: "Al-Qaeda may perceive that a large-scale attack here would lead to
similar consequences."

Later White House spokesman Scott McClellan denied the government was
overplaying the threat. He said there was "credible intelligence" and added: "We
know that they would like to have a dramatic effect."

There is no indication where the attack would be but the FBI claims to have
evidence that al-Qaeda is now seeking recruits who "can pass for European".

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 27, 2004, Thursday

MILLIONS WILL DIE IF TERRORISTS ATTACK SELLAFIELD;
 EXPERTS FEAR DOOMSDAY SCENARIO AFTER 71 BREACHES OF NO-FLY ZONE

BYLINE: PAT FLANAGAN

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 539 words

HIGHLIGHT: RISK: Attack on Sellafield would have devastating effect; WARNING:
Green MEP Patricia McKenna; HORROR: Twin Towers attack


A TERRORIST attack on Sellafield could kill millions, a report by top scientists
revealed yesterday.

Other UK nuclear power plants are also wide open to attacks from the air which
could have a catastrophic effect on this country.

A report by a British Defence committee has warned that a large plane crashing
into a reactor could release 44 times as much radioactivity as the Chernobyl
disaster in 1986.

And a crash into waste tanks at Sellafield could cause "at worst several million
fatalities".

It would also be possible for terrorists to cause a radioactive release and the
current emergency arrangements may not be able to cope.

The study found no-fly zones around atomic installations are regularly breached
by military and civilian aircraft - increasing the risk of a catastrophic
accident.

Green MEP Patricia McKenna said if a plane crashed into Sellafield Ireland could
be devastated.

She added: "It would release 44 times as much radioactivity as the Chernobyl
disaster, and could cause more than two million cancers."

The New Scientist magazine said it has seen a copy of the Defence Committee
report, due out in two weeks, which makes frightening reading.

It states that new laws brought in after 9/11 are being openly flouted,
according to the magazine.

There have been 71 complaints of civilian aircraft breaching the no-fly zones
since the beginning of 1999.

But the UK Civil Aviation Authority said there was only enough evidence to
launch formal investigations in 12 cases, including two at Sellafield in
Cumbria.

In the past five years 19 nuclear sites, including stores of radioactive waste
or nuclear bombs, have lodged more than 100 complaints about aircraft flying too
close. Declassified reports from the Ministry of Defence revealed there were 56
alleged breaches of the no-fly zones by military aircraft between 2000 and last
year.

Four of the complaints came from the Ministry's own nuclear weapons sites.

Most of the other complaints were made by the Government agencies and private
companies that run the UK's civil nuclear programme.

The incidents include one on April 24, 2002 when a plane flew so close to the
Torness reactors in East Lothian that it set off three intruder alarms on the
perimeter fence.

AND on June 10, last year three military jets were seen rehearsing a flypast for
the Queen's birthday near the Sizewell reactors in Suffolk.

The breaches will do little to reassure the public that nuclear sites are
adequately protected from a terrorist attack or an accidental aircraft crash.

Welsh MP Llew Smith, who has been investigating the risks of nuclear attacks by
terrorists, said: "It's completely unacceptable that the information we need to
judge the risks is kept confidential and we have to take so much on trust."

But the British Nuclear Group, which operates the Sellafield site, has dismissed
the suggestion that flying a plane into the waste tanks could kill millions -
describing the idea as implausible.

However, Mr Smith said this attitude is dangerously misleading.

He added: "The consequences of deliberately crashing an aircraft into a nuclear
plant would be horrific."

pat.flanagan@irishmirror.ie

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                  May 27, 2004

Amnesty International blasts 'war on terror';
 Report condemns 'worst attack on human rights in 50 years'

BYLINE: by Our Foreign Desk

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 456 words


THE US-led "war on terror" has produced the most sustained attack on human
rights and international law in 50 years, Amnesty International said in its
annual report yesterday.

The human rights group's secretary-general Irene Khan condemned terrorist
assaults by groups such as alQaida.

But she also criticised the response of the US-led "coalition of the willing, "
saying that its powerful governments were ignoring international laws by
sacrificing human rights in the "blind pursuit" of security.

The photographs of the abuse of Iraqi prisoners, she told reporters, "is the
logical consequence of the pursuit of the war on terror by the United States
since 9/11.

"It is the natural outcome of the policy, openly followed by the US
administration, to pick and choose which bits of international law it will apply
and when, " Ms Khan said.

Amnesty International wrote to the British and US governments a year ago
detailing reports of torture, ill-treatment, deaths in custody and other abuses
in Iraq, she said.

"We have some form of response from the British and none to this date from the
Americans, " Ms Khan said.

"It seems that accountability in Washington DC is better generated by Kodak."

The annual report cites the hundreds of foreign nationals who remain in
indefinite detention without charge or trial in US custody at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.

It also details alleged unlawful killings of civilians by occupation troops in
Iraq and allegations of abuse of Iraqi prisoners by US soldiers.

"The global security agenda promoted by the US administration is bankrupt of
vision and bereft of principle, " Ms Khan said in a statement.

"Violating rights at home, turning a blind eye to abuses abroad and using
pre-emptive military force where and when it chooses have damaged justice and
freedom and made the world a more dangerous place."

The report criticised several governments, including those of Spain, France and
Uzbekistan, over "regressive" anti-terrorist legislation and restrictions on
freedom since the September 11 2001 terror attacks.

Britain was singled out for holding 14 foreign nationals under anti-terrorism
legislation that allows indefinite detention without charge or trial.

Britain, Portugal, Spain, France, Ireland and Malta were also criticised for
introducing draconian new curbs on asylumseekers.

The report further said that Iraq and the war on terror have obscured the
tendency of many developing countries to spend billions of pounds a year on
weapons instead of tackling poverty.

Ms Khan warned that UN millennium development goals such as reducing child
mortality may not be achieved because resources have been diverted to the war on
terror.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Staffordshire Newsletter

                                  May 27, 2004

Terror of girls, 11in car park attack

BYLINE: Sarah Marshall

LENGTH: 195 words


TWO terrified girls screamed for help when a man leaned in through their car
window and indecently assaulted one of them in a busy Stafford car park.

The 11-year-olds were sitting in the back of a Renault Laguna outside the
Wilkinson's store in Broad Street when the attacker struck on Saturday
afternoon. The man went up to the car, leaned in and then took photographs of
the youngsters following the assault. But the horrified girls shouted for help
from nearby shoppers and the attacker ran off towards Broad Eye. Sergeant Nick
Maingay, of Stafford Police, said the attack happened at 3.45pm when the town
was packed with people. "That car park is always busy with plenty of shoppers
coming and going - especially on Saturdays," he said. "Someone must have seen
something and they could have spotted the man running off. "We would urge any
residents with information to contact us as soon as possible." The attacker is
described as Chinese, 5ft 8ins, slim, with short dark hair. He wore black
thin-framed glasses, a white T-shirt and light blue jeans. Anybody with
information is asked to call Stafford Police on 01785 258151 or Crimestoppers
anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SN


                    Copyright 2004 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                  May 27, 2004

Terror attack on churchgoer 71

LENGTH: 418 words


A TERRIFIED 71-year-old was attacked and robbed as she left church after
lighting a candle for her sick daughter.

A thug waited for his victim to leave St. Joseph's RC Church off Audley Range
Blackburn before pouncing on her yesterday.

She was violently pushed face-first into the floor and her handbag containing
£15 was yanked away.

As well as the black eyes the bang to her face knocked out and snapped her upper
dentures and left her with several cuts and bruises.

Today the grandmother who is too terrified to reveal her name but was willing to
have her photograph taken spoke of her shock at the attack and how she tried to
shout for help.

The devout Roman Catholic from the Audley area had just been lighting two
candles and praying for her poorly daughter who is about to have an operation to
remove a large fibroid -- a benign tumour of the uterus.

The victim said: "It happened so quickly. I never heard anything. Not even
footsteps. Someone pushed me from behind and my face fell into the floor. I was
trying to get up and turn around and I saw him running away.

"I tried to shout: 'my bag' but there wasn't a soul about. I thought I would
never catch him. He was running down to Audley Range. My mouth was bleeding and
I thought I'd better go back.

"I could have done without this. I am upset about it.  You just don't expect it
to happen at that time of day. It does affect you going out and makes you
nervous but I am going to try not to let it affect me too much.

"Nine out of 10 times my husband and I are together. We went to the church at
9am but it was shut so I went back on my own afterwards. If it had been open
this wouldn't have happened."

The woman's family of three sons one daughter and six grandchildren are furious
that someone could carry out such a cowardly robbery on a woman of her age.

The grandma left the church at 9.15am to go and meet her husband of 44 years.

He was just a short walk up the alleyway at the home of a 94-year-old friend who
the couple go shopping for every Wednesday.

The victim refused to go to hospital. Instead the couple went to look for the
handbag.

A dentist has promised to repair her dentures for her after hearing what
happened. The grandma was today recovering at home and thinking about her
daughter whose operation was scheduled to take place.

The couple would like to single out Det Con Steve Russell for praise after the
care he showed them following the incident.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  May 27, 2004

Al qaida 'planning us terror attack'

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 405 words


Al qaida is planning an attack on US soil "in the next few months", US Attorney
General John Ashcroft said yesterday.  AL QAIDA is planning an attack on US soil
"in the next few months", US Attorney General John Ashcroft said yesterday.

Citing "multiple sources", Mr Ashcroft said Osama bin Laden's terror group may
use a series of high profile events in the coming months to launch a spectacular
attack.

He said at a news conference in Washington: "Credible intelligence from multiple
sources indicates al Qaida plans to attempt an attack on the United States in
the next few months. This disturbing intelligence indicates al Qaida's specific
intention to hit the US hard." Pictures of seven people were shown at the news
conference and the FBI appealed for information to find them.

They were described as a "clear and present danger" to the US. Mr Ashcroft said:
"Just after New Year, al Qaida announced openly that preparations for an attack
on the United States were 70 per cent complete.

"After the March 11 attack in Madrid, an al Qaida spokesman announced that 90
per cent of the arrangements for an attack on the United States were complete."
Mr Ashcroft said al Qaida believed the Madrid train bombings, which killed
nearly 200 people, had "advanced their cause".

He said: "Al Qaida may perceive a large-scale attack in the United States this
summer or fall autumn would lead to similar consequences." He said forthcoming
events could prove an "attractive target" for terrorists. These include the G8
summit in Georgia and the political party conventions in Boston and New York.

Despite the new warnings there was no indication that the threat level would be
raised from yellow, or elevated, where it currently stands.

Two car bombs exploded minutes apart by an English language school near the US
consulate in Pakistan's biggest city yesterday, killing a policeman and wounding
25 other people. The attack came days after police in Karachi said they had
smashed an Islamic militant ring accused in a deadly bombing outside the US
consulate two years ago and a failed assassination plot against Pakistan's
pro-American president.

No one claimed responsibility for the bombings that caused havoc on a leafy
avenue in the city of 15 million people. The second and far more powerful blast,
25 minutes after the first, hit police and journalists who had gathered at the
scene.


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Bexhill Observer

                                  May 28, 2004

Terror of Samurai sword attack

LENGTH: 646 words


SAMURAI sword attack victim Leon Whyborne has spoken of his terror as he was set
upon by two Sidley shop workers.

The 18-year-old's left hand was split in half during the brutal assault at the
hands of Angelo 'Valentine' Lazarus and Rakakaran 'Raj' Thurairajah, who were
shop assistants at Londis in Ninfield Road.

Last week Lazarus, 21, was jailed for 21 months after being found guilty of
wounding . His accomplice, 28, admitted the charge and will be sentenced on June
8.

But while his attackers will eventually walk free, Leon must bare the scars of
last October's terrifying incident for the rest of his life.

He still has no movement or feeling in any of his fingers and wears a glove to
hide the giant scar and the fact his left hand hangs limp and twisted. He has to
rely on mum Paula to cut up his meals, button his shirts and other simple
procedures most of us take for granted.

He can no longer enjoy his favourite hobby of fishing and, worst of all, he has
lost his livelihood.

Leon was a yardworker for Coleman's construction but has been unable to work
since the attack due to his injuries. His employers have been understanding but
Leon realises he can never return to that sort of work.

He said: "My work options are pretty limited with my hand because I can't do
anything with it. Valentine might be out in a few months and he's free to go
back to work but what choice have I got?"

The ugly incident occurred in the early hours of October 11 after Leon got out
of a cab in Ninfield Road following a night out at the Continental. He said:
"All sudden a group of people we knew came running towards us saying they were
being chased.

"I ran off up Ninfield Road but the others seemed to go down towards Glovers
Lane.

"For some reason I stopped and turned round and saw Raj walking towards me. He
then took out a bat and started laying in to me.

"Then Valentine (Lazarus) turned up, whipped out a sword and said 'you've been
causing too much trouble outside my shop, white boy'."

The next Leon remembers is raising his left hand to shield himself as he was
slashed by the weapon.

The two attackers, both Sri Lankan, had given chase to a group of youths after a
pile of newspapers outside the Londis shop was set on fire. Leon is adamant he
had nothing to do with the fire and simply found himself in the wrong place at
the wrong time.

Lazarus was cleared of wounding with intent after the jury failed to find beyond
reasonable doubt that he was the one wielding the sword.

What is beyond doubt is that Leon was left in a pool of blood with his fingers
hanging off and another gash to his thigh. He crawled to a house in North Road
and was looked after by the occupant who called an ambulance.

After that he spent 11 hours in surgery at St Thomas' hospital in London while
his hand was fused back together.

The attack caused tension in Sidley for weeks as members of the close-knit
community threatened revenge for Leon's attack. The two attackers fled to east
London.

Leon has since had several operations and is awaiting another in four months'
time. He has to attend twice-weekly occupational therapy sessions at the
Conquest and sometimes has trouble sleeping. He added: "I was nervous going out
for a few weeks after the attack but my mum made me go out and I'm OK now.

"Hopefully after the next operation I'll have some mobility and be able to sense
the difference between hot and cold to prevent getting accidentally burnt.
They're having to take nerves taken from the bottom of my foot.

"I'm taking one day at a time and hopefully things will start to get better for
me. I can't really put he attack behind me because of the injury and scars but I
can try and get on with it."

Leon and his mum want to thank DI Trevor Bowles and DC John Stainsby for their
support during the ordeal.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 28, 2004, Friday

OUR SYRINGE ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE BY NIALL MOONAN

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1,16

LENGTH: 444 words

HIGHLIGHT: TRAUMA: Anne Crawford yesterday after her ordeal


A MOTHER told last night of her terror after a junkie threatened to inject three
girls in her car with a blood-filled syringe.

Shocked Anne Crawford said: "This has had a very traumatic effect on us. He
should never be let out of jail until he is drug free. He's a danger to everyone
at the moment."

Anne said she will never forget the youngsters' terrified screams when lunatic
crack addict Anthony Clarke jumped into her car, put a needle to six-year-old
Louise Myron and demanded EUR25. Her daughter Jane, seven, and niece Caroline,
11, were also in the Hyundai people carrier.

Anne recalled: "I was after collecting a bike and I put it in the back seat
between Louise and Jane, who were asleep. I drove off into the traffic when
suddenly the door opened. I didn't know what was happening and told Louise not
to open the door, but then saw a guy pushing her up against the bike.

"He said 'drive, just f***ing drive'. With that the two kids woke up and you can
imagine the terror of this little girl with a needle beside her. I was in such
shock I don't know whether I took the keys out of the car but I stopped.

"I couldn't move, I was terrified and wondering if he was going to pierce her
skin. He held the syringe to her arm, right up to her skin.

"My bag was on the ground in the front seat. He got my purse so I said 'now
you've got it just get out'. But he was so nervous himself he couldn't get out.
I had to open my door and he just fell out.

"As he did he threatened me with the needle and ran up Dominick Street with the
purse."

But Clarke didn't get far. A plainclothes garda chased and arrested him hiding
in nearby flats. The purse, containing EUR25 cash and credit cards, was returned
to Anne.

She added: "They put him straight in the van and I didn't see him again until
the court case. The kids were still screaming hysterically, I didn't know which
of them to hug first. He Clarke was high as a kite, he didn't know what he was
doing."

Yesterday Clarke, from Ballymun, began a seven-year jail sentence for the horror
attack. Anne said: "Prison is an easy number, he should be made to do some work
instead."

But she admitted feeling pity for him when mitigating factors were read to
Dublin District Court. She added: "I went in with all guns blazing, thinking I
was going to get the b*****d. But by the time I got up on the stand I was quite
upset and didn't say all I wanted to.

"I almost felt sorry for him because he had no support, he didn't even have his
family in court. He looked pitiful."

Since her ordeal, Anne has had her car broken into twice and her 17-year-old son
was viciously mugged.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Dorset

                                  May 28, 2004

Police haven't been properly trained to deal with a terrorist attack so who will
protect us?

BYLINE: Paula Roberts (paula.roberts@bournemouthecho.co.uk)

LENGTH: 901 words

DATELINE: Dorset


THE majority of frontline officers in Dorset Police have not been trained about
how to deal with a potential terrorist attack because they have not seen a
simple DVD it is claimed.

And it is not just officers in Dorset who haven't watched the video but those in
most police forces across Britain.

The 18-minute DVD entitled CBRN Awareness was sent to chief constables 18 months
ago. It shows officers how they must be aware of the risks from a chemical
biological radiological or nuclear (CBRN) strike including the importance of
preventing people who may have been contaminated from leaving the scene.

But the Police Federation Conference at the BIC heard that a number of officers
had not seen the DVD - and they are the very people who will be first on the
scene of a terrorist attack.

Half the forces have failed to respond to a letter reminding them to ensure all
officers are shown the film.

Colin Smith anti-terrorism spokesman for the Association of Chief Police
Officers said: "I was aware of some comments that people had not seen it.

"There are some gaps but we don't know how big those gaps are. If any officers
haven't seen it I totally admit that is a weakness. Our general concern is that
we need to make sure that all officers have seen it."

The astonishing oversight comes just a day after Prime Minister Tony Blair was
flour-bombed in the House of Commons highlighting flaws in security at
Westminster. The MPs spilled out onto the streets rather than staying inside the
house.

Delegates also aired their concern about the limited number of officers in the
UK - only five per cent - who have been specially trained in CBRN terrorism.

Chris Edmond from Warwickshire Police one of Britain's 5 500 CBRN-trained
officers said: "In the event of a major CBRN incident I believe it would be
Operation Certain Death.

"If front-lining officers rush in they would be contaminated and will
potentially die. That cannot be acceptable. By the time I turn up in my
specialist kit how many more names will we have on the police memorial?"

He added: "When we saw the four officers who responded to a potential CBRN
incident in the House of Commons yesterday they were in ordinary helmets and
short-sleeved shirts.

"If that really had been a CBRN incident they would have been running in to
die."

Speaking after the conference Clive Chamberlain chairman of Dorset Police
Federation asked: "Where is this DVD because we would like to see it.

"We haven't seen it and I am unaware of anyone in fact who has within in the
entire south region including Dorset Devon and Cornwall and Wiltshire.

"The Dorset Police Federation will firstly be asking the force where is the DVD
and can we please see it? Unless our officers receive the specialist training
they will be no better informed and prepared than members of public." Mr
Chamberlain said Dorset was not under any specific risk to terrorism but
reiterated that Bournemouth had been bombed by the IRA in 1993 when six
incendiary devices went off without warning in four stores in the town. No one
was hurt but the damage was estimated to reach £1 million.

Mr Chamberlain added: "I think Dorset is a very safe place to live. However at
least every couple of years Westminster comes to Dorset for the party
conferences. We know what sort of work the Met has to do in London to protect
them. The burden

then falls on Dorset to provide policing of that scale."

The conference also heard that the Home Office had created 80 purpose-built
incident response units equipped with mass decontamination equipment.

There are also 360 mobile decontamination units around the country for use by
the ambulance service and hospital accident and emergency departments enabling
the emergency services to decontaminate 200 people per hour at a major incident.

Leigh Lewis permanent secretary for crime policing counter terrorism and
delivery told the delegates: "The threat is not at the current time to specific
targets. But we do need to ask the general public to be continually vigilant to
take responsibility and if in doubt to raise their concerns to report the bag
without an apparent owner to report the van having its number plates changed to
report any suspicious or out of the ordinary behaviour to the anti-terrorism
hotline 0800 789 321.

"The balance which we need to strike is for the public to be alert to activities
that give cause for concern but not to be so alarmed by the broader terrorist
threat that it disrupts their daily lives."

Speaking about the number of officers specifically CBRN-trained a spokesman for
Dorset Police said: "We cannot discuss the force's operational capabilities
because to reveal them could assist terrorists in their activities."

He added: "The material talked about on the 18 minute DVD by the Police
Federation was received by Dorset Police as a Powerpoint presentation on a CD
last summer. The information from that CD was put onto a Powerpoint presentation
that was made relevant to Dorset and placed on the home page of Dorset Police's
force-wide computer system in July 03 so it could be accessed by all police
officers across the county.

"The information from the CD was also included in the August 2003 edition of the
regular bimonthly internal briefing video that is distributed to all police
stations in Dorset for officers to view."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ARMS WAY: Police chiefs are demanding to know why many police officers
have not been given vital information;

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 30, 2004

Saudi horror sparks fears of oil crisis: * Battle rages to free 50 hostages * £4
gallon looms after terror attack

BYLINE: Mark Townsend and Nick Mathiason

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 735 words


SAUDI security forces stormed a residential compound early today where al-Qaeda
gunmen were holding 50 hostages following an indiscriminate rampage through the
Saudi Arabian city of Khobar that killed at least 16 people.

Yesterday's attack sent shockwaves through a western world already facing high
oil prices and now the prospect of worsening violence in a kingdom riven between
its ruling royal fam ily and jihadist groups determined to bring it down.

In a day that left the oil city in the east of the country littered with bodies
and bullet-riddled buildings and cars, the terrorists attacked four compounds
housing foreign workers, seized hostages and fought running battles through the
streets.

The body of a Briton, named locally as Michael Hamilton, an employee of the
Middle East oil company Apicorp, was tied to a car and dragged more than a mile
before being dumped near a bridge, according to witnesses.

The suspected Islamic mil itants had been holding the hostages on the sixth
floor of Oasis, a high-rise expatriate housing complex. It was not clear what
nationality the hostages were, although all were said to be Westerners.

Earlier, a Saudi policeman said the militants were using the hostages as human
shields and officials were trying to negotiate. 'Security forces are worried
about storming because the gunmen have grenades,' he said.

A statement purportedly from Saudi-born Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda network was
posted on Islamist internet sites claiming responsibility for the attack, the
third on foreigners in less than a month.

As Saudi security officials surveyed the horror, energy experts warned of the
potential for a global fuel crisis triggered by instability in the country with
the world's largest reserves.The situation in Saudi Arabia has already pushed
prices to $ 40 per barrel.

'This is close to the nerve centre of the Saudi oil industry,' said Yasser
Elguindi, an analyst with Medley Global Advisers in New York. 'It could have a
devastating impact on the oil market when we reopen (on Tuesday) after the
Memorial Day weekend.'

The US embassy advised all Americans to leave the increasingly troubled country,
and the Foreign Office repeated its warning for Britons to avoid all but
essential travel to Saudi Arabia.

A US embassy official said: 'I can confirm the death of at least one American.
There may be more.' Among the dead was a 10-year-old Egyptian boy caught in the
crossfire as he travelled on a school bus. Witnesses described pools of blood in
hotel lobbies and bullet-riddled cars as foreigners tried to flee their
attackers.

Oil analysts in London and Washington warned of severe repercussions. Economists
called the attack their worst nightmare come true.

It could send oil prices above $ 42 a barrel, pushing the average price of
petrol in Britain beyond the £4-a- gallon barrier.

The rise would renew fears of a world energy crisis not seen since the early
Seventies. Prices have already risen amid fears Saudi Arabia would be unable to
defend its oil industry from terrorists.

Repeated attacks could push oil prices above the economically devastating $ 50 a
barrel, City experts warn.

The attack came only days after a senior Saudi al-Qaeda leader, Abdulaziz
al-Muqrin, unveiled a plan for an urban guerrilla war in the kingdom. Saudi
security sources have admitted the destabilising influence of neighbouring Iraq,
complaining of a steady traffic across the border in arms and other material to
terrorist groups.

By yesterday al-Muqrin's orders had already been put into practice. Four gunmen
in military-style dress stormed the Oasis, where employees of Shell and the
giant US firms Honeywell and General Electric live.

Two cars with military markings drove in and gunmen inside them opened fire
indiscriminately at residents. Windows of homes were shot out. Soon afterwards,
hundreds of police encircled the compound as helicopters hovered overhead.

A Lebanese family, taken hostage and used as human shields, were released. Saudi
security sources said an American, a Briton, an Egyptian, two Filipinos, an
Indian and a Pakistani died in the attacks, along with two Saudi civilians and
seven security force members.

Militants killed five foreigners earlier this month in a similarly brazen attack
on a petrochemical site in the Red Sea town of Yanbu.

Continued on page 2


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 30, 2004, Sunday

French distribute decontamination suits in case of terror attack

BYLINE: Matthew Campbell

SECTION: Home news; News; 11

LENGTH: 263 words


French hospitals are setting up decontamination units to treat victims in case
terrorists use nuclear, chemical or biological weapons in an attack on this
week's celebrations of the 60th anniversary of D-Day, writes Matthew Campbell.

The French interior ministry has delivered thousands of nuclear, biological and
chemical suits to the region's police and firemen for protection in case of
attack. Hospitals have been given stocks of medicines for treating victims of
chemical and biological weapons.

Extreme security measures coincide with warnings of an imminent terrorist strike
in America and fears that Al-Qaeda may try to sabotage the commemoration of the
Normandy landings that will bring together heads of state and other VIPs from 16
countries, including Queen Elizabeth and President George W Bush.

The regional hospital in Normandy will put a "mass decontamination module" on
its lawn for treating patients exposed to nuclear or chemical attack. The
hospital will also install a temporary morgue in its grounds as extra storage
for bodies - whether or not the casualties are from a terrorist attack.

The American military is flying in 28 transport planes with equipment for the
presidential team, including an operating theatre.

Bush will be joined at a ceremony next Sunday by heads of state including Tony
Blair, Vladimir Putin and Jacques Chirac, the host.

The presence of so many dignitaries -including European monarchs -makes it a
security nightmare for the French, who as hosts are responsible for the safety
of their guests.


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 30, 2004, Sunday

'SEVERE';
 EXCLUSIVE SPIES WARN OF A MASSIVE TRUCK TERROR BOMB ATTACK ON UK

BYLINE: RUPERT HAMER

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 611 words

HIGHLIGHT: ONGUARD:Wellington Barracks in LondonWARNING: Faslane nuclear base,
Scotland; NEW THREAT: Osama bin Laden


AL-QAEDA suicide truck bombers are planning to strike at a British military base
in the next two months, according to secret intelligence reports.

Anti-terrorist agents have issued the warnings to senior officers from all three
armed services - raising the threat level to "severe" at barracks and bases
across the country.

MI5 bosses believe fanatics are planning to drive trucks packed full of
explosives at military headquarters - and believe London, in particular, has
been targeted.

D-Day anniversary services are an obvious target.

They are also examining new intelligence that al-Qaeda is plotting to bomb
"highly populated areas" in an effort to cause maximum casualties.

In a series of briefings, intelligence chiefs revealed:

AL-QAEDA cells have easy access to explosives but are struggling to smuggle
detonators into Britain.

HUNDREDS of young Muslims in England have been recruited to the cause and are
successfully fund-raising.

MI5 agents are racing against time to infiltrate their ranks.

The British intelligence reports follow revelations last week that the fanatical
network - led by Osama bin Laden - is planning further attacks in America.

It also comes after the London arrest of Muslim cleric Abu Hamza who is wanted
in the US for questioning over his suspected links with al-Qaeda. Last night a
security source said: "We have warned the armed forces of what we believe is
being planned. It would most likely involve some kind of vehicle, explosives,
and someone prepared to lose their own life in the attack.

"The other scenario is an attack in a highly-populated area, an explosive device
designed to kill as many people as they can.

"At the moment the highest priority for the terrorists, however, appears to be
to hit a military base, most likely in London. Although such an attack would be
unlikely to kill or injure many soldiers it would be seen as revenge for our
presence in Iraq."

Anti-terrorist officers are understood to have mounted successful operations in
recent months to deprive al-Qaeda cells of bomb-making facilities. Despite being
able to obtain ingredients to make explosives, terrorists are said to be
struggling to get detonators or bomb "primers". But security chiefs are
increasingly concerned at what they regard as "intensive" al-Qaeda recruiting in
Britain.

The source added: "Terrorists are targeting young Muslim men who can be
brainwashed.

"Teenage Muslims living in large, rundown, urban areas are regarded as ideal
material.

"They are not only looking for these converts who are prepared to die in attacks
on the West but also to raise funds in Britain to finance atrocities in Britain
or elsewhere.

"Agents are attempting to infiltrate these groups but the situation is becoming
increasingly worrying.

"Stopping known al-Qaeda members or sympathisers from entering Britain is one
thing - tackling a new generation of fanatics growing up in this country is
another completely."

The briefings - to senior officers from the Army, Royal Navy and RAF - are
believed to have been held in the last few days.

Hook-handed Hamza was arrested in a pre-dawn raid on Thursday and remanded in
custody as extradition papers are prepared.

The warrant for his arrest is believed to allege that the Egyptian-born fanatic
conspired to set up a terrorist training camp and recruited young men to fight
for the Taliban in Afghanistan.

The latest intelligence warnings come just three months after the Sunday Mirror
revealed that foreign agents with links to al-Qaeda had infiltrated the police,
civil service and military.

r.hamer@sundaymirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  May 31, 2004

Two injured in terrorist-style attack

BYLINE: By Ashleigh Wallaceawallace@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 53 words


TWO men in their 30s were today recovering from wounds they sustained in a
paramilitary-style assault which was carried out in the Rathfern area of
Newtownabbey.

The men, aged 31 and 36, were attacked at the entrance to the Glen around 7.30pm
yesterday.

Both victims were taken to hospital for treatment.


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                              May 31, 2004, Monday

MORE TERROR ATTACKS ON WAY

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 95 words


The Foreign Office has said that it fears more terrorist attacks would be
carried out in Saudi Arabia after British oil executive Michael Hamilton was
shot dead at the start of a bloody 24-hour hostage-taking siege that left at
least 22 people dead.

Officials advised against all but essential travel to Saudi.

A suspected al Qaida attack on foreigners working in the oil industry left at
least 22 people dead in the city of Khobar before helicopter-borne Saudi
commandos brought the siege to a bloody end yesterday. Three of the four
terrorists escaped.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 31, 2004, Monday

Police given nerve-gas 'pens' to deal with terror attacks

BYLINE: By John Steele

SECTION: News Pg. 07

LENGTH: 490 words

PEN-LIKE devices that can inject an antidote to nerve gas used in terrorist
attacks are being distributed to police forces around England and Wales.

Up to 7,000 of the syringes, known as "combo pens" and similar to those used by
diabetics, will be issued by forces in the event of a biological terrorist
attack.

One of the antidotes in the combo pen is said to be atropine, an alkaloid found
in deadly nightshade, which can be used to block nerve agent poisoning.

The syringes have been available to the Armed Forces for some time and have been
given to the ambulance service to protect crews and possibly to treat civilian
victims. The devices will be used by constables who are already trained to be
the first line of police response to a possible "CBRN" - chemical, biological,
radiological or nuclear - incident.

Such syringes will be added to the specialist CBRN equipment already issued to
almost 6,000 police officers, which includes protective suits and detection and
monitoring equipment.

A spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) said issuing the
syringes was not a reaction to any recent or specific threat. Colin Smith, the
assistant chief constable of Hampshire and the ACPO spokesman on the issue,
said: "We are distributing 7,000 combo pens delivering an atropine dose."

Atropine will be used if experts conclude it is the correct antidote for the
type of nerve gas, because using the pens inappropriately can be dangerous. ACPO
said that police officers were receiving "detailed awareness training in the
first steps to be taken in approaching any suspected CBRN incident".

It added: "The issue of antidote syringes is only one element in comprehensive
and continuing police work to prepare for any terrorist attack of a chemical,
biological or radiological nature. It helps ensure that police officers at any
such scene are protected, and remain able to help colleagues, other emergency
services and, most importantly, the public.

"CBRN is a constantly developing area of police work. ACPO has already
established a national specialist centre of police training and expertise,
operated in close collaboration with the other emergency services and with
access to cutting-edge scientific advice."

ACPO said that about 5,600 officers - 8.6 per cent of "operational police
strength" - were trained and equipped to attend and, if necessary, operate
cordons at the scene of a suspected CBRN incident.

However, despite the planning, senior officers have stressed that CBRN attacks
are only one type of potential terrorist threat and they have not been seen in
Britain.

Anti-terrorist specialists believe the most realistic immediate threat is from a
large vehicle bomb - such as the Bali atrocity when home-made explosives were
laced with fuel to create an inferno at a nightclub - or, possibly, a
hostage-taking or assassination attack, such as that seen at the weekend in
Saudi Arabia.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 31, 2004, Monday

SAUDI TERROR ATTACK: WE ONLY WANT TO HURT THE WESTERNERS. WHERE CAN WE FIND
THEM?'

BYLINE: PATRICK COCKBURN Saudi Arabian commandos drop on to a roof in the Oasis
compound, top, to begin their swoop on the militants; above, a body is taken out
of the complex Reuters

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1188 words


IT WAS the latest in a series of ruthless attacks on foreign workers in Saudi
Arabia, targeting the employees of foreign oil companies. In each case the
gunmen have aimed to slaughter as many non-Muslims as possible.

At 7.30 on Saturday morning, they chose the city of Khobar, an important hub of
the Saudi oil industry. As many as seven gunmen wearing military- style uniforms
opened fire at the Al-Khobar Petroleum Centre building, which houses offices of
western oil companies in the Gulf city. They also sprayed with gunfire an oil
industry compound housing offices and apartments of the Arab Petroleum
Investment Corporation (Apicorp). Three of its employees and the son of another
- a 10-year-old Egyptian boy on a school bus - were killed.

Michael Hamilton, a British manager at Apicorp, was shot dead in his black
saloon. His mobile phone was left on the front seat as his bloodied body was
tied to a car by the gunmen and dragged through the streets before it was dumped
near a bridge. It had chilling echoes of an incident at the beginning of the
month when the body of an American was dragged through Yanbu, a Saudi city on
the Red Sea, in an attack by five militants on a petrochemical facility. The
events surrounding the initial attack in Khobar are confused. But if, as
suspected, al-Qa'ida is involved then it has returned to the area where - a few
miles away in Dhahran - in 1996 it set off bombs to destroy a US military
compound, killing 19 American soldiers.

After the shootings at the two compounds the gunmen fled to the Oasis
Residential Resorts. There, they seized between 45 and 60 hostages in a
walled-off district which houses executives and is too expensive for ordinary
oil workers to live in.

It contains restaurants, an ice rink, spas, swimming pools a pastry shop and
gardens. It also has 200 villas, 48 apartments, 195 studio apartments as well as
a hotel and luxury apartments. Security companies recommend foreigners to live
in such places, which are considered more secure and where vehicles entering can
be checked. But the existence of these compounds also provides convenient
targets for groups that want to kill foreigners.

Once the gunmen had taken over Oasis, they started to hunt down non- Muslims to
kill or take hostage. Abu Hashem, 45, an Iraqi-American engineer, was leaving
for work when he heard the sound of gunfire. He went back home and took his wife
and two children to a neighbour's house for safety. Abu Hashem noticed that
there were blood stains on the floor of his house and went looking for security
guards. Instead he found four Saudi men with short beards and whose ages he said
were between 18 and 25. A revealing conversation followed. Abu Hashem asked the
men: "Are you guards?" They said they were and asked him if he was a Muslim.
When he said he was they said: "Give us proof." Abu Hashem knew they could not
be regular security guards and took out his identity papers which showed he was
a Muslim but also revealed that he was an American of Iraqi origins.

When the gunmen said he was an American, Abu Hashem said this was true but he
was an American Muslim. To his relief they said, "we do not kill Muslims" and
politely apologised for breaking into his home. They then lectured him on Islam
and told him: "We are defending our country and we want to take it from the
non-believers" - probably a reference to the royal family of Saudi Arabia.

Another Muslim resident, Salam al-Hakawati, 38, a Lebanese corporate finance
official, hid with his wife and two-year-old son upstairs when they heard
gunfire. He heard people searching rooms downstairs and saying "this is a Muslim
house" when they saw Koranic verses. A man with a machine gun came upstairs and
said to him in Arabic: "We only want to hurt Westerners and Americans. Can you
tell us where we can find them here?"

By now gunmen had killed at least 16, including Mr Hamilton, an American and an
Italian cook. The Saudi security forces stormed the Oasis compound, a walled
complex, and surrounded the attackers on the sixth floor of a high-rise
building. During the night they tried to rescue hostages but retreated when they
found booby traps. At night the gunmen also started to kill hostages, who are by
now said to have numbered 25.

One of those who survived, a Jordanian computer engineer, Nijar Hijazin, said:
"The nine had their throats cut by the kidnappers when they tried to escape at
night by the stairs."

At no time did the hostage-takers ask to negotiate according to Jamal Khashoggi,
a media adviser to the Saudi Arabian ambassador to London. He said: "They didn't
have any demands, they just started killing people." He said that the nine
hostages who were killed were in addition to the 16. The Saudi authorities say
it was the killing of hostages which led to the decision to storm the building.

Saudi newspapers said that one body had been thrown from the top of the building
and others had been mutilated.

Just after sunrise some 40 black-clad Saudi commandos dropped into the compound
from three helicopters. There was gunfire and some 50 hostages were freed. Saudi
security officials said the gunmen's leader had been arrested, two killed -
several escaped.

There was confusion yesterday about the identity and the number of those killed.
Nine Saudis and eight foreigners are reported to have died in the first clashes
before the attackers moved to Oasis. A manager in the compound said three
foreigners, including a Briton and an American, were killed in the rescue. A
security source confirmed hostages had died. Others were being treated for
exhaustion and dehydration.

At about the same time as the high-rise was being stormed, a man who claimed to
be Abdul Aziz al-Moqrin, identified as the chief of al-Qa'ida in Saudi Arabia,
claimed responsibility for the attack in a tape posted on the internet on a a
website noted for militant Islamic comment. He identifies by nationality the
foreigners who were killed, although he says it was an American whose body was
dragged through the streets. Moqrin denounces the Saudi government for selling
out to the US and providing "America with oil at the cheapest prices ... so that
their economy does not collapse".

The recording may have been made inside the besieged building because it ends
with volleys of shots and men shouting: "Open the door quickly."

PREVIOUS ATTACKS

25 June 1996: 19 US servicemen killed and 372 wounded by a car bomb at Khobar
Towers, a military housing complex, in Dhahran. Members of Saudi Hizbollah, and
the government of Iran, blamed.

22 April 2003: Car bomb at Saudi security HQ in Riyadh; four killed, 150 hurt.
The al-Haramain Brigades, a group linked to al-Qa'ida, claimed responsibility.

14 May 2003: More than 30, including eight US citizens, killed, 200 hurt in
suicide bombings at three compounds in Riyadh. The US said the attacks showed
"fingerprints" of al-Qa'ida.

1 May 2004: Two Americans, two Britons, an Australian and a Saudi guard who
worked for a US contractor shot dead in Yanbu. Al-Qa'ida claimed responsibility.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 31, 2004, Monday

SAUDI TERROR ATTACK: BRITISH BUSINESSMAN'S BODY WAS DRAGGED THROUGH THE STREETS

BYLINE: JAMES BURLEIGH Michael Hamilton: Worked with Apicorp in Khobar

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 205 words


WORK COLLEAGUES who witnessed the shooting of the British businessman Michael
Hamilton said the militants tied his body to a car and dragged it through the
streets before dumping it near a bridge.

Mr Hamilton, 62, originally from Kilmarnock, south-west Scotland, worked as a
senior manager in the project and trade finance department of the Arab Petroleum
Investments Corp (Apicorp).

His wife, Penelope, is now being cared for by the head of the British Trade
Office in Khobar. The couple's children - Charles who works as a lawyer in
London and Juliet who studies medicine in Australia - may be travelling to join
her.

Mahdi al-Mahdi, an Apicorp spokesman who has known Mr Hamilton for the past 16
years, said: "It is very, very sad - especially that way he was being targeted.
Everybody here is absolutely devastated by his sudden death. He was a very nice,
pleasant man and extremely hard working.

"I have spoken with his wife and she is absolutely shattered by his death." Mr
Hamilton, who has a law diploma from King's College London, joined Apicorp in
1989 after working for four years as a credit officer at the National Bank of
Abu Dhabi. He had also worked at the Chase Manhattan bank in London.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 31, 2004, Monday

SAUDI TERROR ATTACK: OASIS RESORT SHIELDED EXPATS FROM REALITY

BYLINE: SAM INGLEBY The Oasis is the most expensive compound in Riyadh; Bin
Laden: Expel the infidel, he says

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 641 words


THE OASIS residential compound in the oil-rich eastern city of Khobar advertises
a lifestyle of "opulence and exclusivity for the most discerning expatriate", as
it cocoons its residents from the realities of life in the Saudi kingdom.

Security is of primary importance and the compound is surrounded by 4-metre high
reinforced concrete walls. The only entrance to the resort is through a gate
manned by armed guards around the clock. Additional security measures include
CCTV cameras installed around the perimeter walls and external vehicle patrols
of the compound. A British woman, named only as Tracey, told Sky News yesterday
after the hostage-taking: "I feel relatively safe here - it is extremely hard to
get into the compound. We won't be going out of the compound for a few days."

Inside, the compound has a total of 200 villas, 48 apartments, 195 studio
apartments and covers 1.3 million square feet. The luxury three-storey
Mediterranean-designed villas boast "marble floors, beautiful rugs, and
decorative lighting", and are fully furnished with a dining room, four bedrooms,
three bathrooms, a children's playroom and accommodation for a maid "should
domestic service be required". Each villa has a private garden and staff.

The desert resort offers numerous on-site leisure activities. There are three
heated outdoor swimming pools and an Olympic-size indoor swimming pool, a state
of the art gym, an eight-lane bowling alley and an ice-skating rink - the home
of the Saad Falcons International ice hockey team. The man-made Musaad beach is
a short drive away. Because women are not permitted to drive in Saudi Arabia,
the resort provides a regular shuttle service to and from the beach.

The complex also boasts a total of six eateries, including a sushi bar, an
Italian restaurant, a Middle Eastern restaurant and the Patisserie de l'Oasis,
which offers "an exquisite selection of pastries, cakes and delicious cookies".

For those with young children there is the learning centre for children of two
and a half and upwards available at $ 400 (pounds 218) a month. This could free
time for mothers to spend at the beauty centre, with its range of body and
skincare treatments or to take part in the regular "ladies' events", including
cooking demonstrations, afternoon tea and sewing groups.

It is the possibility of such a luxurious lifestyle away from home that attracts
the expatriate community to Saudi Arabia. Tracey said she - like the majority of
foreigners in Saudi Arabia - were working there for the money. "It is very
different, the financial reward is why the majority of us are out here."

THE THREAT FROM AL-QA'IDA

THE MESSAGE from Osama bin Laden, the Saudi-born leader of al-Qa'ida, to the
country's royal family is simple: expel the "infidels" from holy soil or face
Armageddon.

The escalating attacks by the Islamic extremists have shaken the House of Saud,
which is seen by the militants as a corrupt government that has betrayed Islamic
ideals.

Although al-Qa'ida is a loose coalition operating in more than 40 countries, its
militants' rallying cry is the liberation of Islam's three holiest places:
Mecca, Medina and Jerusalem.

Bin Laden has already notched up one success: the departure of US troops from
Saudi Arabia, which hosts the holiest site of Islam, the birthplace of the
prophet Mohamed at Mecca.

The government's close relationship with Washington, its refusal to push through
reforms and the Wahabi brand of Islam have only encouraged the radicals; 15
Saudi nationals were among the 19 hijackers who attacked the US on 11 September
2001.

Abdul Aziz al-Moqrin, who claimed to represent al-Qa'ida, said in a tape message
yesterday the battle with government would continue until the "crusaders are
expelled from the land of Islam".

Anne Penketh

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                  May 31, 2004

Security forces end Saudi siege;
 At least 10 die in new Islamist terror attack

BYLINE: by Our Foreign Desk

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 457 words


SAUDI security forces freed foreign hostages yesterday who had been held by
gunmen following a deadly shooting rampage.

Twenty-five hours after the crisis in the north-eastern city of Khobar began, a
Saudi security official said that the lead attacker was in custody and two other
Islamist militants were being arrested.

He would not comment on the hostages' whereabouts or conditions, only saying:
"It has ended. One gunman has been arrested and two are in the process of being
arrested."

However, a diplomat in Khobar said that Saudi officials had told him that there
had been deaths among the hostages and attackers.

He said that he had heard that two gunmen had been killed.

Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah said that about 10 Saudis and foreigners had been
killed.

Saudi newspaper Al-Riyadh put the number of dead at 16, including seven Saudi
security agents.

The dead included a 10-yearold Egyptian boy, a US oilworker, a British oil
company executive and other Westerners.

The crisis began when gunmen opened fire and exchanged shots with Saudi security
forces at two oil industry compounds housing offices and workers' residential
accommodation.

They fled up the street, taking between 45 and perhaps 60 hostages in a
high-rise building at the Oasis residential compound.

Saudi security forces ended the siege when they stormed the walled housing
compound and surrounded the attackers on the building's sixth floor.

Just after sunrise, three security forces helicopters arrived and dropped off
commandos and, within a few hours, the confrontation was over.

The gunmen were selective, according to residents of the Oasis compound,
targeting upmarket expatriate housing that includes shops, restaurants,
playgrounds and fitness centres, plus a grassy beach in a private Gulf cove and
an ice-skating rink.

Oasis compound resident Abdul Salam al-Hakawati, from Lebanon, said that a
gunman had told him: "We only want to hurt Westerners and Americans.

Can you tell us where we can find them here?"

A statement posted on several Islamist internet sites claimed the attack in the
name of the Al-Quds Brigade and was signed "al-Qaida in the Arab peninsula."

One Saudi official security official said that the method of the attack was
"definitely inspired by al-Qaida."

It was the second deadly assault against the Saudi oil industry this month and
took place as oil prices have been driven to new highs, partly by fears that the
Saudi Arabia - the world's largest oil producer - is unable to protect itself
from terrorists.

The US embassy reiterated a call to its citizens to leave Saudi Arabia and
Britain's Foreign Office warned against all but essential travel to the country.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

GRAPHIC: AT THE READY: Saudi special forces personnel standing outside the Oasis
residential compound in Khobar before ending the siege at the weekend.

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                  June 1, 2004

Fuel prices could top 90p a litre after terror attack

SECTION: News; Business; Energy/Utilities; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 391 words


North-east fuel prices could rocket in the wake of the weekend terror attack in
Saudi Arabia.  Forecourt prices had today climbed as high as 84p per litre in
rural areas and close to 82p in Aberdeen.

The cost of crude oil is at its highest level since the first Gulf War in the
early 1990s.

Oil experts say the steep rises are being sparked by predictions that supplies
from Saudi Arabia could be cut.

The warning comes amid fears that Saudi oil installations could be attacked by
Islamic militants.

Saudi Arabia is the world's biggest oil producer, with the power to spark global
price rises if it is forced to peg production.

Aberdeenshire filling stations, which already had some of the highest charges in
Scotland, had rising prices today.

The BP garage in Ellon was selling unleaded petrol for 83.9p per litre and
diesel at 84p.

Unleaded petrol at Safeway in Inverurie was costing 81.9 per litre and diesel
83.9p.

Tesco in Danestone, Aberdeen, was selling unleaded at 80.9p and diesel at 81.9p.

Industry analysts were today warning that forecourt prices could top 90p per
litre before reaching a ceiling.

Spiralling prices have sparked pressure on Chancellor Gordon Brown to cancel a
planned increase in fuel duty, due this autumn.

Aberdeen Transport Forum said the price rises are putting North-east businesses
under pressure.

A spokesman said the region was a victim of global conditions which it was
powerless to control.

He said: "Unfortunately, with our level of tax here, it affects us more.

"Any increase in fuel costs increases transport costs of goods and raw materials
in and out of this area. It is very bad news for our economy.

"On the other hand, the high price should encourage greater investment in the
offshore industry." Terrorists linked to Osama bin Laden's al Qaida movement hit
a Western workers' housing complex in Saudi Arabia, killing at least 22
civilians including Scots-born Michael Hamilton.

The British embassy says more attacks are "probable".

British anti-terrorist officers have been sent to Saudi to assist authorities,
who are still hunting three of the four attackers.

They fled Khobar to nearby Dammam, where they abandoned their truck for a car
commandeered at gunpoint from an unidentified driver and drove off with police
in pursuit.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2004 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACK TRIAL POSTPONED

SECTION: 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 249 words


THE trial of 69 suspected members of a Turkish al-Qaeda cell charged in a string
of November suicide bombings in Istanbul opened yesterday, but the court quickly
ruled that it did not have the authority to hear the case, and that any judgment
would have to come before another court.

The Turkish parliament abolished state security courts like the one hearing this
trial in May, but that order does not come into force for about another month.

The reform was approved as part of Turkey's bid to join the European Union.

In a written ruling, the court yesterday said that, due to the changes, it no
longer had the authority to hear the case.

All 69 defendants, however, must still appear before the court this week on
procedural grounds. But the court will not hear their testimony.

Turkish authorities are expected to set up new tribunals in the coming months
that will deal with terrorism and other cases.

The 69 are accused over a string of November suicide bombings in Istanbul.

The truck bombings targeted two synagogues, the British Consulate and the local
headquarters of the London-based HSBC bank.

Prosecutors say 61 people, including British Consul-General Roger Short, were
killed and more than 600 others injured in the attacks.

In their 128-page indictment, prosecutors demanded life sentences for five
suspects who they said played direct roles in the bombings.

The other 64 suspects could face prison sentences ranging from four to 22 years.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Century Newspapers Limited

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACKS SPARK FEAR OF PETROL PRICE RISE;
 CALL FOR GOVERNMENT TO SUPPORT PUBLIC TRANSPORT AFTER POUNDS 4 GALLON

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS

LENGTH: 281 words


MOTORISTS in Coventry and Warwickshire are bracing themselves for a massive hike
in the cost of petrol.

Fuel prices in the UK could rise to 92p a litre from around 80p after the latest
terror attacks in Saudi Arabia, which saw 22 civilians killed.

It could lead to petrol going up from about pounds 3.60 to pounds 4 a gallon.

Simon Wooding, spokesman for the AA in the West Midlands, said: "This signals
more bad news for Coventry and Warwickshire motorists. Fuel price rises are
going to hit low income families the most, especially if they need the car and
don't have a viable public transport option, which many don't.

"It will cost them a lot more to take the children to school, do the weekly shop
and with the summer holidays on the way when many people want to use their cars,
this will be an expensive time.

"We have a fuel crisis on the horizon, but this does not mean that retailers
should be putting their prices up."

Businesses have warned that they expect to see some serious government
investment in the public transport network in exchange for the rising fuel
prices.

Annette Fitzgerald, head of policy at the Coventry and Warwickshire Chamber of
Commerce, said: "While most businesses expect the fuel costs to go up, many feel
that they are not getting reciprocal benefits in return.

"There are concerns that problems already affecting businesses will be further
exacerbated by rising petrol prices.

"The public could be pushed away from using cars by the increase in price - and
perhaps that is the intention - but they must be given viable and practical
alternatives in the shape of a sound cross-county public transport network."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACKS SPARK FEAR OF PETROL PRICE RISE;
 POUNDS 4 GALLON WARNING AS CONCERN OVER SUPPLY SENDS OIL COST SOARING

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 188 words


MOTORISTS in Coventry and Warwickshire are bracing themselves for a massive hike
in the cost of petrol.

Fuel prices in the UK could rise to 92p a litre from around 80p after the latest
terror attacks in Saudi Arabia, which saw 22 civilians killed, experts have
warned.

It could lead to petrol going up from around pounds 3.60 a gallon to pounds 4 as
the world's biggest supplier of oil rushed to assure the world it was in full
control after the Khobar attack.

Following the terrorist attacks, blamed on al-Qaida, the price of crude in New
York was back above the 40 US dollars a barrel mark, rising by as much as two
per cent to 40.64 dollars.

Amid strong demand and worries over possible supply disruption, analysts expect
little let-up in the pressure on prices in London and rises are likely when the
oil markets reopen today, after being closed yesterday.

State oil company Saudi Aramco has vowed to keep supplies flowing.

"The immediate impact (of the attacks) is more panic and an additional premium
in prices, which will surge," Abdulwahab Abu-Dahesh, a senior economist at Riyad
Bank said.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

OIL PRICE FEARS GROW AFTER TERRORIST ATTACK IN SAUDI

BYLINE: SIMON BAKER

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 360 words


FEARS were growing last night that the deadly terrorist outrage in Saudi Arab ia
may have a knock- on effect on the global economy by sparking further rises in
oil prices.

Analysts said prices could climb as the killing of at least 22 civilians in
oil-richKhobar raises concerns ab out supplies from the world's top crude
exporter.

The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec)is due to meet on
Thursday and all eyes will be on Saudi Arab ia to see how it reacts to the
current situation.

One trader said: "If US light crude does resume its climb to 50 US dollars a
barr el, the global economy will undoubtedly suffer."

It came as Britain's ambassador to Saudi Arab ia,Sherard Cowper-Coles warned
that another terrorist attack in the country was "proba ble".

The Foreign Office in London has advised against all but essential travel to
Saudi,but unlike the US it has stopped short of recommending that people leave
the country.

Reports suggest that many westerners working in the area were seeking to move to
nearby Bahrain to escape the threat of terrorist attack.

A close ally of the United States, it has not seen the kind of extremist
violence that has erupted repeatedly in Saudi Arab ia over the past year.

Meanwhile,friends of the British oil executive shot dead at the start of the
24-hour hostage- taking incident in Khobar have spoken of their shock.

Michael Hamilton, a father-of-two -was in his car on his way to work at Arab
Petroleum Investments Corp (Apicorp) when he was gunned down on Saturday.

His wife,Penelope, who was reportedly dropped off by her husband at a nearby
compound, minutes bef ore he was shot dead, was said to be "devastated".

Officials were investigating reports a second Briton had died in the attack,but
the Foreign Office so far had "no reason to belie ve" that to be the case. An
off-shoot of Osama bin Laden's al Qaida terrorist network has claimed
responsibility for the outrage, which ended when helicopter-borne Saudi
commandos stormed the compound.

Three of the four attackers, who held up to 50 peoplehostage, managed to flee
and are still being hunted.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 01, 2004, Tuesday

Fear may pump up the world price of oil The weekend terrorist attacks in Khobar
have cast gloom on markets despite Saudi Arabia's determination to increase
output, reports David Litterick

BYLINE: By DAVID LITTERICK

SECTION: News Pg. 04

LENGTH: 717 words

OIL prices were expected to rise as key markets reopened today after the bank
holidays in Europe and the United States.

US crude prices are already trading at 21-year highs but analysts believe the
weekend attacks in the oil hub of Khobar, Saudi Arabia, serves as a sharp
reminder of the vulnerability of already stretched global supplies.

"This raises the fear factor," said Tony Nunan, the head of risk management at
Mitsubishi Corporation in Tokyo.

"The incident is an escalation since the last attack in Yanbu. Khobar is a
bigger oil centre and more people were killed. Whether prices will hit new highs
is a tough call, but it will definitely keep a floor under the market."

Oil prices have risen from about $24 a barrel a year ago to $37 last week,
driving petrol prices at some UK filling stations well above 80p a litre, the
level which sparked the fuel protests of 2000.

World leaders have expressed concern at the rise in oil prices and finance
ministers from the G7 group of leading industrial nations have called on the
Opec oil cartel to increase production.

Traders have already priced in a risk premium because of accelerating violence
in the Middle East, home to around two-thirds of the world's oil reserves.
Between $5 and $8 a barrel is thought to reflect jitters about possible sabotage
on the oil infrastructure.

The International Energy Agency also points to the rapid expansion of the
Chinese and US economies as a reason for the surge in price. It warns that a
price of $35 a barrel for the rest of the year could knock one per cent from
world economic growth, driving up inflation and unemployment. A fall in the
price of $1 is reckoned to put $28 billion into the pockets of the world's
consumers.

Opec, whose members account for about 70 per cent of world oil production, aims
to keep the price of a barrel within a range of $22 and $28, although it has
been above that for almost a year.

The weekend's attacks precede next Thursday's meeting in Beirut which will
discuss ways of keeping a lid on the price of oil. Saudi Arabia has given strong
hints that it will increase production but Opec officials said yesterday that
this was likely to have only a short-term effect.

Omar Ibrahim, the head of Opec's information department, said Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates could lift oil production by up to three
million barrels per day. "But its effect will probably not last longer than 48
hours as supply and demand are not really the problem," he said.

"For a permanent solution we will have to look beyond that. We have to look at
geopolitics and the US markets."

Saudi Arabia, the world's largest crude oil exporter, is the only producer with
any significant ability to increase output, since its industry is operating at
85 per cent of full capacity. Opec's present output ceiling is 23.5 million
barrels per day, but its actual production is estimated at close to 26 million,
with most members already pumping at their maximum.

Its state-owned oil giant, Saudi Aramco, has moved swiftly to reassure the oil
markets that it will keep supplies running smoothly at its present level of more
than nine million barrels a day. But the political instability in oil producing
regions is encouraging stockpiling and attracting speculators to the market,
driving up prices still further.

Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to the US, said yesterday: "Saudi
Arabia has made a commitment to raise production to the world and to our friends
in America, and we will keep it regardless of those who object to it,
particularly those terrorists."

Despite Opec pledges, Robin Griffiths, the chief technical strategist at HSBC,
reckons the oil price could hit $50 next year, rising to $60 by 2006.

Analysts say that every $2 increase equates to a 1p increase in the price of a
litre of petrol on the forecourt. This means that a $60 barrel would translate
to a 92 1/2 p litre, assuming that the Government does not increase petrol duty
further.

About 74 per cent of the price of petrol at the pump is taken up in duty. Gordon
Brown, the Chancellor, is planning to increase duty by 1.9p in September, but is
expected to face considerable political pressure to drop the planned increase.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  June 1, 2004

Oil futures rise in Asia over Saudi terror attack

SECTION: A; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 62 words


CRUDE oil futures rose in Asia this morning after 22 people were killed by
suspected al Qaeda militants in the Saudi oil hub of Khobar over the weekend.
London's Brent crude gained 1.5% . With no guidance from US and London, where
markets were closed for holidays, major Asian stock exchanges traded lower, with
the exception of Tokyo which edged up just 0.4%.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

SAUDI TERROR ATTACK: SAUDIS DENY DEAL TO LET MILITANTS ESCAPE

BYLINE: ANDREW GUMBEL Saudi police surround a mosque in the hunt for suspects
after Saturday's attack AP

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 630 words


SAUDI AUTHORITIES, facing mounting anger over the escape of three suspected
al-Qa'ida militants who participated in the bloody hostage-taking at an oil
company compound, set up roadblocks across the kingdom yesterday and vowed to
catch the fugitives before they could strike again.

The Saudis denied allegations made by eyewitnesses to the carnage that the three
men were allowed to leave in a secret deal with security forces who had
surrounded the residential compound in the Gulf city of Khobar. In the official
version, the three used some of their surviving hostages as human shields to get
away as the commandos pounced at dawn on Sunday.

According to at least one eyewitness, however, the men were seen in Dammam, six
miles north of Khobar, two and a half hours before the commandos moved into the
Oasis compound and released more than 200 people, including dozens of hostages
who were held during the 25-hour siege.

An employee at the compound said he had been told by the hostages that the three
men promised not to harm the 41 people they were holding at gunpoint if they
were allowed to escape. In his account, the security forces were not initially
interested in a deal but changed their minds after nine hostages were killed.
Varying accounts said the hostages were shot or had their throats cut. "There
was a kind of a deal reached to let the hostages go free," the employee told the
Reuters news agency.

Among those denying this allegation yesterday was the Saudi ambassador to
Britain, Prince Turki al-Faisal, who told the BBC there had been no collusion
between the attackers and security forces. He echoed an official statement by
King Fahd describing the attacks as "criminal acts by deviants" that would only
strengthen Saudi resolve to "fight terrorism".

The exact sequence of events remained mired in deep confusion yesterday. Saudi
officials have alluded to just four gunmen - the three who escaped and their
leader who was said to have been wounded and captured as the commandos took the
compound. Eyewitnesses inside the compound have suggested, however, that more
than four people were involved.

In Dammam, a man called Sultan al-Oteibi told Agence France-Presse that the
suspected al-Qa'ida fugitives stole his car at about 3am, two and a half hours
before the compound siege came to an end. "Three armed men dressed in black
sports gear waved guns and took my car in Dammam, where they abandoned a pick-up
truck," he said.

Further accounts in Saudi newspapers and on Islamist websites suggested there
may have been a mini-siege in Dammam after the three men barricaded themselves
into a building in the centre of town. The upshot was that the men escaped
again.

Eyewitness testimony, meanwhile, built up a more detailed picture of the
carnage, which began when gunmen in military clothing opened fire on the
Al-Khobar Petroleum Centre building, then stormed through offices, homes and a
hotel where the hostages were held. At the outset, Michael Hamilton, a
62-year-old British oil executive, was shot in his car at the gates of the Arab
Petroleum Investments Corp and his body dragged along the street before being
dumped near a bridge.

In all, 22 people were killed - the youngest a 10-year-old Egyptian boy - and
about 25 wounded. The dead included an American, an Italian, a South African, a
Swede, eight Indians, two Sri Lankans, three Filipinos and three Saudis.

The Oasis compound employee described the scene. "There were pools of blood;
blood is everywhere," he said.

Residents said the gunmen ordered them to reveal their religion and picked
Christians as hostages, not Muslims. One Jordanian Christian, Nizar Hajazeen,
told Reuters that he believed he was spared because he lied about his religion.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

SAUDI TERROR ATTACK: BRITONS SEEK REFUGE OVER BAHRAINI BORDER

BYLINE: YVONNE GAVAN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 465 words


BRITISH CIVILIANS living in Saudi Arabia were preparing to leave the kingdom
yesterday, fearing further terrorist attacks.

Expatriates, many of them business executives, were scouting for properties in
neighbouring Bahrain after a 24-hour siege in Khobar in which 22 people were
killed including Michael Hamilton, a British oil executive.

Many already commute from Bahrain to Saudi Arabia, an 18-mile drive across the
King Fahd causeway from the eastern Saudi region where many oil companies have
offices.

Robert De Liefde, the general manager of Pan-Arabian Company, said that his firm
was considering relocation. He said "We do have a small office in Bahrain and we
might move there but the business in Saudi Arabia is so important." After the
siege, Sherard Cowper-Coles, the British ambassador to Saudi Arabia, said that
another attack in the kingdom was "probable".

An American doctor working in the Khobar area said that the warnings were having
an impact on the local expatriate community. "People are nervous and some are
leaving, especially those with families," said the man, who did not want to be
identified.

Four American schools in Saudi Arabia's Eastern Province are also set to close,
prompting families to seriously consider leaving the kingdom. Many might wait
until after the school year ends in June before making any move, said one
Western diplomat in Riyadh.

British Airways said yesterday that flight dates have been moved forward by a
number of customers. Abdynazq Hassan, a British Airways desk adviser based in
Saudi Arabia, said: "Some people want to fly earlier and have changed their
reservations to the start of June."

There were also unconfirmed reports of mass resignations from the former United
States-owned national oil company Saudi Aramco. Based in Dharan, the firm is a
major employer of foreign workers both directly and through sub-contracted
service providers. A spokesman from the company was unavailable for comment.

A Foreign Office spokesman, David Shaw, said yesterday: "Advice has been updated
only to reflect recent events." Information posted on the department's website
states that British citizens travelling to or living in Saudi "should take all
necessary steps" to protect their safety.

"It's likely that some people might leave but we are advising against all but
essential travel," Mr Shaw said.

Moving across the border has become easier in the past 18 months along with
updates in Bahrain residency procedures. Rather than find a guarantor in
Bahrain, potential residents can obtain sponsorship from their Saudi employer.

Saudi Arabia relies on six million expatriate workers to run its billion- pound
oil industry and houses offices for the industrial giants IBM and
Hewlett-Packard.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

SAUDI TERROR ATTACK: EXPATRIATES LOOK FOR REFUGE IN BAHRAIN

BYLINE: YVONNE GAVAN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 464 words


BRITISH CIVILIANS living in Saudi Arabia were preparing to leave the kingdom
yesterday, fearing further terrorist attacks.

Expatriates, many of them business executives, were scouting for properties in
neighbouring Bahrain after a 24-hour siege in Khobar in which 22 people were
killed including Michael Hamilton, a British oil executive.

Many already commute from Bahrain to Saudi Arabia, an 18-mile drive across the
King Fahd causeway to the eastern Saudi region where many oil companies have
offices.

Robert De Liefde, the general manager of Pan-Arabian Company, said that his firm
was considering relocation. He said "We do have a small office in Bahrain and we
might move there but the business in Saudi Arabia is so important." After the
siege, Sherard Cowper-Coles, the British ambassador to Saudi Arabia, said that
another attack in the kingdom was "probable".

An American doctor working in the Khobar area said that the warnings were having
an impact on the local expatriate community. "People are nervous and some are
leaving, especially those with families," said the man, who did not want to be
identified.

Four American schools in Saudi Arabia's Eastern Province are also set to close,
prompting families to seriously consider leaving the kingdom. Many might wait
until after the school year ends in June before making any move, said one
Western diplomat in Riyadh.

British Airways said yesterday that flight dates have been moved forward by a
number of customers. Abdynazq Hassan, a British Airways desk adviser based in
Saudi Arabia, said: "Some people want to fly earlier and have changed their
reservations to the start of June."

There were also unconfirmed reports of mass resignations from the former United
States-owned national oil company Saudi Aramco. Based in Dharan, the firm is a
major employer of foreign workers both directly and through sub-contracted
service providers. A spokesman from the company was unavailable for comment.

A Foreign Office spokesman, David Shaw, said yesterday: "Advice has been updated
only to reflect recent events." Information posted on the department's website
states that British citizens travelling to or living in Saudi "should take all
necessary steps" to protect their safety.

"It's likely that some people might leave but we are advising against all but
essential travel," Mr Shaw said.

Moving across the border has become easier in the past 18 months along with
updates in Bahrain residency procedures. Rather than find a guarantor in
Bahrain, potential residents can obtain sponsorship from their Saudi employer.

Saudi Arabia relies on six million expatriate workers to run its billion- pound
oil industry and houses offices for the industrial giants IBM and
Hewlett-Packard.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

SAUDI TERROR ATTACK: OILMEN EXPECT TERROR PREMIUM' TO HIT TODAY

BYLINE: SAEED SHAH

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 219 words


OIL MARKETS are facing a volatile week following the attacks in Saudi Arabia,
the world's biggest oil exporter.

The major trading markets, in London and New York, were closed yesterday, but
traders in Asia said prices could soar when business resumes today. The second
major terrorist incident in Saudi Arabia in a month on the weekend heightened
fears about the reliability of supplies from the kingdom. A "terror premium"
would again be factored into the price, the traders said, as some voiced fears
of a new al-Qa'ida strategy of attacking oil assets.

The jump in the price of crude - which has risen by nearly a third this year -
has led to a sharp increase in retail fuel prices in the West. Aside from terror
fears, markets are jittery because world supplies are tight and demand is
unexpectedly strong. Economists warn that a sustained high oil price would limit
global economic growth.

Opec is expected to agree to an increase in production. The cartel's president,
Purnomo Yusgiantoro, said yesterday: "We are concerned because we are expecting
them Saudi Arabia to lead the increase in production. It still has spare
capacity. It's now producing at 85 per cent."

Analysts said crude oil prices could head back towards the $ 41.85 a barrel
reached a fortnight ago, a 13-year high.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

SAUDI TERROR ATTACK: IF ATTACK DRIVE OUT THE WESTERNERS, HOW CAN THE KINGDOM
FUNCTION?

BYLINE: DAVID USBORNE IN NEW YORK Saudi King Fahd, left, has been incapacitated
since a stroke in 1995; the regent, Crown Prince Abdullah, is almost 80

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 531 words


WHEN THE terrorists who have identified themselves as members of al-Qa'ida took
their hostages in Khobar last weekend, they were meticulous in choosing their
targets. Muslims were allowed to leave; only foreign "infidels" were held and
some were killed.

But the killers had another target: the ruling royal family. The House of Saud,
which numbers upwards of 20,000 people and has had the kingdom in its grip since
the 1920s, is held in suspicion by nearly everyone who is not a member of it.
Even the Americans have rumbled its failures in combating terrorism since
September 2001.

But more important is the hatred of the ruling clan among many Saudis, who are
denied anything approaching democracy. They consider the family corrupt and to a
large degree, infirm. King Fahd is incapacitated since suffering a stroke in
1995. The regent, Crown Prince Abdullah, who represents Saudi Arabia abroad and
essentially rules it, is almost 80.

The monarchy remains in almost complete control. Nearly every senior government
post is held by a prince of the family. They control most of the ministries. The
Interior Minster, Prince Nayef Abdul Aziz, belongs to the family. So does Prince
Saud al-Faisal, the Foreign Minister. Even ambassadors abroad are royalty,
including Prince Turki al-Faisal, the ambassador in London who, until 2001, was
head of the Department of General Intelligence. Prince Bandar is the country's
envoy in Washington.

But the House of Saud faces multiple threats. Many of the younger princes are
frustrated with the older generation, whom they consider sclerotic, corrupt and
slavish to the United States and its interests, despite the withdrawal of
American troops from Saudi soil, ending a presence that began after the 1990
invasion of Kuwait by Saddam Hussein.

And then there is the shadow of Osama bin Laden. A Saudi national and scion of a
powerful business family, but not related to the royal family, he attracts
support for his disdain for the rulers from across Saudi society and even in the
younger ranks of the royal household. Bin Laden is the voice of those who
believe that, as the land of Mohamed, Saudi Arabia should be an Islamic
theocracy.

"If an election were held today ... Osama bin Laden would be elected in a
landslide," Robert Baer, a former CIA field director and author of The Fall of
the House of Saud, has suggested. "Saudi oil is controlled by an increasingly
bankrupt, criminal, dysfunctional, and out-of-touch royal family that is hated
by the people it rules and by the nations that surround its kingdom."

The monarchy has promised steps towards democracy, but little action has been
taken. There are doubts that promises of elections in 14 municipalities this
year will be honoured. This is a country that has been without electoral
democracy for nearly a century and critics remain sceptical.

Saudi Arabia operates only by the skills of expatriates, most of them non-Muslim
and Western. But the terrorists are instilling such fear that eventually every
expatriate will flee. But when they are gone, who will keep Saudi Arabia
working? And if it becomes dysfunctional, what will the House of Saud do?

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

SAUDI TERROR ATTACK: ISOLATED ABROAD, HATED AT HOME: HOUSE OF SAUD FACES
UNCERTAIN FUTURE

BYLINE: DAVID USBORNE IN NEW YORK Saudi King Fahd, left, has been incapacitated
since a stroke in 1995; the regent, Crown Prince Abdullah, is almost 80

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 531 words


WHEN THE terrorists who have identified themselves as members of al-Qa'ida took
their hostages in Khobar last weekend, they were meticulous in choosing their
targets. Muslims were allowed to leave; only foreign "infidels" were held and
some were killed.

But the killers had another target: the ruling royal family. The House of Saud,
which numbers upwards of 20,000 people and has had the kingdom in its grip since
the 1920s, is held in suspicion by nearly everyone who is not a member of it.
Even the Americans have rumbled its failures in combating terrorism since
September 2001.

But more important is the hatred of the ruling clan among many Saudis, who are
denied anything approaching democracy. They consider the family corrupt and to a
large degree, infirm. King Fahd is incapacitated since suffering a stroke in
1995. The regent, Crown Prince Abdullah, who represents Saudi Arabia abroad and
essentially rules it, is almost 80.

The monarchy remains in almost complete control. Nearly every senior government
post is held by a prince of the family. They control most of the ministries. The
Interior Minster, Prince Nayef Abdul Aziz, belongs to the family. So does Prince
Saud al-Faisal, the Foreign Minister. Even ambassadors abroad are royalty,
including Prince Turki al-Faisal, the ambassador in London who, until 2001, was
head of the Department of General Intelligence. Prince Bandar is the country's
envoy in Washington.

But the House of Saud faces multiple threats. Many of the younger princes are
frustrated with the older generation, whom they consider sclerotic, corrupt and
slavish to the United States and its interests, despite the withdrawal of
American troops from Saudi soil, ending a presence that began after the 1990
invasion of Kuwait by Saddam Hussein.

And then there is the shadow of Osama bin Laden. A Saudi national and scion of a
powerful business family, but not related to the royal family, he attracts
support for his disdain for the rulers from across Saudi society and even in the
younger ranks of the royal household. Bin Laden is the voice of those who
believe that, as the land of Mohamed, Saudi Arabia should be an Islamic
theocracy.

"If an election were held today ... Osama bin Laden would be elected in a
landslide," Robert Baer, a former CIA field director and author of The Fall of
the House of Saud, has suggested. "Saudi oil is controlled by an increasingly
bankrupt, criminal, dysfunctional, and out-of-touch royal family that is hated
by the people it rules and by the nations that surround its kingdom."

The monarchy has promised steps towards democracy, but little action has been
taken. There are doubts that promises of elections in 14 municipalities this
year will be honoured. This is a country that has been without electoral
democracy for nearly a century and critics remain sceptical.

Saudi Arabia operates only by the skills of expatriates, most of them non-Muslim
and Western. But the terrorists are instilling such fear that eventually every
expatriate will flee. But when they are gone, who will keep Saudi Arabia
working? And if it becomes dysfunctional, what will the House of Saud do?

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 1, 2004, Tuesday

SAUDI TERROR ATTACK: OIL TRADERS EXPECT TERROR PREMIUM' TO STRIKE TODAY

BYLINE: SAEED SHAH

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 219 words


OIL MARKETS are facing a volatile week following the attacks in Saudi Arabia,
the world's biggest oil exporter.

The major trading markets, in London and New York, were closed yesterday, but
traders in Asia said prices could soar when business resumes today. The second
major terrorist incident in Saudi Arabia in a month on the weekend heightened
fears about the reliability of supplies from the kingdom. A "terror premium"
would again be factored into the price, the traders said, as some voiced fears
of a new al-Qa'ida strategy of attacking oil assets.

The jump in the price of crude - which has risen by nearly a third this year -
has led to a sharp increase in retail fuel prices in the West. Aside from terror
fears, markets are jittery because world supplies are tight and demand is
unexpectedly strong. Economists warn that a sustained high oil price would limit
global economic growth.

Opec is expected to agree to an increase in production. The cartel's president,
Purnomo Yusgiantoro, said yesterday: "We are concerned because we are expecting
them Saudi Arabia to lead the increase in production. It still has spare
capacity. It's now producing at 85 per cent."

Analysts said crude oil prices could head back towards the $ 41.85 a barrel
reached a fortnight ago, a 13-year high.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

SEX ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 74 words


A woman was raped in front of her ten-year-old son as they walked home, police
said yesterday.

The 40-year-old was attacked in an alleyway behind Ormskirk Road in Wigan,
Greater Manchester, shortly after 11pm on Sunday.

She was walking home with her son when a man approached and pushed her to the
ground before raping her. Detective Inspector Steve Crimmins, of Greater
Manchester Police, said: 'This is a horrific attack.'

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

FARMERS CALL FOR FUEL TAX CUT AS PRICES RISE;
 EXPERTS PREDICT A 92P LITRE AFTER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: TOM BODDEN WELSH AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 377 words


WELSH farming leaders will today call for an urgent cut in fuel taxes as pump
prices soar.

The Farmers Union of Wales will also urge Chancellor Gordon Brown to scrap plans
for a 2p-a-litre rise in fuel duty this September.

The plea comes as experts predict a 20% rise in petrol to 92p a litre after the
terror attacks in Saudi Arabia.

FUW leaders want a reduction in the fuel tax level of 10p per litre to start
bringing UK prices into line with the rest of Europe.

Oil prices were pushed up again yesterday as global markets reacted to a
terrorist attack on oil workers in Saudi Arabia which left 22 peopledead.

But Downing Street appeared to rule out reversing the 2p rise on fuel duty,
despite fears petrol price rises could spark mass protests similar to those of
four years ago.

Former fuel protest leader Brynle Williams yesterday warned of increasing unrest
among hauliers.

He predicted some could take direct action this summer unless the Government
moves to cut their costs.

FUW President Gareth Vaughan will tell an FUW council meeting in Aberystwyth
today: "The Government must stave off any risk to jobs and the economy by
cutting fuel tax immediately.

"We are still paying far more than most other countries in the developed world
for our fuel,and that is due to the extortionate level of tax imposed by the
Government.

"While nothing can be done about the volatile world oil price, the Government
can take immediate action to ease the burden on British industry by reducing the
tax burden on motorists and hauliers."

Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman said: "The Prime Minister does
not determine the price of petrol.

"It's not for the Prime Minister to indulge in TV reality shows and judge the
price of the oil market."

Mr Williams, a Conservative AM in North Wales,and the party's Welsh MEP Jonathan
Evans will today highlight the fuel problem in a meeting at Ruthin haulage
firm,L. E.Jones International.

The AM said yesterday: "I fear that attitudes in some quarters are hardening and
some hauliers are ready to take protests on to the streets of cities.

"I won't be taking part but I am angry because I believe Gordon Brown has a lot
of scope to reduce the tax on fuel."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Victim of thugs Jim Morris,81, with some of the medals he won for
bravery during World War II

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

WHY YOU MIGHT NOT GET WARNING OF TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: ROBERT MERRICK PARLIAMENTARY CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 353 words


wants everybody to be warned at the same time if there is a terrorist attack.

"You only have to look at what happened last year with the severe flooding in
Conwy Valley. There was just the odd news flash on TV and people felt completely
let down by the Environment Agency."

Mr Llwyd said one solution might be for the Government to pay for relay stations
to boost the strength of signals, a cost that currently fell on householders.

Plaid Cymru's parliamentary leader spoke out following a debate on the Civil
Contingencies Bill, which is designed to update Britain's defences against
attacks and other emergencies.

The Bill has already caused controversy amid warnings that Wales receives only
half the cash it needs - only pounds 150,000, which pays for just three staff
for the whole country.

The Conservatives have also called for a more wide ranging public information
campaign. But Hazel Blears, the police minister, told MPs: "Arrangements are in
place to ensure rapid dissemination of public warnings through the whole range
of communications -radio, television, teletext and websites."

VILLAGERS in remote parts of Wales may not hear news of a terror strike in
Britain because they cannot receive TV or radio signals, a Plaid Cymru MP warned
yesterday.

Meirionnydd Nant Conwy MP Elfyn Llwyd raised the alarm over Government plans to
rely on TV and radio broadcasts to inform people if a dirty bomb goes off.

A chemical or biological attack might require people many miles from the
location of the strike to follow instructions quickly to avoid contamination.

Mr Llwyd said some people both in his constituency and in eastern Wales received
only weak signals because they were far from transmitters or the terrain was a
problem.

The poor signals had long been a bone of contention in places such as
Abergynolwyn and Corris in south Gwynedd.

Mr Llwyd said: "For many years people living in these areas have complained they
were not able to get a good TV or radio service and they were completely
ignored.

"Now the Government really needs to think it through if it

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Elfyn Llwyd said some people in his constituency received only weak TV
and radio signals

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Eastern Daily Press

                                  June 2, 2004

Oil prices surged yesterday as uncertainty grew in the wake of the terror attack
on Western workers in Saudi Arabia that left 22 people dead

BYLINE: BENNETT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1083 words


Oil prices surged yesterday as uncertainty grew in the wake of the terror attack
on Western workers in Saudi Arabia that left 22 people dead. Steve Downes asks
why they are on an upward curve, when they will stop rising - and who will be
hardest hit if they don't.

With headlines screaming about petrol prices being destined to rise to £5 per
gallon or £1 per litre, it has been tempting to just ignore the issue and hope
it will go away.

But as each day passes, it is becoming clearer that we really are teetering on
the brink of a fuel price crisis.

Yesterday morning, all eyes were on the International Petroleum Exchange in
London as it resumed trading for the first time since the terrorists struck at
al-Khobar, hub of the Saudi oil industry.

A calm start to the day would have been a strong signal that the Saudi
insurgents were not going to destabilise the Western world with their murderous
attack.

Within hours any hope of a show of resolve had been dashed as the price of Brent
crude oil for July delivery was up $1.82, at $38.40 and rising.

With intelligence reports predicting an "imminent" follow-up attack by al Qaida
on Saudi oil installations, nerves are hardly likely to settle in forthcoming
weeks.

To set the situation in context, Brent crude oil prices have gone from below $26
a barrel last October to the current rate of $38.40. At the same time, the price
per litre of unleaded fuel at the pumps has surged by around 10p to an average
of around 82p.

Increased demand from China and America has played its part, but the biggest
threat to future prices is the instability in the Middle East - including the
ongoing Iraq conflict, the problems between Israel and Palestine and the terror
attacks in Saudi Arabia.

It doesn't take a crystal ball to predict that those situations are far from
being resolved.

Likewise, it follows that oil - and therefore petrol - prices will only go up in
the near future.

So now that we've got the doom prophecy out of the way, what effect is this
looming crisis going to have on drivers in Britain.

Philip Dingle, national executive member of the Petrol Retailers Association, is
not too hopeful.

He said: "I don't honestly know what the effect of the current crisis in Saudi
Arabia is going to be.

"There's a strong possibility that oil prices will go up again and we will see
more increases for customers. But you have to remember that the price on the
forecourt lags behind the price of the oil on the stockmarket.

"We still haven't seen all the price increases coming through to the pumps.
There's a time lag. Because of this we are already in for another couple of
pence extra per litre this month."

Among those who are already being hit the hardest by the petrol price increases
are Britain's 8m company car users - including 5m who use their own vehicles for
company business.

For those in the second category, the amount that can be claimed without being
taxed has been capped at 40p per mile for more than three years. When petrol
prices rise, therefore, the drivers lose money.

An RAC spokesman said: "It's not fair that people driving on company business,
using their own vehicle, should be unnecessarily penalised when faced with
rising fuel costs.

"We would encourage the Government to move quickly and make this more
equitable."

The 3m company car users are also being penalised, because they are currently
only allowed to claim at prices of 77p per litre of unleaded, 78p diesel and 41p
LPG.

These rates are set to stay unless or until the petrol prices rise by 10pc from
those marks - and even then can only be altered by the Chancellor.

Simon Woodings, spokesman for the AA, said another group that would be hard hit
was low-income families living in rural areas where there was no reliable public
transport network.

The question is - what can be done to alleviate the effects of the petrol price
hikes?

Mr Woodings and Mr Dingle feel the onus is on the Chancellor, Gordon Brown, to
cancel a planned 2p increase in fuel duty that is set to be implemented in
September.

Mr Woodings said it would be "unwise" to go ahead with it, while Mr Dingle said:
"I don't see any protests coming at the moment. If it was clear-cut who was to
blame I'm sure it would be a different story. But if the Government decides to
go ahead with the 2p increase in fuel duty in September there could be some
trouble."

Mr Dingle added: "I think the Government can do something about it now. If the
price of fuel goes up 10p per litre, VAT is 1.3p out of that. They could write
off that extra money, which is money they were never expecting to get. It's
within the Government's gift to help us."

If gifts are in the hands of the Government, they don't appear to be feeling too
generous.

Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman said: "The Prime Minister does
not determine the price of petrol. It's not for the Prime Minister to indulge in
TV reality shows and judge the price of the oil market."

He said Mr Blair would be lobbying members of Opec, the Organisation of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, which meets on Thursday to discuss the crisis.

Oil consumers are hoping the members will follow the lead of Saudi Arabia, which
has pledged to increase its oil production to try to cool down the market and
meet high demand.

The current crisis has led to one angry consumer trying to organise a boycott of
petrol stations run by fuel giants Esso and BP.

Phillip Hollsworth says that a successful boycott could force the multinationals
to reduce their prices - with other companies following their lead.

But with the Government taking around 60p in duty and VAT from an 80p litre of
unleaded, it seems Mr Hollsworth's guns are pointed at the wrong target.

Mr Dingle feels the situation is a "wake up call" for consumers.

He said: "I think people need to become more aware of the situation we are in
with fuel. By 2010 we will no longer be finding more oil than we are consuming.
Our grandchildren are simply not going to have enough fuel.

"Fuel is going to become a rare commodity and we need to be looking at
alternatives."

Environmental groups have been making the same sensible noises for decades - but
few people in power seem prepared to listen.

Without a sudden change on that front, or an about-turn by the Chancellor over
fuel duty, it appears drivers will have to grin and bear the latest strain on
their incomes

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

                    Copyright 2004 Eastern Daily Press (EDP)

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  June 2, 2004

'Our fear as we hid during the terror attack that left 22 dead'

SECTION: A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 80 words


A WOMAN today told how she and 21 other westerners hid from Islamic terrorists
during the weekend attack in the Saudi city of Khobar.

New Zealander Jo Fowler, head of childcare at the residential Oasis Compound,
led staff to a room and barricaded the door as gunmen entered the complex. She
said: "We went totally silent and truly thought this was the end if they found
us." Saudi police rescued the group after four hours. The attack left 22 people
dead.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 2, 2004

DON'T BLAME PETROL PRICES ON TERROR ATTACK, MR BLAIR

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 95 words


HOW hypocritical for Tony Blair to blame the terrorist outrages in Saudi Arabia
for the spiralling petrol prices in Britain and to say that the Government can
do nothing about it.

The rising cost of crude oil is a factor, but with three quarters of the petrol
price siphoned off by the Government in tax, it is well within the control of
the Chancellor to adjust the tax burden to compensate.

So Mr Blair, stop laying a smokescreen and start doing something for people in
the UK who need to use their cars and can't afford to do so.

Bob MacDougall, Kippen

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

I WAS HIT BY DEATH BRIDGE THUGS TOO;
 MUM'S TERROR AT YOB ATTACK BLACKSPOT

BYLINE: PAUL BYRNE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 418 words

HIGHLIGHT: LOST CONTROL: Christopher, left, and his overturned Mercedes van;
LUCKY ESCAPE: Mum Sharon and her smashed windscreen; DANGER AHEAD: Driver's view
of bridge


A MUM has told how thugs stoned her at the road bridge where a driver was killed
earlier this week.

Sharon Dunn was five months pregnant and travelling with son Dale, three, when a
yob aged eight hurled rocks at her car.

She was cut and temporarily blinded as the windscreen, sunroof and window
shattered, shooting shards of glass at her.

The mum, who was with her boyfriend in his Ford Granada, said: "We could have
all been killed.

"The glass just shattered in my face and Dale was screaming.

"If anything had happened to my baby I'd have been heartbroken."

On Monday yobs on the same bridge - over the A41 near Birkenhead, Merseyside -
hurled a rock through Christopher McCaffrey's Mercedes van windscreen.

Christopher, 33, was killed instantly as he lost control and crashed.

A boy of 15 was last night being quizzed on suspicion of murder. Yesterday
politicians demanded higher fences or a cage on the bridge as it emerged vandals
have pelted vehicles from it for years.

Local Labour MP Ben Chapman said: "There were two similar incidents in 1996 and
1997 where two families were fortunate to escape with their lives.

"This time the victim was not so lucky.

"Seven years ago I lobbied to get something done to stop this sort of thing
happening.

"It never materialised. Had it done, I suspect this tragedy could have been
prevented."

Tory councillor Les Spencer called Christopher's tragedy "a needless death
perpetrated by a mindless yob".

He added: "Over the past 10 years the bridge has been plagued with incidents of
bricks being dropped but they have never resulted in death." Police had tried to
act after a growing number of complaints over the past year, he said.

He added: "I'm going to urge Wirral Council to take immediate steps to erect
barriers."

Yesterday the family of bachelor Christopher - a paint sprayer from Moreton,
Wirral - spoke of their anguish. Dad Anthony said: "We're devastated.

"Chris was extremely well-liked and well-known.

"Our son will be sorely missed by everyone who knew him."

In 1997 driver Stephen Johnson, his wife and their young child escaped serious
injury when yobs on the bridge aimed a concrete slab at their car.

Sharon, from Birkenhead, was attacked the previous year. But the eight-year-old
responsible was too young to be prosecuted.

Sharon said: "It's outrageous. He should be punished to stop him doing it again.

"Children his age know what's wrong and right. It's a mockery."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 2, 2004, Wednesday

I WAS HIT BY DEATH BRIDGE THUGS TOO;
 MUM'S TERROR AT YOB ATTACK BLACKSPOT

BYLINE: PAUL BYRNE

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 415 words

HIGHLIGHT: DANGER AHEAD: Driver's view of bridge; LOST CONTROL: Christopher,
left, and his overturned Mercedes van


A MUM has told how thugs stoned her at the road bridge where a driver was killed
earlier this week.

Sharon Dunn was five months pregnant and travelling with son Dale, three, when a
yob, aged eight, hurled rocks at her car.

She was cut and temporarily blinded as the windscreen, sun-roof and window
shattered, shooting shards of glass at her.

The mum, who was with her boyfriend in his Ford Granada, said: "We could have
all been killed.

"The glass just shattered in my face and Dale was screaming.

"If anything had happened to my baby I'd have been heartbroken."

On Monday yobs on the same bridge - over the A41 near Birkenhead, Merseyside -
hurled a rock through Christopher McCaffrey's Mercedes van windscreen.

Bachelor Christopher, 33, of Moreton, Wirral, was killed instantly as he lost
control and crashed.

A boy of 15 was last night charged with his murder and is today due before
Birkenhead magistrates.

Politicians yesterday demanded higher fences or a cage on the bridge as it
emerged vandals have pelted vehicles from it for years.

Local Labour MP Ben Chapman said: "There were two similar incidents in 1996 and
1997 where two families were fortunate to escape with their lives. This time the
victim was not so lucky.

"Seven years ago I lobbied to get something done to stop this sort of thing
happening.

"It never materialised. Had it done, I suspect this tragedy could have been
prevented."

Tory councillor Les Spencer called Christopher's tragedy "a needless death".

He added: "Over the past 10 years the bridge has been plagued with incidents of
bricks being dropped but they have never resulted in death."

Police had tried to act after a growing number of complaints over the past year,
he said.

He added: "I'm going to urge Wirral council to take immediate steps to erect
barriers."

Yesterday paint sprayer Christopher's family told of their devastation at his
death.

Dad Anthony said: Chris was extremely well-liked and well-known. Our son will be
sorely missed by everyone who knew him."

In 1997 driver Stephen Johnson, his wife and their young child escaped serious
injury when yobs on the bridge aimed a concrete slab at their car.

Sharon, of Birkenhead, was attacked the previous year. But the eight-year-old
responsible was too young to be prosecuted.

She said: "It's outrageous. He should be punished to stop him doing it again.

"Children his age know what's wrong and right. It's a mockery."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                  June 2, 2004

My terror in knife attack

BYLINE: S. TEPHEN BEVAN

SECTION: News; 999; Murders/violentcrime; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 334 words


Alan Childs, 51, suffered a collapsed lung after being stabbed in the back with
an eight-inch blade on Friday.  He was still in hospital last night, four days
after the lunchtime attack in Sneinton.

Speaking from his bed in the QMC, Mr Childs said he was lucky to be alive. "I'm
just thankful I survived," he said.  "It was horrible. I really thought I was
going to die." Mr Childs was on a track near Trent Road in Sneinton, walking the
dog with his wife Glennys when the attack took place.

He confronted a gang who were riding scooters on the path, asking them to find
somewhere else to ride.

But one of the gang, a girl, began insulting his wife.

"She actually struck out at my wife and started pulling her hair," he said.

Mr Childs says he attempted to restrain the girl and, after a couple of minutes
the gang left.

But after the couple began walking on he noticed one of the youths walking
behind them on the track, carrying a metal bar.

He told his wife to go home, but then felt a blow on his back.

"I thought 'What the hell was that?', and reached back. I could feel a trickling
sensation, and when I looked at my hand it was covered in blood." Alan said he
saw the youth holding a knife but was unsure at when he ran off.

"I suppose I panicked to begin with. I called over to Glennys, I told her I
thought I'd been stabbed." Mrs Childs attempted to stop the bleeding by putting
pressure over the wound. The pair used their mobile phone to call for emergency
help.

Arriving at the Queen's Medical Centre, doctors set about draining the blood
from his lungs.

After spending the weekend recovering, Alan is hoping to be released in the next
couple of days. "I do feel very rough at the moment," he said.

"It's starting to sink in. But I'm not going to be intimidated by these people,
I'm quite prepared to speak out against them." Two youths were arrested in
connection with the incident but were subsequently released on police bail.


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Nottingham Evening Post

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 3, 2004, Thursday

THE LEGACY OF HATRED;
 INNOCENT MUSLIMS FEELING BACKLASH OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: NEIL ELKES TARGET: Ali Patel, Sajjad Choudhury, Dominic Stevens, Naheem
Sarwar, Heather Aggoun and Fred Smith; WORRIES: Pinder Singh, Patrick Campbell,
Susan Almas, Lula Joseph, Surj Singh and Stephen Sadler

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 511 words


AN INCREASE in Islamophobia in Britain in the wake of the September 11 attacks
could lead to a backlash of riots and extremism.

That's the view according to a report from the Commission on British Muslims who
claim there is a time bomb of illfeeling and resentment just waiting to explode.

But their was mixed feelings about the potential for tension on the streets of
Birmingham among Muslims and non-Muslims.

Sajjad Choudhury, from Nechells, who works in nightclub security, believes that
every Muslim is labelled a terrorist since the Twin Towers attacks.

He said: 'I have been called a terrorist. We are not as accepted as we were. The
BNP are on the rise, there is more tension. I can only see it ending in
conflict.'

It was a view echoed by businessman Naheem Sarwar, from Small Heath, who said he
was recently involved in a fracas after a man fired antiMuslim abuse at his
wife. He said: 'The British have been tolerant, but it's getting worse, and will
get much worse as 9/11 changed the world forever.'

But this view was challenged by Muslim Susan Almas, from Handsworth, who said:
'Birmingham has fantastic people, it is a very friendly place, I have never had
any problems.' Her housemate Lula Joseph, a Christian, added: 'I think
Birmingham is a very tolerant and multi-cultural place. I can't see there being
any major problems.'

Heather Aggoun, from Leicester, who has a Muslim husband, said: 'We have a very
tolerant society, Birmingham is an especially welcoming city.'

Others had mixed thoughts on the issue.

Patrick Campbell, a Land Rover worker from Great Barr, said: 'The conflicts,
terrorism and asylum seekers are constant topics of conversation at work.

'I think we are a tolerant society, but things are getting more polarised.'

Stephen Sadler, a probation service worker from Essington, said: 'I would like
to think we are a tolerant society, but I am not sure that's the case.

'For me Islamophobia is not an issue, but there are people suffering.'

Pinder Singh, from Halesowen, said: 'There is tolerance in Birmingham, but
things have got worse since September 11.'

And Dominic Stevens, from Great Barr, added: 'There is tension in some sections
of the city. People are more aware of what's happening around them, I don't
think you will ever stop it entirely.'

But Fred Smith, from Handsworth, believes race relations groups often add to
trouble with such announcements.

He said: 'People complain about small problems, and once the race relations
people get hold of it, it is blown out of proportion.

Intolerance 'I have lived in Birmingham since 1976 and have never had a
problem.'

Surj Singh, from Handsworth Wood, said intolerance and conflict is on the
increase in Birmingham. He said: 'Problems are growing. I think the Bullring and
Birmingham are a target for terrorists and that would increase tensions.'

Ali Patel, from Walsall, also fears terrorist attacks. He said: 'Birmingham is a
major target with the new shopping centre and New Street.

'It is a worry.'

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

             UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Buckinghamshire

                                  June 3, 2004

Fear of terror attack fuels GE objections

BYLINE: Vince Soodin

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: Buckinghamshire


TERRORISTS could strike the Chilterns if the global headquarters of a US company
is constructed fear worried residents.

Residents opposing the proposal by GE Healthcare formally Amersham PLC in
Pollards Wood say it poses a "security risk" to the area.

But GE Healthcare has dismissed the claim as "nonsense".

A spokesman for GE said: "There is absolutely no reason to suggest that the UK
headquarters of a global healthcare business would be at any particular risk of
a terrorist attack."

The "terror" concern surfaced in a planning report which summarised objections
from 31 opposition letters.

The report said residents are concerned "there is a security risk posed by the
establishment of a global headquarters of an American multi-national firm. It
may become the subject of a serious terrorist threat".

The letters sent to Chiltern District Council planning department object to the
plans which include a new accommodation lodge auditorium and car park built on
an ancient woodland site and extension of the existing HQ building.

Residents claim GE has failed to look at alternative sites will overdevelop the
site and that Amersham PLC said it would not develop the site further after a
previous application in 2001.

GE said it is disappointed with the planning report and has rebutted the
residents' objections.

The company said Amersham PLC did not plan to develop the site further in 2001
and added that "the company at the time could not have envisaged becoming part
of GE and being asked to establish a global headquarters".

GE also said the new development will not expand on the current office space at
Pollards Wood and other existing GE Healthcare UK sites are not appropriate for
the headquarters.

The company said ancient woodland would not be lost and "overall the woodlands
and landscape will be enhanced a point recognised and supported by the AONB
office and Chilterns Society".

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                              June 4, 2004, Friday

TERROR OF DOG ATTACK

BYLINE: BY LISA JONES SOUTH WALES ECHO

SECTION: News Extra Edition; NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 246 words


A marathon runner bitten by a dog while out jogging has had to give up his sport
because of the attack. Now Dan Landeg, 40, a bathroom fitter of Ninian Park
Road, Riverside, Cardiff, is now so terrified of dogs he has to refuse work if
there is one in the house.

The father-of-five and grandfather was running up Leckwith Hill, in July last
year, while in training for the city's marathon.

'A Staffordshire Bull Terrier chased me up the road and latched itself onto the
back of my leg,' said Mr Landeg.

'I dived over a wall head first and the dog came after me.'

Mr Landeg suffered cuts, bruises and a black eye.

He added: 'I can't do a job if there's a dog on the premises.

'And I've given up running.

'I'm losing money left right and centre.'

Mr Landeg says he has lost at least pounds 1,000 in earnings as a result of the
attack.

The Vale of Glamorgan Council's environmental health department launched court
proceedings against who they believed to be the dog's owner. But days before it
was due to start, the case was called off.

A spokesman for the Vale of Glamorgan Council's legal department said: 'In light
of further evidence provided by the defendant's legal representative, a review
of the prosecution case was undertaken and a decision was made not to proceed
with the prosecution. The owner of the dog has not contacted the council in
respect of the dog and we have no intention at present to return the dog to the
owner.'

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                  June 4, 2004

TSG's vital role in saving lives after terrorist attack

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 361 words


Greg Wright

Deputy Business Editor

A TERROR attack on the scale of September 11 is every New Yorker's worst
nightmare.

But, if terrorists did strike again, a Yorkshire firm would play a major role in
saving lives.

New York State has hired Leeds-based TSG Associates to help its emergency
medical services cope with mass casualty incidents.

The Smart Incident Command System, or Smart Equipment, aims to maximise
survivors in large scale disasters and was developed by TSG in response to the
UK's increased risk of a terror attack.

The system, which is already used by UK emergency services and armed forces,
uses a tagging system which allows medics to rapidly identify casualties,
particularly children, needing priority treatment.

Mark Pittaway, MD of TSG Associates, said: "September 11 and other terrorist
attacks have heightened the need for the very best in casualty management. Smart
Equipment is already employed in Afghanistan and Iraq, as well as by the
majority of UK emergency services and armed forces, and we believe there is
potential to roll the system out around the world".


The Smart Equipment system has been developed over four years. It includes the
Smart Tag; a high visibility, folding tag and Smart Tape, which identifies
seriously injured children.

Mr Pittaway said the £1m deal with New York, which will provide each emergency
vehicle with tags and support equipment, was a direct response to September 11.

He said the TSG system would be vital to the first medics at the scene of a
disaster.

"They would do a series of assessments to find out who needs help now, who needs
help shortly and who can wait,'' said Mr Pittaway. "Rather than re-assess the
same person time and time again, the tags will indicate the people who need help
straight away. These scenes are very chaotic.

"What we are trying to do is reduce the chaos and increase the number of
survivors. This is all about saving lives.

"The deal with New York state has been a massive boost to our profile overseas
and is a great addition to previous deals done in the US with the states of
Louisiana and Texas and Las Vegas Air- port.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                                  June 5, 2004

Wireless operator recalls terror of u-boat attacks

SECTION: News; Other; Armedforces; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 309 words


Edward Carey played a vital role helping co-ordinate the Allied efforts at one
Normandy beach.  Mr Carey, a leading aircraftsman in the Royal Air Force, served
on HMS Largs, the headquarters ship at Sword Beach, one of the beaches earmarked
for landings.

He was a wireless operator, passing messages between the troops on the shore and
the aircraft waiting to bomb German positions.

Mr Carey, 83, of west Hull, said: "If the troops had come across a Panzer
division and wanted air support to get rid of them, they would send a message to
our ship.

"They would also contact us if they needed ammunition or food." HMS Largs was
anchored off Sword Beach and was a target for German U-boats.

Mr Carey said: "The Germans used to send U-boats into the anchorage, some of
them with mines and some with torpedoes.

"One day one of them dispatched a torpedo.  An officer on the ship saw it, we
went full-speed astern, and it missed us by five or six yards.

"Another day one of the lads came down to the mess and said, 'Come and have a
look at this'.

"We peered over the side and saw there was a shell from a German gun in the side
of the ship. Fortunately, it hadn't exploded.

"We had to wait until we got back to Portsmouth before we could have it
extracted." After D-Day Mr Carey served at the Allied invasions of Burma before
Lord Mountbatten ordered the ship to prepare for an invasion of Singapore.

One August night the troops took a well-needed break to watch a film.

Mr Carey said: "About eight o'clock we sat down to watch the film when all of a
sudden we heard rockets going off.

"We were looking around wondering what was going on, and if there was a raid.

"Then an officer came along to tell us the war was over.  He said the Americans
had dropped two atomic bombs and the Japanese had surrendered."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2004 Hull Daily Mail

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              June 6, 2004, Sunday

IRAQ & THE WAR ON TERROR: IRAQI PM: NO MORE ATTACKS ON US TROOPS'

BYLINE: KATARINA KRATOVAC IN BAGHDAD

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 238 words


Iraq's new leader called for a halt to attacks on foreign troops yesterday as a
roadside bomb killed an American soldier and wounded three others in the second
fatal attack on US forces in the capital in as many days.

Troops blocked off the blast site in east Baghdad. An attack in the same area on
Friday killed five Americans and wounded five others.

Iyad Allawi, Iraq's new Prime Minister, whose administration will take
sovereignty after 30 June, called, in his first televised address to the nation,
for a halt to attacks on Americans and other foreign soldiers, saying their
presence would be needed to help the sovereign leadership improve security.

"The targeting of the multinational forces under the leadership of the United
States to force them to leave Iraq would inflict a major disaster on Iraq,
especially before the completion of the building of security and military
institutions," Mr Allawi said.

Violence seemed to be abating around Najaf and Kufa, two months after the
radical Shia cleric Muqtada al-Sadr launched an uprising in the south. Under a
deal between Shia leaders and Mr Sadr, his Mehdi Army militia is to pull back
from the Islamic shrines in the twin cities, said Najaf's governor, Adnan
al-Zurufi.

US forces also agreed to stay away from the Imam Ali shrine in Najaf and the
Kufa mosque where Mr Sadr preaches to give Iraqi security a chance to end the
standoff.  (AP)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                  June 6, 2004

Isles could be terror attack refugee camps

BYLINE: MIKE MERRITT

SECTION: HI_HI; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 539 words


SCOTLAND'S islands could be used as massive refugee camps for victims of
biological or nuclear attacks under plans for the biggest mass evacuation of
British cities since the last war.

The Scottish Executive confirmed this week that ministers are looking at how to
deal with floods of refugees in the event of a devastating terror attack.

Experts fear that if a biological, chemical or nuclear 'dirty' bomb is triggered
in any of the UK's major cities, it could lead to hundreds of thousands of
people swamping rural Scotland.

The same scenario could be sparked by an epidemic of deadly diseases such as
SARS hitting London, Manchester, Glasgow or Edinburgh.

It is believed that setting up containment camps on Scottish islands is being
considered as a way of housing people fleeing the cities or of isolating victims
who have been contaminated.

John Large, who advises governments around the world, warned Scotland was one of
the potential main evacuation areas in the event of a terror strike.

He said: 'If there is a major biological or radiological attack, tens of
thousands of people will have to be moved to a holding area.

'The logical places are Scottish islands, because they are sparsely populated,
easily controlled to stop people getting off and already have established air
and sea links.

'It is realistic to assume planners at national level have already drawn-up the
plans.' The new Civil Contingencies Bill, now in its committee stage at
Westminster and due to be placed before the Scottish parliament this autumn,
will give police chiefs sweeping new powers over mass evacuation, either to
prevent it or to order it.

The Bill was drawn up in response to the September 11 terror attacks.

It is set to pass into Scottish law this year under the Sewel procedure, which
allows Westminster laws to come into force north of the Border after only a
brief debate.

In the next few weeks, ministers will thrash out final details of how the Bill
will affect Scotland. It is due to get Royal Assent at the end of the year.

A spokesman for the Executive confirmed yesterday that sealing off Scottish
islands might be necessary.

'It is a possibility that we will need powers of containment,' he said. 'It is
highly speculative to say more at this stage but we are looking at what powers
will be needed in the event of a major civil emergency and to establish public
safety.

'Scottish ministers have been involved in the planning of the legislation.

'We will look at anything that will affect public safety. It is just as possible
that if there is an incident in Edinburgh or Glasgow then there could be a move
by people to go to England.

'The way people react to a radiological, biological or chemical attack could
depend on the way the wind is blowing.

'Further discussions will take place over the summer and the Bill will be
debated in the Scottish parliament.' Dr Sheila Scott, director of public health
for the Western Isles, admitted mass self-evacuation to the Outer Hebrides 'was
a scenario I have thought through'.

She said: ' I am sure there would be a lot of people who would want to come here
and we are well advanced with our emergency plans.'

END

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                                  June 6, 2004

SEX ATTACKS TERROR

LENGTH: 76 words


    A FIEND indecently assaulted two young women in separate attacks just half
an hour apart.

    The victims, aged 18 and 25, were each ambushed from behind in the cathedral
city of Canterbury, Kent, on Wednesday night-the first at 7pm.

    They described the man as white, in his late teens or early 20s and wearing
a navy blue sports jacket.

    Kent Police said: "Anyone with information about the assaults, or similar
attacks, should contact us."


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  June 7, 2004

Concern over Thames barrier terror attack

BYLINE: JOE MURPHY

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 475 words



EMERGENCY planners believe terrorists could attack the Thames Barrier -
potentially flooding central London and causing £30 billion worth of damage.

The threat is being taken so seriously that contingency plans are being drawn up
to move key public bodies outside the flood zone. The barrier, completed in
1984, is London's main defence against high tides and surges that could breach
riverbanks along a huge swathe of the city.

Among the areas that would be affected are the Palace of Westminster, 10 Downing
Street and several square miles of the most expensive homes and office space in
the country.

Plans to cope with the aftermath of an attack have been incorporated into a
security review by senior MPs and officials at the House of Commons. A major
breach could mean several feet of water surging through streets and sluicing
sewage out of drains in scenes like those portrayed in the disaster movie The
Day After Tomorrow.

The last time central London flooded was in 1928, when 14 people drowned.

Severe flooding in 1953 caused 300 deaths around the Thames estuary and the east
coast.

"If this flood had reached central London's highly populated low-lying areas the
result would have been horrifying," said a spokesman for the Environment Agency,
which operates the barrier at Woolwich. He added: "Security is constantly
reviewed for all sorts of reasons."

Disaster planning is carried out by the London Resilience committee headed by
government minister Nick Raynsford.

His office said the capital was "as prepared as it can be" for any eventuality.

. New homes in the Thames Gateway will not be "readily available" unless the
risk of flooding is addressed, insurers warned today. They are demanding that
flood protection be built into any new housing proposals.

. The Thames Barrier is one of London's most famous landmarks. It spans 520
metres with four main openings each 61 metres wide. Its four gates are hollow,
built of steel plate, 20 metres in diameter and weighing more than 3,500 tonnes.

. A severe flood "could paralyse the central part of the Underground, cause
damage to fresh water and sewer systems, and disrupt power, gas, telephone and
vital data services", according to the Environment Agency.

"Thousands of homes, shops, factories, businesses and buildings would be
affected. It could take months to get London functioning again".

. Diarist Samuel Pepys recorded "all Whitehall having been drowned" in a flood
of 1663. A historian in 1236 described the Palace of Westminster being so
flooded that "men did row wherries in the midst of the hall".

. Flood risks have risen for a variety of reasons, including stormier weather
and London settling on its bed of clay, causing water levels in the estuary to
rise relative to the land by two feet a century.

END

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATION: CENTRAL LONDON COULD FIND ITSELF UNDER SEVERAL FEET OF
WATER, LEADING TO SCENES LIKE THOSE PORTRAYED IN DISASTER MOVIE THE DAY AFTER
TOMORROW

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                  June 7, 2004

Force ready for chemical terror attack

BYLINE: R. OB BURMAN

SECTION: News; 999; Disasters; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 316 words


Thousands of self-injecting antidote syringes will be distributed across the
country, including North East Lincolnshire, to be used in a biological or
chemical attack.  A spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers
(Acpo) said the distribution of such equipment should not cause panic.

"Issue of the syringes to the officers concerned had been planned for some time
and has already begun this year," he said.

"It is not a reaction to any recent or specific threat.

"The issue of antidote syringes is only one element in comprehensive and
continuing police work to prepare for any terrorist attack of a chemical,
biological or radiological nature.

"It helps ensure that police officers at any such scene are protected and remain
able to help colleagues, other emergency services and, most importantly, the
public." Humberside Police recently took part in a day-long exercise which
tested officers' responses to a chemical or biological incident.

It included testing decontamination procedures, working with the fire and
ambulance services and command and control systems.

Although North East Lincolnshire would not be a high-profile target like London
or Paris, an attack on an oil refinery or dock could be catastrophic.

The 6,000 syringes are among other specialist equipment which includes
protective suits to guard against chemical, biological and radiological threats
and detection and monitoring equipment.

North East Lincolnshire Council has also said it is ready for a possible
terrorist attack.

The authority receives about £70,000 to help with training and incident
mock-ups, to help the council and emergency services prepare for a major
incident.

The Acpo spokesman added: "The public are urged to remain alert, but not
alarmed, and to report any concerns or information to the national
anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789321."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2004 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 7, 2004, Monday

TWO BBC MEN SHOT IN SAUDI TERROR ATTACK;
 ONE KILLED AT AL-QAEDA HOUSE

BYLINE: ALLISON MARTIN

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 234 words

HIGHLIGHT: WOUND: Frank Gardner. Left, him lying shot in street; KILLED: Simon


A BBC cameraman was shot dead in an attack yesterday that left his British
colleague injured.

Irishman Simon Cumbers, 36, died when gunmen opened fire in a street. A bullet
hit reporter Frank Gardner who was last night undergoing surgery.

The 42-year-old's condition is said to be "serious". It is believed the two men
had been filming outside the house of a wanted al-Qaeda militant in the poor
Suweidi district of the Saudi capital Riyadh.

Mr Gardner, 42, the BBC's security correspondent, works full-time reporting on
the War On Terror. Last night Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said: "I utterly
condemn the attack on BBC journalists.

"My thoughts are with the men's families.

"Frank Gardner is an outstanding reporter.

"I have nothing but admiration for journalists like him who know their lives are
at risk as they go about their work. We will continue to do all we can to
support the Saudi authorities in their fight against terrorism."

Lib Dem foreign affairs spokesman Sir Menzies Campbell said: "It is no
coincidence that BBC staff should be targeted in this way. This tragic incident
demonstrates that everyone in public life or who reports upon it is in the front
line and treated as fair game by terrorists."

Mr Cumbers, of Navan, Co Meath, is understood to be married. It is thought BBC
executives told his widow of his death before details were made public.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 7, 2004, Monday

GIRL IN 7AM PARK GANG RAPE TERROR;
 THUGS ATTACK HELPLESS BOYFRIEND

BYLINE: PAUL BYRNE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 258 words

HIGHLIGHT: PARK: Scene of gang rape


A WOMAN was gang raped and her boyfriend beaten up during an early morning
stroll in a park.

Police last night described the attack as "brutal and vicious" and pledged to
nail those responsible.

Three thugs took turns to rape the terrified woman after they had chased her
into a wooded area.

Her boyfriend was assaulted as he looked on helplessly.

The victims, in their 20s, were set upon after being verbally abused by the gang
at around 7am on Saturday.

Specially trained police were last night speaking to the woman who is said to be
extremely distressed.

Investigation chief Detective Superintendent Chris Thompson said: "The victims
have suffered a horrendous ordeal and are traumatised by what has happened.

"This was a brutal and vicious assault against an innocent, vulnerable young
couple. It is imperative we catch their attackers as quickly as possible.

"We have a team of experienced detectives working on this case and are
vigorously pursuing enquiries."

The attack, in Chapel Allerton Park, Leeds, happened at a time when people were
out jogging or walking their dogs.

Det Supt Thompson added: "I am appealing for those people to come forward. They
may have seen something suspicious and have information vital to the enquiry.

"We have been given distinctive descriptions of the suspects and I feel certain
someone will know who they are." The woman's boyfriend was treated by a doctor
for injuries suffered in the attack.

Police said the teenage suspects were white, black and mixed race.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 June 10, 2004

Firms warned in terror attack alert

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 200 words


police have warned Scots firms to remain alert about the threat of a terror
attack.

Security chiefs and police met business leaders to make them aware of dangers
facing them.

In the first seminar of its kind, businesses were given information about how
international terrorism affects them.

Senior managers from Scotland's business community were given an insight from
counter terrorism experts.

Assistant Chief Constable Norma Graham of the Association of Chief Police
Officers in Scotland Crime Standing Committee, said: "The pace of change in
global events has been dramatic in recent years.

"We do not seek to be alarmist, but are encouraging businesses to be alert to
the possible dangers.

"It is vital there is a co-ordinated response to terrorist incidents and that is
made easier when more partners sign up to such plans."

Alan Dobie, chief executive of the Scottish Business Crime Centre, said there
was an increased awareness of the impact of terrorism on every day life.

He said: "Since September 11 and the ongoing conflict in Iraq there is a
heightened awareness and an increasing tension regarding the risks presented by
modern terrorist activities."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 10, 2004, Thursday

TEEN GIRL'S SEX ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: ELAINE KEOGH

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 115 words


GARDAI are investigating an alleged sexual assault on a teenager close to a town
centre yesterday.

The victim stopped two men at 6am in Drogheda, Co Louth, and asked them for
directions.

She claims she was then dragged down a laneway off Laurence Street and assaulted
by both of them.

Last night, Garda Superintendent Fergus Doggett appealed for anyone who may have
seen suspicious activity in the West Street, Stockwell Street and Laurence
Street area to contact gardai.

The girl was taken to the sexual assault unit of the Rotunda Hospital in Dublin
where she was medically examined.

It is understood gardai have been given descriptions of the alleged attackers.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 11, 2004

GANG ATTACK TERROR OF BRIT OLYMPIC STAR

BYLINE: by KARON KELLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 304 words


A TOP British athlete was allegedly beaten up by a gang of thugs who told him:
"You won't go to the Olympics now."

Sprinter Jared Deacon claims 20 men surrounded him before pelting him with
bottles and cans and punching him.

They threatened to break his legs to ruin his chances of competing in this
summer's Games in Athens, a court head. "They knew who I was, they said my name,
" said Mr Deacon. "They may have recognised me. One of them shouted 'you won't
be going to the Olympics now' and laughed" But Mr Deacon, who won a gold medal
as part of England's 4x400m team at the 2002 Commonwealth Games, escaped with
just a black eye and concussion, he told Newcastle Crown Court.

The athlete said he was riding a scooter in South Shields on August 17 when he
was hit by an object. "I wasn't sure what the object was so I pulled over to
make sure they had not damaged my bike, " he said.

But he claimed that as he examined the scooter, a youth threatened him.

"He said 'I'm going to f***ing have you'. There were eight to ten of them, all
goading me."

Mr Deacon claimed one youth snatched his sunglasses while others threw a can and
a bottle at him.

"Then one kicked the scooter over so the engine flooded and I was not able to
start it. I couldn't leave."

Mr Deacon said the youths started making mobil e phone calls "and more were com
- ing out onto the square."

He said he phoned his brother s and when they arrived the gan g began to
disperse.

But as he tried to start the bike h e said he was hit in the back with a can of
lager, and then his scoote r was kicked over again. "When I went to pick it up
one yout h punched me in the eye."

Craig Winter, 18, denies affray, and assault. Ross Young, 17, denie s affray
damaging property and com - mon assault. The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                                 June 11, 2004

Jail for terror attack in kiosk

SECTION: News; Courts; CrownCourt; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 369 words


A father of two has been jailed for 10 months for attacking a terrified teenager
trapped in a phone box and threatening to kill him.  Mark Maguire punched James
Penfold four times as the 17-year-old was using the phone box next to the Bishop
Blaize pub in Commercial Road, near Exeter Quay.

Mr Penfold managed to push past the drunken stranger and run to passers-by for
help. He later needed hospital treatment for his cut and swollen face.

Maguire, who was living in Monks Road, Polsloe, at the time, ran away with Mr
Penfold's cash and portable CD player but was tracked down in the city centre by
Samaritans who came to his victim's rescue.

At Exeter Crown Court yesterday the electrician, who now lives in Ashfield Park,
Mulhuddart, Dublin, pleaded guilty to robbery.

Recorder Leslie Blohm told 22-year-old Maguire: "This was a vicious and
despicable attack on a terrified person trapped in a phone box." Prosecutor
Gavin Collett said the robbery happened at 9.45pm on Friday, December 20, last
year.

Mr Penfold, who is now 19, was speaking to his girlfriend on the telephone when
Maguire pulled the kiosk door open and asked for cigarettes.

When Mr Penfold said he did not have any, Maguire punched him in the face,
grabbed his portable CD player and demanded cigarettes and money.

He continued to punch his victim even after Mr Penfold broke down in tears and
offered him all his cash to make him go away.

Mr Collett said: "The chilling part was when the defendant stared straight into
his victim's eyes, with an intense glare, and in a quiet but forceful voice
said, 'I'm going to kill you'.

"The victim believed the threat and in pure panic shouted to people up the road
for help and pushed past him." Mr Penfold was left traumatised for a long time
afterwards, the court was told.

Mary McCarthy, in mitigation, said Maguire had drunk six pints of lager and had
no recollection of the incident. She said the attack had not been premeditated.

She added he was usually a hard-working, responsible man and had not been in
trouble before the incident or since.

Maguire was also ordered to pay £500 compensation to his victim and £250
prosecution costs.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                                 June 13, 2004

after the taliban;mounting terrorist attacks and a thriving drug trade can
afghanistan rebuild itself?;Special report

BYLINE: Words: Foreign Editor David Pratt

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2955 words


ON THE GROUND: HARDSHIP CONTINUES AMID BLOODSHED

Afghans rarely make idle threats. So when a belligerent warlord says he will
shoot you and burn down the compound in which you are housed, it's wise to take
it seriously.

At first glance the setting could not have been more peaceful. A village called
Du Abi in remote Baghlan province. A place of dusty streets and a spaghetti
western bazaar full of pale children with running sores, the whole place flanked
by spectacular snow-capped mountains and cascading rivers.

"Commander Hamid", a local ethnic Hazara and hardman, had decided the time had
come to put pressure on Concern Worldwide, the only humanitarian agency working
in the district. A commitment from the agency to improve the dirt road where it
ran across his land seemingly topped Hamid's demands, but at the heart of his
grievance was a complicated political spat with the local governor who had
welcomed Concern's work in the area and previously dismissed Hamid from a local
government post.

When one of Concern's vehicles full of local staff set out last week on an
eight-hour drive to the neighbouring provincial capital of Taloqan, Hamid's
henchmen blocked the road. A vicious barrage of threats ensued before the aid
workers calmly retreated, triggering a nervous 24 hours, as governor, Concern,
and the commander set about trying to defuse the situation before it boiled over
into bloodshed.

These are tough times to be an aid worker in Afghanistan. In a little over a
week, five staff from Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF), including three
Westerners, were killed in Badghis, another northern province until then
considered relatively safe.

Flying out from Kabul airport last week, I met the last MSF workers to leave
after their operation was suspended. Following suit in Badghis last Monday were
five more aid groups, after a grenade was thrown at the office of an Italian
non-government organisation (NGO).

Then on Thursday gunmen killed 11 Chinese road workers after bursting into their
compound near the town of Kunduz, in one of the worst attacks on foreigners in
Afghanistan since the Taliban's overthrow in 2001. Already this year, 21 aid
workers have been killed, compared with 13 for the whole of 2003.

"There is no doubt that the enemy's activities have increased," said Afghanistan
security chief Dr Abdullah Laghmani. "Because the weather is warm, they can
sleep in mountains and deserts at night."

The rapidly deteriorating security situation is directly linked to the approach
of landmark elections scheduled for September, which the United States hopes
will give legitimacy to Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, but which the
Taliban and its allies have vowed to disrupt.

According to Nick Downie, of Afghanistan NGO Security Offices in Kabul, it is
estimated that half the country is now off-limits to international aid staff. UN
sources say there is substantial evidence that armed militants have been
infiltrating northern Afghanistan from neighbouring Pakistan in recent weeks,
determined to escalate the violence.

From Kabul to Kandahar and beyond, countless towns, villages and homes are being
starved of crucial aid and development work at precisely the time that the
country is clambering up the first rungs on the ladder to recovery and needs aid
most.

I had returned to Afghanistan to see for myself how far that recovery process
had come since the toppling of the Taliban and my last visit in 2002. First
impressions were not encouraging. As our UN flight from Pakistan taxied to a
halt at Kabul airport, mine clearers kitted out in Kevlar vests and plastic face
shields were still scouring the grassy runway apron for mines and booby traps
sown by countless warring factions. And this more than two years after the
official end of hostilities.

Outside the terminal building itself, two giant billboard-size portraits of
Afghanistan's recent heroes seemed to epitomise the potential fates that could
befall the fragile stability on which the country is being rebuilt.

On the left, President Karzai, Washington's first choice and great hope for a
brighter democratic Afghanistan. On the right, Ahmed Shah Massoud, legendary
resistance commander who first fought the Soviet occupiers before being blown to
smithereens by al-Qaeda suicide bombers two days before the September 11 attacks
on New York and Washington in 2001.

Today Kabul is a strange and contradictory place. Gone are the Taliban's roaming
enforcers from the department for the Prevention of Vice and Protection of
Virtue. Newly arrived is fortress Kabul, a mushrooming US base. It's almost as
if the ancient Bala Hissar castle that sits on the capital's outskirts had been
substituted by a new high-tech version in the heart of the city. Instead of mud
and stone, the walls are high concrete ramparts padded with protective
anti-explosive cladding and razor wire. The watch towers are manned by nervous
US soldiers in wraparound Oakleys and carrying M16s.

Cheek by jowl alongside bullet-pocked buildings housing refugees sits a Thai
restaurant run by a woman who is said to follow the UN around the world's
troublespots providing such culinary boltholes for its extensive staff. In the
Mustapha Hotel, the Irish bar has reopened. This and other watering holes for
ex-pat workers would make ideal targets for the militants who even in the
capital have made their presence felt. Not that their getaway would be easy.
Crossing Kabul by car can take an age. It's difficult to see how the city can
cope with any more congestion before it completely grinds to a halt.

"Thirty per cent of office space is now occupied by international organisations,
and property prices and rents have soared to levels comparable with Central
London," one aid worker told me.

Not that this means anything to the likes of Mohammed Tahir. I first met him and
his family living in the blasted ruins of an old cinema complex as a freezing
winter descended on the Dehmazang district of the city. That was two years ago,
and the only change since has been the loss of two of his children.

"The agencies have helped and we are grateful for that, but we need our
government to help us find a proper house," he told me, surrounded by countless
other families facing the same plight in the labyrinth of ruins that is Kabul's
own Ground Zero.

At least in the capital some of the physical manifestations of change are there
to be seen, but what, I wondered, would it be like in the remotest regions of
which Afghanistan is largely made up?

A one-hour flight to the dusty airstrip of Kunduz town was only the start of a
marathon journey that highlighted the logistical difficulties facing the
organisation of a national election in September.

From Kunduz it's another hour by jeep along the road to Taloqan, 40 miles away.
The road snakes across a plain planted with wheat and dotted with small family
farms. Mountains rise on all sides, a rumpled yellow, brown and red anatomy of
treeless hills climbing towards the ridges where once B-52 bombers dropped their
deadly payloads, before flying off leaving snowy white trails in the blue sky.

When I was last here in November 2001, the road was full of Northern Alliance
troops pushing the retreating Taliban westwards, leaving bodies and burnt-out
tanks in their wake. Those Taliban who had surrendered were dark men in black
robes and turbans; dishevelled but undaunted.

Today, the roadside remains heavily mined and in the past fortnight bombs have
been detonated under key bridges, fortunately causing little damage.

''Al-Qaeda and the Taliban are responsible," insisted our interpreter.
Conspiracy theories are Afghanistan's stock in trade; given credence not least
because there have been, historically, a lot of them. Nobody really knows who
planted the devices, but al-Qaeda and Taliban resurgents, it seems, are
unlikely, given they appear to have their sights set on more dramatic operations
these days.

In rural regions the further you travel out, the fewer the signs of change. Here
and there around Taloqan a few petrol stations, supported by the International
Security Assistance Force (ISAF), the peace mission sanctioned by the UN, have
sprung up, and then there are always the occasional buses with "Donated by the
People of Japan" emblazoned on their sides.

Local taxis, by and large, still consist of carriages drawn by horses adorned
with red bobbles and jingling bells. The bazaar through which they pass is full
of old-fashioned shoemakers and tailors working at hand-operated sewing
machines. Stalls still hang with meat covered in flies next to hand-wrought
pickaxes, hatchets and oxen ploughs.

It was almost 10 hours of spine-crunching driving across rivers, plains and the
10,000ft Siya Kucha - Black Street Pass - running from Taloqan to Khost a Ferang
and the village of Du Abi. Here and there unexploded bombs littered the way and
our Landcruiser careered over rutted muddy tracks with mountain drops on either
side. Like shiny new coins lying on a deserted beach, we came across schools and
bridges built by Concern's workers. This is where the battle for Afghanistan's
future and the hearts and minds of its people will really be won or lost.

It is a far cry from the approach of the US military, who have infuriated many
agencies by dressing in civilian clothes and driving into rural areas in white
vehicles before offering humanitarian aid in return for information on Islamic
militants. The implications for real aid workers are terrifyingly obvious.

In Khost a Ferang district over the past few days helicopters from the UN
Assistance Mission to Afghanistan (UNAMA) had arrived bringing the advanced
guard that would begin the registration process for the election.

The UN says it aims to have most of the nine to 10 million eligible voters
registered in time for the country's first-ever direct vote. About one-third of
eligible voters have been registered so far and participation by women in rural
areas, according to UN sources, is better than initially expected.

But already the problems that they can expect are looming. One local mullah has
insisted women cannot have their photograph taken, a prerequisite for the
identification card necessary to vote. "These problem will be overcome, we are
already helping UNAMA with the registration process," governor Haji Sangi
Mohammed told me.

Asked whether he thought insurgents might try to disrupt the ballot, he said
that security measures were adequate to prevent any major problem.

"We have mobilised our local police and military, they have fanned out into the
mountain communities, and I'm confident they can respond to any attack," he
said.

Free and fair elections here would be a great start, but only that. Like so much
of Afghanistan, Du Abi and the surrounding region badly need every conceivable
kind of help.

At the MSF clinic, now run only by doctor Muhaiddim Homaiune after the emergency
withdrawal of foreign staff because of security threats, up to 60 patients a day
are seen. Most complaints are tuberculosis, pregnancy-related, stomach and
respiratory problems.

One-year-old Nazifullah cries weakly as she lies in the tiny makeshift ward
suffering from a severe stomach disorder. Like Bebe Helima in the bed opposite,
who has problems with her pregnancy, it took a three-hour journey by donkey to
get here. Without the clinic they would probably die.

I asked Homaiune what it's like to leave his home in Kabul and come to such a
remote place with all the dangers it involves, especially when he is sent by the
health ministry and has no choice. "The district doesn't matter, it's all my
country," he says.

Finding Afghans with similar selfless attitudes is not difficult - brave men and
women prepared to run the risk of being seen as "enemies" by militants who
insist they are little more than collaborators.

Critics say Afghanistan's September elections are too soon and are more to do
with good public relations for the Bush administration, itself in a presidential
election year and keen to be seen steering Afghanistan towards democracy.
Perhaps so.

After more than 25 years of war, Afghans are naturally in a hurry to make up for
lost time. If the international community has any role, it is in ensuring that
Afghanistan's ordinary people are not again badly let down. It must provide
those guarantees that vicious opportunist warlords like Commander Hamid and
other zealots don't get their way. The coming few months will be crucial.

DEADLY HARVEST: the OPIUM TRADE makes a comeback

ON the streets into Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakshan province,
there is a large hand-painted sign: "Production, sale and use of opium is
strongly forbidden by Islam."

Travelling through Afghanistan at this time of year, you would be hard pressed
to believe it. Last week as I crossed Takher province, field after field of the
delicate pink flowers were in full bloom, their deadly sap being lanced from the
long-stemmed green bulbs by an army of farmers.

Mahmoud Yusef is typical of many. A genial elderly man with long, grey sideburns
and beard, and wearing a woollen bobble hat, he more resembles the cartoon image
of Santa's little helper than the cultivator and salesman of the opium resin
that contributes to Afghanistan's renewed claim to fame as the world's
number-one heroin producer.

"This is only my first year, I've never grown poppy before," he assures me as
his fingers nimbly draw the wooden lancing tool quickly across the bulb. For
now, just a trickle of brown, sticky sap oozes out. Once dried in a day or two,
however, it will be scraped into buckets, ready to be sold in the bazaar to
middlemen and smugglers.

Asked how much money he gets for this first yield, Mahmoud is cagey.

"I'm only a poor man, I don't even own this land," he insists.

He says that for about five kilograms of opium, he gets 4000 to 5000 Afghanis,
about (pounds) 65. And no, he is not sure where the opium ends up or what it is
used for.

Afghanistan might be heading for its first free and fair elections, according to
the United States, but its drug trade is growing so quickly that some fear the
country could become a narco-state ruled by drugs barons, not the government.

The 2004 White House National Drug Control Strategy reports that after a two
-year lapse, Afghanistan is again "the world's largest cultivator and producer"
of opium and heroin. The province of Helmand alone is said to account for 75% of
that output. In 2003 Afghan crops were more than double the 2002 crop, and this
year's yield is expected to be even higher.

"Just as the Bush administration's Iraqi mission has been damaged by the scandal
of prisoner abuse and other failures," the US anti-terror policy in Afghanistan
"has been undercut by the rebirth of the Afghan poppy, the main ingredient in
heroin", says Robert Weiner, a former spokesman for the United States Office of
National Drug Policy and the US House Narcotics Committee.

He adds: "While the administration has made inroads into eradicating Colombian
coca fields and is attacking Colombia's heroin as well, it has dangerously
ignored Afghanistan's poppy problem."

Many Afghan local government politicians are equally bemused by the mixed
messages coming from the central government, and from religious leaders.

In some eastern provinces - where poppy cultivation is well established - it is
claimed that Friday prayer leaders have been telling worshippers that it's legal
to grow opium, but not legal to use it.

Many say that such confusion is nothing new, and stems from the likes of past
policies of the British government, which is leading international efforts to
combat Afghan drugs.  Initially, it tried offering farmers money to destroy
their poppy crops. But as word spread, many grew the crop deliberately,
expecting the British cash.

"When it did not come, they harvested the opium, so it made things far worse,"
says General Daud, the commander of the militia force known as the 6th Corps,
and the real power in one of the big producing areas of Kunduz and Takher
provinces.

The confusion about Afghan government policy continues.

It has decreed that 25% of the poppy crop should be eradicated or cut down. But
Daud says many farmers have interpreted that to mean the other 75% is legal.

Weiner says: "Some of the worst culprits in this illicit trade have even been
our closest allies, the members of the Northern Alliance - the opposition to the
Taliban with whom we worked to retake the nation.

"While they were helping US forces weed out the Taliban, it seems that they were
doing some gardening of their own too.''

The question most people are asking now is how, with thousands of US troops on
the ground, there has been a failure to control if not eradicate opium
cultivation.

Many observers in Kabul say that given the approaching election, the
reappearance of the opium trade is hardly surprising.

As one UN source put it: ''The US needs Afghanistan president Hamid Karzai,
Karzai needs the warlords, and the warlords need opium to finance themselves,
otherwise they get troublesome. It's simply a case of expediency. What would you
do with an election looming?"

Perhaps even more worrying is a UN report suggesting that the problem will get
worse, with two out of every three Afghan farmers planning to increase their
poppy crop in the next year or so.

While this might be Mahmoud Yusef's first year as a poppy farmer, it is unlikely
to be his last.

David Pratt's film report can be seen on STV's Seven Days at noon today

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Pictures: Kirsty Anderson;Grinding poverty is all around in Afghanistan
today, from the bazaar in the village of Du Abi in Baghlan province, above and
far right top, to the bombed out haunts of refugee children in the debris of the
Dehmazang district of Kabul, right. Such poverty is a further incitement to
poppy farming as practised by Mahmoud Yusef in Takher province, main picture,
while foreign aid workers such as the mine clearers of the Halo Trust, far
right, strive to clear roads, like that between Taloqan and Kunduz, of
unexploded US ordnance that is hindering the country's recovery and still
killing its citizens ;Afghans of all ages try to eke out a living in the rubble
of Kabul, below

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             June 13, 2004, Sunday

15 HELD OVER TERROR ATTACK FEARS

SECTION: FIRST Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 95 words


FIFTEEN people were arrested in Portugal amid fears of a terror attack just 24
hours before the start of Euro 2004.

The men, of Arab origin, were detained in the city of Porto before yesterday's
opening match between Portugal and Greece.

One police source said five of those arrested had 'links to a terrorist cell'.
But the men will not be charged under anti-terror laws.

Four may be charged with carrying false documents and the rest could be
deported.

A source said: 'There is no proof they were preparing any terrorist attack in
Portugal.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

9-11 TERRORISTS HAD PLANNED EARLIER ATTACK - COMMISSION

SECTION: 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 188 words


AL-QUEDA terrorists planned to launch the September 11 attacks months earlier,
but postponed them because the lead hijacker was not ready, an independent
commission has reportedly found.

The commission, established to probe why the US was not better protected against
the outrage, has evidence that the attacks on New York and Washington were
originally due to be carried out in May or June 2001.

But al-Queda leaders delayed the deadly strike until September that year because
the plot leader, Mohamed Atta, needed more time, the Washington Post reported.

The news came as a separate report suggested one of the hijackers may have run a
reconnaissance mission by entering one of the twin towers, in New York, months
before they were toppled by the terrorists.

The September 11 commission is expected to release its report next month. Some
interim findings are also being disclosed this week.

Draft reports have been circulated to government and commission officials.

Originally it was believed that the attacks were planned for a narrow time frame
around September 11, or possibly later in the year.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Century Newspapers Limited

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            June 16, 2004, Wednesday

AL QAIDA 'DELAYED' 9/11 TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 379 words


Al Qaida terrorists planned to launch the September 11 attacks months earlier,
but postponed them because the lead hijacker was not ready, an independent
commission has reportedly found.

The commission, set up to examine why the US was not better protected against
the attacks, has evidence the terror strikes on New York and Washington were
originally due to be carried out in May or June 2001.

But al Qaida leaders delayed the deadly operation until September 2001 because
the plot leader, Mohamed Atta, needed more time, the Washington Post reported
yesterday.

The news came as a separate report suggested one of the hijackers may have run a
reconnaissance mission by entering one of the twin towers, in New York, months
before they were toppled by the terrorists.

The September 11 commission is expected to release its report next month. Some
interim findings are also being disclosed this week.

Draft reports have been circulated to government and commission officials.

Originally it was believed that the attacks were planned for a narrow time frame
around September 11, or possibly later in the year.

One official who has seen the commission's findings said they are based on
'intelligence coming in that they wanted an earlier date. It's something really
new.' Another said it appeared that information about the planned dates for the
attack came from Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, an alleged September 11 plotter who is
in US custody.

The attacks were postponed because of the terrorists' operational readiness, not
because of heightened security alerts in spring 2001, officials told the
newspaper.

Terror chief Osama bin Laden was said by one official to be keen for a May or
June date, but was convinced to allow a delay to give the suicide hijackers more
time to prepare.

Meanwhile, a caretaker who worked in the twin towers believes one of the
hijackers visited the doomed landmark in the June before the attack.

William Rodriguez, aged 43, told the commission he was on cleaning duties one
weekend when he was approached by a man who asked about the layout of the
concourse level.

He believed the man was Mohand Alshehri, who hijacked United Airlines Flight 175
-the second plane to slam into the World Trade Centre.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 June 16, 2004

Response to terror gas attack must be quicker

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 297 words


More lives will be saved if the victims of a terrorist chemical attack on the UK
are given anti-nerve agent drugs more quickly, a report into a simulated Sarin
attack revealed yesterday.  It recommends that casualties of a gas attack, such
as the one in Tokyo in 1995, receive larger and quicker doses of life-saving
drugs.

The report, on behalf of the Health Protection Agency, was based on results from
Exercise Magpie, which was a simulated operation testing health chiefs' response
to a terrorist gas attack on a crowded city centre.

During the "attack" 14 people "died" and more than 200 were exposed to the
chemical gas.

The £200,000 exercise at Newcastle Civic Centre was staged by the Health
Protection Agency, which was established last year to plan a nationwide response
to national disasters - both natural and manmade.

April's operation was the biggest of its kind outside London and follows last
year's exercise on the London Underground.

The agency has been given £2.6million from the Government to hold 10 similar
exercises across the UK.

Hundreds of doctors, nurses, ambulance staff, GPs, firefighters and police
officers took part in the exercise, in which gas was released into the theatre's
air conditioning system.

Overall, the report found that the health service's response to a chemical,
biological, radiation or nuclear incident was "robust".

However, the Health Protection Agency said that quicker and larger doses of
anti-nerve agent atropine were "crucial".

The agency said: "Part of the answer may lie in the wider issue and use of
equipment such as combo-pens." Professor Pat Troop of the Health Protection
Agency, said: "We have learnt important lessons about how to improve the health
response to emergencies."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004 1606WESTDP373respo

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 June 17, 2004

Global warming is a greater danger than terrorist attacks

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 266 words


Climate change is a bigger threat than weapons of mass destruction, according to
one Government scientist.  Sir David King, the Government's chief scientific
officer, recently said that global warming was a greater danger than terrorism.

Chris Benson, co-ordinator of Bath Friends of the Earth, said people needed to
take the threat seriously and cycling was an easy way for them to tackle
pollution.

The keen cyclist regularly cycles from Bath to Bristol where he works.

He said: "I have got no car, my bike is my car.

"One good reason to cycle is the environment, and Bath is such a compact city
that a car is unnecessary for such short distances." He said burning fossil
fuels through car emissions was a major contributory factor to climate change
and reducing congestion in the city was a must.

Improving public transport was one of the key issues that needed to be addressed
to get people out of their cars.

He said: "Huge numbers of people drive cars to and from work because public
transport is not up to much at the moment." "It is cheaper for me to whizz about
on my bike and there are clear health benefits to cycling.

"Even though the air is polluted, it is worse to sit in stationary traffic than
to cycle.

"Improving public transport in the city is the key thing that needs to be done
to discourage people from using their cars." He added that although car
manufacturers were working on more energy-efficient cars and switching to
hydrogen as a possible fuel, being able to buy such a vehicle was still a long
way off in the future.


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004 1706BATHCH468globa

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

'NO EVIDENCE' TO LINK IRAO WITH 9/11 TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: By Pippa Crerar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 211 words


THE commission looking into the September 11 attacks have found no 'credible
evidence' that Iraq helped al-Qaeda carry them out.

At the time of the atrocities, senior figures in the Bush administration were
quick to link the two.

And Saddam Hussein's alleged involvement was one of the reasons America gave for
invading Iraq.

As recently as Monday, US vice-president Dick Cheney mentioned the tyrant's
'long-established ties' with Osama bin Laden's terror group.

The US cross-party commission's final report, due at the end of July, will make
uncomfortable reading for president George Bush.

They insisted yesterday: 'We've no credible evidence that Iraq and al-Qaeda co
-operated on attacks against the United States.'

However, the mastermind behind September 11 planned an even more terrifying
attack on the US involving 10 hijacked planes, the commission revealed.

Khalid Mohammed wanted to take over 10 jets, including one he would pilot
himself, and kill all the male passengers on board.

Osama bin Laden rejected the plan but later approved a mission of four planes.

lTwo American soldiers were killed and 21 injured yesterday when a rocket hit a
logistics base near the Iraqi town of Balad, 50 miles north of Baghdad.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLOT: Khalid Mohammed

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 17, 2004, Thursday

GANG TERROR;
 FOREIGN WORKERS ATTACKED & CAR TORCHED BY MASKED THUGS

BYLINE: ROBERT STANSFIELD

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 260 words

HIGHLIGHT: RAMPAGE: Police at house in Dungannon, Co Tyrone, yesterday


MASKED men armed with baseball bats and iron bars attacked the Northern Ireland
home of six workers from East Timor yesterday.

Windows in their house in Dungannon, Co Tyrone, were smashed and a neighbour's
BMW was torched in the orgy of violence.

The five men and one woman fled their country in south-east Asia, where 200,000
people were killed in 25 years of war, for the safety of Dungannon six months
ago.

But the Portuguese speakers are now planning to leave the area in fear of their
lives.

Chief Superintendent Ken Henning condemned the attack but ruled out a racist
motive.

He added: "This is a disgraceful act which clearly put the residents of the
house in danger.

"They were sleeping when the attack happened and although they were not injured,
they are shaken and plan to leave the area.

"We have reason to believe it was not a racist attack. Regardless of the
motives, we wish to reassure people this crime is being investigated."

The incident was the second such attack on Dungannon's 15,000-strong
Portuguese-speaking community in a week.

Police are still hunting a man who torched the home of five workers from East
Timor on June 7.

Local representatives insisted ethnic minorities were safe in the area.

SDLP councillor Vincent Currie said: "I don't think it was a local who did this.
These are isolated incidents."

But the Citizen Advice Bureau's Keith Stanyer said: "Many migrant workers might
feel isolated and attacks like this will not help them feel at home."

b.stansfield@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 June 17, 2004

'Everyone must look out for terrorists' Top police officer says attackers could
strike anywhere and not just in London as he tries to build links with Muslims

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 729 words


Kate O'Hara

Crime Correspondent

THE COUNTRY'S top terror police officer has said people all over the UK must
"raise their radar", because Al-Qaida could strike anywhere in the country - not
just the "postcard venues" of London.

South Yorkshire Police Chief Constable Mike Hedges, who also heads the police
service committee charged with preparing for any terrorist attack, said nowhere
was completely immune.

He added that it was "inevitable" that terrorists would want to target the UK.

In an exclusive interview with the Yorkshire Post Mr Hedges said: "My view is
that it is inevitable that there will always be this desire on behalf of
international terrorists, at the current moment, to mount attacks on this
country".



He added: "We can never be absolutely certain that it isn't going to happen
here. All we can do is to make it as difficult as possible for an event to be
planned and executed successfully in this country. That's all we can do".


Mr Hedges, who became chairman of ACPO's Terrorism and Allied Matters Committee
in the January after 9/11, has been a member of the committee since 1997 and has
seen the focus shift from domestic and Irish threats to today's preoccupation
with international terrorists.

Although Londoners have long been living in fear of a terrorist attack, Mr
Hedges said everybody in the UK needed to raise their radars going about their
daily business.

"This is a key part of both Government strategy and my responsibility with my
committee - trying to get that level of alertness uniform across the country.

"No matter what you do, I think it is inevitable that people who live around and
work around the postcard venues are going to have that heightened level (of
awareness all the time.

"What I want to try and make sure is that we are raising the game across the
country. You've only got to look at the pattern of arrests and activity that
have taken place over this last three years to see that really no one area can
say, 'well, it doesn't affect us'. We've had arrests from Edinburgh down to
Gloucester. We've had them in the North West, we've had them in East Anglia.
We've had them here in Sheffield," he said.

Although Mr Hedges believes the service is ready to deal with most forms of
terrorist attack, he admitted that some forms of biological contamination would
prove incredibly difficult to cope with.

"Probably the first thing we would know about that would be when NHS Direct or
doctors started getting people reporting with unusual symptoms and you know, our
strategy has even got to be able to deal with that contingent. It is a daunting
prospect - but it's nevertheless one that we've got to prepare to deal with".


He said one of the most important things was to get the Muslim community's
backing.

"We need to be able to get the confidence - particularly at the moment - of the
Muslim community, to get them on our side and for them to understand that this
isn't activity that we are taking against Muslims, this is activity we are
taking against terrorists - who happen to be, in some cases, Muslim in faith,"
he said.

A huge amount of work has been carried out by Mr Hedges' committee to ensure
they are as prepared as they can be, and to deal with an attack should one
happen.

"The only way you understand if your preparations are adequate is when you
actually test it out," he said.

"I think you have to look at the comments by a number of the famous generals who
say that if your battle plan survives the first day of conflict then it ain't
too bad".


He added: "I'd much rather be superb at stopping it happen than being superb at
the consequence management. But we've got to be able to do both".


Despite the huge responsibility of his job, he said he did not think he faced an
impossible task.

"You can never say it's impossible, because you don't know. All you can say is
that you'll do everything you can think of - and then more besides - to try and
thwart, disrupt, arrest, prevent these occasions happening," he said.

"As good as you can do though, you've always got to live in the knowledge that
something can come out of that sort of outfield that could go through it.

"But the more that you are coherent with your planning, the more you close the
gaps. The best way to deal with it is to prevent it ever happening".


LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2004

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 18, 2004, Friday

Eco-terrorist Elves are blamed for arson attack

BYLINE: By Catherine Elsworth

SECTION: News; International: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 208 words

AN arson attack at a Utah timber yard was the latest work of eco-terrorists
responsible for a nationwide trail of destruction, the FBI said.

Investigators discovered the signature of the Earth Liberation Front - a
spray-painted Elf logo - at the scene of the fire at Stock Building Supply in
West Jordan, near Salt Lake City.

The Elf has been linked to fires and vandalism at agriculture research
laboratories, logging operations, car dealers and building sites over the past
year in what it claims is a campaign to stop firms making money from exploiting
the environment.

Federal and local police say the activities of Elf members, known as Elves, are
becoming more frequent and destructive and spreading to urban and suburban
areas.

Last summer a pounds 30 million condominium complex being built in San Diego,
California, was set alight. A banner found at the site read: "If you build it,
we will burn it." It was signed: "The Elfs are mad."

Utah investigators are examining a fax sent to KSL, a Salt Lake City radio
station, with an Elf heading that claimed responsibility for the timber yard
fire and named further targets.

The fax said the yard was attacked because it ignored warnings to repair its
"polluting" forklift trucks.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                                 June 20, 2004

Muslims in torture firm boycott plea;British companies with links to Abu Ghraib
contractor under attack for supporting 'state terror'

BYLINE: By Neil Mackay Investigations Editor And Aideen Mclaughlin

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 642 words


BRITISH Muslims are calling for a boycott of more than 40 UK firms, including
Scottish Widows, which are involved with the US-owned corporation accused of
directing the torture of Iraqi detainees at the Abu Ghraib prison in Baghdad.

Among the firms which use CACI in the UK are Honda, Renault, Barclays, AXA
Direct, Friends Provident, House of Fraser, The Woolwich, Cadbury, Unilever,
Danone, The Co-op, WH Smith, the Royal Mail, Peugeot, O2 and British Gas. CACI
also works for a number of local authorities including Greater London, and
British Telecom.

The Department of Health also has three short-term contracts with CACI. Plaid
Cymru MP Adam Price has asked Health Secretary John Reid to suspend the
contracts, saying taxpayers' money should not go ''to a company linked to one
accused of the torture of prisoners of war in Iraq".

CACI Ltd in the UK is a wholly owned subsidiary of its US parent company CACI
International. It has offices in London and Edinburgh. CACI International was
hired in America to work with US intelligence services, such as the CIA, and co
-ordinated interrogations at Abu Ghraib.

The prison had a regime of torture and terror with Iraqi prisoners being beaten,
sexually humiliated, hooded, stripped, forced to carry out sex acts, chained and
threatened with electrocution. There are also allegations of rape and murder.
One US soldier has been convicted in a closed military court of killing a
prisoner with a rock.

Haq Ghani, of the UK Islamic Mission, which promotes awareness of Islam, said a
boycott was now a necessity.

"It is very concerning that a notorious organisation such as CACI is involved in
any way with household names and companies which the Muslim community use," he
said.

"Many Muslims will boycott these organisations and take peaceful action to
protest, such as picketing their headquarters. There should be a boycott of any
organisation which works with a company involved in state terrorism. I would
call on all people who oppose the war in Iraq to boycott these firms."

MP Angus Robertson, SNP foreign spokesman, said: "We fully support an in-depth
investigation into the Abu Ghraib abuse. If the allegations of torture prove to
be true then there should be commercial consequences."

A class action lawsuit was filed earlier this month in San Diego's federal court
by the New-York based Centre for Constitutional Rights and a team of
Philidelphia lawyers accusing CACI and another US firms of conspiring to "direct
and conduct a scheme to torture, rape and, in some instances, summarily execute
plaintiffs". Some 1000 Iraqis are included in the class action.

Dr Jack London, the president of CACI International, says he finds "the
erroneous information that has been circulating regarding CACI's involvement at
the Abu Ghraib prison deeply offensive". He claimed his company was "working
diligently to uncover the truth and fully co-operating with all government
investigations as well as conducting our own internal analysis."

He added: "The company has never, and will never, condone or tolerate illegal or
inappropriate behaviour by any employee when conducting CACI business."

In the UK, CACI mainly gives strategic business advice to its high-profile
clients. Renault has retained the services of CACI in the UK since last July.
Its spokesman Mike Gale said the firm could not comment on its relationship with
CACI.

Justine Hayes of O2 said it took the allegations "seriously and will be looking
into it further on Monday. We will be speaking to our procurement people". Most
clients refused to comment.

CACI in the UK said: "We are all shocked, appalled and deeply saddened by the
reported events in Iraq. You can be confident that CACI will not tolerate any
illegal or inappropriate behaviour by any of its employees at any time."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

'More than 20 die' in US air strike on Fallujah Americans claim they carried out
attack on terrorist base

BYLINE: BY DAMIEN McELROY in Baghdad

SECTION: News; International:Pg. 27

LENGTH: 522 words

AN AMERICAN air strike targeted a safe house of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the senior
al-Qaeda operative in Iraq, in a raid yesterday that killed more than 20 people
in the Iraqi city of Fallujah, US commanders said.

The building was a known hideout used by a network of foreign and Iraqi fighters
led by Zarqawi, a Jordanian-born extremist and senior lieutenant of Osama bin
Laden, according to Brigadier General Mark Kimmitt.

He said that there was "significant intelligence" that members of the network
were killed in the attack, but there was no evidence that Zarqawi himself was
there. He did not dispute Iraqi accounts that about 20 people had died in the
strike.

Iraqi security officials have said that militants are using the city to make car
bombs - weapons that are wreaking a devastating trail of death in Baghdad and
other cities. It is believed that a Saudi volunteer loyal to Zarqawi detonated
the suicide bomb that killed 42 Iraqis queuing at an Iraqi army recruitment
centre in Baghdad last week.

"This operation employed precision weapons to target and destroy the safe
house," said Gen Kimmitt. Numerous secondary explosions continued for 45 minutes
after the initial strike, indicating the presence of explosives at the site, he
added.

Local doctors reported that women and children were among the dead. Relatives
brought 22 bodies to Fallujah Martyr's Cemetery after the blast, setting up a
row of 22 graves covered by cement slabs, in keeping with the Muslim tradition
of a quick burial.

Residents said that an American plane fired a missile at the building in the
south-western suburbs of the city early in the morning.

A second missile, fired minutes after the first strike, was said to have killed
neighbours who ran to the scene to rescue the wounded. "A US plane shot two
missiles on this residential area," said the Fallujah police chief, Sabbar
al-Janabi. "Scores were killed and injured. This picture speaks for itself."

Witnesses in Fallujah insisted that the strike killed innocent residents. "An
American plane hit this house and three others were damaged," said one local.
"Only body parts are left."

Fallujah has been a no-go zone for the American marines ringing the city since a
bloody fight for control of its streets was called off at the end of April.
Since the American withdrawal, the city has been under the control of an army
brigade commanded by a former general in Saddam's military. Under this
arrangement, Fallujah has been a haven for extremist groups.

Among the terrorists believed to be sheltering there is Zarqawi, the al-Qaeda
leader in Iraq who has been co-ordinating anti-US resistance with Saddam
loyalists.

The marines on the outskirts of Fallujah last week showed off their attempts to
stop and search vehicles leaving the city. The Pentagon has signalled its
frustration that the Fallujah security brigade has not tried to disband militant
bases in the city. Hardline Sunni clerics have instituted a strict Islamic
regime in the city.

In southern Iraq yesterday, a Portuguese civilian and an Iraqi policeman were
killed by a bomb on a road south-west of Basra.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

US MISSILE STRIKE KILLS 16;
 JET ATTACK ON 'TERRORIST BASE'

BYLINE: ROB MCKAY

SECTION: FIRST Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 300 words


AT LEAST 16 people died after a US plane fired missiles into a residential
neighbourhood in Fallujah, Iraq yesterday.

US officials insisted the target was a well-known terrorist hideout in the Sunni
Muslim city.

It was the first significant US military action in Fallujah since Marines ended
a bloody three-week siege against rebels.

Brigadier General Mark Kimmitt, coalition deputy operations chief, said the
attack struck the hideout of terror leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.

He claimed the blast caused 'multiple secondary explosions' of ammunition and
roadside bomb materials stored there.

The Iraqi Health Ministry said 16 people had died, though they expected the
number to rise.

Outraged residents accused the Americans of trying to inflict maximum damage by
firing two strikes.

Witness Wissam Ali Hamad said: 'The number of casualties is so high because
after the first missile we jumped to rescue the victims.

'The second missile killed those trying to carry out the rescue.'

US officials said several members of the al-Zarqawi network were believed to be
in the house at the time but they did not know if the terrorist mastermind was
inside.

Al-Zarqawi has been blamed for the string of car bombs across Iraq, including
the attack that killed 35 people and wounded 145 at an Iraqi military recruiting
centre in Baghdad.

Elsewhere, American troops battled rebels northeast of Baghdad for a fourth day
in fighting that has killed at least six Iraqis and one American soldier.

Attackers fired three mortar shells in the west of the city on Saturday,
injuring one policeman and two civilians.

In central Baghdad, a rocket struck a mosque.

In southern Iraq, a roadside bomb killed at least two people, including a
Portuguese security officer.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Aftermath: Iraqi police inspect rocket damage to mosque

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1501 - 2000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:27:47

