



Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:23:29
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                               September 21, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

RUN AND HIDE!;
Experts reveal top tips if faced with terror attack at Tory conference...

BYLINE: MIKE LOCKLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 522 words


IN the event of a terror attack at this month's Conservative Party conference in
Birmingham - RUN!

(And not in the direction of the gunman) That was the official advice offered by
counter-terror experts who held a secret briefing with Birmingham business
bosses last week.

Second on the list handed to the 30-strong gathering of hoteliers and business
bosses was ... HIDE.

Wednesday's meeting, which tackled potential terrorism threats to the party
conference at the ICC was so secret that the venue has been kept under wraps -
but the advice offered was an eye-opener.

When faced with a firearms attack, said the five Counter Terrorism Security
Advisors, there are simple steps to take.

A report by summit organisers, Broad Street Business Improvement District (BID),
reveals the checklist: 1. RUN - if you can and it is safe to do so. Do not run
in the direction of the attacker. Do not be slowed down by indecision. Leave the
building. 2. HIDE - if it is not possible to run. Try to lock yourself in a room
and then barricade yourself in.

3. HUSH - Turn off your phone and stay silent. Do not try to make any phone
calls until you are out of the building and safe.

4. HELP - When you are safe, provide all the relevant information: a description
of the attacker, a description of the weapon (to the best of your ability),
where you are, who is with you, and the direction the shooter is heading in.

Despite the seemingly obvious nature of the advice, BID boss Mike Olley stressed
that the overall message was vital.

"There are people out there trying to destroy our society, thankfully not many
of them, but they are out there," he said.

The security summit was the third meeting the investment district has staged
with CTSA operatives and the "vital presentation" was specifically aimed at
hotel workers in the run-up to the Tory conference, which kicks off on September
28. The day-long seminar also dealt with Improvised Explosive Devices,
evacuations, suspicious packages and reconnaissance.

The meeting was warned that packages should not be accepted from deliverymen who
refuse to take off their crash helmets. Those present were also urged to look
out for individuals asking questions about security and CCTV, or trying to hide
their faces.

Some edicts did not need to be spelled out, but Mr Olley said the event was
worthwhile.

"If I see something unusual in Broad Street, there is probably something wrong,"
he said.

"If the public see something unusual, such as a suspicious package, they should
make contact with a uniformed officer."

The CTSA outlined steps to be taken when a package or bag is discovered, which
included switching off mobile phones and radios.

"When checking the bag, look for ID," experts warned. "Do not move the item.

"If you see anything suspicious in the bag, like nails or a timer, walk away,
evacuate the building and call the police."

BID's report of the meeting states: "Ultimately, the advice was that you as an
employee or owner, know your premises and what's normal of customers. If you
notice anything suspicious, call and report it."

This month's Tory Party conference is ¦being held at the ICC in Birmingham

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMY


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 22, 2014 Monday

Iran president backs anti-terrorist fight, vows to repel foreign attacks

LENGTH: 414 words


At 0443 gmt on 22 September, the Iranian state-run news channel IRINN started
broadcasting live President Hassan Rouhani's speech at a military parade in the
capital Tehran outside the Khomeyni mausoleum on the occasion of the anniversary
of the start of the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war.

The speech was also carried live by the first channel of Iranian state
television (IRTV1), state radio (VIRI) and Iran's English-language Press TV
channel.

President Rouhani started his speech by speaking about the Iran-Iraq war and
praised Iranian armed forces and those who were involved in the war in the
1980s.

He said that the enemy failed to achieve its goals in the war but the West
continued its pressure on Iran.

"Unfortunately the enemy did not learn from the war and continued its war
against this nation on the pretext of the nuclear issue. The enemy imposed a new
war against our nation, an economic war and sanctions," he said.

Then President Rouhani touched upon Iran's nuclear programme and said that his
country is not seeking to develop weapons of mass destruction, but will not
succumb to Western pressure and is ready to defend its rights.

"We have never sought to produce weapons of mass destruction, but in order to
ensure development, scientific progress and the rights of this nation, we have
never bowed down and will not bow down to pressure from the West and
superpowers," he said.

Rouhani also said that Iran has no intention of launching a war, but will repel
any foreign attack.

"We are not afraid of the enemy's pressure, we are a nation of peace. We have
never had any intention of imposing a war on any nation," the president added.

He also spoke about the country's economic situation and said that despite the
sanctions, Iranians managed to contain inflation and the economic recession.

President Rouhani then spoke about terrorism and said his government will help
regional nations to fight terrorism.

"Unfortunately there is chaos, insecurity, terrorism and fear in our region
nowadays. Iran is a region of stability in the sensitive Middle East region.
Iran has helped the oppressed people everywhere and will continue to help
them.... The nations of the region are standing up to terrorism. Our armed
forces and the government of the Islamic Republic will help them in this fight,"
he added.

The speech ended at 0510 gmt. The text of the speech will be published by 1400
gmt on 22 September.

Source: Islamic Republic of Iran News Network, Tehran, in Persian 0443 gmt 22
Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 22, 2014 Monday

Six civilians killed, several wounded following terrorist attacks in Damascus

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus/Aleppo - Three civilians were injured by terrorist mortar attacks on
Bab Touma and Al-Zablatani areas in Damascus.

A source at the Police Command told SANA that a mortar shell fired by terrorists
fell near Bab Touma Square, injuring three civilians, one of the a 13 year-old
boy, and causing material damage to nearby cars.

Another shell fell in Al-Hal market in al-Zablatani area, causing material
damage to a car but no injuries.

Terrorists fired a number of mortar shells on Tishreen neighbourhood in Aleppo
city, claiming the lives of six civilians and injuring 20 others.

An official source told SANA that a number of mortar shells fired by terrorists
fell on Tishreen neighbourhood, claiming the lives of 6 civilians and injuring
20 others, in addition to causing large material damage to the citizens'
properties.

The source added that the injured citizens were admitted to hospitals for
treatment.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1515 gmt 21 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 22, 2014 Monday

Iran president backs anti-terrorist fight, vows to repel foreign attacks - text

LENGTH: 2059 words


Iranian President Hassan Rouhani has said world powers have failed to learn the
"lessons" of the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war, in which the Islamic Republic showed
that it will not bow to outside pressure. He was speaking at a military parade
on the occasion of the beginning of Sacred Defence Week, the annual
commemoration of the invasion of Iran by Saddam Husayn's Iraq that started the
eight-year conflict. He also reiterated that Iran does not seek nuclear weapons,
does not plan to invade anyone and is committed to fighting terrorism in the
Middle East. The following is the text of Rouhani's speech, which was broadcast
live by the state-run news channel IRINN on 22 September:

[Starts the speech with reciting verses from Koran in Arabic]

[Begins in Persian] We honour the anniversary of the resistance of the
honourable Iranian nation against the conspiracy and attack of foreigners and
the week of Sacred Defence. Our greetings to the honourable and pure spirit of
the leader of the resistance in this land, the commander-in-chief of the Armed
Forces during the Sacred Defence, the late Imam [Khomeyni], may God Almighty be
satisfied with him, whose honourable spirit and path we still learn from.
Undoubtedly, the path which he set for us has been and will be the path towards
excellence and happiness for the great community of Iran.

Greetings to all martyrs, all those who have coloured the deserts of the
southern, central and western parts of the country with their blood. They
brought about glory, greatness, and pride for our people. Those whose pure
blood's scent, even after 34 years, provides happiness and pride for the entire
Iranian nation and Muslims and the oppressed.

Greetings to the all veterans and the honourable family members of these dear
people, who are our pride; they are our honour, and each one of these families
who taught and teach us the correct path of resistance against invaders with
their behaviour, their patience, and their resistance.

Greetings to the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution [Ali Khamene'i] who
has ensured the unity and solidarity of our society, strength and resistance of
our great Islamic society with his guidance, that dear person, the great heart
of this country to whom we saw in the past weeks how everyone's hearts are
connected. Once more the people showed their devotion to and affection for this
great person very well on the occasion that took place [referring to the Supreme
Leader's recent surgery].

Iran-Iraq war "lessons"

Sacred Defence Week is a week of lessons for us, a week of learning for our
enemies. It is a lesson for us as we saw that, despite all kinds of weapons used
by the enemy, the alliance of East and West, our nation, with its resistance,
did not allow the realization of their dream of this nation being humiliated and
surrendering. The vigorous youth, the victorious army members, the gallant
Islamic Revolution Guards Corps, the Law Enforcement Force, the devoted Basij
force, all stand by each other and all have set the orders of late Imam
[Khomeyni] as their example to follow. Starting the afternoon of 31 Shahrivar
1359 [22 September 1980] when the invasion started and at the same time the Imam
issued orders, everyone came into the streets, they prepared for war, they went
to the fronts, big groups of devoted people went to the western and southern
regions to defend the country.

And we saw that in less than 24 hours, the next morning, how the heroic pilots
of the Islamic Republic of Iran Army's Air Force responded decisively to the
evil invaders in Iraq. The Army Aviation Corps along the southern and western
borders, tanks, artillery, soldiers, the brave corps, Basij members, nomadic
tribes, Law Enforcement Force, each and every one stood in one line, [says
phrase in Arabic], against the invaders. The world thought that if one day West
and East came to an alliance over an issue, and if the money of reactionaries
comes together with the weapons of East and West, and if the evil people come to
the war front, they can defeat the revolution. This was the great mistake by
great powers and reactionaries in the days before the revolution, the days
before the Sacred Defence, and in the days of the resistance by our people
against conspiracies.

Why do the West and others repeat their mistakes? Before the victory of the
Islamic Revolution, during two eight year periods, i.e. for 16 years, everyone
stood by an atrocious regime, and our nation stood against the atrocious people,
invaders, dictators, tyrants, and all their supporters in the East and West,
only led by the orders of their leader [Khomeyni]. They created 22 Bahman [11
February 1979, when the Islamic Revolution was successfully completed], the
created the great political epic and victory at our times which is exceptional
in the past decades. They hoisted the flag of Islamic Revolution in this country
and in the entire region. The enemy saw it, it stood against the [Iranian]
nation for two eight-year periods and it was defeated. However, unfortunately it
did not learn the lesson from its experience, and it forced the third eight-year
period on our nation and people as the invasion [of Iran] and war.

During these eight years also our fighters were victorious at the fronts. Our
great nation did not fear the American AWACS [Airborne Warning and Control
System] nor the Mirage of the West, nor the MiG-25 of the East, nor the
different types of tanks, personnel carriers, missiles of East and West, and not
even the chemical weapons given [to Saddam Husayn] by the West, nor the spy
satellites, nor the propaganda, nor their political tools in the United Nations.
They [the Iranian nation] continued on their path and they were certain that
that if they stand on the righteous path [says phrase in Arabic], if they face
bombs and difficulties, their determination in their path will not become
weakened. [Says phrase in Arabic], and they will never become weak. [Says phrase
in Arabic], and they will never surrender to the enemy. [Says phrase in Arabic],
God stands by those who are patient and those who resist, and they are loved by
God.

They made great victories in eight-year Sacred Defence that the enemies never
believed. It was just a year after this invasion that our Armed Forces broke the
siege of Abadan. They seized Bostan after that. Their next victory was the Fath
ol-Mobin operation and finally the liberation of Khorramshahr and the victory of
Khuninshahr [word play: Khuninshahr = "city of blood"] in [13]61 [1982]. There
was a new victory every day in Valfajr 8, Fav, Valfajr 10 operations and
Halabcheh, in western and southern parts of the country. They won an epic
victory across the country. Although we lost dear ones, the best children of
this country were dedicated to the path of jihad and God, people sustained
financial damage; it was as if a new nation and a new country with a new spirit
and a new power was created in this country.

The enemy did not achieve its targets in eight-year imposed war. It was not able
to damage our revolution. It was not able to endanger our sovereignty. It was
not able to question our people's self-esteem and greatness. It was not able to
open it up to future invasion. The eight-year resistance was a powerful barrier
against all future conspiracies.

These eight years were an act of defence but actually they were deterrence
against various kinds of conspiracies which enemy was thinking about.
Unfortunately the enemy did not learn its lesson. Unfortunately it has been
opposing these people for another eight years - with the nuclear issue as an
excuse. It was in a new way this time. It imposed a new war, an economic war in
the form of sanctions, on our nation; however our people resisted in the fourth
eight-year war.

Nuclear issue

They announced to the world that we have not been and are not after
manufacturing weapons of mass destruction, but we have never bowed down and will
never bow down against the pressure of the West and superpowers to stop pursuing
development, scientific improvement and fulfilment of rights of this nation. You
saw that our great nation during last year after the political epic and now it
is attempting to create an economic epic to create a resistance economy and be
able to overcome its economic problems. By the help of God, in a situation where
the enemy's sanctions are still in place, our great nation has been able to
reduce inflation and recession as well as to take important steps towards
achieving an economic boom.

Our society is now a united and integrated society. Not only are our Army,
[Islamic Revolution Guard] Corps, Basij Forces, and the Law Enforcement Force
united against enemies, all ethnic groups and religions and the whole country
stand under the flag of the Islamic Revolution of Iran, the constitution,
governance and one government against enemies. We are not afraid of the enemy's
pressure; of course we are a nation of peace, we have not sought, do not and
will not seek to impose war on any country. We do not want to have a plentiful
table through starting war and selling weapons, as some Western countries have
done through shedding the blood of other nations. We will make our table
plentiful through hard work, effort, a clean economy and lawful incomes. We do
not intend to start a war or invade anyone, but we have stood and will stand
against invasion, imposed war and any kind of imposition.

"Devotion" of veterans' families

The world must look to the resistance of veterans' families that how they are
resisting with happy faces despite losing their most dear people during these
30-odd years. They are devoted and proud. They are once again ready for another
expression of devotion for this county and land, for their Islam and revolution,
and their Islamic system. The government has put all its efforts towards making
the armed forces more powerful. The government has and will apply all its
capabilities towards the welfare of families of war veterans and martyrs.

I am happy to announce here that, God willing, the government will cover all
requirements of families of war veterans, with the help of God, this month of
Mehr [23 September- 22 October] which starts tomorrow. Some requirements have
been covered with delay. They are from 1386 [2007- 2008] until this year. God
willing, 1,700bn tumans [around 680m dollars] will be paid to these families as
payment of delayed demands in the month of Mehr. Of course it is clear that
whatever the government has in its power to give them is nothing compared to the
great thing they have done. You have done a great job and may God praise you.

Iranian Armed Forces

Also our Armed Forces, with the help of God, have been able to create today the
most powerful armed force in our region, with initiative and invention, new
weapons and more important with their faith and their spiritual power and their
motivation. We bow before and are proud of the power of these Armed Forces. The
government supports the Armed Forces and will do its utmost to make them
stronger. The government is sure that all Iranian people are a powerful pillar
of support of the Armed Forces, and the Armed Forces have been and are the
powerful pillar of support of the system and dear Iran.

Support for oppressed nations

Unfortunately, today there is rioting and unrest in our region, and terror and
fear are everywhere. Iran is the stable part of this sensitive region, the
Middle East. Iran has helped and will help the oppressed everywhere. We will put
terrorists in their place. The nations of the region stand against terror and
terrorism, and our Armed Forces and our Islamic Republic will help them in this
fight. Today, thank God, we see brilliant victories in Iraq, Syria, Gaza,
Palestine, and even great courage in Yemen, and new integrity in Afghanistan. We
are happy that the nations of the region have stood and will stand against the
conspiracies of superpowers. We all are united and integrated in hoisting the
flag of monotheism, Islam, independence, and resistance in the whole world of
Islam against the arrogance [USA and Western powers]. We have no doubt that if
our resistance perseveres, ultimate victory will be ours.

[Phrase in Arabic.]

[Concludes in Arabic:] May peace and God's mercy and blessings be upon you.

Source: Islamic Republic of Iran News Network, Tehran, in Persian 0443gmt 22 Sep
14

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 22, 2014 Monday 9:44 PM GMT

Obama administration confirms American ISIS fighters have returned and 'the FBI
is looking at them' after terror army calls for attacks on the US

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, US POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 996 words



     ·    Obama administration official concedes that ISIS fighters from America
          have returned to US soil
     ·    Admission comes ten days after congressman said would-be terrorists in
          the US 'are known and are being tracked'
     ·    As many as 100 Americans are feared to have gone overseas to join ISIS
          and its murderous jihad
     ·    Feds fear the impact of veteran terror warriors moving freely
          throughout the country
     ·    ISIS called Monday for attacks on the US and France, which are
          dropping bombs on them in Iraq: 'Civilians should not be exempt from
          brutality'


A senior Obama administration official told reporters on Monday that American
citizens who have fought alongside the ISIS terror army have managed to come
back into the country and are under active surveillance by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.

The stunning revelation came ten days after a Democratic New York congressman
spilled the beans with a public  but little-noticed claim that there were 40
such 'foreign fighter' jihadis back on U.S. soil.

In a gathering with selected journalists, the administration official
acknowledged that it's true.

The National Counterterrorism Center's latest determination, the official said,
'includes those who've gone, those who've tried to go, some who've come back and
are under active - the FBI is looking at them.'

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

'These are FBI matters,' added the official, whose name reporters were expected
not to report as a condition of attending the briefing. 'I refer you to them on
specifics.'

The revelation marks the Obama administration's first confirmation of what Rep.
Tim Bishop said Sept. 12 when he described to a Long Island audience how as many
as 40 Americans have returned to the U.S. after fighting for the ISIS terror
army overseas.

He said also that the FBI already has all of them all under surveillance.

'One of the concerns is the number of U.S. citizens who have left our country to
go join up with ISIS,' he told the Long Island Metro Business Action, a regional
economic development organization. 'It is believed there have been some number
up to 100 that have done that.'

'It is also believed that some 40 of those who left this country to join up with
ISIS have now returned to our country. Those 40 are under FBI attention and
surveillance. So they are known and they are being tracked by the FBI.'

'ISIS' refers to the self-declared Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham, a
murderous terror army that has left a wake of death, destruction, kidnapping and
rape as it conquered more than one-third of Iraq and Syria.

Josh Earnest, the White House Press Secretary, said Monday during his regular
press briefing that he couldn't comment on what would by definition be
'relatively sensitive intelligence information.'

But he did say that the U.S. is 'working very closely with our international
partners to try to mitigate this threat, to keep eyes on these individuals and
to monitor their movements.'

'We've also been working closely with Interpol... to track the movements of
these individuals,' Earnest said. 'So this is an inter-agency response to a
significant threat that we're watching closely.'

The official who spoke Monday said the National Counterterrorism Center now
estimates that 15,000 militants from 80 countries have at least made attempts to
fight for Islamist groups in Iraq and Syria.

That number includes 100 Americans and another 2,000 from Europe.

An ISIS leader told followers on Monday that they should execute lone -wolf
attacks in the United States and France because those two nations are the ones
that have been flying bombing sorties against the group in Iraq.

CNN reported that an ISIS spokesman issued a call to 'hinder those who want to
harm your brothers. The best thing you can do is to strive to your best and kill
any disbeliever, whether he be French, American or from any of their allies.'

'Civilians should not be exempt from brutality,' he said. 'Do not ask for
anyone's advice and do not seek anyone's verdict. Kill the disbeliever whether
he is civilian or military, for they have the same ruling. Both of them are
disbelievers. Both of them are considered to be waging war.'

ISIS can now muster 31,000 troops overall, the CIA reported on Sept. 17. That
number has grown dramatically since June 29, when ISIS declared itself a
'caliphate' - an Islamic nation led by a supreme religious authority.

American jihadis, part of a swelling 'foreign fighter' contingent aiding ISIS
and other terror networks, could put their ideologies and experience to work in
the United States, a fact that has some in Congress clamoring for easier ways to
revoke their citizenship.

The Pentagon said two weeks ago that only about a dozen Americans had left the
country to join up with ISIS, while as many as 100 are suspected of taking up
arms with a wider range of Islamist extremist groups in the Middle East and
Africa.

Bishop, the member of Congress who first discussed the size of the U.S>
foreign-fighter problem publicly, insisted that they don't pose a serious
threat.

'At the present time,' he told his Sept. 12 audience, 'the intelligence is ISIS
does not present a threat to the homeland, although that is not something that
will remain static going out into the future.'

'But there is a concern,' Bishop allowed, 'that it could metastasize in such a
way that it could become a threat to the homeland.'

Bishop backed President Barack Obama's approach to defeating the terrorist
would-be country, which he said 'is a very, very complex and very, very
dangerous threat.'

Referring to remarks Obama delivered on Sept, 10, he said, 'I think the plan
that the president outlined the other night [in his national speech] is a good
plan.'

The president 'is correct to recognize the threat, and it clearly is a threat to
the stability of the Middle East, a region that is already remarkably unstable.'



On Thursday, Senate Democrats thwarted legislation that would have revoked the
citizenship of Americans who swear allegiance to terror groups that threaten the
U.S.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 22, 2014 Monday 8:59 PM GMT

Obama administration confirms American ISIS fighters have returned to the US and
'the FBI is looking at them' after terror army calls for attacks on the US

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, US POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 848 words



     ·    Obama administration official concedes that ISIS fighters from America
          have returned to US soil
     ·    Admission comes ten days after congressman said would-be terrorists in
          the US 'are known and are being tracked'
     ·    As many as 100 Americans are feared to have gone overseas to join ISIS
          and its murderous jihad
     ·    Feds fear the impact of veteran terror warriors moving freely
          throughout the country


A senior Obama administration official told reporters on Monday that American
citizens who have fought alongside the ISIS terror army have managed to come
back into the country and are under active surveillance by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.

The stunning revelation came ten days after a Democratic New York congressman
spilled the beans with a public  but little-noticed claim that there were 40
such 'foreign fighter' jihadis back on U.S. soil.

In a gathering with selected journalists, the administration official
acknowledged that it's true.

The National Counterterrorism Center's latest determination, the official said,
'includes those who've gone, those who've tried to go, some who've come back and
are under active - the FBI is looking at them.'

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

'These are FBI matters,' added the official, whose name reporters were expected
not to report as a condition of attending the briefing. 'I refer you to them on
specifics.'

The revelation marks the Obama administration's first confirmation of what Rep.
Tim Bishop said Sept. 12 when he described to a Long Island audience how as many
as 40 Americans have returned to the U.S. after fighting for the ISIS terror
army overseas.

He said also that the FBI already has all of them all under surveillance.

'One of the concerns is the number of U.S. citizens who have left our country to
go join up with ISIS,' he told the Long Island Metro Business Action, a regional
economic development organization. 'It is believed there have been some number
up to 100 that have done that.'

'It is also believed that some 40 of those who left this country to join up with
ISIS have now returned to our country. Those 40 are under FBI attention and
surveillance. So they are known and they are being tracked by the FBI.'

'ISIS' refers to the self-declared Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham, a
murderous terror army that has left a wake of death, destruction, kidnapping and
rape as it conquered more than one-third of Iraq and Syria.

Josh Earnest, the White House Press Secretary, said Monday during his regular
press briefing that he couldn't comment on what would by definition be
'relatively sensitive intelligence information.'

But he did say that the U.S. is 'working very closely with our international
partners to try to mitigate this threat, to keep eyes on these individuals and
to monitor their movements.'

'We've also been working closely with Interpol... to track the movements of
these individuals,' Earnest said. 'So this is an inter-agency response to a
significant threat that we're watching closely.'

The official who spoke Monday said the National Counterterrorism Center now
estimates that 15,000 militants from 80 countries have at least made attempts to
fight for Islamist groups in Iraq and Syria.

That number includes 100 Americans and another 2,000 from Europe.

ISIS can now muster 31,000 troops overall, the CIA reported on Sept. 17. That
number has grown dramatically since June 29, when ISIS declared itself a
'caliphate' - an Islamic nation led by a supreme religious authority.

American jihadis, part of a swelling 'foreign fighter' contingent aiding ISIS
and other terror networks, could put their ideologies and experience to work in
the United States, a fact that has some in Congress clamoring for easier ways to
revoke their citizenship.

The Pentagon said two weeks ago that only about a dozen Americans had left the
country to join up with ISIS, while as many as 100 are suspected of taking up
arms with a wider range of Islamist extremist groups in the Middle East and
Africa.

Bishop, the member of Congress who first discussed the size of the U.S>
foreign-fighter problem publicly, insisted that they don't pose a serious
threat.

'At the present time,' he told his Sept. 12 audience, 'the intelligence is ISIS
does not present a threat to the homeland, although that is not something that
will remain static going out into the future.'

'But there is a concern,' Bishop allowed, 'that it could metastasize in such a
way that it could become a threat to the homeland.'

Bishop backed President Barack Obama's approach to defeating the terrorist
would-be country, which he said 'is a very, very complex and very, very
dangerous threat.'

Referring to remarks Obama delivered on Sept, 10, he said, 'I think the plan
that the president outlined the other night [in his national speech] is a good
plan.'

The president 'is correct to recognize the threat, and it clearly is a threat to
the stability of the Middle East, a region that is already remarkably unstable.'



On Thursday, Senate Democrats thwarted legislation that would have revoked the
citizenship of Americans who swear allegiance to terror groups that threaten the
U.S.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 22, 2014 Monday 2:11 PM GMT

France 'not afraid' of Isil threats against its citizens;
French interior minister says France is ready to ward off attacks against its
citizens by Isil terrorists

BYLINE: By David Chazan Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 489 words


France responded to a threat by Isil on Monday to kill "spiteful and filthy
French" in retaliation for air strikes by saying it was "not afraid" and would
protect its citizens.

In a brief televised address hours after the terrorist group posted the threat
online, the interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, said everything possible was
being done to protect French citizens from terrorist attacks.

France became the first US ally to join air strikes against Isil last week.

"France is not afraid because it is prepared to respond to their threats," Mr
Cazeneuve declared, adding that the French security services had been fully
mobilised to prevent attacks by groups active in Syria and Iraq for several
months.

The authorities, he said, were "taking 100 per cent precautions" and were "ready
to stop actions even if there is no such thing as zero risk."

"We must eliminate the risk posed by Isil to our security ... The barbarity of
these terrorists justifies that we combat them without respite," he said.

He spoke after an audio statement by an Isil spokesman, Abu Mohammed al-Adnani,
appeared online in Arabic, with brief translations in English, French and
Hebrew.

"If you can kill a disbelieving American or European - especially the spiteful
and filthy French - or an Australian, or a Canadian or any other disbeliever ...
including the citizens of the countries that entered into a coalition against
the Islamic State, then rely upon Allah, and kill him," it said.

Isil has released a number of French hostages; the French government has
strenuously denied paying ransoms. French ex-hostages who were held with others
who were beheaded said American and British captives had been singled out for
harsh treatment.

France, which opposed the US-led invasion of Iraq a decade ago, has joined the
US in launching air strikes partly because of fears that hundreds of French
jihadists in Syria and Iraq may return to Europe to launch attacks.

Mehdi Nemmouche, a French national who went to Syria and was one of the captors
of foreign hostages, now faces trial for murdering four people in an attack on
the Jewish Museum in Brussels in May after his return.

Mr Nemmouche was arrested in Marseille during a routine check after police found
him in possession of weapons and a video in which he admitted carrying out the
Brussels shootings. However, Mr Cazeneuve said his arrest indicated that the
authorities were vigilant.

Mohammed Merah, another Frenchman who killed seven people in a series of attacks
in France in 2012, had made several trips to the Middle East and Afghanistan.

Mr Cazeneuve said the French authorities had made more than 110
terrorism-related arrests this year.

After the first air strikes, Mr Cazeneuve placed the security services on
heightened alert last week. He ordered special measures to protect public
buildings, places of worship, embassies, concert halls, theatres and sports
stadiums.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 23, 2014 Tuesday

Saudi Arabia condemns terror attacks in Egyptian capital

LENGTH: 142 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

[Unattributed report: "Official Source: Saudi Arabia Condemns Terrorist Bombings
in Cairo"]

Riyadh, Dhu-alqa'dah 27, 1435, Sep 22, 2014, SPA - An official source at the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has followed with
great concern the terrorist bombings that took place in Cairo on Sunday [21
September] in the area surrounding the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Strongly condemning this criminal act which is incompatible with the principles
of true religion and human morality, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia extends
heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims as well as the government
and people of Egypt, wishing the injured speedy recovery, the source added.  -
SPA

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 1604 gmt 22 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 23, 2014 Tuesday

China intends to restrict reports on Xinjiang terror attacks - Hong Kong paper

LENGTH: 220 words


Ping Kuo Jih Pao, an independent Hong Kong daily often critical of Beijing, on
23 September carried an unattributed report highlighting Beijing's intention to
restrict the report on Xinjiang terrorist attacks.

According to the report, China's Twitter-like social media platform Sina Weibo
and the US-based Twitter first reported the new round of terrorist attacks in
Luntai County during the night of 21 September, and it was not until 22
September at around 3 am that the Tianshan Net (www.ts.cn) carried a short
report on the incident. However, this short report on the attack was removed in
one day's time. Netizens suspected that the government deliberately chose a
specific time to release the news and then blocked the internal spread of the
news for fear of inciting panic. The report cited the World Uyghur Congress
spokesperson Dilxadi Rexiti as disclosing that at least ten people died in the
attack including both Uighurs and public security officers. He said the
government has cut off Internet and tele-communications in Luntai County. Rexiti
claimed that Uighurs have chosen that way to resist Chinese authorities'
heavy-handed policy. He urged the government to wake up from the dream of
maintaining stability, and should review its policy towards Xinjiang.

Source: Apple Daily, Hong Kong, in Chinese 23 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 23, 2014 Tuesday

Russia urges USA to get approval from Syria before attacking "terrorists"

LENGTH: 141 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Moscow, SANA - The Russian Foreign Ministry called on the United States to
acquire approval from the Syrian government before directing air strikes against
terrorists in Syria, not just inform the government.

In a statement on Tuesday [23 September], the ministry said that targeting ISIS
sites in Syria must be carried out according to international law, which
requires the Syrian government's approval or a Security Council resolution.

The statement warned against carrying out unilateral military scenarios, saying
that those who do so assume full responsibility for their repercussions, adding
that combating terrorism requires coordinating the entire international
community's efforts under UN leadership.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1305 gmt 23 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 23, 2014 Tuesday 3:30 PM GMT

Teenage terror suspect 'shot dead after stabbing two police officers' in
Melbourne;
The deaths come days after an alleged Isis terror attack was foiled

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 379 words


A teenage terror suspect has been shot dead after allegedly stabbing two police
officers during a counter-terrorism operation in Melbourne.

The 18-year-old made repeated threats against the Australian Prime Minister,
Tony Abbott, moments before being shot, ABC news reported.

The unnamed man is believed to be a "person of interest" being investigated over
alleged terrorism offences following the Islamic State (Isis) call to supporters
to carry out murders in their home countries.

He was among several people who recently had their passports cancelled by
authorities as part of counter-terrorism measures.

The incident happened outside a police station in the western Endeavour Hills
area of Melbourne at 7.40pm local time on Tuesday.

Both of the injured police officers were part of a joint counter-terrorism force
and had gone to meet the teenager.

One officer was from the Victoria state police and another was from the
Australian Federal Police. They are both in a stable condition in hospital.

UPDATE: Very serious situation at Endeavour Hills. understands the man who was
shot was brandishing an ISIL flag. #auspol (@ljayes)- Sky News Australia
(@SkyNewsAust) September 23, 2014

Australia's Government vowed to crack down on extremism after security forces
foiled a plot believed to have been directed by Islamic State (Isis militants)
last week.

Mr Abbott said supporters planned to film a beheading of a random victim in
Sydney similar to Lee Rigby's murder in Woolwich.

"The exhortations, quite direct exhortations, were coming from an Australian,
who is apparently quite senior in Isil (Isis), to networks of support back in
Australia to conduct demonstration killings here in this country," he added.

Video: Australia's anti-terrorism raids in Sydney last week

Knives, a gun, machetes and military equipment were reportedly seized in
resulting raids in Sydney and Brisbane where 15 people were arrested.

Australia had raised its terrorism alert level from medium to high days before
and has backed the military operation against Isis in Iraq with planes and
hundreds of personnel.

Read more: Isis plan to 'behead random member of the public' in SydneyTony
Abbott says Australia will send military force to fight extremistsUS and Arab
allies launch air strikes on Isis in Syria

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 23, 2014 Tuesday 2:50 PM GMT

Syria air strikes: US targeted Khorasan terrorist group to stop 'imminent
attack';
The US has not just hit Isis in its operations to protect 'Western interests'

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 592 words


The US has attacked a second terrorist group in Syria that was plotting an
"imminent attack against America and Western interests" as the bombing campaign
against the Islamic State (Isis) begins.

American forces started air strikes inside the country with international allies
overnight with the stated aim of targeting Isis but the US also hit a group
called Khorasan, it has emerged.

A spokesman for the Department of Defence did not give any details of the
alleged plot but inferred it was international, saying Khorasan had been
developing "external" attacks and recruiting Westerners to its cause.

On Monday, the US director of national intelligence James Clapper described the
group, made up of al-Qaeda veterans, as an international terror threat on the
same level as Isis.

A spokesperson from Central Command said: "The group has established a safe
haven in Syria to develop external attacks, construct and test improvised
explosive devices and recruit Westerners to conduct operations."

Unlike, the bombing against Isis, the attacks on Khorasan were undertaken only
by the US.

The eight strikes against Khorasan hit targets west of Aleppo, including
training camps, an explosives and munitions factory, a communication building
and command and control facilities.

Officials from the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights claimed positions used by
the Nusra Front group were also struck in the provinces of Idlib and Aleppo but
the reports were not confirmed.

The Observatory said three Nusra Front positions were hit and that at least
seven fighters and eight civilians had been killed.

A Syrian activist confirmed the strikes, saying a house used by Nusra militants
and one of the group's bases had been hit.

Read more: Khorasan - Is new terror group a bigger threat than Isis?US and Arab
allies launch air strikes against Isis in SyriaWhich countries are supporting US
air strikes against Sunni militants?

Isis fighters were hit near the group's stronghold of Raqqa, near the Iraqi
border, Dayr az Zawr and Abu Kamal in eastern Syria and Al Hasakah in the north
east. In pictures: Syria air strikes

Bahrain, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates were among the
countries supporting US air strikes overnight on Monday.

A spokesperson from the American Central Command said fighter planes, bombers,
drones and Tomahawk missiles were used in 14 strikes against Isis.

Almost 50 Tomahawk missiles were launched from the USS Arleigh Burke and USS
Philippine Sea, operating from international waters in the Red Sea and North
Arabian Gulf in co-ordination with the air strikes.

US officials listed targets including militants, training compounds,
headquarters and command and control facilities, storage facilities, a finance
centre, supply and armed vehicles.

Meanwhile, the American and French operation against Isis in Iraq continues.

To date, the US Central Command has conducted a total of 194 air strikes across
Iraq following Barack Obama's vow to "degrade and destroy" Isis.

Britain was among more than 20 countries backing an international pledge to use
military force if necessary against the terrorist group at a summit in Paris
last week.

The vow came after footage was released showing the brutal murder of British aid
worker David Haines by the same group who beheaded American journalists James
Foley and Steven Sotloff.

A spokesperson for Downing Street said David Cameron supported last night's
strikes by the US and allies against Isis and would discuss "what contribution
the UK can make" later on Tuesday.

Video courtesy of the US Navy

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 23, 2014 Tuesday 2:08 PM GMT

Man shot dead and two police officers stabbed during Melbourne
'counter-terrorism operation';
The deaths come days after an alleged Isis terror attack was foiled

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: AUSTRALASIA

LENGTH: 338 words


A man has been shot dead by police in Melbourne during a counter-terrorism
operation where two officers were stabbed.

He made repeated threats against the Australian Prime Minister, Tony Abbott,
moments before being shot, ABC news reported.

The unnamed man is believed to be a "person of interest" being investigated over
alleged terrorism offences.

He was among several people who recently had their passports cancelled by
authorities as part of counter-terrorism measures.

The incident happened outside a police station in the western Endeavour Hills
area of Melbourne at 7.40pm local time on Tuesday.

Both of the injured police officers are in hospital - one was from the Victoria
state police and another was from the Australian Federal Police.

An official statement on the incident is expected later on Tuesday.

UPDATE: Very serious situation at Endeavour Hills. understands the man who was
shot was brandishing an ISIL flag. #auspol (@ljayes)- Sky News Australia
(@SkyNewsAust) September 23, 2014

Australia's Government vowed to crack down on extremism after security forces
foiled a plot believed to have been directed by Islamic State (Isis militants)
last week.

Mr Abbott said supporters planned to film a beheading of a random victim in
Sydney similar to Lee Rigby's murder in Woolwich.

"The exhortations, quite direct exhortations, were coming from an Australian,
who is apparently quite senior in Isil (Isis), to networks of support back in
Australia to conduct demonstration killings here in this country," he added.

Knives, a gun, machetes and military equipment were reportedly seized in
resulting raids in Sydney and Brisbane where 15 people were arrested.

Australia had raised its terrorism alert level from medium to high days before
and has backed the military operation against Isis in Iraq with planes and
hundreds of personnel.

Read more: Isis plan to 'behead random member of the public' in SydneyTony
Abbott says Australia will send military force to fight extremistsUS and Arab
allies launch air strikes on Isis in Syria

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 23, 2014 Tuesday 5:51 PM GMT

Al Qaeda allies were 'in final stages' of plans to attack American homeland from
terrorist safe haven in Syria when US airstrikes hit

BYLINE: JOHN HALL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 736 words



     ·    Mysterious terror collective Khorasan Group were close to launching
          attack
     ·    Al Qaeda-linked militants were in final stages of plot against U.S. or
          Europe
     ·    Pentagon did not discuss nature of attack or how intelligence came to
          light
     ·    U.S. launched eight attacks on Khorasan during overnight bombings in
          Syria
     ·    Raids were backed by five Arab nations - with ISIS targets the major
          focus


The United States launched air strikes in Syria amid fears that a mysterious
group of Al Qaeda-linked militants were preparing to mount terror attacks on
Western targets, the Pentagon has said.

President Barack Obama ordered the strikes after intelligence reports indicated
that an attack by a shadowy little known terror collective named Khorasan Group
was 'imminent'.

Lieutenant General William Mayville, the Pentagon's director of operations, said
Tomahawk cruise missiles fired from US warships in the region were used to hit
the group's compounds, workshops and training grounds around the city of Aleppo.

'Intelligence reports indicated that the Khorasan Group was in the final stages
of plans to execute attacks against Western targets and potentially the US
homeland,' he said.

Khorasan - which has been described as a collective of 'seasoned Al Qaeda
veterans' - is understood to intercept Westerners travelling to fight for
radical groups in Syria, including ISIS.

As many of these would-be jihadists retain their passports and travelled to
Syria without their home nation's knowledge, Khorasan trains them not for combat
in the Middle East - but rather for future terror attacks back home in the West.

The group is linked to the much better-known Al Nusra Front only through their
shared links with Ayman al-Zawahiri led Al Qaeda - which acts as an umbrella
organization for Salafist terror cells.

Khorasan is one of several Al Qaeda affiliates in Syria and possibly one of the
most secretive groups operating under the cover of Syria's civil war.

But unlike the Al Nusra Front, Khorasan appears to have little interest in the
outcome of the uprising against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

Nor does it seem to harbour ambitions to control vast swaths of territory in the
hope of establishing an independent state as ISIS does.

Instead Khorasan exploits the chaos of the Syrian Civil War to recruit from the
many thousands of young Western Muslims travelling to the region without prior
connections to a specific militant group.

The group's leader Muhsin al-Fadhli, 33, is thought to have been close to Osama
bin Laden since around the time of September 11, 2001 terror attacks in the
United States.

Another senior figure within Khorasan is believed to be Yemeni bomb maker
Ibrahim al-Asiri, who is also a senior member of another group known as Al Qaeda
in the Arabian Peninsula.

The overnight missile strikes in Syria were followed by attacks by US warplanes
and drones backed by America's Arabian allies.

Although Khorasan suffered eight targetted U.S. attacks the main focus of the
action was against ISIS.

Following the raids - the first carried out by the US against IS on Syrian
territory - U.S. President Barack Obama has vowed 'to do what's necessary' to
deal with the group.

He said the backing of five Arab states - Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain
and the United Arab Emirates - underlined the support he was building for
international action to defeat ISIS - also referred to as ISIL (Islamic State of
Iraq and Levant).

'The strength of this coalition makes it clear to the world that this is not
America's fight alone,' he said in a statement on the White House lawn.

'The overall effort will take time, there will be challenges ahead, but we are
going to do what's necessary to take the fight to this terrorist group for the
security of the country and the region and for the entire world.'

Among the areas hit overnight was the ISIS stronghold of Raqqa where it is
thought British aid worker Alan Henning is currently being held.

Since August, the US has carried out around 190 air strikes against IS in Iraq
as part of Mr Obama's campaign to 'degrade and destroy' the militants.

Britain has so far been helping supply arms to the Kurdish peshmergas fighting
IS in northern Iraq, as well as offering support to the new Iraqi government led
by Haider Abadi.

It was also a driving force behind a UN Security Council presidential statement
on Friday calling on the international community to help Iraq defeat the
extremists.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 23, 2014 Tuesday 4:23 PM GMT

Al Qaeda allies were 'in final stages' of plans to attack American homeland from
terrorist safe haven in Syria when US airstrikes hit

BYLINE: JOSH GARDNER and JOHN HALL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3179 words



     ·    Little known Khorasan Group said to have been close to executing
          attack either on Europe or on the U.S. mainland
     ·    Eight separate strikes hit the group, which is said to have recruited
          Westerners, alongside dozens of attacks on ISIS
     ·    Fanatics' de facto capital Raqqa hit by wave after wave of missiles
          and bombs during the first U.S. airstrikes in Syria
     ·    Group of fighter jets from the Royal Bahrain Air Force also took part
          in coordinated attacks on Islamic State targets
     ·    20 militants reported dead already, with videos posted online showing
          huge blasts across the north of the country
     ·    Saudi Arabia, UAE and Jordan also 'participated' in the strikes -
          though their exact involvement is not yet known
     ·    Strikes saw first combat for $139 million F-22 fighter jets - with
          Tomahawk missiles also launched  from Naval vessels
     ·    Syrian President Bashar al-Assad was warned in advance about strikes,
          but is not thought to have had any input


An Al Qaeda-linked terror group was in the 'final stages' of an attack on the
'American homeland' when today's airstrikes were launched, the Pentagon has
disclosed.

The Khorasan Group had recruited Westerners and built improvised explosive
devices for an 'imminent' terror attack, American commanders said.

The group was one of the targets of a wave of airstrikes launched by missile and
planes early this morning at Syria, which also blitzed the ISIS stronghold of
Raqqa.

Earlier, U.S. President Barack Obama says the participation of five Arab nations
in airstrikes against ISIS and Al Qaeda militants in Syria 'makes it clear to
the world this is not America's fight alone.'

Speaking a press conference just hours after the overnight raids, Obama said the
joint fight against ISIS will take time - but remains vital to the security of
the United States, the Middle East and the rest of the world.

The airstrikes - which employed American Tomahawk missiles, B1 bombers, F16, F18
and F22 strike fighters and drones - was backed by 'participation or support'
from Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, Jordan and the UAE - a coalition of nations
that has agreed to assist with the destruction of ISIS.

Obama say the U.S. is 'proud to stand shoulder-to-shoulder' with the Arab
nations in conducting the strikes.

Barack Obama's comments came after America's top military officer Army General
Martin Dempsey said the overnight airstrikes will have successfully shown the
terror group that its attacks will not go unanswered, and that even strongholds
such as the city of Raqqa do not represent a 'safe haven'.

Scroll down for video

Air strikes were launched from land bases in the Middle East, while the F18s
were launched from the aircraft carrier USS George H.W. Bush, which is in the
Persian Gulf.

Tomahawks were fired from the USS Arleigh Burke, a guided missile destroyer in
the Red Sea.

The first wave of strikes lasted for 90 minutes and one video on social media
showed blasts across Raqqa - the de facto capital of the Islamic state.

Among the targets which reports from social media claimed had been hit were the
house of the governor of Raqqa, the national hospital and the Equestrian Club.

One account said at least 20 of the militant group's fighters had been killed in
the strikes, with other sources saying 'dozens' were dead.

Separate ISIS targets were hit in Deir al-Zor province in the north of Syria,
where the terrorist group has also gained vast swaths of territory.

'We wanted to make sure that ISIL knew they have no safe haven, and we certainly
achieved that,' Army General. Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, said in an interview with American reporters. ISIL is an alternate
acronym for ISIS commonly used by U.S. officials.

America said five Arab nations either participated in the airstrikes or provided
unspecified support. They were Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, Jordan and the
United Arab Emirates.

FULL DETAILS OF THE AIRSTRIKES

Countries participating: U.S., Bahrain, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, United Arab
Emirates.

Targets: Islamic State fighters, training compounds, headquarters and command
and control facilities, storage facilities, a finance center, supply trucks and
armed vehicles in the vicinity of Raqqa, Dayr az Zawr, Al-Hasakah and Abu Kamal.

U.S. missiles: 47 Tomahawk Land Attack Missiles launched from the USS Arleigh
Burke and USS Philippine Sea, operating from international waters in the Red Sea
and North Arabian Gulf.

U.S. aircraft: Air Force B-1 bombers, F-15E attack planes, F-16 fighters and
F-22 fighters; Navy F/A-18 fighters; two types of drone aircraft.

Other strikes: The U.S. alone also conducted eight strikes against the
al-Qaida-affiliated Khorasan Group west of Aleppo, including training camps, an
explosives and munitions production facility, a communication building and
command-and-control facilities.

Dempsey said the role of the five Arab nations in the airstrikes was
indispensable to the U.S. goal of showing that the battle to degrade and defeat
the Islamic State group is not just a U.S. fight.

'I can't overstate' the importance of the Arab role, he said, calling it an
unprecedented coalition with Arab states and said the partnering has set the
stage for a broader international campaign against the extremists.

Dempsey said the five Arab nations' agreement to join in the airstrikes came
together quickly; as recently as Sunday but did not specify exactly what role
each nation played overnight.

He told reporters that more Arab participation was needed before President
Barack Obama would sign off on the strategic air campaign.

The U.S. also carried out separate airstrikes against Al Qaeda-affiliated
extremists Khorasan in Aleppo and Idlib, following intelligence that the group
were planning an 'imminent attack' against Western interests.

The U.S. said at least 30 fighters died, along with eight civilians, including
children, in Aleppo and Idlib.

Khorasan are a totally separate group to ISIS and, although little is known of
their origins, they are understood to be made up of 'seasoned al Qaeda
veterans'.

It is understood that the group's aim is not to fight against Syrian president
Bashar al-Assad, nor does it hope to acquire vast swaths of land like ISIS.

Instead Khorasan targets the thousands of young Western Muslims who have
travelled to fight in Syria in recent months - many of whom have retained their
passports and have made the journey without the knowledge of their home
governments.

Khorasan's plan is to recruit and train this fighters not to carry out attacks
in the Middle East, but to return to their home countries and commit
catastrophic acts of terror there. It is understood that once such attack was
'imminent' which led to the U.S. targeting the group in air strikes overnight.

Pentagon press secretary Rear Admiral John Kirby said the decision to launch the
strikes was made on Monday, only hours before US Air Force and Navy pilots were
given their missions and targets.

Kirby said the strikes were ordered by Army General Lloyd Austin, the commander
of US forces in the Middle East and South Asia 'under authorisation granted to
him by the commander in chief'.

The first strikes began around 8:30 p.m. EDT - 1.30am in the UK and 4.30am in
Syria - but the operation was expected to continue for several more hours,
according to one U.S. official.

This morning British Prime Minister David Cameron released a statement saying he
supported the strikes against ISIS by the U.S. and allies, and will now discuss
what contribution the UK can make.

Kirby did not name the partner nations participating in the operation but they
are now known to be the five Gulf nations and Jordan.

All of them are majority Sunni, the same branch of Islam as ISIS. Britain and
France were not involved in the strikes.

WHY THE NEWLY-DEPLOYED F-22 IS CONSIDERED KEY TO THE U.S. AIR FORCE'S TACTICAL
POWER

The F-22 Raptor is the U.S. Air Force's newest fighter aircraft - and comes with
the very latest equipment to render its agility, stealth and 'war fighting'
capabilities second to none.

The Advanced Tactical Fighter first entered the Demonstration and Validation
phase in 1986, with prototypes completing test flights in 1990.

Over the next 15 years the aircraft was slowly developed, tested and improved,
before finally being declared ready for combat in 2005.

The U.S. Air Force settled on a final procurement tally of 187 fighters in 2009
- the last of which was delivered in 2012.

Since then, due to the high costs involved, the main manufacturing contractors
Lockhead Martin and Boeing have ceased production of the fighter.

The aircraft was designed primarily as an air superiority fighter, but has
additional capabilities including ground attack, electronic warfare, and signals
intelligence roles.

Despite the protracted development as well as operational issues - including
pilots losing consciousness at the controls - the U.S. Air Force considers the
F-22 critical to its tactical air power. It has also described the F-22 as
unmatched by any known or projected fighter.

 News of the airstrikes comes as ISIS' highly-organized press office released a
second propaganda video appearing to feature captured British hostage John
Cantlie.

The journalist - wearing a Guantanamo Bay-style orange jumpsuit - is filmed
questioning America's preparation for attacks on ISIS, and compares the
'unwinnable' conflict to the Vietnam War.

In the five-minute scripted video, Cantlie suggests Barack Obama, long careful
to avoid the sort of conflicts his predecessor George Bush pursued, is being
sucked into an 'unwinnable war'.

'The president once called George Bush's Iraq conflict a 'dumb war', and
couldn't wait to distance America from it when he came into power. Now he's
being inextricably drawn back in,' Cantlie says.

Military officials have said the U.S. would target militants' command and
control centers, re-supply facilities, training camps and other key logistical
sites.

An anti-militant media collective called 'Raqqa is being silently slaughtered'
said among the targets were Islamic State buildings used as the group's
headquarters, and the Brigade 93, a Syrian army base that the militants recently
seized.

Other airstrikes targeted the town of Tabqa and Tel Abyad in Raqqa province, it
said. Their claims could not be independently verified.

According to ABC News'  Luis Martinez, the stealth F-22 Raptor fighter jet saw
its first combat ever with the Raqqa strikes.

The Syrian government of Bashar al-Assad was said to have been 'informed' of the
strikes, but not asked for authorisation.

Syria's Foreign Ministry told the Associated Press that the U.S. informed
Syria's envoy to the U.N. that 'strikes will be launched against the terrorist
Daesh group in Raqqa'.

Daesh is the name ISIS goes by in Arabic.

Former Delta Force officer James Reese told   CNN : 'This is the punch in the
nose to the bully that we talked about on the playground. ISIS is the bully, and
we just punched him in the nose.'

'We will be prepared to strike ISIL targets in Syria that degrade ISIL's
capabilities,' Army Gen. Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
told senators last week, using one of the acronyms for the Islamic State group.
'This won't look like a shock-and-awe campaign, because that's simply not how
ISIL is organized, but it will be a persistent and sustainable campaign.

Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said that the plan 'includes targeted actions
against ISIL safe havens in Syria, including its command and control logistics
capabilities and infrastructure.' He said he and Dempsey approved the plan.

The U.S. has also been increasing its surveillance flights over Syria, getting
better intelligent on potential targets and militant movements.

RUSSIA ATTACKS U.S. OVER ISIS AIRSTRIKES, SAYING SYRIA'S BASHAR AL-ASSAD SHOULD
HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN PLANS, NOT SIMPLY INFORMED

Russia has criticised the U.S.-led airstrikes against ISIS targets, saying they
should have been agreed in advance with Syria and would fuel tension in the
region.

The United States, which has long called for the dismissal of the Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, and several Gulf Arab allies carried out the first
air and missile strikes on Islamic State strongholds in Syria.

'Any such action can be carried out only in accordance with international law,'
the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement.

'That implies not a formal, one-sided 'notification' of airstrikes but the
presence of explicit consent from the government of Syria or the approval of a
corresponding U.N. Security Council decision.'

Washington, which has also carried out airstrikes in Iraq that were agreed with
Baghdad, has said it will not coordinate its plans with Damascus, which it
accuses of using chemical weapons against rebels fighting to oust Assad since
early 2011.

'Attempts to achieve one's own geopolitical goals in violation of the
sovereignty of countries in the region only exacerbate tensions and further
destabilise the situation,' the ministry said.

The Western-backed Syrian opposition, which is fighting both Assad and Islamic
State, welcomed the airstrikes, which it said would help defeat Assad.

LIVE TWEETING SYRIA AIRSTRIKE? RAQQA RESIDENT DESCRIBES 'SKY FULL OF DRONES' AS
SYRIANS POST EVIDENCE THE ASSAULT HAS BEGUN

A Syrian man may have been first to break the news of America and its partners'
air assault on the ISIS-controlled hubs on the Middle Eastern nation.

According to Vox, Twitter user and resident of Raqqa--where the military says
its started the air assault on Syria--Abdulkader Hariri ( @3bdUlkaed6r ) first
started tweeting what he saw some 30 minutes before American news reported the
strikes.

Hariri describes not only manned aircraft, but also drones in his posts. The
U.S. did not mention the use of these unmanned aircraft in its official
announcement of the airstrikes.

Just after the strikes were to have begun, Syrian activist news agency Step
posted a brief but startling video that purports to show the bombing of Raqqa.

 ISRAELI MILITARY SHOOTS DOWN SYRIAN GOVERNMENT FIGHTER JET

The Israeli military shot down a Syrian fighter jet that infiltrated its
airspace over the Golan Heights this morning - the first such downing in
decades, heightening tensions in the region.

The military said a 'Syrian aircraft infiltrated into Israeli air space' in the
morning hours and that the military 'intercepted the aircraft in mid-flight,
using the Patriot air defense system.'

The military would not say what type of aircraft was downed and said the
circumstances of the incident were 'unclear.'

A defense official identified the downed aircraft as a Sukhoi Su-24 Russian
fighter plane. Perviously, it was reported to have been a MiG aircraft.He said
the Syrian jet penetrated 800 meters (2,600 feet) into Israeli air space and
tried to return to Syria after the Patriot missile was fired.

The crew managed to abandon the plane in time and landed in Syrian territory,
the Israeli official said.

Military leaders have said about two-thirds of the estimated 31,000 Islamic
State militants were in Syria.

In a speech Sept. 10, Obama vowed to go after the Islamic State militants
wherever they may be. And his military and defense leaders told Congress last
week that airstrikes within Syria are meant to disrupt the group's momentum and
provide time for the U.S. and allies to train and equip moderate Syrian rebels.

'I have made it clear that we will hunt down terrorists who threaten our
country, wherever they are,' Obama said. 'That means I will not hesitate to take
action against ISIL in Syria, as well as Iraq. This is a core principle of my
presidency: if you threaten America, you will find no safe haven.'

The U.S. military has been launching targeted airstrikes in Iraq since August,
focusing specifically on attacks to protect U.S. interests and personnel, assist
Iraqi refugees and secure critical infrastructure. Last week, as part of the
newly expanded campaign, the U.S. began going after militant targets across
Iraq, including enemy fighters, outposts, equipment and weapons.

To date U.S. fighter aircraft, bombers and drones have launched about 190
airstrikes within Iraq.

Urged on by the White House and U.S. defense and military officials, Congress
passed legislation late last week authorizing the military to arm and train
moderate Syrian rebels. Obama signed the bill into law Friday, providing $500
million for the U.S. to train about 5,000 rebels over the next year.

U.S. leaders have also been crisscrossing the globe trying to build a broad
international coalition of nations, including Arab countries, to go after the
Islamic State group and help train and equip the Iraqi security forces and the
Syrian rebels.

The militant group, meanwhile, has threatened retribution. Its spokesman, Abu
Mohammed al-Adnani, said in a 42-minute audio statement released Sunday that the
fighters were ready to battle the U.S.-led military coalition and called for
attacks at home and abroad.

WILL MIDDLE EASTERN NATIONS MAKE OR BREAK THE BATTLE AGAINST ISIS? U.S.
OFFICIALS SAY ARAB NATION PARTNERS WILL BE CRITICAL ALLIES

 Two U.S. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Arab participation
was essential for Obama as he looked to expand the American campaign of air
strikes to Syria from Iraq, where the U.S. military has already carried out 190
strikes as of Monday.

Several Arab countries have offered to join the United States in air strikes
against Islamic State targets, a senior U.S. official told reporters on Sept.
14.

But the United States has so far refused to detail which nations have given
private assurances to Washington that they would join in air strikes in Syria,
part of a broader strategy against the Islamic State that includes training and
arming moderate Syrian opposition fighters.

U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power said in television
interviews over the weekend that other nations were willing to join air strikes
in Syria.

'I will make you a prediction,' Power said on ABC. 'We will not do the air
strikes alone if the president decides to do the air strikes.'

Several Arab states have powerful air forces, including Saudi Arabia and United
Arab Emirates. Saudi Arabia, for example, has also already agreed to host U.S.
training of Syrian opposition fighters.

But many Gulf Arab states have been reluctant to be seen aggressively joining
the U.S. campaign in Iraq and Syria, fearing in some cases reprisals by
extremists or forces loyal to the Syrian government.

The White House last week declined to 'telegraph' when strikes might occur or
what preconditions stood in the way.

Obama will give a speech at the U.N. General Assembly on Wednesday to make the
case again for world action against Islamic State.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 23, 2014 Tuesday 4:07 PM GMT

Jury: Arab Bank liable in terror attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 648 words


NEW YORK (AP) - A U.S. jury found on Monday that a large Jordan-based bank
should be held responsible for a wave of Hamas-sanctioned suicide bombings in
the early 2000s that left several Americans dead or wounded.

Jurors reached the unanimous verdict in a terrorism financing lawsuit against
Arab Bank after deliberating two days in at a civil trial in federal court in
Brooklyn.

Plaintiff's lawyer Gary Osen said it's the first time a bank has been found
liable for knowingly supporting a terrorist group.

"The question now is how the rest of the financial world, regulators and
governments deal with Arab Bank," Osen said.

An attorney for the bank, Shand Stephens, predicts the verdict will be
overturned on appeal based on "errors in admission of evidence, errors in jury
instructions and errors in imposing sanctions."

The trial five-week trial only addressed the question of liability. Whether the
bank should face damages will be decided by another jury.

"Obviously, this case is a long way from over," U.S. District Judge Brian Cogan
told lawyers after dismissing the jury. "We have not finished our work here by a
long shot."

The high-stakes legal offshoot of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict had pitted
American victims of terror attacks in the early 2000s against an international
bank with several branches in Gaza and the West Bank. The victims sued in 2004,
accusing the bank of knowingly helping Hamas fund a "death and dismemberment
benefit plan" for martyrs from the territories.

The civil marked the first time a bank had faced a trial under the
Anti-Terrorism Act, which allows victims of U.S.-designated foreign terrorist
organizations to seek compensation. The U.S. State Department designated Hamas a
terrorist group in 1997.

In more than a month of testimony, the jury heard Hamas experts and other
plaintiff witnesses attempt to link extremists to Arab Bank accounts and detail
how cash payments were funneled through the bank and into the hands of the
families of suicide bombers. Evidence included bank records showing an
electronic transfer naming Hamas founder Sheikh Ahmed Yassin and a list of
people designated for $5,300 payments based on deaths from "martyr operations."

Arab Bank Chairman Sabih Al-Masri and other executives take the witness stand to
deny the allegations. The defense sought to portray Al-Masri as a trusted banker
whose own family had been victimized by terrorism and who opened branches in the
Palestinian territories to help with rebuilding and humanitarian efforts - not
to back extremists.

"The Palestinians were suffering. Israeli people were killed. All these things
were negative for society, for finding peace, jobs and the future," Al-Mari
testified. "Business suffered.... Suicide bombers destroyed the opportunity for
peace."

The defense also argued that people the plaintiffs identified as Hamas
operatives who did business with the bank weren't on a terrorist watch lists
compiled by authorities in the United States and other Western nations. The
plaintiffs "are asking you to make your own list" based on the word of their
experts, Stephens told the jury in closing arguments.

"The bank relies on the government to tell them who the terrorists are and you
wouldn't want it any other way," he said.

Plaintiff attorney Tab Turner argued that the identities of Hamas leaders were
so well-known in the region, it was impossible to believe that Arab Bank
executives' testimony that they didn't recognize them. Before trial, the bank
had refused to turn over the account records to the plaintiffs, citing privacy
regulations - a decision that resulted in a court sanction instructing that the
jury be allowed to infer that the withheld records could contain evidence
damaging to the bank.

"What is it that the bank was so worried about they didn't want you to see it?
They didn't want you to see who was giving who money and for what," Turner said.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 23, 2014 Tuesday 4:54 PM GMT

Isil increasingly desperate as they release second propaganda video with British
hostage John Cantlie;
Isil video shows hostage John Cantlie warning attack on terror group will create
another Vietnam, which experts say reveals their fears

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead and Raf Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 574 words


Isil is increasingly desperate over the US-led offensive against them after
warning of another "Vietnam" in a second propaganda video featuring British
hostage John Cantlie, experts have said.

The journalist and photographer, who has been held captive for almost two years,
has once again been forced to broadcast messages against the West on behalf of
the terror group.

The six-minute video comes less than a week after Mr Cantlie, 43, first appeared
in a video saying he was going to reveal the "truth" about Isil in a series of
broadcasts.

The latest video is introduced as "Lend Me Your Ears and Messages From The
British Detainee John Cantlie: Episode 1" and sees Mr Cantlie again dressed in a
Guantánamo Bay-style orange jumpsuit.

Sitting behind a desk, he repeats a claim that he has been abandoned by his
government and warns the UK, US and other countries over their attacks.

The video was recorded before the US-led air strikes in Syria.

Mr Cantlie said Western governments "were caught napping by the sheer speed of
the Islamic State's growth" and they have underestimated "the strength and
fighting zeal of the opponent".

"Not since Vietnam have we witnessed such a potential mess in the making," he
says.

He also states that 15,000 troops will not be enough to combat Isil and they are
not "some undisciplined outfit".

But experts said the messages were a sign of growing concern within Isil over
the battle against them.

Will Geddes, a security specialist who has dealt with several kidnap for ransom
cases, said: "This smacks of desperation.

"By mentioning the likes of Vietnam and another Iraq, which they know are
uncomfortable for the public, they are trying to appeal to a national conscience
to bring pressure on political leaders and their actions towards them.

"They are clutching at straws and saying 'please don't come and beat us up as it
will be horrible for everyone'."

Mr Cantlie appears more solemn and tired than in the first video but remains
calm.

He has red marks on his neck and the side of his face but it is not clear
whether that is due to heat and stress or possible signs of abuse.

The video itself appears more rushed than the first and seems to have been
heavily edited suggesting several takes.

In the video, Mr Cantlie is made to quote Michael Scheuer, a controversial
former CIA officer tasked with hunting Osama bin Laden who has since become a
staunch critic of US foreign policy.

Mr Cantlie reads from an article by Mr Scheuer, where the former agent argues
President Barack Obama "does not have the slightest intention of defeating" and
calls David Cameron "a US lapdog".

Mr Scheuer's criticism of US strategy for fighting jihadists was once praised by
Osama bin Laden in a 2007 video, where the terror leader recommended his book
"if you want to understand what's going on".

In an interview with the Telegraph, Mr Scheuer said he was unsurprised and
unapologetic that his words were being used in jihadist propaganda videos.

"In his own way, [Mr Cantlie] is doing a service to the British people and the
American people because what they've made him say from a script is the truth,"
Mr Scheuer said.

"The content of what he said ought to be presented to the president in a more
polite form because it's an acutely accurate analysis of what's going on. The
message should be sent to Mr Cameron and Mr Hollande and the rest of these
clowns who masquerade as leaders but are really just charlatans."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     September 23, 2014 Tuesday 4:58 PM GMT

Syria terror group was ready to launch attacks, says US

BYLINE: David Taylor, Philippe Naughton and Michael Savage

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 1145 words


The al-Qaeda splinter group targeted in airstrikes on Syria was "near execution
phase" for terrorist attacks in Europe and the United States, the Pentagon said
today.

The United States described the first night of airstrikes against extremists of
the Islamic State as "very successful", detailing three separate waves of
attacks with its Arab partners.

But while the air attacks against Isis forces were anticipated, the opportunist
attacks last night on the Khorasan Group came as a surprise.

A Pentagon spokesman said the decision had been taken to target the group, which
is using Syria as a safe haven to plan terrorist attacks against the West,
because it was "in the final stages of plans to execute major attacks against
Western targets and potentially the US homeland".

A Pentagon spokesman, Lt Gen William Mayville, said there had been eight
American airstrikes against Khorasan targets west of Aleppo, including training
camps and an explosives and munitions production facility.

At the same briefing, Pentagon spokesman Rear Admiral John Kirby, said: "Last
night's strikes were only the beginning" in the campaign to degrade and destroy
Isis.

The Pentagon said that the coalition used a mix of fighter and bomber jets,
drones and Tomahawk missiles to conduct 14 strikes against Isis targets. Five
Arab nations - Saudia Arabia, Jordan, Bahrain, Qatar and the United Arab
Emirates - "participated in or supported" the attacks.

"The strikes destroyed or damaged multiple [Isis] targets in the vicinity of Ar
Raqqah, Dayr az Zawr, Al Hasakah, and Abu Kamal and included fighters, training
compounds, headquarters and command and control facilities, storage facilities,
a finance centre, supply trucks and armed vehicles," the Pentagon said.

The attacks, in the early hours, began with the firing of 47 Tomahawk missiles
from the USS Arleigh Burke and USS Philippine Sea, two guided missile destroyers
operating from international waters in the Red Sea and the northern Gulf.

Those attacks were followed by waves of strikes from US air force, navy and
Marine bomber and fighter aircraft backed by armed drones. The Americans also
used $143 million F22 stealth Raptor fighter jets for the first time in combat.

In an appearance at the White House, President Obama said that a total of 40
nations had joined the broad coalition to confront Isis and support the Syrian
rebels, whom he described as the best counterweight to Isis and the Assad
regime.

"America is proud to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with these nations on behalf of
our common security. The strength of this coalition makes it clear to the world
that this is not America's fight alone," he said.

Downing Street said that David Cameron backed the strikes and would be holding
talks at the UN in New York over the next two days to examine further steps
Britain could take against Isis militants.

Mr Cameron is expected to recall parliament later this week to ask MPs to back
UK air strikes against Isis in Iraq. But British involvement in Syria is less
likely due to concerns over international law and the legacy of last summer's
vote in parliament, when MPs opposed military action against President Assad.

Ed Miliband today called for a UN security council resolution to win
international support for the action. He said Labour backed the overnight
strikes, but the UN now needed to play its part.

Mr Miliband's words mean that Mr Cameron cannot take for granted Labour support
if he recalls parliament. The Labour leader did not make clear whether his
party's backing is conditional on a UN resolution being passed.

The Pentagon said that it had also continued to attack Isis targets in Iraq,
launching four strikes that had destroyed Humvee vehicles, an Isis armoured
vehicle and a fighting position southwest of Kirkuk.

"The United States conducted these strikes as part of the president's
comprehensive strategy to degrade and ultimately defeat [Isis]," a Pentagon
statement said. "Going forward, the US military will continue to conduct
targeted airstrikes against [Isis] in Syria and Iraq as local forces go on the
offensive against this terrorist group."

It went on: "Separately, the United States has also taken action to disrupt the
imminent attack plotting against the United States and Western interests
conducted by a network of seasoned al-Qaeda veterans - sometimes referred to as
the Khorasan group - who have established a safe haven in Syria to develop
external attacks, construct and test improvised explosive devices and recruit
Westerners to conduct operations. These strikes were undertaken only by US
assets."

The group is led by Muhsin al-Fadhli, 33, who is described as part of Osama bin
Laden's inner circle and one of the few al-Qaeda commanders to have known in
advance about the 9/11 attacks of 2001.

The group, made up of fighters from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Yemen, has set up
a base in Syria from which it is trying both to develop undetectable explosives
that can be set off aboard aircraft and to recruit jihadis with Western
passports to deploy them.

James Clapper, US director of national intelligence, said last week that "in
terms of threat to the homeland, Khorasan may pose as much of a danger as
Islamic State". His comments were the first public acknowledgement by a US
official of the group's existence.

The attacks on the group appear to have dragged in another Syrian terror group
whose protection the al-Qaeda affiliate is enjoying, the Nusra Front. The
Pentagon said that US central command conducted eight strikes against Khorasan
targets west of Aleppo including "training camps, an explosives and munitions
production facility, a communication building and command and control
facilities".

The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the war through
a network of sources, said that some 50 Nusra Front fighters and eight civilians
had been killed in strikes near Aleppo. The fighters were mostly foreign
jihadists.

The observatory also said that dozens of Islamic State fighters had been wounded
or killed in the airstrikes on Isis targets in the south.

The move into Syria marks the beginning of Washington's promised expansion of
its mission, which has until now focused on targeting the extremist group in
Iraq alone.

This month Mr Obama admitted that to stand a real chance of destroying the
network US aircraft would have to cross into Syrian airspace. He has now
authorised his forces to take that step, just as world leaders gather in New
York for the UN general assembly - in which the threat posed by Isis is top of
the agenda.

US defence officials believe that about two-thirds of the estimated 31,000
Islamic State militants are in Syria. Military commanders have pledge to target
their command and control centres, training camps and other key logistical
sites. The US has so far carried out some 190 strikes in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                          September 24, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Islamic terrorists plotting to attack UK, warns Cameron

BYLINE: ANDREW WOODCOCK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 647 words


THE Islamic State terror group is planning attacks in Europe and the USA and has
been plotting to target the UK, David Cameron has claimed, warning: "These
people want to kill us - they''ve got us in their sights."

The Prime Minister was speaking after a wave of US air strikes in Syria and
Iraq, which the Pentagon said were in part prompted by fears that jihadists were
preparing to mount terror attacks on Western targets.

Speaking during a visit to New York, Mr Cameron said there was a "very clear"
threat to the UK and other Western states, and linked IS - also known as Isis or
Isil - with the murders of four people by a gunman at the Jewish Museum in
Brussels in May.

"There''s no doubt in my mind it has already undertaken and is planning further
plots in Europe and elsewhere, specifically in Belgium, in Brussels. It was an
Isis plot that went into a Jewish museum and killed entirely innocent people,"
the Prime Minister told NBC. "And there are other plots they have been
attempting, including in my own country, in order to kill and maim innocent
people. And the same applies to the United States of America.

"So this is a fight you cannot opt out of. These people want to kill us.
They''ve got us in their sights and we have to put together this coalition,
working with radical support... to make sure that we ultimately destroy this
evil organisation."

"  The Prime Minister is using the two day United Nations General Assembly to
help rally support for international action and to discuss the UK's contribution
to the coalition. He is due to hold talks with Iranian president Hassan Rouhani
- the first meeting between a British prime minister and Iranian president since
the revolution of 1979 - in an attempt to enlist Tehran''s support.

Mr Cameron gave his backing to Monday night''s air strikes, which were ordered
by President Barack Obama after intelligence reports indicated that an attack by
a shadowy al Qaida-linked group known as the Khorasan Group was "imminent".

Lieutenant General William Mayville, the Pentagon''s director of operations,
said Tomahawk cruise missiles fired from US warships in the region were used to
hit the group''s compounds, workshops and training grounds around the city of
Aleppo.

"Intelligence reports indicated that the Khorasan Group was in the final stages
of plans to execute attacks against Western targets and potentially the US
homeland," he said. The missile strikes were followed by attacks by US warplanes
and drones - backed by Arab allies - to hit Islamic State.

Following the raids - the first carried out by the US against IS on Syrian
territory - Mr Obama has vowed "to do what''s necessary" to deal with the group.

He said the backing of five Arab states - Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain
and the United Arab Emirates - underlined the support he was building for
international action to defeat IS.

"The strength of this coalition makes it clear to the world that this is not
America''s fight alone," he said in a statement on the White House lawn.

"The overall effort will take time, there will be challenges ahead, but we are
going to do what''s necessary to take the fight to this terrorist group for the
security of the country and the region and for the entire world." "  The Prime
Minister is expected to use a speech to the UN today to set out further details
of Britain's contribution to tackling Islamic State. There is growing
speculation that he will announce that UK forces will join the air strikes.

Mr Cameron made clear that he would want to consult the House of Commons, if
possible, before engaging British forces, raising the prospect of a possible
recall of Parliament after his return from the US on Thursday.

He will be keen to avoid a repeat of last year''s Commons defeat when he lost a
vote on air strikes against Syrian forces over the Assad regime''s use of
chemical weapons against the rebels.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Syrian citizens inspect a damaged house that was targeted by coalition
air strikes in the village of Kfar Derian; USS Philippine Sea launches a
Tomahawk cruise missile at Islamic State group positions (below right), and one
of the sites struck by the rockets (below left)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                   September 24, 2014 Wednesday 10:41 AM GMT

Radical Muslim cleric Abu Qatada cleared of role in tourist terror attack plot;

Qatada, who was booted out of Britain last year, was accused of providing
support for men behind an alleged plan to commit atrocities in Jordan

BYLINE: By Jason Beattie

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 378 words


Radical Muslim cleric Abu Qatada has been cleared of supporting a planned terror
attack on tourists.

Qatada, who was booted out of Britain last year after a lengthy battle to deport
him, was accused of providing spiritual and material support to men behind an
alleged plan to commit atrocities during Jordan's New Year celebrations in 2000.

Today's session was a retrial in which the prosecution had argued the cleric was
a mentor to militant cells in Jordan while he was in Britain during the late
1990s.

Jordan's state security court ruled that the charges lacked sufficient evidence.
The cleric was expected to be freed today.

The extremist father-of-five was thrown out of the UK last year after ten years
of legal wrangling costing the UK tax payer around £2 million in legal fees.

Qatada repeatedly used human rights laws to avoid being thrown out of Britain,
having fled to the UK in the early 90's, using false identity documents.

After arriving in the UK with his wife and five children he claimed asylum from
religious oppression back home.

But in July last year, having been in and out of prison since 2002, Qatada was
flown out to Jordan, where he had been convicted of terror charges in his
absence.

Qatada - once dubbed Osama bin Laden's man in Europe - was acquitted by a court
in Jordan in June of conspiring in a 1998 bombing campaign.

In order to agree to the deportation both Jordan and the UK had to agree that
evidence obtained from him under torture could not be used.

Linked by a Spanish judge to the late al Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden, Abu
Qatada was in and out of jail in Britain since first being arrested in 2001.

The Home Office said today that there is no question of Qatada being allowed
back to Britain.

He said: "Abu Qatada's retrial in Jordan was made possible thanks to this
government's determination to successfully deport him from the UK to face the
courts in his own country.

"It is right that the due process of law has taken place in Jordan. The UK
courts agreed that Abu Qatada posed a threat to national security in the UK, so
we are pleased that we were able to remove him.

"Abu Qatada remains subject to a deportation order and a United Nations travel
ban. He is not coming back to the UK."

Should Abu Qatada be allowed to return to Britain?

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                   September 24, 2014 Wednesday 10:41 AM GMT

Radical Muslim cleric Abu Qatada grins as cleared of backing tourist terror
attack plot;
The Home Office insists that Qatada, who was booted out of Britain last year,
won't be allowed back in the UK after being cleared in Jordan of providing
support for terrorists

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 397 words


This picture shows radical Muslim cleric Abu Qatada grinning as he is cleared of
supporting a planned terror attack on tourists.

Qatada was booted out of Britain last year after a lengthy battle to deport him.

He was accused of providing spiritual and material support to men behind an
alleged plan to commit atrocities during Jordan's New Year celebrations in 2000.

Moment radical Muslim cleric is cleared of backing tourist terror attack plot

Today's court session was a retrial in which the prosecution had argued the
cleric was a mentor to militant cells in Jordan while he was in Britain during
the late 1990s.

Jordan's state security court ruled that the charges lacked sufficient evidence.
The cleric was expected to be freed today.

The extremist father-of-five was thrown out of the UK last year after ten years
of legal wrangling costing the UK tax payer around £2 million in legal fees.

Qatada repeatedly used human rights laws to avoid being thrown out of Britain,
having fled to the UK in the early 90's, using false identity documents.

After arriving in the UK with his wife and five children he claimed asylum from
religious oppression back home.

But in July last year, having been in and out of prison since 2002, Qatada was
flown out to Jordan, where he had been convicted of terror charges in his
absence.

In order to agree to the deportation both Jordan and the UK had to agree that
evidence obtained from him under torture could not be used.

Qatada - once dubbed Osama bin Laden's man in Europe - was acquitted by a court
in Jordan in June of conspiring in a 1998 bombing campaign.

Linked by a Spanish judge to the late al Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden, Abu
Qatada was in and out of jail in Britain since first being arrested in 2001.

The Home Office said today that there is no question of Qatada being allowed
back to Britain.

He said: "Abu Qatada's retrial in Jordan was made possible thanks to this
government's determination to successfully deport him from the UK to face the
courts in his own country.

"It is right that the due process of law has taken place in Jordan. The UK
courts agreed that Abu Qatada posed a threat to national security in the UK, so
we are pleased that we were able to remove him.

"Abu Qatada remains subject to a deportation order and a United Nations travel
ban. He is not coming back to the UK."

Should Abu Qatada be allowed to return to Britain?

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          September 24, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Recalling tragedy of mall terror attack;
PICK OF THE DAY THIS WORLD: TERROR AT THE MALL (9pm BBC2)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 264 words


ON SEPTEMBER 21 last year four young gunmen strolled casually into the Westgate
Mall, a crowded shopping centre in Nairobi, Kenya and set about systematically
murdering shoppers.

Armed with AK-47 rifles and grenades, their entire attack which lasted for four
days left 67 innocent people dead, and more than 175 wounded.

British film-maker Dan Reed has assembled an unprecedented, moment-by-moment
account of the horrific attack, from the thousands of hours of CCTV footage,
video footage from TV crews and mobile phones and still photos taken by a
Reuters journalist.

For the first time, this film shows a terror attack from the inside - an
immersive, nightmarish experience that you might very well decide you want to
avoid at all costs.

There are also arguments to be made that the last thing the world should be
giving terror groups such as al-Shabab is publicity for their atrocities.

Interspersed with the carnage are interviews with 83 of the men, women and
children who came face to face with the gunmen and this film reveals the bravery
of the civilians who risked their lives to save others. One Kenyan policeman in
particular emerges as a hero, but, until now, he has received no recognition of
his efforts.

In contrast, Reed's film is damning of the Kenyan security forces who didn't
enter the Mall until three hours into the siege.

This is Reed's third film about an urban siege in 11 years and follows Terror In
Mumbai and In Mumbai and Terror In T Moscow. In interviews he has said, this one
really broke his heart.

"I don't know if I can do this kind of film again," he admits.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ Above is a CCTV image of the four gunmen in the furniture store-room
of Nakumatt supermarket on the evening of the first day of the attack on
¦Westgate Shopping Mall in Nairobi, Kenya. Top from left are survivor Margie
Brand, daughter of one of the victims Esther Muriuki, and Corporal Nura Ali who
was shot during the attack, who all feature in this documentary on the terrorist
atrocity which took place last September

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 24, 2014
                                 First Edition

Manhunt after five stabbed in random attack;
TERROR

BYLINE: Ciaran Giles IN MADRID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 94 words


Police are searching for a man who stabbed five people in the space of an hour
in broad daylight in the northeastern city of Lleida.

The victims in the attacks on Monday were a Chinese, a Moroccan, a Pakistani, a
Spaniard and a person from an unspecified South American country. The assailant
left the knife stuck in the back of the last victim.

A police officer said the attacker appeared to pick his victims at random
without any apparent motive, although some suggested it may have been linked to
a recent call by Isis for its supporters to commit acts of terror. AP

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2014 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 24, 2014 Wednesday 6:46 AM GMT

Teenage terror suspect is 'shot dead after stabbing two police officers' in
Melbourne;
The deaths come days after an alleged Isis terror attack was foiled

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 379 words


A teenage terror suspect has been shot dead after allegedly stabbing two police
officers during a counter-terrorism operation in Melbourne.

The 18-year-old made repeated threats against the Australian Prime Minister,
Tony Abbott, moments before being shot, ABC news reported.

The unnamed man is believed to be a "person of interest" being investigated over
alleged terrorism offences following the Islamic State (Isis) call to supporters
to carry out murders in their home countries.

He was among several people who recently had their passports cancelled by
authorities as part of counter-terrorism measures.

The incident happened outside a police station in the western Endeavour Hills
area of Melbourne at 7.40pm local time on Tuesday.

Both of the injured police officers were part of a joint counter-terrorism force
and had gone to meet the teenager.

One officer was from the Victoria state police and another was from the
Australian Federal Police. They are both in a stable condition in hospital.

UPDATE: Very serious situation at Endeavour Hills. understands the man who was
shot was brandishing an ISIL flag. #auspol (@ljayes)- Sky News Australia
(@SkyNewsAust) September 23, 2014

Australia's Government vowed to crack down on extremism after security forces
foiled a plot believed to have been directed by Islamic State (Isis militants)
last week.

Mr Abbott said supporters planned to film a beheading of a random victim in
Sydney similar to Lee Rigby's murder in Woolwich.

"The exhortations, quite direct exhortations, were coming from an Australian,
who is apparently quite senior in Isil (Isis), to networks of support back in
Australia to conduct demonstration killings here in this country," he added.

Video: Australia's anti-terrorism raids in Sydney last week

Knives, a gun, machetes and military equipment were reportedly seized in
resulting raids in Sydney and Brisbane where 15 people were arrested.

Australia had raised its terrorism alert level from medium to high days before
and has backed the military operation against Isis in Iraq with planes and
hundreds of personnel.

Read more: Isis plan to 'behead random member of the public' in SydneyTony
Abbott says Australia will send military force to fight extremistsUS and Arab
allies launch air strikes on Isis in Syria

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                   September 24, 2014 Wednesday 11:29 PM GMT

Was teen terror suspect planning to attack Tony Abbott? Extremist shot dead by
police after frenzied knife attack had been 'researching Prime Minister's travel
plans'

BYLINE: FREYA NOBLE, SALLY LEE, DANIEL PIOTROWSKI FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA,
LOUISE CHEER IN MELBOURNE and AAP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1623 words



     ·    Terror suspect shot dead was 18-year-old Numan Haider
     ·    Police believe he 'planned to behead' officers, a report claims
     ·    The Narre Warren man was shot dead after he stabbed two police
          officers
     ·    AFP officer, 43, stabbed in face, neck and abdomen
     ·    Victoria Police senior constable slashed in the forearm
     ·    Both policeman have been hospitalised
     ·    Haider called ASIO and the AFP 'dogs' on his Facebook page
     ·    Police said he was seen unfurling an ISIS flag at local shopping
          centre recently
     ·    The man is said to have threatened Prime Minister Tony Abbott
     ·    Had also been researching Mr Abbott's travel plans to Melbourne
     ·    A shocked friend of Haider described him as 'gentle'


The 18-year-old Muslim extremist who was shot dead by police after he stabbed
two officers had been researching Prime Minister Tony Abbott's travel plans, it
has been reported.

Numan Haider - who was killed outside Endeavour Hills police station in suburban
Melbourne on Tuesday evening - was known to police and had been under
investigation for his radical views for at least three months.

The ABC  reported that Haider had been making inquiries about Mr Abbott's
movements, taking particular interest in his plans to travel to Melbourne in
coming months.

Mr Abbott was on Wednesday night in New York, where spoke with other world
leaders at the United Nations about global security and the terror threat posed
by Islamic State.

There are also reports Haider was in the midst of planning a trip to Iraq and
Syria.

Scroll down for video

In Melbourne, a young man who knew the teenager described him as a calm and
gentle person, and said he had never seen any indications that Haider was
involved with any radical groups.

Mohamed Ibrahim - who shared a room with the 18-year-old at a Mulsim youth camp
last year told the ABC's PM program: 'He was a gentle, soft spoken young boy and
when I heard the report yesterday about a man who had been shot - when I
actually found out he was Numan - I was absolutely shocked.'

'There were no hints that he was part of a group, there were no signs that he
was someone we should be worried about,' Mr Ibrahim said.

The friend also revealed he was stunned at how much the teenager had changed.

'I think him, from going to being an inquisitive young lad to being someone who
was drawn towards these kind of ideas, it's something we need to take
seriously,' Mr Ibrahim said.

The  Herald Sun  report that Haider had spent the past few weeks distraught
after a recent split from his wife - who had converted to Islam.

'It (the divorce) was a huge factor in his life. They were living apart. He was
very upset,' a friend told the website.

The friend added that Haider was also distressed about having his passport
cancelled and being monitored by police.

It was revealed on Wednesday that police believe the 18-year-old terror suspect
shot dead after he stabbed two police officers was planning to behead them.

Haider had posted threatening messages about security agencies on his Facebook
page and had recently unfurled an ISIS flag at a local shopping centre.

Fairfax Media  is reporting that Haider carried two knives and was planning to
use the larger one in a beheading.

He would then drape the officers' bodies in the Islamic State flag and post the
pictures online, the report said. A police spokeswoman refused to confirm the
allegation.

In a Facebook post, firebrand Islamic preacher Mohammed Junaid Thorne claimed
Haider had his passport cancelled without cause and police were at his house
before he was shot outside Endeavour Hills police station on Tuesday evening.

'We understand that the local authorities had canceled the passport of this
young boy for no reason, keeping him a captive in his own country for no valid
purpose.

'We also understand that the police visited or raided his house (not clear yet)
as he was hanging out with some friends in Hungry Jacks, just hours before his
death,' Thorne wrote on Wednesday afternoon.

Victorian Police refused to confirm the claim that officers had been at the
man's home before his death.

The controversial preacher also said that the teenager was 'provoked' and the
Australian government has an agenda to create division in the community.

'This boy was not a casualty of an armed heist, nor was his death the result of
some drug deal that went wrong, rather he was killed by the same people who are
supposed to be protecting this country.

'We still ask and wonder, why deadly force was immediately used against a
teenager, who was provoked in the first place and forced in to such a situation.

'The Abbot (sic) government has succeeded in creating division amongst our
community based on religion,' Thorne posted.

He also said the stabbed teenager was a 'wonderful, practicing (sic) young
brother' - and described incident as 'murder'.

'It is a time of grief for us Muslims,' Thorne told Daily Mail Australia earlier
on Wednesday.

According to the Herald Sun, the teenager had been seen handing out brochures at
nearby Dandenong Shopping Plaza, trying to convert others to Islam.

He was apparently seen there with four others last Thursday, wearing camouflage
pants while holding a black and white flag.

Haider's parents pleaded with their son to stay home the night he was killed,
the ABC  reported.

They were apparently concerned for his safety, but despite this he went to meet
police - who he called when he was outside the station as he did not want to
meet them inside.

On Tuesday night, Victoria Police Assistant Commissioner Luke Cornelius said:
'Our members had no inkling this individual posed a threat to them and as far as
we were concerned it was going to be an amicable discussion about that
individual's behaviour,'

'It is also clear to us that (the) individual has, without any warning, produced
a knife and assailed them with a knife,' he said. 'It's absolutely clear to us
our members had no choice but to act in the way they did.'

Victoria Police Commissioner Ken Lay told reporters the AFP officer, aged 43,
suffered multiple stab wounds to his face, neck and abdomen. He underwent
surgery and was in a serious but stable condition in hospital. He has a wife and
two children.

Witnesses told the  Sydney Morning Herald  on Tuesday night Haider had been
yelling insults about Prime Minister Tony Abbott and the Australian government.


The bomb squad examined the man's car and the police station following the
incident.

Last night, police said they believe the man was 'acting on his own' but could
not comment on his motivations.

Mr Cornelius said the Victorian officer fired the single shot that killed the
man.

Neighbours of the Haider family said they were shocked by the incident.

'Nowadays you have to be suspicious about every person, you never really know,'
a neighbour, who did not wished to be named, told Daily Mail Australia.

'You never know what's happening across the road.'

He said it was a multicultural neighbourhood.

'We've got a good mix of people around here. There are Greeks here, we've got
Italians over there...and some other countries,' the neighbour said.

Islamic Council of Victoria secretary Ghaith Krayem said Haider had been
involved with Al-Furqan, an Islamic fundamentalist group raided by police in
2012, but had not had recent contact with them.

Mr Krayem said the threat of ISIS in Australia had been overplayed and police
were on top of potential terror threats in Melbourne.

'There's nobody who I'm aware of in the last couple of months in terms of who
the police are looking at, who the police weren't already looking at well before
now,' he said.

Justice Minister Michael Keenan urged Australians to remain calm.

'We need to go about our daily lives,' he said. 'It is this type of bravery and
dedication shown by these officers that will continue to keep our community safe
and secure.

'I want to make it clear that the public should feel confident that the police,
the security services and the government are taking every possible step to
ensure their safety and security of all our communities.'

The Islamic Council of Victoria has called for an investigation into the
incident.

'There needs to be a full and objective investigation into this incident to
ensure that such a tragedy is never repeated,' the council said in a statement
on Wednesday.

'This tragedy highlights the real cost of a failure to deal with these serious
issues and why we have made numerous calls on the Australian government to deal
with the root causes of alienation and disaffection of people such as this.'

The council said it would provide support to the man's family.

On Monday, Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, the official spokesman of the Islamic State
terror group purportedly issued a chilling message calling on his followers to
murder Australians in ghastly ways.

Al-Adnani said: 'If you can kill a disbelieving American or European -
especially the spiteful and filthy French - or an Australian, or a Canadian, or
any other disbeliever from the disbelievers waging war, including the citizens
of the countries that entered into a coalition against the Islamic State, then
rely upon Allah, and kill him in any manner or way however it may be.'

The country witnessed the largest counter-terrorism raids in Australian history
last week. More than 800 police officers were involved in Sydney alone.

Police allege the effort disrupted a plot to behead a random member of the
public. Omarjan Azari, 22, was charged with conspiracy to commit a terrorist
attack on Australian soil.

A second man, a 24-year-old from Merrylands in Sydney's west, was charged with
possessing ammunition without license and unauthorised possession of a
prohibited weapon.

The man, Ahmad Rahmany, was fined $500 and handed a good behaviour bond after
pleading guilty to the charges on Wednesday in Fairfield Local Court.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 24, 2014 Wednesday 3:42 PM GMT

Lone wolf terrorists could attack U.S. to retaliate for American airstrikes in
Syria, FBI and Homeland Security warn

BYLINE: MICHAEL ZENNIE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 431 words



     ·    U.S. has targeted ISIS strongholds and targets where terrorists were
          plotting attacks on America
     ·    Airstrikes could stir up homegrown terrorists who could strike with
          'little or no warning,' according to bullet issued to local police
     ·    Biggest threat is from plotters who are working on their own and not
          officially connected to a terror group


Airstrikes in Syria could stir up lone wolf terrorists carry out attacks on U.S.
soil in retaliation for the American incursion into the war-torn country, the
FBI and Department of Homeland Security have warned.

A U.S.-led coalition has hit dozens of ISIS targets in Iraq and Syria in the
last three days in an effort to thwart the extremist terrorist group and spot
them plotting attacks against the U.S.

However, the FBI and Homeland Security sent out a bulletin to police departments
around the country on Tuesday that the military strikes could provoke new
attacks from terrorists already in the U.S. - with 'little or no warning.'

'We believe these strikes will contribute to homegrown violent extremists'...
broader grievances about U.S. military intervention in predominantly Muslim
lands, possibly motivating Homeland attacks,' the federal government warned.

The greatest risk at this time is not from ISIS or other terrorist organizations
plotting large-scale attacks on U.S. soil, the agencies said.

Instead, local police should be on the lookout for attack similar to the Boston
Marathon bombings, which were carried out by two brothers who became radicalized
by online Islamist propaganda, but were not affiliated with al-Qaeda or any
other terrorist network.

Three people were killed and 264 were wounded on April 15, 2013 when the
brothers detonated two homemade pressure cooker bombs packed with gunpowder from
fireworks and nails and ball bearings.

ISIS uses a sophisticated and highly visible propaganda operation on social
media that had drawn hundreds of westerners to Syria and Iraq to fight on their
side.

According to the FBI bulletin, the group has already called on followers to
carry out 'lone offender attacks in the Homeland in retaliation for U.S.
military operations in Iraq and Syria.'

American diplomats convinced five Sunni Muslim nations - Saudi Arabia, Qatar,
the United Arab Emirates, Jordan and Bahrain - to help carry out strikes against
ISIS in Syria and Iraq, in attempt to increase their legitimacy in the Arab
World.

However, the New York Times reports that American fighter jets and cruise
missiles from American destroyers are carrying out nearly all of the strikes -
with occasional assistance from Arab allies.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 24, 2014 Wednesday 2:13 PM GMT

Was teen terror suspect planning to attack Tony Abbott? Extremist shot dead by
police after frenzied knife attack had been 'researching Prime Minister's travel
plans'

BYLINE: FREYA NOBLE, SALLY LEE, DANIEL PIOTROWSKI FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA,
LOUISE CHEER IN MELBOURNE and AAP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1791 words



     ·    Terror suspect shot dead was 18-year-old Numen Haider
     ·    Police believe he 'planned to behead' officers, a report claims
     ·    The Narre Warren man was shot dead after he stabbed two police
          officers
     ·    AFP officer, 43, stabbed in face, neck and abdomen
     ·    Victoria Police senior constable slashed in the forearm
     ·    Both policeman have been hospitalised
     ·    Haider called ASIO and the AFP 'dogs' on his Facebook page
     ·    Police said he was seen unfurling an ISIS flag at local shopping
          centre recently
     ·    The man is said to have threatened Prime Minister Tony Abbott
     ·    Had also been researching Mr Abbott's travel plans to Melbourne
     ·    A shocked friend of Haider described him as 'gentle'


The 18-year-old Muslim extremist who was shot dead by police after he stabbed
two officers had been researching Prime Minister Tony Abbott's travel plans, it
has been reported.

Numen Haider - who was killed outside Endeavour Hills police station in suburban
Melbourne on Tuesday evening - was known to police and had been under
investigation for his radical views for at least three months.

The ABC  reported that Haider had been making inquiries about Mr Abbott's
movements, taking particular interest in his plans to travel to Melbourne in
coming months.

Mr Abbott was on Wednesday night in New York, where he was due to speak with
other world leaders at the United Nations about global security and the terror
threat posed by Islamic State.

Scroll down for video

In Melbourne, a young man who knew the teenager described him as a calm and
gentle person, and said he had never seen any indications that Haider was
involved with any radical groups.

Mohamed Ibrahim - who shared a room with the 18-year-old at a Mulsim youth camp
last year told the ABC: 'He was a gentle, soft spoken young boy and when I heard
the report yesterday about a man who had been shot - when I actually found out
he was Numan - I was absolutely shocked.'

'There were no hints that he was part of a group, there were no signs that he
was someone we should be worried about,' Mr Ibrahim said.

Police believe the 18-year-old terror suspect shot dead after he stabbed two
police officers was planning to behead them.

Haider had posted threatening messages about security agencies on Facebook page
and had recently unfurled an ISIS flag at a local shopping centre.

Fairfax Media  is reporting that Haider carried two knives and was planning to
use the larger one in a beheading.

He would then drape the officers' bodies in the Islamic State flag and post the
pictures online, the report said. A police spokeswoman refused to confirm the
allegation.

Haider was shot after he allegedly stabbed the officers during a pre-arranged
meeting in a carpark near Endeavour Hills Police Station in Melbourne's
south-east.

Police said the teenager, from Narre Warren, came to meet the officers at the
request of the police around 7.45pm on Tuesday night. The officers greeted him
cordially and offered to shake hands when he struck without warning.

Haider repeatedly stabbed the AFP officer in the face and upper body, police
said, then attacked the Victoria police officer, who was wounded in the forearm
before fatally wounding him with one shot.

In a Facebook post, firebrand Islamic preacher Mohammed Junaid Thorne claimed
Haider had his passport cancelled without cause and police were at his house
before he was shot outside Endeavour Hills police station on Tuesday evening.

'We understand that the local authorities had canceled the passport of this
young boy for no reason, keeping him a captive in his own country for no valid
purpose.

'We also understand that the police visited or raided his house (not clear yet)
as he was hanging out with some friends in Hungry Jacks, just hours before his
death,' Thorne wrote on Wednesday afternoon.

Victorian Police refused to confirm the claim that officers had been at the
man's home before his death.

The controversial preacher also said that the teenager was 'provoked' and the
Australian government has an agenda to create division in the community.

'This boy was not a casualty of an armed heist, nor was his death the result of
some drug deal that went wrong, rather he was killed by the same people who are
supposed to be protecting this country.

'We still ask and wonder, why deadly force was immediately used against a
teenager, who was provoked in the first place and forced in to such a situation.

'The Abbot (sic) government has succeeded in creating division amongst our
community based on religion,' Thorne posted.

He also said the stabbed teenager was a 'wonderful, practicing (sic) young
brother' - and described incident as 'murder'.

'It is a time of grief for us Muslims,' Thorne told Daily Mail Australia earlier
on Wednesday.

The Herald Sun report that Haider had spent the past few weeks distraught after
a recent split from his girlfriend - who had converted to Islam.

Also according to the website, the teenager had been seen handing out brochures
at nearby Dandenong Shopping Plaza, trying to convert others to Islam.

He was apparently seen there with four others last Thursday, wearing camouflage
pants while holding a black and white flag.

Haider's parents pleaded with their son to stay home the night he was killed,
the ABC  reported.

They were apparently concerned for his safety, but despite this he went to meet
police - who he called when he was outside the station as he did not want to
meet them inside.

On Tuesday night, Victoria Police Assistant Commissioner Luke Cornelius said:
'Our members had no inkling this individual posed a threat to them and as far as
we were concerned it was going to be an amicable discussion about that
individual's behaviour,'

'It is also clear to us that (the) individual has, without any warning, produced
a knife and assailed them with a knife,' he said. 'It's absolutely clear to us
our members had no choice but to act in the way they did.'

Victoria Police Commissioner Ken Lay told reporters the AFP officer, aged 43,
suffered multiple stab wounds to his face, neck and abdomen. He underwent
surgery last night and was in a serious but stable condition in hospital. He has
a wife and two children.

The senior constable who fired the fatal bullet suffered wounds to his forearm
and was also in a stable condition.

Witnesses told The  Sydney Morning Herald  said Haider had been yelling insults
about Prime Minister Tony Abbott and the Australian government.

Mr Abbott, who was on his way to New York for a United Nations meeting on global
security issues when the attack occurred, said he had been briefed on the
'fierce attack' by a terrorist suspect.

'Obviously, this indicates there are people in our community who are capable of
very extreme acts,' Mr Abbott said in a video statement.

He said Australia's security forces would remain vigilant.

AFP Commissioner Andrew Colvin said police first took an interest in the dead
man around three months ago.

But some 'things he had been heard to say' and his activities at shopping
centres recently had caused them to become more concerned.

Mr Lay said law enforcement agencies had been in contact with the dead man's
family, and were consulting with Islamic community leaders.

The bomb squad examined the man's car and the police station following the
incident.

Last night, police said they believe the man was 'acting on his own' but could
not comment on his motivations.

Mr Cornelius said the Victorian officer fired the single shot that killed the
man.

Neighbours of the 18-year-old man who shot dead by a Victoria Police officer
last night say they are shocked by the incident.

'Nowadays you have to be suspicious about every person, you never really know,'
a neighbour, who did not wished to be named, told Daily Mail Australia.

'You never know what's happening across the road.'

He said it was a multicultural neighbourhood.

'We've got a good mix of people around here. There are Greeks here, we've got
Italians over there...and some other countries,' the neighbour said.

Islamic Council of Victoria secretary Ghaith Krayem confirmed Haider was a
Muslim and said his family was struggling.

He said the man had been involved with Al-Furqan, an Islamic fundamentalist
group raided by police in 2012, but had not had recent contact with them.

Mr Krayem said the threat of ISIS in Australia had been overplayed and police
were on top of potential terror threats in Melbourne.

'There's nobody who I'm aware of in the last couple of months in terms of who
the police are looking at, who the police weren't already looking at well before
now,' he said.

Justice Minister Michael Keenan urged Australians to remain calm.

'We need to go about our daily lives,' he said. 'It is this type of bravery and
dedication shown by these officers that will continue to keep our community safe
and secure.

'I want to make it clear that the public should feel confident that the police,
the security services and the government are taking every possible step to
ensure their safety and security of all our communities.'

The Islamic Council of Victoria has called for an investigation into the
incident.

'There needs to be a full and objective investigation into this incident to
ensure that such a tragedy is never repeated,' the council said in a statement
on Wednesday.

'This tragedy highlights the real cost of a failure to deal with these serious
issues and why we have made numerous calls on the Australian government to deal
with the root causes of alienation and disaffection of people such as this.'

The council said it would provide support to the man's family.

The rise of the Islamic State terror group will be high on the agenda at the
United Nations meeting being attended by Mr Abbott.

On Monday, Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, the official spokesman of the Islamic State
terror group purportedly issued a chilling message calling on his followers to
murder Australians in ghastly ways.

Al-Adnani said: 'If you can kill a disbelieving American or European -
especially the spiteful and filthy French - or an Australian, or a Canadian, or
any other disbeliever from the disbelievers waging war, including the citizens
of the countries that entered into a coalition against the Islamic State, then
rely upon Allah, and kill him in any manner or way however it may be.'

The country witnessed the largest counter-terrorism raids in Australian history
last week. More than 800 police officers were involved in Sydney alone.

Police allege the effort disrupted a plot to behead a random member of the
public. Omarjan Azari, 22, was charged with conspiracy to commit a terrorist
attack on Australian soil.

A second man, a 24-year-old from Merrylands in Sydney's west, was charged with
possessing ammunition without license and unauthorised possession of a
prohibited weapon.

He has been bailed to appear in Fairfield Local Court.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                   September 24, 2014 Wednesday 11:24 AM GMT

BREAKING NEWS: Preacher of hate Abu Qatada cleared of plotting terror attacks in
Jordan - and will walk free

BYLINE: TED THORNHILL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 735 words



     ·    Jordanian court ruled there was insufficient evidence against Abu
          Qatada
     ·    He was linked with plans to target Israeli and U.S tourists, and
          diplomats
     ·    Earlier David Cameron insisted he would not be allowed back in the UK


A Jordan court has acquitted radical preacher Abu Qatada of plotting attacks on
Americans and Israelis.

The decision was handed down in the case presided over by civilian judges on
Wednesday in the Jordanian capital, Amman.

The court ruled there was insufficient evidence against Abu Qatada and his
defense lawyer, Husein Mubaidin, says he expects his client to be released
within hours.

Scroll down for video

Abu Qatada was charged with involvement in plans to target Israeli and American
tourists and Western diplomats in Jordan in 2000 - the so-called 'millennium
plot.'

Separately, the 53-year-old preacher was acquitted in June in another case, a
foiled 1999 plan to attack an American school in Amman.

He had pleaded not guilty to all charges.

The Home Office insisted that there was no question of him returning to the UK.

A spokesman said: 'Abu Qatada's re-trial in Jordan was made possible thanks to
this Government's determination to successfully deport him from the UK to face
the courts in his own country.

'It is right that the due process of law has taken place in Jordan. The UK
courts agreed that Abu Qatada posed a threat to national security in the UK, so
we are pleased that we were able to remove him.

'Abu Qatada remains subject to a deportation order and a United Nations travel
ban. He is not coming back to the UK.'

The statement echoed David Cameron's view on the matter express earlier this
year.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said in June: 'He can't come back and he
won't come back. He's a Jordanian, he does not have a UK passport, he was
deported on an indefinite deportation order, he would not be granted permission
to enter the UK, end of story.

'Mr Qatada was put on a plane to Jordan and is not coming back. This is a man
the British courts have deemed a risk to national security. He is not coming
back.'

Qatada, real name Omar Mahmoud Mohammed Othman, was extradited from Britain
after a lengthy legal process.

Abu Qatada has been previously been described in courts as a senior al-Qaeda
figure in Europe who had close ties to Osama bin Laden.

Britain has accused him of links with Zacarias Moussaoui - the only person
charged in the United States over the September 11 attacks - and with shoe
bomber Richard Reid.

RADICAL VIEWS, WIDE INFLUENCE AND ALLEGED ROLE AS AL-QAEDA'S 'SPIRITUAL LEADER'
IN EUROPE MADE ABU QATADA 'TRULY DANGEROUS'

Abu Qatada was born in the West Bank city of Bethlehem in 1960, which was under
the control of Jordan at the time.

At the age of 29 he moved to Peshawar in Pakistan to teach about Sharia law,
before moving to Kuwait.

In 1991 - after the Gulf War - he was kicked out the country along with other
Palestinians and returned to Jordan.

Two years later Qatada and his family applied for asylum in the UK, claiming he
had been tortured in Jordan. This application was granted in June 1994.

In the late 1990s Qatada came to MI5's attention as his sermons became more
extreme and his influence increased.

From his home in North London, he was later described as the 'in-house' adviser
to radical groups around the world.

In 1999 and 2000 Qatada was convicted in his absence and given a life sentence
in Jordan for the two alleged terror plots for which he has been standing trial.

Qatada was arrested in the UK for the first time following the September 11
attacks, but was not charged with any crime.

He was repeatedly linked with extremist groups over the subsequent decade.

Mr Justice Collins, then chairman of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission
said he was 'heavily involved, indeed was at the centre' of al-Qaeda's UK
activities, calling him 'a truly dangerous individual.'

While living in Britain, Qatada lived on benefits totalling an estimated
£500,000.

The campaign to extradite Qatada to face the terror conspiracy Jordan began in
2007, but was continually delayed by claims he would be tortured on his return.

After initially barring the UK deporting Qatada, the European Court of Human
Rights finally denied him leave to appeal in 2012 after receiving assurances
from Jordan that he would not be tortured.

Qatada finally left the UK to face trial the following July.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 24, 2014 Wednesday 8:55 AM GMT

BREAKING NEWS: Preacher of hate Abu Qatada cleared of plotting terror attacks in
Jordan - and will walk free

BYLINE: TED THORNHILL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 637 words



     ·    Jordanian court ruled there was insufficient evidence against Abu
          Qatada
     ·    He was linked with plans to target Israeli and U.S tourists, and
          diplomats
     ·    Earlier David Cameron insisted he would not be allowed back in the UK


A Jordan court has acquitted radical preacher Abu Qatada of plotting attacks on
Americans and Israelis.

The decision was handed down in the case presided over by civilian judges on
Wednesday in the Jordanian capital, Amman.

The court ruled there was insufficient evidence against Abu Qatada and his
defense lawyer, Husein Mubaidin, says he expects his client to be released
within hours.

Abu Qatada was charged with involvement in plans to target Israeli and American
tourists and Western diplomats in Jordan in 2000 - the so-called 'millennium
plot.'

Separately, the 53-year-old preacher was acquitted in June in another case, a
foiled 1999 plan to attack an American school in Amman.

He had pleaded not guilty to all charges.

Earlier this year David Cameron insisted there is no way Abu Qatada will be
allowed to return to Britain.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: 'He can't come back and he won't
come back. He's a Jordanian, he does not have a UK passport, he was deported on
an indefinite deportation order, he would not be granted permission to enter the
UK, end of story.

'Mr Qatada was put on a plane to Jordan and is not coming back. This is a man
the British courts have deemed a risk to national security. He is not coming
back.'

Qatada, real name Omar Mahmoud Mohammed Othman, was extradited from Britain
after a lengthy legal process.

Abu Qatada has been previously been described in courts as a senior al-Qaeda
figure in Europe who had close ties to Osama bin Laden.

Britain has accused him of links with Zacarias Moussaoui - the only person
charged in the United States over the September 11 attacks - and with shoe
bomber Richard Reid.

RADICAL VIEWS, WIDE INFLUENCE AND ALLEGED ROLE AS AL-QAEDA'S 'SPIRITUAL LEADER'
IN EUROPE MADE ABU QATADA 'TRULY DANGEROUS'

Abu Qatada was born in the West Bank city of Bethlehem in 1960, which was under
the control of Jordan at the time.

At the age of 29 he moved to Peshawar in Pakistan to teach about Sharia law,
before moving to Kuwait.

In 1991 - after the Gulf War - he was kicked out the country along with other
Palestinians and returned to Jordan.

Two years later Qatada and his family applied for asylum in the UK, claiming he
had been tortured in Jordan. This application was granted in June 1994.

In the late 1990s Qatada came to MI5's attention as his sermons became more
extreme and his influence increased.

From his home in North London, he was later described as the 'in-house' adviser
to radical groups around the world.

In 1999 and 2000 Qatada was convicted in his absence and given a life sentence
in Jordan for the two alleged terror plots for which he has been standing trial.

Qatada was arrested in the UK for the first time following the September 11
attacks, but was not charged with any crime.

He was repeatedly linked with extremist groups over the subsequent decade.

Mr Justice Collins, then chairman of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission
said he was 'heavily involved, indeed was at the centre' of al-Qaeda's UK
activities, calling him 'a truly dangerous individual.'

While living in Britain, Qatada lived on benefits totalling an estimated
£500,000.

The campaign to extradite Qatada to face the terror conspiracy Jordan began in
2007, but was continually delayed by claims he would be tortured on his return.

After initially barring the UK deporting Qatada, the European Court of Human
Rights finally denied him leave to appeal in 2012 after receiving assurances
from Jordan that he would not be tortured.

Qatada finally left the UK to face trial the following July.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 25, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

One in four Britons fears terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 264 words


TERRORISM is the fastest-growing fear among Britons, a survey has found.

The fear of a terrorist attack has risen most markedly in the Direct Line Hopes
and Fears Index, from 14th place six months ago to the fifth greatest fear for
the next six months.

Almost a quarter (23 per cent) of Britons ranked terrorism as one of their
primary concerns. Those surveyed said their greatest fear was for their health
and the health of their loved ones (46 per cent), followed by making ends meet
(27 per cent), inflation and the standard of living (both 26 per cent).

Britons' top hopes for the next six months were an improved financial situation
(43 per cent) and good health (43 per cent), with more than a third (36 per
cent) hoping to lose weight.

Christine Webber, a psychotherapist and health writer, said: "It's interesting
how much the index has altered in the past six months. However, the survey shows
that ill health still tops the fear index.

"After all, no matter how much money you have, if you have poor health, or
someone close to you is ill, your blooming bank balance is of little
consolation.

"But what does seem highly significant is that seven of the top 10 fears are
about money and employment, which would suggest that the upward trend in the
country's economy has, so far, not resulted in a sense of solvency or security
for the average person.

"It's also a sad reflection of our times that fear of terrorism figures much
more highly for British adults than it did just a few months ago."

Opinium Research surveyed 2,002 adults online between August 29 and September 1.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 25, 2014 Thursday 5:23 PM GMT

BREAKING NEWS: ISIS is planning 'imminent' terror attacks on New York and Paris
subways reveals Iraq's PM

BYLINE: JOHN HALL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 399 words


Iraq has received 'credible' intelligence that ISIS militants plan to launch
attacks on subway systems in Paris and the United States, the country's Prime
Minister Haider al-Abadi has claimed.

Mr Abadi said he was told of the plot by Baghdad, and that it was the work of
foreign fighters belonging to the Islamic State group in Iraq. Asked if the
attacks were imminent, he said, 'Yes.'

Asked if the attacks had been thwarted, he said, 'No' but added that America had
been alerted.

He went on to say that the suspects included Islamic extremists originally from
the United States and France who have been fighting alongside ISIS terrorists in
Iraq.

Mr Abadi made the remarks at a meeting with journalists on the sidelines of a
gathering of world leaders at the United Nations General Assembly.

'Today, while I am here, I am receiving accurate reports from Baghdad where
there was [the] arrest of [a] few elements and there are networks planning from
inside Iraq to have attacks,' he said.

'They plan to have attacks in the metros of Paris and the U.S.,' he added,
speaking in English. 'From the details I have received, yes it looks credible.'

'They are not Iraqis. Some of them are French, some of them are Americans. But
they are in Iraq,' Mr Abadi went on to say.

The Iraqi Prime Minister said that he received the information from intelligence
officials based in Baghdad earlier this morning.

The information could not immediately be verified with French and U.S.
authorities.

A senior U.S. government official speaking on condition of anonymity reacted to
the news by saying the America currently has no evidence to back up Mr Abadi's
claim of an imminent terror attack.

In addition to the brutality Islamic State has visited on the people of Iraq and
Syria, western leaders have voiced concern that the group would turn its terror
operations outside the region.

A U.S.-led coalition opened airstrikes inside Syria on Monday, expanding weeks
of attacks by the United States on Islamic State targets in Iraq.

A fresh wave of airstrikes from the United States and its Arab allies hit ISIS
oil refineries overnight, killing at least 14 militants and striking at the
heart of the terror group's funding.

ISIS generates up to $2million a day from the sale of oil, employing highly
trained engineers to extract thousands of barrels a day from the vast swaths of
Syria and Iraq under the terror group's control.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 25, 2014 Thursday 1:48 AM GMT

Was teen terror suspect planning to attack Tony Abbott? Extremist shot dead by
police after frenzied knife attack had been 'researching Prime Minister's travel
plans'

BYLINE: FREYA NOBLE, SALLY LEE, DANIEL PIOTROWSKI FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA,
LOUISE CHEER IN MELBOURNE and AAP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1989 words



     ·    Terror suspect shot dead was 18-year-old Numan Haider
     ·    Police believe he 'planned to behead' officers, a report claims
     ·    The Narre Warren man was shot dead after he stabbed two police
          officers
     ·    AFP officer, 43, stabbed in face, neck and abdomen
     ·    Victoria Police senior constable slashed in the forearm
     ·    Both policeman have been hospitalised
     ·    Haider called ASIO and the AFP 'dogs' on his Facebook page
     ·    Police said he was seen unfurling an ISIS flag at local shopping
          centre recently
     ·    The man is said to have threatened Prime Minister Tony Abbott
     ·    Had also been researching Mr Abbott's travel plans to Melbourne
     ·    A shocked friend of Haider described him as 'gentle'


The 18-year-old Muslim extremist who was shot dead by police after he stabbed
two officers had been researching Prime Minister Tony Abbott's travel plans, it
has been reported.

Numan Haider - who was killed outside Endeavour Hills police station in suburban
Melbourne on Tuesday evening - was known to police and had been under
investigation for his radical views for at least three months.

But police had not considered Haider to be an imminent threat. Officers had
visited his house and spoken to his parents about his behaviour, according to
reports, and the officers offered to shake hands in the seconds before he
launched the attack.

The final trigger for the attack was a visit by police officers to the family
home, according to an account by firebrand cleric Mohammed Junaid Thorne, who
claims to have know Haider.

Haider was sitting with friends at a Hungry Jack's fast food restaurant when his
parents called him and told him police had just visited their home and searched
his room, Thorne said.

This enraged Haider, who called police and had an argument on the phone while
complaining his privacy had been invaded, according to Thorne's account. It was
during this call that it was arranged for Haider to come to the Endeavour Hills
police station to meet police.

Police reportedly confirmed they had visited the house in the hours before the
attack but said they only spoke to Haider's parents and did not search his room.



The attack was the culmination of what appears to be an extraordinary
transformation from an average young Muslim man to a bloodthirsty extremist.

Scroll down for video

Haider was training as an electrician at Chisholm Institute of TAFE after
recently completing Year 12 at Lyndale Secondary College in Dandenong, according
to a work history posted online.

He was recently employed stacking shelves at a Coles supermarket, where he
learned about 'working in a team... and following instructions.'

Prior to that, he had worked at the local fruit shop, spruiking and completely
general duties such as sweeping up and assisting customers.

Haider began adopting more radical views after attending the al-Furqan centre in
Springavle. The centre was at the centre of counterterrorism raids in 2012.

Police said Haider first came to their notice three months ago. The Australian
reported police were called to a disturbance at a shopping centre in Narre
Warren on 25 July involving a group of young Muslim men who were loudly debating
Islam and matyrdom.

Haider was one of them, and security agencies began monitoring him. Last Friday,
Haider was stopped by police as he walked through Dandenong Mall waving an
Islamic State flag. He had posted anti-police messages on Facebook.

The ABC  reported that Haider had been making inquiries about Mr Abbott's
movements, taking particular interest in his plans to travel to Melbourne in
coming months.

Mr Abbott was on Wednesday night in New York, where spoke with other world
leaders at the United Nations about global security and the terror threat posed
by Islamic State.

In Melbourne, a family friend posted a tribute to the boy on her Facebook page,
emphasising that he was just a 'teenager'.

She remembered how he used to help his mother with the housework and said: 'I'll
never forget that smile on your face no matter how much I used to tell you and
my brother off for going into mischief'.

Another young man who knew the teenager described him as a calm and gentle
person, and said he had never seen any indications that Haider was involved with
any radical groups.

Mohamed Ibrahim - who shared a room with the 18-year-old at a Mulsim youth camp
last year - told the ABC's PM program: 'He was a gentle, soft spoken young boy
and when I heard the report yesterday about a man who had been shot - when I
actually found out he was Numan - I was absolutely shocked.'

'There were no hints that he was part of a group, there were no signs that he
was someone we should be worried about,' Mr Ibrahim said.

The friend also revealed he was stunned at how much the teenager had changed.

'I think him, from going to being an inquisitive young lad to being someone who
was drawn towards these kind of ideas, it's something we need to take
seriously,' Mr Ibrahim said.

The  Herald Sun  reported that Haider had spent the past few weeks distraught
after a recent split from his wife - who had converted to Islam.

'It (the divorce) was a huge factor in his life. They were living apart. He was
very upset,' a friend told the website.

The friend added that Haider was also distressed about having his passport
cancelled and being monitored by police.

It was reported that police believed man who attacked the two officers was
planning to behead them, drape an Islamic State flag over their bodies and take
photographs to post on social media - a gruesome hallmark of the terror group. A
police spokeswoman said she could not confirm thereport.

Fairfax Media  is reporting that Haider carried two knives and was planning to
use the larger one in a beheading.

In a Facebook post, Thorne claimed Haider had his passport cancelled without
cause and police were at his house before he was shot outside Endeavour Hills
police station on Tuesday evening.

'We understand that the local authorities had canceled the passport of this
young boy for no reason, keeping him a captive in his own country for no valid
purpose.

'We also understand that the police visited or raided his house (not clear yet)
as he was hanging out with some friends in Hungry Jacks, just hours before his
death,' Thorne wrote on Wednesday afternoon.

The controversial preacher also said that the teenager was 'provoked' and the
Australian government has an agenda to create division in the community.

'This boy was not a casualty of an armed heist, nor was his death the result of
some drug deal that went wrong, rather he was killed by the same people who are
supposed to be protecting this country.

'We still ask and wonder, why deadly force was immediately used against a
teenager, who was provoked in the first place and forced in to such a situation.

'The Abbot (sic) government has succeeded in creating division amongst our
community based on religion,' Thorne posted.

He also said the stabbed teenager was a 'wonderful, practicing (sic) young
brother' - and described incident as 'murder'.

'It is a time of grief for us Muslims,' Thorne told Daily Mail Australia earlier
on Wednesday.

According to the Herald Sun, the teenager had been seen handing out brochures at
nearby Dandenong Shopping Plaza, trying to convert others to Islam.

He was apparently seen there with four others last Thursday, wearing camouflage
pants while holding a black and white flag.

Haider's parents pleaded with their son to stay home the night he was killed,
the ABC  reported.

They were apparently concerned for his safety, but despite this he went to meet
police - who he called when he was outside the station as he did not want to
meet them inside.

On Tuesday night, Victoria Police Assistant Commissioner Luke Cornelius said:
'Our members had no inkling this individual posed a threat to them and as far as
we were concerned it was going to be an amicable discussion about that
individual's behaviour,'

'It is also clear to us that (the) individual has, without any warning, produced
a knife and assailed them with a knife,' he said. 'It's absolutely clear to us
our members had no choice but to act in the way they did.'

Victoria Police Commissioner Ken Lay told reporters the AFP officer, aged 43,
suffered multiple stab wounds to his face, neck and abdomen. He underwent
surgery and was in a serious but stable condition in hospital. He has a wife and
two children.

Witnesses told the  Sydney Morning Herald  on Tuesday night Haider had been
yelling insults about Prime Minister Tony Abbott and the Australian government.


The bomb squad examined the man's car and the police station following the
incident.

Last night, police said they believe the man was 'acting on his own' but could
not comment on his motivations.

Mr Cornelius said the Victorian officer fired the single shot that killed the
man.

Neighbours of the Haider family said they were shocked by the incident.

'Nowadays you have to be suspicious about every person, you never really know,'
a neighbour, who did not wished to be named, told Daily Mail Australia.

'You never know what's happening across the road.'

He said it was a multicultural neighbourhood.

'We've got a good mix of people around here. There are Greeks here, we've got
Italians over there...and some other countries,' the neighbour said.

Islamic Council of Victoria secretary Ghaith Krayem said Haider had been
involved with Al-Furqan, an Islamic fundamentalist group raided by police in
2012, but had not had recent contact with them.

Mr Krayem said the threat of ISIS in Australia had been overplayed and police
were on top of potential terror threats in Melbourne.

'There's nobody who I'm aware of in the last couple of months in terms of who
the police are looking at, who the police weren't already looking at well before
now,' he said.

Justice Minister Michael Keenan urged Australians to remain calm.

'We need to go about our daily lives,' he said. 'It is this type of bravery and
dedication shown by these officers that will continue to keep our community safe
and secure.

'I want to make it clear that the public should feel confident that the police,
the security services and the government are taking every possible step to
ensure their safety and security of all our communities.'

The Islamic Council of Victoria has called for an investigation into the
incident.

'There needs to be a full and objective investigation into this incident to
ensure that such a tragedy is never repeated,' the council said in a statement
on Wednesday.

'This tragedy highlights the real cost of a failure to deal with these serious
issues and why we have made numerous calls on the Australian government to deal
with the root causes of alienation and disaffection of people such as this.'

The council said it would provide support to the man's family.

On Monday, Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, the official spokesman of the Islamic State
terror group purportedly issued a chilling message calling on his followers to
murder Australians in ghastly ways.

Al-Adnani said: 'If you can kill a disbelieving American or European -
especially the spiteful and filthy French - or an Australian, or a Canadian, or
any other disbeliever from the disbelievers waging war, including the citizens
of the countries that entered into a coalition against the Islamic State, then
rely upon Allah, and kill him in any manner or way however it may be.'

The country witnessed the largest counter-terrorism raids in Australian history
last week. More than 800 police officers were involved in Sydney alone.

Police allege the effort disrupted a plot to behead a random member of the
public. Omarjan Azari, 22, was charged with conspiracy to commit a terrorist
attack on Australian soil.

A second man, a 24-year-old from Merrylands in Sydney's west, was charged with
possessing ammunition without license and unauthorised possession of a
prohibited weapon.

The man, Ahmad Rahmany, was fined $500 and handed a good behaviour bond after
pleading guilty to the charges on Wednesday in Fairfield Local Court.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 25, 2014 Thursday 7:52 PM GMT

Iraq reveals Isil 'terror plot' to attack America and France;
New York and France increase security on public transport systems as Iraqi prime
minister says network of foreign fighters planning attacks

BYLINE: By Philip Sherwell New York

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 364 words


New York and Paris have stepped up security on their subway train systems as the
Iraqi prime minister revealed "credible" intelligence about a terror plot to
attack public transport in the US and France.

Haider al-Abadi, who is attending the United Nations general assembly in New
York, said Islamic State militants captured in Iraq had disclosed details of the
plots involving American and French jihadists.

The US and its Western allies have been on alert for revenge attacks by
returning Western jihadists or home-grown terrorists in retaliation for air
strikes in Iraq and Syria.

The Isil faction this week called on Muslims to murder Europeans and Americans
and warned Westerners that "you are not safe even in your bedrooms".

Andrew Cuomo, the New York governor, said that he was aware of the reported
threats and that state authorities had already begun to strengthen security on
public transport systems.

"I want to assure the people of New York that we are monitoring these reports
closely and are in close communication with officials in Washington," Mr Cuomo
said.

France, which has conducted air strikes in Iraq, said it would increase security
on transport and in public places after a French tourist was beheaded in
Algeria.

Mr Abadi said he was "not sure" if the planned attacks were imminent. Asked if
the attacks had been thwarted, he said: "No, it has not been disrupted yet. This
is a network.

"They plan to have attacks in the metros of Paris and the US. I asked for more
credible information. I asked for names. I asked for details, for cities, you
know, dates. And from the details I have received, yes, it looks credible."

The New York City police department said it was aware of the Mr Abadi's warning
and in close contact with the FBI and other agencies to assess the threat.

US national security officials said that they were investigating the reports but
had no evidence yet to confirm the plots.

"We've seen the reports of Prime Minister Abadi's comments," said Caitlin
Hayden, spokesperson for the National Security Council.

"We have not confirmed such a plot, and would have to review any information
from our Iraqi partners before making further determinations."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 25, 2014 Thursday 7:52 PM GMT

Iraq reveals Isil 'terror plot' to attack America and France;
New York and France increase security on public transport systems as Iraqi prime
minister says network of foreign fighters planning attacks

BYLINE: By Philip Sherwell New York

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 364 words


New York and Paris have stepped up security on their subway train systems as the
Iraqi prime minister revealed "credible" intelligence about a terror plot to
attack public transport in the US and France.

Haider al-Abadi, who is attending the United Nations general assembly in New
York, said Islamic State militants captured in Iraq had disclosed details of the
plots involving American and French jihadists.

The US and its Western allies have been on alert for revenge attacks by
returning Western jihadists or home-grown terrorists in retaliation for air
strikes in Iraq and Syria.

The Isil faction this week called on Muslims to murder Europeans and Americans
and warned Westerners that "you are not safe even in your bedrooms".

Andrew Cuomo, the New York governor, said that he was aware of the reported
threats and that state authorities had already begun to strengthen security on
public transport systems.

"I want to assure the people of New York that we are monitoring these reports
closely and are in close communication with officials in Washington," Mr Cuomo
said.

France, which has conducted air strikes in Iraq, said it would increase security
on transport and in public places after a French tourist was beheaded in
Algeria.

Mr Abadi said he was "not sure" if the planned attacks were imminent. Asked if
the attacks had been thwarted, he said: "No, it has not been disrupted yet. This
is a network.

"They plan to have attacks in the metros of Paris and the US. I asked for more
credible information. I asked for names. I asked for details, for cities, you
know, dates. And from the details I have received, yes, it looks credible."

The New York City police department said it was aware of the Mr Abadi's warning
and in close contact with the FBI and other agencies to assess the threat.

US national security officials said that they were investigating the reports but
had no evidence yet to confirm the plots.

"We've seen the reports of Prime Minister Abadi's comments," said Caitlin
Hayden, spokesperson for the National Security Council.

"We have not confirmed such a plot, and would have to review any information
from our Iraqi partners before making further determinations."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Morning News

                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

Qatada acquitted of terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 233  words


Radical cleric Abu Qatada, who was deported from the UK last July, has been
released from prison after being acquitted by a court in Jordan of plotting
attacks on Americans and Israelis.

The ruling capped a lengthy legal battle for the 53-year-old cleric who has been
described as a one-time lieutenant to Osama bin Laden, although in recent months
he has reportedly emerged as a harsh critic of the Islamic State militant group.

Qatada was deported from Britain to Jordan last year after years of fighting
extradition.

Hours after the ruling, Qatada was released from prison and was a free man, his
defence lawyers Husein Mubaidin and Ghazi Althunibat said.

The three-judge panel unanimously acquitted Qatada "because of the lack of
convincing charges against him", said Judge Ahmed Qattarneh.

Qatada sat on a bench in a cage in the courtroom, largely blocked from view by
black-clad riot police. When the verdict was announced he briefly punched his
left fist in the air.

The case had been tried in Jordan's State Security court, but with civilian
judges.

Qatada was charged with involvement in plans to target Israeli and American
tourists and Western diplomats in Jordan in 2000 - the so-called "millennium
plot".

Separately, he was acquitted in June in another case, a foiled 1999 plan to
attack an American school in Amman.

He had pleaded not guilty to both sets of charges in the proceedings against
him.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           September 26, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Blues legend Francis: My 11-hour hell after heart attack terror

BYLINE: Paul Suart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 395 words


BLUES hero Trevor Francis has revealed that he's lucky to be alive - because a
devastating heart attack was not diagnosed for 11 HOURS.

The striking legend, who was yesterday handed one of Birmingham's biggest civic
honours, said he vividly remembered the day when he was overwhelmed with chest
pains.

The 60-year-old former player and manager, who has been inducted into the Broad
Street Walk of Stars, told how he simply did not realise how dangerous his
symptoms in April 2012 were.

Francis opened up about his health scare after being during a ceremony at St
Andrew's.

He said: "Fortunately I'm here to tell the tale. April 13, 2012, I remember it
vividly, it's a day I'll never forget.

"I was not fully aware of the extent of the problem. I had a heart attack, but
went ten or 11 hours without being aware of it.

"All the symptoms were there - pains down my arms, tightness across the chest,
sweating.

"Sadly, this was not diagnosed.

Some would say I was a little fortunate (to survive) and they would not be too
far wrong."

Francis, who settled in Solihull with wife Helen after leaving Blues as manager
in 2001, spoke of his "pride" at being added to the Walk of Stars. "I'm so
excited about it," he added.

"I've followed the Walk of Stars as quite a few friends have been awarded this
honour such as Jasper Carrott, Tony Iommi, Bev Bevan and Jeff Lynne.

"I've often thought 'I hope one day this happens to myself',' little did I know
I would be getting a call from Jasper asking if I would accept the honour.

"It was like being asked 'do you want to play for Real Madrid?'. It was a no
brainer. I'm absolutely thrilled."

Lifelong Blues fan Jasper, chair of the Broad Street Walk of Stars Selection
Committee, said Francis was a worthy inductee. He said: "You mention Birmingham
City's most famous players and Trevor Francis is right up there.

"The award is for people who have who done a lot for the area and he's certainly
done that.

"He is known not just in Birmingham, but nationally and internationally.

"He's the perfect recipient for what has become a very appreciated award."

The star will be formally presented at Birmingham City's home game against
Nottingham Forest on November 29 on what is being billed as Trevor Francis Day.

Francis is still widely regarded as a hero by Blues fans after scoring 119 goals
in 280 appearances during an eight-year spell at St Andrew's.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Trevor ¦Francis has been added to the Broad Street Walk of StarsBlues
hero Trevor Francis with comedian Jasper Carrott

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           September 26, 2014 Friday

Police provide details on Sept 21 terror attack

BYLINE: Cui Jia in Beijing

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 245 words


The  Uygur autonomous region's information office released details on a
terrorist attack on Sept 21 that killed 10 people, including two police officers
and two assistant police, and injured 54.

Forty attackers were shot dead by police or killed in suicide explosions, and
two attackers were arrested in Luntai county, the Bayinguoleng Mongolia
autonomous prefecture, the regional information office said on the night of Sept
25.

The multiple explosions were detonated simultaneously at about 5 pm at a bazaar
patronized by local residents from ethnic groups; two police stations; and the
front of a shop. Thirty-two of the injured victims were Uygurs, according to a
statement from the Xinjiang information office.

A police investigation showed that the attackers were led by Memet Turson, who
was shot dead by police. Memet Turson was under the influence of religious
extremism since 2003 after he graduated from a vocational school, police said.

He has become more devoted since 2008. He believed the meals that his parents
cooked were not halal because his parents were government workers. He even
refused to attend his father's funeral, police said.

Memet also refused to attend his brother's wedding because the couple's marriage
certificate was issued by the government. He recruited people to join a
terrorist group lead by him when he worked as a construction contractor. Memet
then plotted and carried out the attack.

The investigation is continuing, local police said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                           September 26, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cleric attacks Isis terrorism & air strikes

BYLINE: Craig Thompson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 333 words


BRITAIN'S decision to take military action in Syria was today condemned by one
of the region's leading Muslims.

But Abu Tayeb was quick to speak out against Isis' acts of terrorism, demanding
a peaceful solution to the crisis.

Mr Tayeb, from the Newcastle-based North East's Islamic Diversity Centre, said:
"As much as I oppose Isis and their terrorism - I equally oppose this new
bombing campaign by the 'Coalition forces' aka terrorism by governments.

"More innocent people will be killed no doubt and, of course, more terrorism
will spread.

"Has the UK and US not got enough blood on their hands?" Mr Tayeb hopes to
promote a better understanding about the teachings of Islam across the region.

He said: "Islam does not stand for the barbaric acts carried out by Isis but
it's important to remember that Muslims do not have a monopoly on this type of
extremist behaviour.

"We want to send out a clear message that as Mus-lims, it is our duty to speak
out against any type of extremism. Isis kills innocent people, including many
Muslims."

But Mr Tayeb dismissed the Prime Minister's decision to seek military action in
the form of air strikes.

He said: "Violence breeds violence.

"No matter what they say, these raids will lead to innocent people suffering.

"To that innocent person on the ground, these air strikes are terrorist acts and
we believe they will only add to the anti western feeling.

"If anything, these type of acts make matters worse, intervention is not the way
forward."

Mr Tayeb, who networks extensively in the region's Islamic community, said there
is a unified feeling against the barbaric acts carried out by Isis against
British and American citizens.

He added: "All the Imams I have spoken to all feel the same, all have condemned
this type of extremism and terrorism - they stand united in that regard."

The North East's Islamic Diversity Centre says it is working hard to remove many
misconceptions about Islam in order to create greater harmony in Newcastle and
across the North East.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Abu Tayeb has criticised bothsides involved in the bloody conflict

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2014 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           September 26, 2014 Friday

Islamic state: Fear that terror attacks in Europe are inevitable as jihadis
return: EU officials believe governments will struggle to respond to violence
from Islamist fighters

BYLINE: Ian Traynor in Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1106 words


A major Islamist terror attack in Europe is almost inevitable as European
members of Islamic State (Isis) return from Syria and Iraq, according to senior
EU officials familiar with the planning taking place to counter the threat.

They said the EU's bodies and its 28 governments were under intense US pressure
to get to grips with the menace represented by thousands of European citizens
fighting in Syria, but that Europe was struggling to develop coherent
instruments to reduce the risk of an atrocity.

"It is pre-programmed," said a senior official involved in the policy and
security debate over the chances of an attack. "We have clear signals that this
is what the foreign fighters are doing. This is the main threat we are facing."
Interior ministers from the 28 countries are to meet in Luxembourg in a
fortnight to try to come up with a concerted policy.

"The home affairs council is very aware and very frightened of this . . . The
colleagues in the police administration just don't know how to cope. They all
fear this could be totally out of control. It may already be too late," the
senior official told the Guardian and five other European newspapers.

In a separate interview, Gilles de Kerchove, the Belgian EU official who
coordinates the union's counter-terrorism policy, said executives from the big
social media providers, including Twitter, Facebook and Google, would attend the
interior ministers' meeting in Luxembourg in an EU attempt to deprive Isis
propagandists of their highly effective use of the internet.

"We want these companies to develop a counter-narrative. There will be a big
discussion with the internet players," said De Kerchove.

He put the number of EU citizens fighting in Syria at around 3,000. "We don't
have harmonised statistics. But the flow of fighters has not dried up. It's a
significant number and it has not stopped," he said.

Senior US intelligence and homeland security officials have been attending
recent meetings of EU policy-makers, alarmed that some of the European fighters
could be easily infiltrated into the US.

"The Americans are very worried about Europeans entering freely under the visa
waiver programme. They are looking into this very seriously," said De Kerchove.

In addition to the dilemmas posed by extremists returning to Europe, EU capitals
and Washington are aghast not just at the brutal prowess shown by Isis in Syria
and Iraq, but also at the claimed arrival in Syria of senior al-Qaida operatives
from havens in Afghanistan and Pakistan grouped in the so-called Khorasan group.
They are said to include the Saudi explosives expert Ibrahim al-Asiri.

"This guy seems to be one of the best bomb-makers in the world," said De
Kerchove. "This small group of veterans linked to al-Qaida is a concern. We know
some flew from Afghanistan (and) Pakistan to Syria."

Confronted with these dilemmas, EU interior ministry, intelligence and police
officials are meeting regularly in various combinations. But the attempts to
come up with a coherent policy and instruments are dogged by institutional,
national and departmental rivalries and differing priorities, senior officials
said.

The EU has been trying to come up with a counter-terrorism strategy for the past
18 months. The current emergency is jolting the process, but officials are
intensely pessimistic that the results will be too little, too late.

Various schemes are under discussion, most notably an EU-wide Passenger Names
Record (PNR) for all air travel within the EU supplying up to 15 parameters that
are mixed in a computer algorithm to help identify suspects.

The scheme is opposed in the European parliament on civil liberties grounds as
it would monitor millions of ordinary travellers. The Germans, sticklers for
data protection, are also lukewarm on the idea but are keener on reintroducing
tighter border controls within the passport-free Schengen zone.

"We think PNR is one of the few tools allowing detection of suspicious
travellers," said De Kerchove. "But many people think it's a dangerous slippery
slope, collection of data on the innocent."

At recent meetings with his counterparts in the EU, Thomas de Maiziere, the
German interior minister, has also been urging more rigorous screening of all
passports and ID cards at airports. The proposal was also opposed on the grounds
that it would cause massive queues.

A police database known as Schengen Information System (SIS) is also available
as a tool for flagging up suspicious travellers and identities that have been
entered into the system. The intelligence services, the sources said, are wary
of contributing information to this system for fear of compromising their
material, thus rendering it less effective.

Britain, the source of about a quarter of European jihadis believed to be in
Syria, is not party to the SIS system because it opted out of all instruments
under the EU's justice and home affairs portfolio and has to negotiate what bits
it will rejoin. But according to De Kerchove, the British are among the most
insistent in pushing a tough concerted EU strategy.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said the UK authorities believed "more than 500
UK-linked individuals have now travelled to Syria and Iraq since the uprising
began. Obviously, it's very difficult to give precise numbers on this."

According to the French authorities, the number of native jihadis in Syria and
Iraq has soared from 555 to 932 this year. Of those, 118 have returned to
France. According to experts consulted by European officials involved in the
effort, an estimated one in nine of those returning represents a terrorist
threat.

Officials point to the killing of four people at Brussels's Jewish Museum in May
as a portent of things to come and of the mishaps afflicting the Schengen
system. The suspect awaiting trial in Belgium, Mehdi Nemmouche, 29, a French
national of Algerian heritage, had spent a year in Syria. He flew from Turkey to
Frankfurt in Germany.

The number of EU nationals fighting in Syria is put at 3-4,000. The senior
official said that in post-9/11 Afghanistan there were an estimated 100
Europeans fighting with al-Qaida and the Taliban and that presented a big
problem then.

Yesterday the mayor of Brussels, Yvan Mayeur, said the threat of returning
jihadis "is not virtual for us, it is concrete, it is real". He said he was
examining 14 files on the issue of suspected extremists from Belgium, which is
believed to have the highest per capita rate in the EU of fighters in Syria.

Captions:

Gilles de Kerchove, who coordinates the EU's counter-terrorism policy, said
Twitter, Facebook and Google would be consulted on how to impede Isis propaganda

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 26, 2014 Friday 12:29 AM GMT

Iraq's PM says captured militants have told of plot to attack subways in US and
Paris;
Iraq's Prime Minister Haidar al-Abadi says that Iraqi intelligence agents had
been told that a terror "network" had plans to attack targets in the US and
Paris

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video video source APTN

LENGTH: 112 words


Al-Abadi said that the "plot" was the work of foreign fighters of the Islamic
State group in Iraq.

When asked by a reporter whether it had been thwarted, he said, "No, it has not
been disrupted yet."

New York's Governor sought to reassure New Yorkers on Thursday after a report of
a possible terror attack in the United States.

"We have been working very hard, literally seven days a week, to make sure that
New York is more prepared than it has ever been prepared before," said Governor
Andrew Cuomo.

Meanwhile, New York Mayor Bill de Blasio said that the NYPD (New York Police
Department) had found "no specific credible threat," to the city, after looking
into the comments.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 26, 2014 Friday 12:29 AM GMT

Iraq's PM says captured militants have told of plot to attack subways in US and
Paris;
Iraq's Prime Minister Haidar al-Abadi says that Iraqi intelligence agents had
been told that a terror "network" had plans to attack targets in the US and
Paris

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video video source APTN

LENGTH: 112 words


Al-Abadi said that the "plot" was the work of foreign fighters of the Islamic
State group in Iraq.

When asked by a reporter whether it had been thwarted, he said, "No, it has not
been disrupted yet."

New York's Governor sought to reassure New Yorkers on Thursday after a report of
a possible terror attack in the United States.

"We have been working very hard, literally seven days a week, to make sure that
New York is more prepared than it has ever been prepared before," said Governor
Andrew Cuomo.

Meanwhile, New York Mayor Bill de Blasio said that the NYPD (New York Police
Department) had found "no specific credible threat," to the city, after looking
into the comments.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 26, 2014 Friday 12:29 AM GMT

Iraq's PM says captured militants have told of plot to attack subways in US and
Paris;
Iraq's Prime Minister Haidar al-Abadi says that Iraqi intelligence agents had
been told that a terror "network" had plans to attack targets in the US and
Paris

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video video source APTN

LENGTH: 112 words


Al-Abadi said that the "plot" was the work of foreign fighters of the Islamic
State group in Iraq.

When asked by a reporter whether it had been thwarted, he said, "No, it has not
been disrupted yet."

New York's Governor sought to reassure New Yorkers on Thursday after a report of
a possible terror attack in the United States.

"We have been working very hard, literally seven days a week, to make sure that
New York is more prepared than it has ever been prepared before," said Governor
Andrew Cuomo.

Meanwhile, New York Mayor Bill de Blasio said that the NYPD (New York Police
Department) had found "no specific credible threat," to the city, after looking
into the comments.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     September 26, 2014 Friday 9:23 AM GMT

China admits true death toll in Xinjiang terror attack

BYLINE: Leo Lewis, Beijing

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 429 words


An eruption of violence in the far-western region of Xinjiang resulted in the
deaths of more than 40 people - a far higher toll than the authorities
originally admitted, Chinese state media said today.

The same reports said that last Sunday's bloodshed began with an "organised and
serious" terrorist bombing attack in a part of the country that is home to
China's Muslim Uighur minority and which Beijing fears is falling under the
influence of Islamic militancy. At least half of the deaths appear to have been
Uighurs shot dead in the aftermath of the initial bombings.

China's state news agency had previously reported that just two people had been
killed in the incident in Luntai county over the weekend. In the more detailed
account, Xinhua said that an initial attack had killed two police officers, two
auxiliary police, six bystanders and injured dozens. In the police retaliation
that followed, dozens of "rioters" were shot dead.

The report focused with unusual detail on the the main suspect, Mamat Tursun,
who was shot dead and whom Xinhua said had been "operating as an extremist since
2003". To flesh-out this claim, the news agency said: "He refused eating meals
at home with his parents and refused to attend his father's funeral because of
his parents' occupation as civil servants. He even declined to join his younger
brother's wedding ceremony because his brother's marriage certificate was issued
by the government."7

For over a year, the Chinese authorities have stepped-up their declared war on
terror, with measures including a huge increase in security, and public
executions of those suspected of plotting violence. The crackdown has
intensified as the incidents have increased in both number and sophistication.

Many experts believe, however, that the crackdown itself is stoking the
day-to-day anger directed at Beijing. Many Uighurs view the government's
policies in Xinjiang as repressive of their culture and faith. Complaints range
from the insistence in many parts of the region that young men shave their
beards to violent bullying by "urban enforcers".

The more detailed reporting on the Luntai incident, which alludes to mass
rioting, bombings and the extremist views of one of those involved, has emerged
three days after a Xinjiang court handed a life prison sentence to the country's
most famous Uighur scholar.

In a judicial decision that was decried by governments around the world as
deplorable and which may serve to inflame the anti-Beijing resentment seething
in many Uighur communities, Ilham Tohti was convicted of "separatism".

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                          September 27, 2014 Saturday

China Fifty reported dead after 'severe terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Jonathan Kaiman in Beijing, and agencies

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 240 words


Chinese state media said late on Thursday that 50 people were killed last
weekend in what officials called a severe terrorist attack in the far western
region of Xinjiang. Regional authorities had said earlier that Sunday's
explosions in Luntai county - known as Bugur in Uighur - killed at least two
people.

State media did not explain the discrepancy. The revised figures however came
shortly after the US broadcaster Radio Free Asia (RFA) reported that dozens of
people were killed in the attacks. "I assume there are about 100 people with
injuries because all the hospital beds are occupied right now," a nurse in
Luntai told the broadcaster.

RFA said that authorities in the affected areas had imposed a curfew after the
attacks, and quoted a local teacher as saying: "The attackers, particularly in
Bugur county centre, were Uighurs disgruntled by mass forced evictions to make
way for the influx of Han Chinese."

The state-run news portal Tianshan Net said bombs exploded at two police
stations, a food market and a shop. It said the attack killed two police
officers, two police assistants and six bystanders, and that 54 others were
injured. Police took swift action, it said, and 40 assailants were either shot
dead or died in explosions.

Police captured two attackers, Tianshan Net said, and an investigation
determined that Maimaiti Tuerxun, a man who was fatally shot, was responsible
for the attack.

Jonathan Kaiman Beijing and agencies

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          September 27, 2014 Saturday

Abbas declares US-led peace process dead: Palestinian leader calls for Israel
withdrawal deadline Demand to UN is attacked as 'diplomatic terrorism'

BYLINE: Peter Beaumont Jerusalem Julian Borger New York

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 614 words


The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, has called on the United Nations
security council to support a resolution setting a clear deadline for Israel's
withdrawal from the occupied territories as he in effect declared the
US-sponsored Oslo peace process over.

In a hard-hitting speech to the UN general assembly in New York, he also accused
Israel of "war crimes carried out before the eyes of the world" during the
recent 50-day Gaza war that ended in a ceasefire on 26 August, adding that
Israel had "perpetrated genocide".

"We will not forget and we will not forgive, and we will not allow war criminals
to escape punishment," Abbas declared. Palestinian officials were expected to
start working with members of the security council to seek backing for a
resolution setting a timeframe for the ending of what he called the "racist and
colonial" occupation - a resolution certain to be opposed by the US.

According to diplomatic sources, the proposed resolution has caused a rift with
the US, which had been working for some months on another resolution with the
Israelis, Jordanians and Qataris aimed at bolstering the Gaza ceasefire with an
exchange of Palestinian security guarantees for some loosening of Israel's
economic stranglehold.

Abbas's speech immediately drew a furious response from senior Israeli
officials, with foreign minister Avigdor Lieberman describing it as "diplomatic
terrorism".

"Abu Mazen's (a nickname for Abbas) statements to the UN general assembly
clearly illustrate that he doesn't want to be - and cannot be - a partner to a
diplomatic settlement," Lieberman said. "There's a reason that Abu Mazen entered
into a joint government with Hamas."

He added: "Abu Mazen complements Hamas in that he is preoccupied with diplomatic
terrorism and slanderous claims against Israel."

Aides to Israeli prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu were also harsh in their
condemnation. "Abbas's speech was full of lies and incitement. This is not the
way a man who wants peace speaks," said one.

The White House later said that Barack Obama would host Netanyahu for a meeting
on Wednesday to discuss Israel's relationship with the Palestinians, the
situation in Gaza, Iran nuclear talks, and the fight against Islamic State
militants.

Even though the US holds the presidency of the security council, diplomats said
the Abbas resolution would most probably find support, forcing the US to use its
veto.

Although Abbas insisted Palestine was committed to "a just peace through a
negotiated solution", the moves underlined the frustration among Palestinians
over US proprietorship of the peace process amid a new desire to
internationalise efforts to secure a two-state solution.

Faced with a veto of the resolution, Palestinian sources say Abbas will
accelerate moves to join UN and international bodies, including accession to the
international criminal court.

In some of his strongest language to date, Abbas declared that the
American-backed peace process was dead, saying: "It is impossible to return to
the whirlwind cycle of negotiations that failed to deal with the substance of
the matter and the fundamental question.

"There is neither credibility nor seriousness in negotiations in which Israel
predetermines the results via its settlement activities and the occupation's
brutality. There is no meaning or value in negotiations for which the agreed
objective is not ending the Israeli occupation and achieving the independence of
the state of Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital on the entire
Palestinian territory occupied in the 1967 war."

Captions:

Mahmoud Abbas told the UN that negotiations under the US-backed Oslo peace
process lacked both credibility and seriousness

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                          September 27, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MPs vote for air strikes against 'fascist' terrorists Used;
Overwhelming majority agree to attacks on Islamic State

BYLINE: Jonathan Walker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 144 words


MPS yesterday voted to back air strikes against Islamic State in Iraq after a
six-hour debate in Westminster.

The Commons voted by a massive majority of 481 to back air strikes against the
Muslim extremists.

However, three North East MPs - Ronnie Campbell, Grahame Morris and Stephen
Hepburn - were among 24 Labour MPs who voted against. Six Conservative MPs also
voted against air strikes.

Air strikes against Islamic State in which Britain takes part will be con-fined
to Iraq and could begin very soon. Tornado aircraft, attack submarines and
drones could all be involved.

Blaydon Labour MP Dave Anderson spoke out in favour of military son action
during the debate.

He told MPs: "ISIS is a fascist organisation. The only language it understands
is force."

Prime Minister David Cameron said the brutality shown by IS had been
"staggering" and must be stopped.

See Page 4 »

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2014 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 27, 2014 Saturday 4:20 PM GMT

Were young British jihadis killed by U.S air strikes training to be suicide
bombers? Counter-terrorism police probing whether fighters were set to attack
West

BYLINE: TED THORNHILL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 474 words



     ·    Those killed include Ibrahim Kamara, 19, who quit studies to join
          militants
     ·     It's thought that they were fighting for the al-Qaeda-linked al-Nusra
          Front
     ·    Counter-terrorism police think they may have been in training to
          attack West


Five British jihadis killed by US air strikes may have been trainee al-Qaeda
suicide bombers, according to intelligence agencies.

Those killed include 19-year-old Ibrahim Kamara, who quit his studies in
Brighton to join militants in Syria.

It's thought that they were fighting for the al-Qaeda-linked al-Nusra Front.

This wasn't targeted by coalition planes, but a cell called Khorasan -
hand-picked by Al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri and thought to be on the brink
of attempting to blow up Western civilian airlines - was bombed.

Counter-terrorism police think that the two groups may have been working
alongside each other and that the Britons were being drilled by Khorasan to
carry out suicide attacks on Western targets, according to  The Times.

Kamara's mother, Khadijah, 35, said that he had secretly travelled to the
war-torn country and she felt 'numb' that he was dead.

The teenager, who called himself Khalil al-Britani, had recently completed a
resit of his GCSEs at Varndean College in Brighton.

His single mother and her three other sons, who live in the Sussex city, are
believed to be refugees from Sierra Leone who came to Britain via the
Netherlands.

But football-loving Kamara 'met the wrong people' and was quickly radicalised.
He is said to have recently vowed to a fellow fighter he would never return to
Britain.

Mrs Kamara, who says she abhors violence, said she knew her son was likely to
die when he rang her and confessed he was in Syria.

She said: 'He called me in February. He said: "Mum, I'm in Syria", and I hung
up. He rang again and I said: "Don't ever call me." The first we heard about his
death was when my younger son got a Facebook message from one of the boys he
went out there with.

'He sent a photo of Ibrahim dead and the message read "Congratulations, your
brother has become a martyr". My son told him to delete the picture but he
refused.'

Mrs Kamara, manager of the Strive In The Way of Allah charity shop in Brighton,
said of the 19-year-old: 'He was a normal respectful boy. He had friends at
school. He was studying IT and wanted to become an engineer.

'He moved out recently but he had the spare key to my house and came round for
dinner all the time.

'I had no idea what he was planning. He must have been brainwashed. He went out
there with three brothers from Brighton.

'His passport was expired so he went up into my room and got the passport of his
15-year-old brother. It makes me wonder about the Border Control people because
they look nothing like each other.'

The Foreign Office said it was aware of the reports of the dead Britons but
could not confirm them at this stage.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 28, 2014 Sunday 8:50 AM GMT

Alton Nolen, Oklahoma beheading suspect, appeared to celebrate 9/11 Twin Towers
terror attack in Facebook post;
Alton Nolen, a Muslim convert, allegedly went on rampage after losing job

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 462 words


A man has beheaded a woman with a knife and stabbed another before being shot at
a food processing factory in the US.

Alton Nolen, 30, was hospitalised after the incident on Thursday, when he
allegedly went on the rampage after being fired from Vaughan Foods in Oklahoma
City.

Colleen Hufford, 54, was decapitated and another staff member, 43-year-old Traci
Johnson was stabbed a number of times before the attack was stopped.

After being sacked in a building housing the company's human resources office,
Nolen immediately drove to the main entrance and started the attack, police
said.

Mark Vaughan, the company's chief operating officer and a reserve police officer
has since been hailed a "hero" for shooting Nolen, who is in hospital along with
his victim Ms Johnson.

The FBI has been called in to investigate the incident after colleagues told
police Nolen had recently attempted to convert them to Islam.

Post by Jah'Keem Yisrael.

His Facebook page, under the name Jah'Keem Yisrael, suggests that he converted
to the religion in 2013 and has since posted a stream of statuses with quotes
from the Koran under the tag "info from a Muslim".

In one post earlier this year, he appeared to celebrate the 9/11 terrorist
attack by posting a picture of the Twin Towers burning.

"The Statue of Liberty is going into flames," he wrote. "She and anybody who's
with her."

He also labelled America and Israel "wicked" and called on Muslims to "wake up".

His most recent post, in the early hours of Wednesday morning, seemed to claim
the apocalypse was coming, saying "this is the last days".

Police are believed to be looking at his material on Facebook as part of their
investigation.

In a statement, the FBI's Special Agent in Charge, James Finch, said the motive
for the attack has not been determined but that there is no reason to believe
there is a threat to anyone else.

Post by Jah'Keem Yisrael.

An official told the Associated Press that while there was indication that Nolen
was a Muslim convert and was trying to convert others to Islam, there was no
connection to terrorism and no evidence of concerning travel.

Sergeant Jeremy Lewis, of Moore Police, said officers were waiting for him to
regain consciousness on Friday before making an arrest.

He said the force had asked the FBI to look into the man's background because of
the nature of the attack, which follows a series of beheadings Islamic State
(Isis) militants in Syria.

Praising Mr Vaughan, he added: "This was not going to stop if he didn't stop it.
It could have gotten a lot worse."

According to state records, Nolen has previously served time in prison and is on
probation for assault and battery on a police officer.

He was also convicted of cocaine possession with intent to distribute in 2011.

Additional reporting by AP

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 28, 2014 Sunday 5:04 PM GMT

Vengeance from the sky: Dramatic footage shows moment warplanes hit ISIS
terrorists attacking civilian refugees as they flee for safety towards Turkey

BYLINE: SAM WEBB FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1387 words



     ·    Footage shows smoke rising after a strike near strife-hit Kobani
     ·    The town, hosting thousands of refugees, has been targeted by ISIS
          fighters
     ·    Britain has joined air campaign launched by U.S. and Arab allies


Warplanes of the U.S.-led coalition have struck Islamic State fighters in Syria
attacking a town near the Turkish border for the first time.

The Islamic State group's assault on the Syrian Kurdish town of Kobani has sent
more than 100,000 refugees streaming across the border into Turkey in recent
days as Kurdish forces from Iraq and Turkey have raced to the front lines to
defend the town.

Nawaf Khalil, a spokesman for Syria's Kurdish Democratic Union Party, or PYD,
said the strikes targeted Islamic State positions near Kobani, also known as Ayn
Arab, destroying two tanks. He said the jihadi fighters later shelled the town,
wounding a number of civilians.

Scroll down for video

The United States, France and five Arab allies launched an aerial campaign
against Islamic State fighters in Syria early on Tuesday with the aim of rolling
back and ultimately crushing the extremist group, which has created a state
spanning the Syria-Iraq border.

Along the way, the militants have massacred captured Syrian and Iraqi troops,
terrorised minorities in both countries and beheaded two American journalists
and a British aid worker.

Labour's decision to oppose military strikes against the Syrian regime last year
- leading Mr Cameron to abandon the proposal after suffering defeat in the
Commons - had 'emboldened' the West's enemies, Commons leader William Hague
said.

It had 'not helped perceptions of the west being ready to defend itself', he
added.

Meanwhile The Sunday Mirror has reported that MI6 has been in talks with Syrian
dictator Bashar al-Assad's regime over attacking ISIS fighters in Syria.

Spy chiefs have reportedly been negotiating with senior foreign office diplomats
in the Syrian capital Damascus.

Both Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond and David Cameron have insisted that
Britain will not strike deals with the Assad, whose regime is fighting ISIS.

A source told the paper: 'It may be there are no face-to-face meetings with
Assad himself but behind the double-speak of foreign relations it is perfectly
normal for them to see his senior people. It would be staggering if Britain's
intelligence agencies were not talking to Assad's people.

'The talks they have within Syria are of invaluable benefit to Britain's
security.'

The latest air strikes came as Syria's foreign minister Walid al-Moallem told
the Lebanon-based Al-Mayadeen TV that air strikes alone 'will not be able to
wipe out' the Islamic State group.

Speaking from New York where he is attending the UN General Assembly, Mr
al-Moallem said that the U.S. should work with Damascus if it wants to win the
war.

'They must know the importance of coordination with the people of this country
because they know what goes on there,' Mr al-Moallem said.

The U.S. has ruled out any coordination with President Bashar Assad's
government, which is at war with the Islamic State group as well as
Western-backed rebels.

'YOU NEED A LAND ARMY': FORMER MILITARY CHIEF CLAIMS AIRSTRIKES ALONE WILL NOT
DEFEAT ISIS

The former head of the UK military raised questions the effectiveness of
isolated air attacks against ISIS militants.

Lord Richards of Herstmonceux, a former head of the UK military who stepped down
as chief of the defence staff last year, told the Sunday Times that the terror
group would not be defeated by air attacks alone and that a conventional
campaign involving ground troops would be needed to crush them.

Lord Richards said: 'Ultimately you need a land army to achieve the objectives
we've set ourselves - all air will do is destroy elements of IS, it won't
achieve our strategic goal.

'The only way to defeat IS is to take back land they are occupying which means a
conventional military operation. The only way to do it effectively is to use
western armies, but I understand the political resistance.'

The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the coalition's
strikes near Kobani came amid heavy fighting between the Islamic State group and
members of the Kurdish force known as the People's Protection Units, or YPK.

The Britain-based group, which relies on activists inside Syria, had no
immediate word on casualties from the strikes. The Observatory reported
yesterday that 13 civilians have been killed by the strikes since they began.

Kurdish fighter Majid Goran told the Associated Press by telephone from Kobani
that two bombs were dropped over the nearby village of Ali Shar but that the
positions they struck were empty.

Turkey's Dogan news agency reported that the sound of heavy fighting could be
heard from the Turkish border village of Karaca. The agency said Kurdish forces
retook some positions they had lost to the Islamic militants a few days ago.

Dozens of people wounded in the fighting arrived in Turkey for treatment, it
said.

Another Kurdish fighter, Ismet Sheikh Hasan, said the Turkish military
retaliated after stray shells landed on Turkish territory, firing in the Ali
Shar region. He said the Turkish action left Kurdish fighters in the middle of
the crossfire.

He said that yesterday the Islamic militants were attacking the Kobani area from
the east with tanks and artillery, advancing on Ali Shar and Haja. He said some
20 people were killed, including Kurdish fighters and civilians, while another
50 people were wounded.

The fighting around Kobani sparked one of the largest single outflows of
refugees since Syria's conflict began more than three years ago.

The Syrian Kurdish forces have long been one of the most effective fighting
units battling the Islamic State, but the tide has turned in recent weeks as the
Islamic militants have attacked with heavy weapons likely looted from
neighbouring Iraq.

The Observatory said other coalition air strikes targeted Islamic State
compounds in the central province of Homs and the northern regions of Raqqa and
Aleppo. The group said 31 explosions were heard in the city of Raqqa, the
group's de facto capital, and its suburbs.

The Local Coordination Committees, another activist group, said the strikes in
the east hit the province of Deir el-Zour as well as Raqqa. The LCC also said
the coalition targeted grain silos west of Deir el-Zour city.

Max Blumenfeld, a spokesman for U.S. Central Command, said the U.S. air strikes
'don't target food or anything else than can be used by the civilian
population'.

But he said that until the military reviews images from planes that participated
in the strikes, he could not rule out that silos were hit.

He said the air strikes are aimed at specific Islamic State targets such as
command and control centres, transportation and logistics, and oil refineries,
'but not food that could have an impact upon the civilian population'.

'Our targets are structures that combatants would use,' he said.

Mr Blumenfeld later said the U.S. did target what he called an Islamic State
grain storage facility on Tuesday near Boukamal, a town close to the Iraqi
border which was seized by the Islamic State group earlier this year.

Sniper HQ of Al-Qaeda group flattened by Coalition airstrikes

The headquarters of the deadly snipers of the Al-Nusra Front was reportedly
destroyed by Coalition airstrikes over the weekend.

The building, in a residential area of Al-Muhandisin district of Aleppo, Syria,
was flattened by a bomb. A number of other buildings were also hit, and rescuers
were pictured attempting to dig out people trapped under rubble following the
carnage.

The Al-Nusra Front is Al Qaeda's affiliate in Syria and has long been one of the
most effective forces fighting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

However it was weakened this year by battles with Islamic State. The two share
the same ideology and rigid Islamic beliefs, but fell out during a power
struggle that pitted Islamic State head Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi against al Qaeda
chief Ayman Zawahri and Nusra Front leader Abu Mohammad al-Golani.

But U.S.-led air and missile strikes, which have hit Nusra as well as Islamic
State bases in Syria, have angered many members who say the West and its allies
have joined forces in a 'crusader' campaign against Islam - so IS and Al-Nusra
should do the same.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 28, 2014 Sunday 12:31 PM GMT

Vengeance from the sky: Dramatic footage shows moment warplanes hit ISIS
terrorists attacking civilian refugees as they flee for safety towards Turkey

BYLINE: SAM WEBB FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1001 words



     ·    Footage shows smoke rising after a strike near strife-hit Kobani
     ·    The town, hosting thousands of refugees, has been targeted by ISIS
          fighters
     ·    Britain has joined air campaign launched by U.S. and Arab allies


Warplanes of the U.S.-led coalition have struck Islamic State fighters in Syria
attacking a town near the Turkish border for the first time.

The Islamic State group's assault on the Syrian Kurdish town of Kobani has sent
more than 100,000 refugees streaming across the border into Turkey in recent
days as Kurdish forces from Iraq and Turkey have raced to the front lines to
defend the town.

Nawaf Khalil, a spokesman for Syria's Kurdish Democratic Union Party, or PYD,
said the strikes targeted Islamic State positions near Kobani, also known as Ayn
Arab, destroying two tanks. He said the jihadi fighters later shelled the town,
wounding a number of civilians.

Scroll down for video

The United States, France and five Arab allies launched an aerial campaign
against Islamic State fighters in Syria early on Tuesday with the aim of rolling
back and ultimately crushing the extremist group, which has created a state
spanning the Syria-Iraq border.

Along the way, the militants have massacred captured Syrian and Iraqi troops,
terrorised minorities in both countries and beheaded two American journalists
and a British aid worker.

The latest air strikes came as Syria's foreign minister Walid al-Moallem told
the Lebanon-based Al-Mayadeen TV that air strikes alone 'will not be able to
wipe out' the Islamic State group.

Speaking from New York where he is attending the UN General Assembly, Mr
al-Moallem said that the U.S. should work with Damascus if it wants to win the
war.

'They must know the importance of coordination with the people of this country
because they know what goes on there,' Mr al-Moallem said.

The U.S. has ruled out any coordination with President Bashar Assad's
government, which is at war with the Islamic State group as well as
Western-backed rebels.

The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the coalition's
strikes near Kobani came amid heavy fighting between the Islamic State group and
members of the Kurdish force known as the People's Protection Units, or YPK.

The Britain-based group, which relies on activists inside Syria, had no
immediate word on casualties from the strikes. The Observatory reported
yesterday that 13 civilians have been killed by the strikes since they began.

Kurdish fighter Majid Goran told the Associated Press by telephone from Kobani
that two bombs were dropped over the nearby village of Ali Shar but that the
positions they struck were empty.

Turkey's Dogan news agency reported that the sound of heavy fighting could be
heard from the Turkish border village of Karaca. The agency said Kurdish forces
retook some positions they had lost to the Islamic militants a few days ago.

Dozens of people wounded in the fighting arrived in Turkey for treatment, it
said.

Another Kurdish fighter, Ismet Sheikh Hasan, said the Turkish military
retaliated after stray shells landed on Turkish territory, firing in the Ali
Shar region. He said the Turkish action left Kurdish fighters in the middle of
the crossfire.

He said that yesterday the Islamic militants were attacking the Kobani area from
the east with tanks and artillery, advancing on Ali Shar and Haja. He said some
20 people were killed, including Kurdish fighters and civilians, while another
50 people were wounded.

The fighting around Kobani sparked one of the largest single outflows of
refugees since Syria's conflict began more than three years ago.

The Syrian Kurdish forces have long been one of the most effective fighting
units battling the Islamic State, but the tide has turned in recent weeks as the
Islamic militants have attacked with heavy weapons likely looted from
neighbouring Iraq.

The Observatory said other coalition air strikes targeted Islamic State
compounds in the central province of Homs and the northern regions of Raqqa and
Aleppo. The group said 31 explosions were heard in the city of Raqqa, the
group's de facto capital, and its suburbs.

The Local Coordination Committees, another activist group, said the strikes in
the east hit the province of Deir el-Zour as well as Raqqa. The LCC also said
the coalition targeted grain silos west of Deir el-Zour city.

Max Blumenfeld, a spokesman for U.S. Central Command, said the U.S. air strikes
'don't target food or anything else than can be used by the civilian
population'.

But he said that until the military reviews images from planes that participated
in the strikes, he could not rule out that silos were hit.

He said the air strikes are aimed at specific Islamic State targets such as
command and control centres, transportation and logistics, and oil refineries,
'but not food that could have an impact upon the civilian population'.

'Our targets are structures that combatants would use,' he said.

Mr Blumenfeld later said the U.S. did target what he called an Islamic State
grain storage facility on Tuesday near Boukamal, a town close to the Iraqi
border which was seized by the Islamic State group earlier this year.

'You need a land army': Former military chief claims airstrikes alone will not
defeat ISIS

The former head of the UK military raised questions the effectiveness of
isolated air attacks against ISIS militants.

Lord Richards of Herstmonceux, a former head of the UK military who stepped down
as chief of the defence staff last year, told the Sunday Times that the terror
group would not be defeated by air attacks alone and that a conventional
campaign involving ground troops would be needed to crush them.

Lord Richards said: 'Ultimately you need a land army to achieve the objectives
we've set ourselves - all air will do is destroy elements of IS, it won't
achieve our strategic goal.

'The only way to defeat IS is to take back land they are occupying which means a
conventional military operation. The only way to do it effectively is to use
western armies, but I understand the political resistance.'

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                               September 28, 2014

Isis 'fanboys' may now switch to attacks in UK, say terror experts: Analysts say
west's action in Middle East could lead jihadists to stay in Britain rather than
travel abroad

BYLINE: Mark Townsend

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 606 words


Hundreds of Islamic State (Isis) sympathisers in the UK could delay or halt
plans to travel to Syria and Iraq and instead choose to launch attacks on home
soil in direct response to the decision to begin air strikes in the Middle East,
experts have warned.

Analysts from the International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation and
Political Violence said they had identified a cohort of Isis supporters
numbering several hundred, whom they classified as "fanboys", and who they
believe might now stay in the UK rather than fight abroad.

Professor Peter Neumann, director of the centre, based at King's College London,
said the MPs' vote for air strikes in Iraq had, in the minds of some Isis
supporters, moved the frontline from Syria and Iraq to Britain.

Meanwhile, David Cameron has been accused of refusing to engage with Britain's
Muslim community in the runup to Friday's vote on air strikes. The Muslim
Council of Britain (MCB) said the snub would intensify disaffection among young
Muslims. The Observer has learned that officials took soundings from several
thinktanks including the Quilliam Foundation, which challenges extremism.

Harun Khan, deputy secretary-general of the MCB, the UK's largest Muslim
organisation, also warned that non-engagement on such an issue further
undermined Prevent, the government's key counterterrorism strategy that is aimed
at engaging communities, but has been accused of alienating young Muslims and
pushing them towards radical groups.

"We go to the mosques, to events, and we say to young guys to participate in
politics, but they say: 'Actually, the government doesn't want to listen to us.'
We're grassroots, in touch with our organisations. Whatever we do is based
around the consensus view of what's happening on the ground. You need to have
constructive dialogue."

Neumann said that, despite the focus on the threat posed by returnees, a cohort
of British-based Isis sympathisers who might not travel abroad were also of
concern.

"We call them fanboys, they enthusiastically use open forums and Twitter,
clearly they are very radicalised, very extreme. They are maybe talking about
going to Syria but they haven't done it yet. There are several hundred people in
this country who are actors, supporters of the Islamic State online, who are
disseminating material, supporting the cause, saying very offensive things."

He said the internal dynamics of the Syrian civil war were less exciting to many
potential British jihadists than a conflict between Isis and the west. "Now that
[air strikes] are happening, you can see people are more turned on by the west
versus Islam conflict, more excited than when the west was a passive
participant," he said.

The MCB said that, although polls showed widespread public support for air
strikes, these sentiments were not shared by British Muslims.

Khan said: "Last night a spokesperson for MCB was chairing an event with about
500 Muslims. They did a straw poll with the audience there and then. They put it
to the people: how many would be in favour of air strikes? Three people put
their hands up. The bombing itself will only create more hatred, ultimately
there will be civilian casualties as well. It will feed into the narrative of
Isis."

Neumann said the intervention in Iraq would pose new logistical challenges for
intelligence agencies. "The problem is that you are dealing with several hundred
people. It becomes a capacity problem," he said. "One cannot follow that many
people day and night. The problem is that if you do a relatively low-cost
operation, take a big knife and behead someone on the spur of the moment, it's
very difficult to stop."


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        Burnham & Highbridge Weekly News

                           September 29, 2014 Monday

A quarter of people in South-West fear terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 102 words


A SURVEY which measures changes in people's hopes and fears has found a growing
number in the South-West are scared of a terrorist attack.

The latest Direct Line Hopes and Fears Index saw terrorism rise from 11th to
fifth on the list of people's greatest fears, with 25% of people in the region
ranking it as one of their major concerns.

The greatest fear, cited by nearly half (47%) of those surveyed, was health
problems for themselves or family members, followed by inflation/price rises
(29%).

People's highest hopes were their children's happiness and success, good health
and the prospect of taking a holiday.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 1, 2014 Wednesday

Ugandan police foil "terrorist" attack on prison

LENGTH: 584 words


Text of report by David Lumu entitled "Police foil terrorist attack on Luzira
Prisons" published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New Vision
website on 1 October

Police have intercepted a communication from terrorists in Uganda to an
Al-Qa'idah cell in Maghreb, North Africa, requesting for help to bomb Luzira
Prisons.

The terrorists wanted to free eight terror suspects who are on remand in
connection with the 11 July, 2010 Kampala twin bombings, the police have
revealed.

The Inspector General of Police, Gen Kale Kayihura, made the disclosure Monday
[29 September] during a press briefing at the police headquarters in Naguru, a
city suburb.

Eight suspects who bombed Kyadondo Rugby Grounds on Jinja Road and the Ethiopian
Village Restaurant in Kabalagala and killed 84 people are detained in Luzira.

They await a date to be fixed by the Constitutional Court to settle a petition
challenging their extradition from Uganda.

The suspects are Omar Awadh Omar, Hussein Hassan Agade, Mohamed Adan Abdow,
Idris Magondu, Mohammad Hamid Suleiman, Yahya Suleiman, Mbuthia and Habib
Suleiman Njoroge from Kenya and Tanzania.

Relatedly, nine Somalis and one Kenyan accused of sneaking into Uganda on a
terror mission were charged in court and sent to the Police Special
Investigation Unit in Kireka for further interrogation.

It is alleged the suspects, who include two Somali women, belong to the Somalia
terror group Al-Shabab. They are Mahamad Abdulkadir, 31, Abdi Abdullahi, 26,
Hassan Abduwali, 25, Mahamed Ahmed, 23, Yasimin Abdullahi, 20 and Hodan Ahmed,
23. Others are Yusuf Osman, 29, Abdi Mahamed, 29, Abdul Kadir, 24 and Mohamad
Yusuf. They will return to court for mention of their case on 7 October.

Kayihura said for Ugandans to be safe, vigilance under the new concept of
community policing must be emphasized.

"Those people who bombed us in 2010 came to Uganda and stayed here for two
months. We need to revive the LC [Local Council] system for security purposes.
We must be vigilant," he said.

However, Kayihura noted that the current legal framework makes it difficult for
the police to aggressively tackle the complexities of terrorism and other law
and order-related issues.

He suggested that the constitution should be amended to revise the caveat of not
detaining a suspect beyond 48 hours.

Kayihura noted that even in Western democracies, it is allowed to detain someone
for at least 90 days without trial.

"We have a big challenge of working in a very difficult legal framework. For
instance, you cannot detain someone beyond 48 hours. But 48 hours is impossible.
You must be a very effective detective to complete the investigations within 48
hours. It is possible to change this and there is a process of constitutional
amendments, which include the changing of the name of the Uganda Police Force to
the Uganda National Police," he said.

Congratulating the Kenya police for helping Uganda to foil the recent terror
cells in Kisenyi, Kayihura said: "Those who try to put us down should know that
we are capable of defeating them."

On 3 October, the police will celebrate 100 years at Kololo Independence Grounds
where President Yoweri Museveni will launch the concept of community policing.

Kayihura also said on 2 October, over 30 inspector generals of police from
Africa will gather at Serena Hotel for the African Police Cooperation
Organization conference where security and terrorism on the continent would be
discussed.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 1 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Leek Post and Times

                           October 1, 2014 Wednesday

Family's terror as thugs attack home

BYLINE: Abbey Buxton

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 445  words


A FATHER-OF-TWO has spoken of his terror when unknown thugs vandalised his home
in an unprovoked attack in the middle of the night.

Chris and Jennie Bradbury, aged 30 and 28, were asleep upstairs in their home in
Tenford Lane, Tean, with their two young children when the attack happened at
around midnight on Thursday, September 25.

Chris, a self-employed web designer and printer, recalled being woken up by the
noise of windows being smashed and ran downstairs to find out what was going on,
but it was too late.

He said: "The downstairs front windows were smashed and the car windows had all
been smashed, the tyres had been slashed and the bonnet had been dented.

"My neighbours were woken by the noise as well and came to find out what had
gone on; they thought it was a firework being set off.

"One person said they'd seen three men in balaclavas running off with baseball
bats and crowbars and jumping into a car, but they couldn't see what sort of car
it was because it was too dark.

"The car was seen parked adjacent to the kennels on Tenford Lane."

Chris said that he did not know the motive of the people who attacked his home,
as he had not got any grievances with anyone.

He said: "I can't think of anyone I've upset enough to do this, and they didn't
steal anything, so it wasn't supposed to be a robbery.

"I can only assume it was supposed to be some kind of threat to someone, but
whoever is responsible has got the wrong house.

"Police and forensics came and checked everything for any traces of who did
this, but they didn't find anything.

"When the police came initially my wife though she heard a motorbike pulling
off, but we believe this to be the car that was seen."

Chris said that he and his family are now dreading moving back into their home
after their ordeal, which has left them badly shaken.

He said: "We feel like we don't want to go back into the property at the moment
because it's really scared us.

"We've been staying at my mother-in-law's while the windows are repaired and we
are installing a new CCTV camera system."

Staffordshire Police are investigating the incident and are trying to find out
who is responsible for the terrifying   attack.

A spokesman said: "Shortly after midnight on Thursday, September 26, on house on
Tenford Lane, Tean, had its front windows smashed and a silver Land Rover parked
outside had all four of its tyres slashed and windows smashed.

"A group of   three males were seen running off in the direction of Tean Road
and a motorbike was heard racing away.  Police are appealing for anyone with any
information or who witnessed the incident to call 101 and quote VDU 0002 of
26/09/2014 or call crime stoppers anonymously."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The smashed front window at Chris and Jennie Bradbury's home in Tenford
Lane, Tean. Inset, the damaged family car.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 2, 2014 Thursday

Terror group accepts responsibility for attack in Pakistan's Quetta

LENGTH: 228 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 2 October

Quetta: Four people, two teenage boys among them, were killed and nine others
injured in two grenade attacks here on Wednesday [1 October].

"A barber's shop and a photo studio were targeted by the assailants," police
official Imran Qureshi said.

The United Baloch Front (UBF) claimed responsibility for the attacks.

Police said men on a motorcycle hurled a grenade at the barber's shop in Killi
Langovabad area on the busy Double Road.

The device exploded outside the shop, killing one man and injuring 10.

Soon after the blast, the area reverberated with gunshots.

Police and FC personnel took the victims to the civil hospital.

"Two of the seriously injured who were in their teens died in hospital," police
said. The condition of the other injured was stable.

The barber's and several other shops were damaged.

The dead were identified as Ghulam Shabbir, the shop-owner; Shahrukh Khan and
Mohammad Sultan Zehri.

Shortly afterwards, a photographer's shop on Sariab Road came under a similar
attack. The owner, Mohammad Afzal, and his employee Mohammad Asif were injured.

Police took both to the hospital where Asif died.

Calling from an unspecified place, UBF spokesman Musa Surbaz told reporters that
his organisation was behind the attacks.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 02 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 4, 2014 Saturday 12:37 AM GMT

Jihadist calls for British terror attacks

BYLINE: Nadeem Badshah

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 345 words


A British jihadist in Syria released a new video last night calling on Muslims
in the UK to carry out terror attacks.

Omar Hussain, a former security guard at Morrisons supermarket, called on
followers of the Islamic faith to "cause terror in the hearts of the kuffar
[unbelievers]".

In the two-minute video posted entitled Message of the Mujahid, the Islamic
State militant called David Cameron a "despicable swine" and challenged Britain
to send ground troops to Iraq and Syria to fight Isil fighters.

Hussain, 27, who grew up in High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, said British Muslims
should emigrate to Syria where Islamic rule has been established by Isil or
instead plot domestic attacks.

He said: "The message to all the brothers who cannot do hijrah [migrate to the
Middle East].

"You are living in the West. Unlike us you're blessed that you can cause terror
in the hearts of the kuffar [unbelievers], right in the centre.

"You can cause real damage. So rise up my brothers, rise up."

Hussain travelled to Syria in January after telling his family he was going to
Friday prayers at his local mosque.

He has been involved in fighting around Aleppo in northern Syria.

In the video, he taunted British soldiers for carrying out air strikes against
Isil in Iraq, labelling them "cowards".

He added: "This is a message to that despicable swine David Cameron.

"You along with the other Western governments have decided to bomb the Islamic
State.

"If you were real men you would send all your forces down on the ground, you
would not bomb us from the skies.

"You would send them on the ground, fighting us one by one. But you know in the
hearts of your men, they're cowards."

He added: "You are fighting people who love death more than you love life."

Hussain, who is of Pakistani heritage, is the youngest of three sons and is
thought to have lived at a semi-detached house with his mother and brothers.
After leaving school, the extremist worked for Morrisons at its High Wycombe
store. According to newspaper reports, he left his job at the supermarket after
vandalising a manager's car.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 4, 2014 Saturday 12:09 AM GMT

The inside story of the greatest . . . Roy of the Rovers in his own words;
He played for 38 years, scored 481 goals, won ten league titles, 11 FA Cups and
three European Cups. He also survived five kidnappings, an assassination
attempt, a helicopter crash, a terrorist car-bomb attack and two earthquakes.
But only now, in the book they all wanted, has Roy Race decided to tell the
unabridged story of the most remarkable career in English football

BYLINE: Roy Race

SECTION: FOOTBALL

LENGTH: 2314 words


In his first season as captain, Race led Rovers to the FA Cup final. But the
build-up was ruined on the morning of the match when he and lifelong pal and
team-mate Blackie Gray were kidnapped in the garden of the team hotel, tied up,
driven to the south coast and set adrift on a boat

Sadness washed over me. I thought of Mum and Dad, proudly readying themselves to
see their son play in a Cup Final, Mum no doubt choosing her best dress - and at
first confused and then frightened by my non-appearance. I thought of my
team-mates, possibly destabilised by the loss of their captain. I thought of Ben
Galloway, suddenly bereft of two first-choice players and probably electing to
bring in Dudley Hughes, switch Brian Cattermole into the centre, and move Dick
Stokes further out wide to help annul Everpool's threat down the left-hand side,
which is, at any rate, what I would have done.

"It could be worse," said Blackie, eventually, breaking the solemn silence.
"Fire could have consumed the dressing room at Mel Park, leaving me in hospital
with severe burns."

"Actually, that's next season, Blackie," I would have said, had I known.

Suddenly my eyes alighted on a bright object on the floor.

"A knife!" I said. "It must have fallen from the pocket of one of the kidnappers
as they hurried from the boat!"

I edged across the floor and got myself into a position where I could gather the
knife into my bound hands. Then, by twisting and folding my fingers, I managed
to use the blade to saw at the rope. It was agonising work but, finally, there
was a "thock" and my wrists were free.

I untied Blackie and we both scrambled up the steps to the deck. The May
sunshine bore down. The waves chopped and foamed. There were no other craft
anywhere within hailing distance and the coast was merely a thin line on the
horizon.

But at least we could still see the coast. All we had to do now was work out a
way to get back to it in the absence of oars, sails or an engine.

There was only one solution.

"We're just going to have to paddle with our hands, Blackie," I said.

"Whatever you say, Roy," said Blackie, rolling up the sleeves of his club
blazer.

I did the same, and we stationed ourselves at the back of the boat, on either
side, and leaned into the water. Then, on the signal from me, both of us began
thrashing as hard as we could with our palms. Slowly, as we flapped and smacked,
we began to edge forwards.

"Keep going," I shouted, above the noise of our furiously slapping palms.
"There's an FA Cup final at the end of this, Blackie."

"Name on the trophy, Roy!" shouted back Blackie.

"Not the way I prefer to think of it, Blackie, as you know," I hollered.

"Fair comment, Roy," shouted my trusty friend.

Our faces were etched with salt spray, our palms were red and raw, our club
blazers were bleached by the sun. Yet within only slightly more than an hour we
were paddling into Portsea Harbour and guiding the boat into the first free
berth we could find. We then climbed ashore and sprinted through the streets to
the train station where, luck would have it, we had enough money on us for two
third-class tickets to London and where, luck would further have it, the 12.38
service was just about to depart from Platform 4.

"If the train gets in to Waterloo at 2.07, as advertised, and we jump directly
into a taxi, we may still make it to Wembley in time for kick-off," I said.

One problem: we now had no money to pay for a taxi. But I felt sure that, if I
explained the situation to the driver and took an address from him, I could
arrange to get payment to him later. With this in mind, we jumped off the train
almost before it had come to a halt and dashed to the front of the rank at
Waterloo.

"You're Roy Race, aren't you?" said the cabbie through the window. "Aren't you
meant to be at Wembley?"

I explained to him that Blackie and I had been kidnapped by unknown and hooded
assailants in the garden of the Friars Grove Hotel, bound and forced at
knifepoint into the boot of a Humber Hawk, driven to Portsea and set adrift in a
medium-sized fishing boat, where we had managed to cut ourselves free, paddle
back into the harbour and catch the 12.38 London train, arriving Waterloo at
14.07, and that we were, indeed, due very urgently at Wembley. I also explained
about the money.

"Well, you're right out of luck," said the driver, "because I'm an Everpool
fan."

Blackie and I looked aghast.

"Only kidding!" said the driver. "I'm Rovers through and through, me. Hop in -
we've got a Cup final to win."

Appointed player-manager in the 1975-76 season, Race set about building arguably
the most popular and gifted Rovers side of them all

The mid-to-late 1970s Melchester Rovers team holds a special place in the hearts
of the fans, and always will. It contained a number of players who earned a
permanent and prominent position in the pantheon of Rovers legends.

For instance, there was Charlie "The Cat" Carter, the goalkeeper whom I brought
into the side on the back of some stunningly agile performances for the
reserves. (Tubby Morton couldn't have been more reasonable about making way and
going back to the bench, incidentally. He was up to 43 stone by this time and I
think he quite liked having the opportunity to sit down.) And in front of
Charlie we had Duncan "Big Dunc" McKay and Lofty Peak shoring it up at the back,
and Merv Wallace alongside me up front and Geoff Giles, who would run all day,
and, on his days off, sometimes did.

There was a lot of character in that side - and a lot of characters. There was
Noel Baxter - the clown of the team, always ready with a whoopee cushion or a
boiled sweet that turned out to contain mustard, or some other prank to lighten
the tone and keep us all sane when the pressure was at its most intense.

The lads loved Noel - and frequently gave him as good as they got, locking the
continuously grinning red-head in a lavatory for a whole weekend, encouraging
the coach to drive off and leave him behind after any number of away games, and
booking him into another hotel entirely on so many occasions that I lost count!
Every club, to my mind, needs a Noel Baxter figure.

Then there were the hard men - and none harder than Big Dunc McKay. Big Dunc was
famous for having started a fight in an empty house. The empty house in question
was the one he had just moved into, over at Rollerton Grove, and he was waiting
in for the removal men to arrive with his furniture when he looked out and saw
some blokes on the other side of the pavement whom, for some reason, Big Dunc
didn't like the look of.

Big Dunc threw up the sash and shouted: "Oi, you lot: want some?" And, just like
that, this being the Seventies, it was on. Apparently the ensuing scrap lasted
for about four hours, with numbers swelled by the removal men, who arrived, saw
what was happening, put Big Dunc's reproduction rosewood sideboard down in the
front garden and joined in. I'm not really sure how the scoring works on those
occasions but, in Big Dunc's version of the story, he won. He normally did,
though!

Merv Wallace, too, with his trademark dark moustache and long, unkempt hair, had
quite a temper on him. I once saw him pull three lockers off the wall and crush
the treatment table with his knee after having become enraged while trying to
untie a knot in his bootlace. He was also not above disputing refereeing
decisions in an intimidating manner - which I did not in any way condone and did
my best to discourage.

The way I saw it, referees had a hard enough job as it was without having Merv
Wallace threatening to pour petrol in their garden ponds and set light to it. At
the same time, it was clear to me that, if you took that side of Merv away
completely, you risked losing the player. So it was about handling these people,
trying to direct their aggression positively, putting an arm round them from
time to time, and calling the police only when strictly necessary.

Despite the unprecedented success at club level, Race never dominated on the
international stage to the extent that people felt he should

My England career was patchy, but it was largely on account of a freakish run of
minor injuries at the wrong moments. You can't legislate for that.

First of all, I turned an ankle stepping backwards on to the jack in a
post-season charity bowls match and missed out on the 1966 World Cup. When a
groin strain kept me out of the 1970 World Cup in Mexico, family history seemed
to repeating itself. (It was a groin strain that put my dad on the sidelines for
the duration of World War Two.)

England didn't qualify for either the 1974 or 1978 tournaments, so the fact that
I sprained a wrist at the start of the summer in '74 and did a metatarsal in May
1978 is, ultimately, irrelevant. However, England did qualify for the 1982 World
Cup, so once again I stood on the threshold of a starring part in football's
great global festival. On that occasion, though, I was prevented from joining up
by an in-grown toenail, which, again, was just typical of the niggling
misfortune that tended to dog me on the international scene.

Still, I collected 42 caps over the course of my playing career, which is not a
bad haul, even allowing for that career's duration, and scored nine goals. I'm
proud, too, to be able to say that I was entrusted with managing my national
side - albeit just for one match. That was in April 1978, at Wembley, and our
opponents were Holland, in a friendly.

Over the previous Bank Holiday weekend, the England manager at the time, Don
Harvey, had suffered some nasty fairground-related injuries when his mat failed
on a Helter-Skelter and he was thrown into the path of a passing dodgem. I was
honoured to be asked to step in as caretaker manager. The press, as I knew they
would, had a field day with my decision to bring in eight uncapped Melchester
Rovers players. I found myself accused of naked favouritism but, as far as I was
concerned, I was just picking the players who I thought were the best for the
job. I also summoned Mike Bateson and Nipper Lawrence from Blackport and Johnny
Dexter, a player I had long admired and whom I would eventually bring to the
Rovers, but who was then plying his trade in Spain with Real Granpala.

My team selection was thoroughly vindicated on the night when we went out and
crushed Holland 5-1 in a performance that many still rank as the most fluid and
unshackled that they have ever witnessed from an England side.

The Dutch skipper, Johan Seegrun, was very gracious after that match, and he and
I became penpals. Johan was one of the mercurial masters, an astonishing player
to watch and the pioneer of a whole catalogue of skills and moves, the likes of
which English football had never seen or figured were worth bothering with.

He became famous, above all, for a move known to this day as "the Seegrun
shimmy", where, by somehow swivelling his hips while dropping a shoulder and, at
the same time, rotating his neck, he seemed to be running in different
directions at once. It was staggering to witness, and made him very hard to mark
at set-pieces. Johan was one of the greats and it was a privilege to have shared
a field with him - and, at times, with both of him.

The attempt on Race's life in 1981 was global news

"ROY RACE SHOT!" The 48pt headline on the front of theMelchester Evening
Chronicle on December 21, 1981, couldn't have put it more clearly. I had been
shot.

Not that I was in a position to know much about it at the time.

The full extent of my memories of this extraordinary moment are as follows: that
I returned to my office at the training ground late one Tuesday evening to
collect some papers; that I became aware of someone in the doorway; that I
raised my head from my desk and had enough time to catch a glimpse of the silver
barrel of a revolver; and that when I came to, it was the end of February.

People often ask me: "Roy, what's it like to be in a coma?" I wish I knew! It's
like they always say: if you can remember being in a coma, you probably weren't
in one!

I got lucky: the shot turned out merely to have grazed my temple, minimising my
rehabilitation period. A fraction of an inch to the right and it would have
killed me. But, of course, two inches to the left and it would have missed me
altogether. These are the margins. You have to choose which ones you want to
dwell on.

I just lay there, in Melchester General, amid the quietly bleeping monitors,
entirely oblivious to the concern I was causing: the concern of Penny, ever
watchful at my bedside; the concern of the fans, staging candle-lit vigils
outside the hospital and at the ground; and the concern, touchingly, of the
wider nation, who sought news of my condition hourly on the bullet-ins - if
bullet-ins isn't a slightly unfortunate word in this context.

Why shoot the player-manager of a leading English football club?

It was a question that inevitably preoccupied me after I woke up, brought back
to consciousness that Saturday afternoon by the combined effects of Penny's
sweet voice and the radio commentary from Melchester Rovers v Haddaway Town,
where Rovers had just bagged a fourth, Paco Diaz latching on to a perfectly
weighted through-ball from Vernon Eliot.

And, on the surface, the shooting was, indeed, a mystery. But you have to
remember the climate of the times.

This was the beginning of the 1980s, when an unprecedented economic boom,
particularly in the banking sector, was under way, when synth-pop was on the
rise, and when assassination, successful or otherwise, was enjoying a bit of a
vogue.

Popes, American presidents, rock stars, characters in long-running TV soaps...
the person who hadn't had a pot-shot taken at him by a disenchanted loner was
increasingly few and far between. Assassination seemed to be happening to
everyone.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       October 6, 2014 Monday 9:07 AM GMT

Hunt for French intelligence officer-turned-Islamic-terrorist plotting attack on
US

BYLINE: WILLS ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 662 words



     ·    Agent is said to be highest ranking official to have joined
          organization
     ·    He is said to have survived the attacks which hit the Khorosan group
     ·    Unidentified man believed to be an explosives expert with an Arab
          family
     ·    Only member identified so far is leader Mushin Al-Fadhl who was killed




A former French intelligence officer who defected to Al Qaeda in Iraq was one of
the targets of US air strikes last month, it has been revealed.

The unnamed man, said to be one of the highest ranking Western officials to join
the terror group, is believed to have survived the attack, which hit eight
different locations occupied by the Nursa Front.

His identity has been kept a secret with some saying his defection was one of
the most dangerous developments in the on-going battle with the militant
organization.

Scroll down for video

According to McClatchy DC  he is a former explosives expert with an Arab family
and his movements are being closely watched by Western authorities.

One European official told the site that they had tried to take the defected
official out with a strike rather than capture him because of the desire to keep
his existence a secret.

The aerial bombardments by the US and its allies focused on the Khorosan group,
a unit said to be planning an imminent attack on the West, but Islamic State
positions were also hit.

The only member of the Khorosan group who has been named and identified as a
target in the strikes is Mushin Al Fadhl who was killed.

He was named as the leader of the Al Qaeda-affiliated cell - a radical terror
collective specializing in intercepting Western jihadists on their arrival in
Syria, and training them to carry out deadly bomb attacks on targets in their
home nations.

Two intelligence sources told McClatchy that the defected official had either
left the French military intelligence or France's foreign intelligence agency,
the General Directorate for External Security, (DGSE).

He is also believed to have fought in Afghanistan and in Syria with Al Qaeda
where he is said to have assembled a group of about five men that was operating
out of a mosque in Idlib.

The French operative is believed to be 'still alive and kicking' after the
airstrikes, said one European intelligence official, who described him as
'highly trained in Western intelligence trade-craft and explosives.'

They added that they are unsure whether he was a 'sleeper' agent or was
radicalized during his time in the service. However they said it was an
embarrassing situation for the French.

'It sounds likely he started as French military and maybe because of an Arabic
family background and appearance, language skills and a high degree of
competency, he would then be loaned out to different aspects of the French
services,' one European official told the site.

Another said the situation represents an 'epic nightmare that we have so far
been spared'.

F/A-18E Super Hornets were recently pictured in action as part of the US strikes
to degrade and destroy the extremist terrorist group ISIS and their affiliates

The F18s were launched from the aircraft carrier USS George H.W. Bush, which is
positioned in the Persian Gulf.

They were taken this weekend as the US unleashed a wave of fresh attacks in
Syria and Iraq, destroying ISIS tanks, armoured vehicles and mortar teams.

The destruction of IS targets in Syria and Iraq aims to limit the terrorist's
group ability to lead, control and conduct operations.

Bahrain, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates have joined
the US in participating in the airstrikes against ISIS.

Although the RAF has started bombing targets in Iraq, the Prime Minister has
ruled out sending ground troops.

The US launched air strikes in Iraq in August and Syria, in September.

IS has declared a so-called caliphate in the areas it has taken, and is also
holding a number of hostages.

Although currently limited to Iraq and Syria, IS has promised to 'break the
borders' of Jordan and Lebanon and to 'free Palestine'.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      October 7, 2014 Tuesday 4:55 PM BST

WOMAN TELLS OF HAMMER ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Emma Clark, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 779 words


A woman has told a court of the terrifying moment she awoke to find her sister
being savagely hit with a claw hammer more than 30 times during a family holiday
in London.

Philip Spence, 32, admits attacking two women and their sister during a burglary
at the Cumberland Hotel in Marble Arch but denies he tried to kill them,
Southwark Crown Court heard.

Sisters Ohoud Al-Najjar, Khulood Al-Najjar and Fatima Al-Najjar from the United
Arab Emirates, were sharing adjoining rooms when they were beaten in a ``vicious
and sustained'' attack and left for dead, prosecutor Simon Mayo QC told the
jury.

Spence bludgeoned Ohoud, 34, with such force that her skull was split open as
her nine-year-old nephew cowered under the sheets next to her, he added in his
opening.

Fatima, 31, who suffered damage to her skull, ear and facial nerves, took to the
stand with a bandage over her nose which is being reconstructed after it was
shattered in the attack in the early hours of Sunday April 6.

She said she was woken by the sound of Khulood, 36, screaming and saw her being
beaten in to unconsciousness.

``I just saw him with his hand up highly and I didn't know what it was,'' she
said.

``He was hitting her really hard. He brought his hand above his head and down.

``I saw a man just attacking my sister. I just got out of my bed and went to her
trying to stop him.

``He just started attacking me. He attacked this side (left side) but I was
always moving, he was hitting me everywhere, I didn't know what was happening.''

Through an interpreter she added that the heavy blows made her feel like she was
sinking.

She left court glaring at Spence before bursting in to tears.

Khulood, who also gave evidence, told the court she believes she was hit more
than 30 times and when questioned by Judge Anthony Leonard QC described the
attack as a ``dream''.

She underwent emergency neurosurgery for multiple fractures and will undergo
another operation this Saturday.

She said she woke in the night to see the man rummaging through her bags in the
mirror, before he turned to her and shouted.

He began hitting her over the head until she lost consciousness.

``It was very quick, very quick,'' she said.

Khulood's two daughters aged nine and 11 lay under their sheets throughout the
brutal attack.

In the adjoining room Ohoud suffered the most brutal attack as she slept, which
she is never expected to recover from.

She lost part of her brain, she can no longer speak and had to have one eye
removed.

Spence, from Abbeyfields Close near Harlesden in north-west London, is also
standing trial for conspiracy to commit aggravated burglary alongside Thomas
Efremi, 57, from Upper Handa Walk in Islington.

Spence has already admitted three counts of GBH and aggravated burglary.

Mr Mayo said: ``Each women was struck repeatedly to the head by a man wielding a
claw hammer - their skulls fracturing and splintering under the onslaught.

``The intention of the attacker, say the prosecution, was to kill them.

``The scene that met the eyes of the police and emergency services as they
arrived at the scene in the aftermath was, in the words of one those attending,
'horrific'.''

The defence are likely to argue that Spence only intended to render the women
unconscious so that he could escape, the court heard.

Mr Mayo said: ``The prosecution say that if a powerful man, such as Philip
Spence, takes a claw hammer and smashes it into the skull of a defenceless woman
he must inevitably recognise the obvious risk that his victim may die.

``And if the attack involved not just a single blow but repeated blows to the
head of not just one woman but to three separate women the inference that the
attacker's intention was to kill is simply irresistible.''

Mr Mayo said expert forensic pathologist Dr Ashley Fegan-Earl found all three
suffered life-threatening injuries and it was only through the skill of the
surgeons that they each survived.

Spence was tracked down by police four days after the attack and allegedly told
officers: ``There ain't no blood on the hammer, I licked it all off, it went
down my mouth.''

He added: ``Why are you taking all these DNA samples? I didn't actually touch
their skin.''

He claimed the attacks were carried out by Efremi, but has since admitted he
carried them out alone.

The court heard that on the night of the attacks the hotel room had been left
unlocked to allow a fourth sister Sheika Al-Mheiri to return later that night.

After the attack Spence fled the room with a suitcase of valuables and it was
not until Ms Al-Mheiri returned that the women were discovered unconscious, the
court heard.

Jurors were shown photographs of the blood-soaked beds and splattered walls.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2014 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           October 8, 2014 Wednesday

TERROR OF SISTERS IN HOTEL HAMMER ATTACK

BYLINE: BY ARTHUR MARTIN

LENGTH: 455 words


A BURGLAR burst into a hotel suite and bludgeoned three wealthy Arab sisters
with a claw hammer as they slept alongside their children, a court heard
yesterday.

Philip Spence, 32, hissed Give me f****** money' before he splintered and
fractured' the women's skulls and left them for dead, it was said.

One of the victims was hit with such force that her head appeared to have been
smashed like an egg' and she lost part of her brain and one eye.

Police arrived to find a boy of nine cowering under the sheets' and his
11-year-old sister spattered with blood.

Spence struck at London's four-star Cumberland Hotel where the siblings and
other family members, who are from the United Arab Emirates, were enjoying a
holiday. Sisters Khulood, 36, Ohoud, 34, and Fatima Al-Najjar, 31, shared two
adjoining bedrooms along with Khulood's three children, aged from seven to 11.
They had left the door to the suite on the latch so that their half-sister,
Sheika Al-Mheiri, could enter - but it also meant that Spence was able to sneak
in at around 1am, Southwark Crown Court heard.

Khulood woke to find him searching her handbag, the jury was told. He leant over
her as she lay in bed and allegedly demanded money before raining down blows
with a hammer.

Before she fell unconscious, her screams woke Fatima, who bravely tried to stop
the attack on her sister. But Spence simply switched to the other woman, hitting
her over the head until she too passed out, the jury was told. He then carried
out an even more savage assault on the third sister, Ohoud, as she lay in bed in
the adjoining room.

Prosecutor Simon Mayo QC said her skull was smashed so badly that her left
eyeball had to be removed and she is unlikely to ever make a full recovery.

Sheika Al-Mheiri returned to the suite to find her half-sisters unconscious and
blood across the beds and walls. The women were dashed to hospital and survived
the sustained and vicious attack' in April.

Khulood and a tearful Fatima faced their alleged attacker as they relived their
ordeal in court yesterday. Mr Mayo added: It is almost impossible to imagine the
terror that must have seized these poor women as they were confronted in the
darkness of their room by Spence wielding that claw hammer.'

Spence fled with money, credit cards, jewellery, handbags, three iPads, four
mobile phones and sunglasses, it was said. Apparently high on drugs, he later
boasted of stealing £50,000 worth of goods, it was said.

Spence, of Harlesden in north London, admits grievous bodily harm but denies
attempted murder and conspiracy to commit aggravated burglary.

Thomas Efremi, 57, of Islington, is said to have supplied the hammer but denies
conspiracy to commit aggravated burglary.

The trial continues.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            October 9, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I love you: Final message to wife of oil executive in terror attack

BYLINE: Simon Freeman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 318 words


A BP EXECUTIVE from London killed during a terrorist attack on a gas plant in
Algeria left his wife a final voicemail message saying: "I love you."

Carlos Estrada, 44, was among 40 workers, including six Britons, who died after
al Qaeda-linked terrorists stormed the In Amenas complex on January 16 last
year.

The father-of-two sent his wife Claudia Gaviria a series of text messages after
the gunmen hijacked two staff buses and forced their way into the living
quarters, an inquest heard.

The first read: "Love, there was an attack on the camp with lots of shooting. It
is okay, it is fine. I love you." Mr Estrada, a Colombian who had worked for BP
for 18 years and risen to become a vice president, later asked his wife not to
tell one of their daughters about the escalating situation "so she is relaxed
for the exam".

As the four-day siege wore on, he texted: "I am okay my darling. The worst is
over and the situation is returning to normal."

But at around 9pm that night, Mr Estrada left a voicemail on his wife's landline
again telling her he loved her. Speaking to the inquest at the Royal Courts of
Justice, Ms Gaviria said: "He did not say anything about the situation in
Algeria. I think he was crying."

It was the last contact she had with her husband. Some 29 hostage-takers died
alongside captives in pitched gun battles during an Algerian special forces
mission to end the bloodshed.

Ms Gaviria told the coroner, Judge Nicholas Hilliard QC, that she believed her
husband had been "pressured" by other executives into travelling to a meeting at
the complex, which was jointly run by BP and other firms.

She said: "I strongly believe that had Carlos known of the risks posed, he would
not have elected to travel to Algeria."

Britons Kenneth Whiteside, 59, Carson Bilsland, 46, Sebastian John, 26, Stephen
Green, 47, Paul Morgan, 46 and Garry Barlow, 50, also died during the siege. The
inquests continue.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Raid: the In Amenas plant in AlgeriaGrief: Claudia Gaviria with her
husband Carlos Estrada, who died during the siege

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 9, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Foiling terror attacks in Britain must be priority;
DAILY EXPRESS THE NORTHERN & SHELL BUILDING NUMBER 10 LOWER THAMES STREET,
LONDON EC3R 6EN Tel: 0208 612 7000 (outside UK: +44 208 612 7000)

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 207 words


THE number of British fighters heading to Iraq and Syria to join Islamic State
has been of serious concern for a number of months now. As awful as it is that
the barbaric organisation continues to take ground in the Middle East our top
priority must always be preventing jihadists from travelling to join IS and then
returning to Britain to carry out acts of terror on our streets. Since British
forces began carrying out air strikes in Iraq we have seen British hostages
murdered by IS in what they claim are reprisals for those actions.

It would be foolish not to expect them to try to strike us at home as well
especially as the clamour grows for the RAF to expand its operations to attack
the terrorists in Syria.

The fact remains that our borders are worryingly porous and do not represent a
robust enough barrier to prevent jihadists from getting into Britain. But it is
encouraging to hear Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe
stating that the police are having to be more interventionist.

At the very least this should serve as a reminder to all those who may believe
Britain is a soft target that there are risks. Our security services have a very
strong record of foiling terror plots before they can come to fruition.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                      October 9, 2014 Thursday 8:48 PM GMT

A Merseyside family has spoken of their terror as vulture attacked their baby;
Bird was part of show at Knowsley Safari Park

BYLINE: By Josh Parry

LENGTH: 553 words


A mum and dad have spoken of their terror after their baby was attacked by a
vulture during a bird of prey display.

The huge bird scratched at the six month old infant's head as he lay in his pram
during the show at Knowsley Safari Park.

Today mum Sherina Conway from Bebington said: "He could have been blinded."

Up until the American Black Vulture struck she and her husband Phil with their
son Zak and baby Cruz had been enjoying a family day out at the safari park.

Mr Conway recalled seeing the bird 'scratching and scraping' at the baby who was
too young to defend himself.

He said: "There were two vultures and a smaller bird- I think some kind of crow-
and when we went into the show they warned us not to get any food out as the
vultures were going to be flying quite close.

"They started flying around, but they were getting really close to the
spectators heads. It made me really nervous.

"It flew over our heads, and Sherina ducked down, but then I didn't see the
vulture take off.

"When I turned around it was on Cruz's head scraping him. Its claws were all
over his head and he was crying hysterically. I panicked and had to strike the
bird to get it away.

"I was really concerned because staff had just been saying how the vultures
often pick up fox carcasses. Cruz only weighs less than 20lbs, so it's a good
job Cruz was strapped in. It could have easily picked him up."

Experts say American Black Vultures can reach a wingspan of over 1.5m (4.9ft)
and feed on carrion.

The 35-year-old Electrical Engineer said the incident has also traumatised his
older son, who has had nightmares about the attack.

Mr Conway added: "Zak has been really affected by it. He loves animals and
wanted to be a zookeeper before this happened, but he's been having nightmares
about it.

"The night after it happened he woke up screaming and saying that the 'bird was
going to take him away'."

Staff at the safari park gave Cruz first aid, but his concerned parents decided
to take him to hospital to get a second opinion.

Mrs Conway, said: "They cleaned the wound and told us to keep an eye on his
sleeping pattern to make sure he was OK.

"They'd never seen anything like it but they said he was lucky he wasn't
blinded."

Knowsley safari park, which has been holding its bird of prey show for 19-years,
said it was an isolated incident and that they have put measures in place to
ensure it doesn't happen again.

Head of Visitor Services Richard Smith, said: "Gauntlet, who run the Birds Of
Prey display at Knowsley Safari, reported that their hand-reared vulture had
hopped onto a soft topped pram during the free-flying display.

"The parents and child were immediately taken through to the Park's first aid
representatives, where the child was assessed to have surface scratches on his
head. His parents were then offered advice by the team should they feel
concerned.

"In the thousands of free-flying displays that have taken place at Knowsley
Safari and in the 19 years that Gauntlet have been displaying Birds of Prey,
this is a first time occurrence.

"At the beginning of every display, the audience is notified about how the birds
will be interacting with the audience, however, following this incident, we have
revised our procedures and now babies are requested to sit on their parents
knees and pushchairs are not allowed in the area."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 9, 2014 Thursday 4:28 PM GMT

Ozzy Osbourne says he felt 'excited' after the 9/11 terrorist attacks as it was
'my kind of craziness'

BYLINE: JENNIFER NEWTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 387 words



     ·    Black Sabbath frontman was in New York the day of the terrorist
          attacks
     ·    Said he stood on the steps of his hotel and described the scene as
          'weird
     ·    Added that he wasn't scared but excited as it 'was my kind of
          craziness'
     ·    Also spoke of his fears of terrorism saying he hopes ISIS 'don't get
          going'


Ozzy Osbourne has described how he felt excited after the 9/11 terrorist attacks
saying it was 'my kind of craziness'.

The Black Sabbath frontman was in New York the day two airliners hijacked by
militants from al Qaeda crashed into the World Trade Centre's twin towers.

The attacks caused the deaths of 2,753 people in what was one of the deadliest
attacks on American soil.

In a new interview, the 65-year-old recalled how he was in the city the day of
the terrorist atrocities.

He explained that he was standing on the steps of his hotel in the city,
describing the scene as, 'f***** weird.'

And when asked by Shortlist  magazine if he was frightened, he replied: 'I
wasn't scared, I was excited! It was my kind of craziness, y'know.'

He then went on to describe the usually bustling streets of New York City as
like an old cowboy film with newspapers floating around the streets.

He added: 'It was so f****** weird. Everybody just backed off Manhattan because
they didn't know if it was an all-out thing or what.'

However, he also spoke of his concern about the current threat of terrorism
saying he hopes that ISIS 'don't get going'.

He explained: 'I think sooner or later one of these crazy f****** is going to
get a nuclear weapon and f*** a lot of people up.'

The singer's comments came after he described meeting former president George W
Bush after he was invited to the White House Correspondent's Dinner in 2002 with
wife Sharon.

He said he had drank three bottles of wine before the dinner and admitted that
he 'never quite got' the former US leader.

The couple attended the event shortly after their reality TV series starring the
couple and children Kelly and Jack began to air.

Mrs Osbourne explained at the time: 'We were sitting at our table and George
Bush started his speech, thanking 'members of the Press, movie stars, TV stars
and Ozzy Osbourne'.

'Then he started talking about how his mother loved Ozzy's music. At this point,
Ozzy stood up on his chair and the President was saying, 'Get down, Ozzy. Ozzy,
get down!'

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 9, 2014 Thursday 1:39 PM GMT

Ozzy Osbourne says the 9/11 terrorist attacks made him feel 'excited' as it was
'my kind of craziness'

BYLINE: JENNIFER NEWTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 361 words



     ·    Black Sabbath frontman was in New York the day of the terrorist
          attacks
     ·    Said he stood on the steps of his hotel and described the scene as
          'weird
     ·    Added that he wasn't scared but excited as it 'was my kind of
          craziness'
     ·    Also spoke of his fears of terrorism saying he hopes ISIS 'don't get
          going'


Ozzy Osbourne has described how he felt excited during the 9/11 terrorist
attacks saying it was 'my kind of craziness'.

The Black Sabbath frontman was in New York the day two airliners hijacked by
militants from al Qaeda crashed into the World Trade Centre's twin towers.

The attacks caused the deaths of 2,753 people in what was one of the deadliest
attacks on American soil.

In a new interview, the 65-year-old recalled how he was in the city the day of
the terrorist atrocities.

He explained that he was standing on the steps of his hotel in the city,
describing the scene as, 'f***** weird.'

And when asked by Shortlist magazine if he was frightened, he replied: 'I wasn't
scared, I was excited! It was my kind of craziness, y'know.

'It was so f****** weird. Everybody just backed off Manhattan because they
didn't know if it was an all-out thing or what.'

However, he also spoke of his concern about the current threat of terrorism
saying he hopes that ISIS 'don't get going'.

He explained: 'I think sooner or later one of these crazy f****** is going to
get a nuclear weapon and f*** a lot of people up.'

The singer's comments came after he described meeting former president George W
Bush after he was invited to the White House Correspondent's Dinner in 2002 with
wife Sharon.

He said he had drank three bottles of wine before the dinner and admitted that
he 'never quite got' the former US leader.

The couple attended the event shortly after their reality TV series starring the
couple and children Kelly and Jack began to air.

Mrs Osbourne explained at the time: 'We were sitting at our table and George
Bush started his speech, thanking 'members of the Press, movie stars, TV stars
and Ozzy Osbourne'.

'Then he started talking about how his mother loved Ozzy's music. At this point,
Ozzy stood up on his chair and the President was saying, 'Get down, Ozzy. Ozzy,
get down!'

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 9, 2014 Thursday 9:17 PM GMT

FIFTH man arrested on suspicion of plotting UK terror attack;
It comes after four other men were seized in dawn police swoops on Tuesday -
including an Islamic State veteran suspected of plotting an attack in the UK.

BYLINE: By Chris Hughes

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 509 words


A fifth man has been arrested in connection with an alleged terror plot
targeting the UK.

It comes after four other men were seized in dawn police swoops on Tuesday -
including an Islamic State veteran.

All have been arrested on suspicion of being concerned in the commission,
preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism under the Terrorism Act.

Officers have been granted a custody extension until next Tuesday, October 14,
to question the men arrested on Tuesday, all of who are aged between 20 and 21.

Counter-terror officers believe the raids were an "early disruption" of what
could have turned into a "significant plot".

At least one of the four suspects arrested earlier in London is thought to have
trained with ISIS and returned to the UK after fighting on the Syrian killing
fields.

Dozens of IS fighters are thought to have been stopped at the border as they
attempt to return to the UK but this person is understood to have gone home and
remained under surveillance.

The men were held by counter terror police and assisted by armed officers who
tasered one during the the early morning raids.

A number of residential addresses and vehicles were searched by specialist
officers in west and central London as part of the investigation.

The ISIS suspect was taken in West London and armed police were at, at least one
of the raids.

Isis fighters push into key Syria-Turkey border town Kobani

Much of the focus of MI5's battle against Islamic extremism has switched to West
and East London after a number of successful counter-terror operations in North
London.

British police arrested 11 people last month in other Islamist-related
operations. It was not immediately clear if the various investigations were
connected.

A Scotland Yard statement said: "These arrests and searches are part of an
ongoing investigation into Islamist-related terrorism."

In August the Security Service pushed up the UK's threat level warning about
international terrorism - like that from Islamic extremism - to "severe" meaning
an attack is "highly likely."

The level had until then been set at  "substantial" for more than a year - even
though the sudden increased alert status was recently said not to be related to
a particular plot.

On social media British jihadists fighting in Syria have threatened to launch a
terror attack in Britain in a mark of retribution against UK airstrikes in Iraq.

They claim the attack would parallel the 7/7 London bombings and beheading of
soldier Lee Rigby.

Reacting to RAF missions that have struck Islamic State (IS, formerly ISIS/ISIL)
militants, vehicles, and positions, a British jihadist based in the Middle East
delivered an in-depth interview via social media on Wednesday.

He said that those who have travelled to war-torn Syria to fight in the region
could potentially return to conduct attacks in Britain.

The message said: "Tell the Brit govt to withdraw unless they want the days of
7/7, and Adebolajo [to] become regular days," he warned, referencing Michael
Adebolajo, one of two young men who murdered Rigby in Woolwich last year.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 9, 2014 Thursday 10:48 AM GMT

Second Isil terror arrest suspect named as Gusai Abuzeid;
Student Gusai Abuzeid is named as the second of four men arrested on suspicion
of plotting an Isil terror attack on UK soil

BYLINE: By Victoria Ward and Nicola Harley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 431 words


A 21-year-old student who works part time at a Primark shop has been named as
one of the four Isil terror suspects alleged to have been plotting a UK attack.

Gusai Abuzeid and six members of his family, including his grandmother and
father, a refugee from Libya, were forced to the floor when armed police raided
their London home.

His brother, Adai Abuzeid, told the Daily Mail : "I looked at Gusai, using my
eyes to ask what was going on. He looked baffled - that's how I know he hasn't
done anything ... He's working hard to make something of his life.

"I can't believe he's been arrested, it doesn't make sense. If anything, he's
not really a Muslim, he doesn't pray. He's not political either. Our whole
family is against what is going on out there."

The parents of Abuzeid, a student at the Greenwich School of Management,
declined to comment on the arrest on Thursday.

However, neighbours of the family, who live in Marylebone, central London,
described their shock.

One mum of two said: "He is really nice and polite. He would always hold the
door for me, always say hello and was always chatting. You expect extremists to
walk with their head down and to ignore women but he wasn't like that. He has a
younger brother and sister and I would see him with them.

"Most of the time I would see him outside smoking. He would have a cigarette in
one hand and a can of Red Bull in the other. He didn't wear religious dress, he
was in jeans and tracksuits.

"We are all really shocked. We thought it was burglars."

Another neighbour said: "We were woken in the night by loud banging. I often saw
him. His parents are nice people and he seemed a nice person. A bit quiet maybe
but always polite. They have lived here for a few years, there's never been any
trouble. They are all friendly. We are really surprised. He didn't act
radicalised."

The door to the flat has been broken and remnants were still there today.

Another of the other four suspects has been identified as Tarik Hassane, a
medical student known to friends as The Surgeon.

Mr Hassane, from North Kensington, west London, was given conditional offers for
medicine and pharmacy degree courses at King's College, London, but narrowly
failed to gain the necessary A-level grades. Instead, he enrolled on a course at
the University of Medical Sciences and Technology in Khartoum, beginning in
September last year.

He is understood to have travelled to Syria from there, bringing him to the
attention of MI5 and MI6. He flew home for the Muslim holiday of Eid on Sunday,
and on Monday tweeted the phrase "Oi lads ... I smell war".

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 10, 2014 Friday 7:30 PM GMT

UK terror threat: Police put on special terror alert for their own safety;
National threat level is at "severe" meaning a terrorist attack is "highly
likely"

BYLINE: Tom Harper

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 419 words


Britain's 130,000 police officers were urged to be "vigilant for their personal
safety" after counter-terror chiefs warned the threat level against them had
increased in the past 24 hours.

Mark Rowley, the national lead for counter-terrorism at the Association of Chief
Police Officers, refused to discuss specific intelligence but confirmed the
threat level against detectives and support staff up and down the country had
been "heightened".

Police and the intelligence agencies are working around the clock to track
hundreds of suspected British jihadists as they return from fighting with
Islamic State (Isis) militants in Syria and Iraq.

Assistant Commissioner Rowley said: "The threat level to police officers and
staff has been heightened, but we are used to confronting risk and danger; this
is what we do on a daily basis, and we are well trained.

"We are informing our officers and staff of the heightened risk and reminding
them to remain vigilant and alert to any possible dangers. We are asking them to
follow existing policies and good practice. Measures are being put in place to
increase the vigilance of officers and staff.

"You will see no major changes in the way we continue to police the UK and
engage with our communities - our emphasis is on vigilance."

In August Theresa May, the Home Secretary, announced the national threat level
had increased from "substantial" to "severe", meaning a terrorist attack is
"highly likely".

Tensions are running particularly high since several Western hostages -
including two British men, David Haines and Alan Henning  - were murdered by
Isis militants.

On Tuesday, Scotland Yard arrested five people during an investigation into a
suspected terror plot targeting London.

Friends of those arrested - three of whom attended Westminster City School -
have issued messages of support on Twitter proclaiming their innocence.

Tarik Hassane, 21, a medical student known as "The Surgeon"; Gusai Abuzeid, 21;
and Rawan Kheder, 20, were seized what security sources described as an
intelligence-led operation, including months of surveillance.

Tonight, it emerged that a Baikal handgun, ammunition and silencer were
recovered some weeks ago during a raid in north-west London involving detectives
from the Trident anti-gang squad.

Friends of one of the men arrested told the London Evening Standard he had until
recently lived with his family in north London. Neighbours described him as a
"normal boy with loads of friends. It would be a big shock if he has done
anything wrong."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                            October 10, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TERROR AT SAFARI PARK AS VULTURE attacks ToT;
Visit ends in horror as bird of prey hits baby Cruz in pram

BYLINE: JOSH PARRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 505 words


A MUM and dad have spoken of their terror after their baby was attacked by a
vulture during a bird of prey display.

The huge bird scratched at the six-month-old infant's head as he lay in his pram
during the show at Knowsley Safari Park.

Today, mum Sherina Conway, from Bebington, said: "He could have been blinded."

Up until the American Black Vulture struck, she and her husband Phil, with their
four-yearold son, Zak, and baby, Cruz, had been enjoying a family day out at the
safari park.

Mr Conway recalled seeing the bird "scratching and scraping" at the baby, who
was too young to defend himself.

He said: "There were two vultures and a smaller bird -I think some kind of crow
- and when we went into the show they warned us not to get any food out as the
vultures were going to be flying quite close.

"They started flying around, but they were getting really close to the
spectators' heads. It made me really nervous.

"It flew over our heads, and Sherina ducked down, but then I didn't see the
vulture take off.

"When I turned around, it was on Cruz's head scraping him. Its claws were all
over his head and he was crying hysterically. I panicked and had to strike the
bird to get it away.

"I was really concerned because staff had just been saying how the vultures
often pick up fox carcasses. Cruz only weighs less than 20lbs, so it's a good
job Cruz was strapped in. It could have easily picked him up."

Experts say American Black Vultures can reach a wingspan of over 1.5m (4.9ft)
and feed on carrion.

The 35-year-old electrical engineer said the incident has also traumatised his
older son, who has had nightmares about the attack.

Mr Conway added: "Zak has been really affected by it. He loves animals and
wanted to be a zoo keeper before this happened. The night after, he woke up
screaming saying the 'bird was going to take him away'."

Staff at the safari park gave Cruz first aid, but his parents decided to take
him to hospital. Mrs Conway said: "They cleaned the wound and told us to keep an
eye on his sleeping pattern to make sure he was OK. They'd never seen anything
like it but they said he was lucky he wasn't blinded."

Knowsley safari park, which has been holding its bird of prey show for 19 years,
said it was an isolated incident and that they have put measures in place to
ensure it doesn't happen again.

Head of visitor services, Richard Smith, said: "Gauntlet, who run the Birds Of
Prey display, reported that their hand-reared vulture had hopped onto a
softtopped pram during the free-flying display. The parents and child were
immediately taken through to the first aid representatives, where the child was
assessed to have surface scratches on his head.

"His parents were then offered advice by the team, should they feel concerned.
In the thousands of free-flying displays that have taken place at Knowsley
Safari, this is a first-time occurrence. "Following this incident, we have
revised our procedures and now babies are requested to sit on their parents'
knees, and pushchairs are not allowed in the area."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Phil and Sherina Conway with, six-month-old Cruz, four-year-old Zak ¦
¦and oldest son LeytonThe scratch ¦ ¦marks on Cruz's head after the attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2014 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 10, 2014 Friday 12:19 AM GMT

Educated in Britain, now these three young men are accused of plotting a
'significant' terror attack on London target

BYLINE: CHRIS GREENWOOD, ARTHUR MARTIN and TANIA STEERE FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 829 words



     ·    Tarik Hassane and Gusai Abuzeid were friends at Westminster City
          School
     ·    Now they're suspected of links to violent conspiracy inspired by IS
          fanatics
     ·    Men and three others face up to week behind bars after being held in
          raids
     ·    Arrested in bid to disrupt 'significant' plot which threatened target
          in capital


Grinning with their friends as schoolboys, these are two of the men suspected of
plotting to bring terror to British streets.

Just three years ago Tarik Hassane and Gusai Abuzeid were 'happy-go-lucky' best
friends at Westminster City School.

Now the 21-year-olds are sitting in a high security police cell suspected of
links to a violent conspiracy inspired by Islamic State fanatics.

Scotland Yard has warned the men - and three others - that they face up to a
week behind bars after they were held in a dramatic series of raids.

Senior sources said they were arrested in a bid to disrupt a 'significant' plot
which threatened an unknown target in the capital.

But last night their families and friends questioned whether they could really
be linked to a violent fundamentalist conspiracy.

Neighbours said a third suspect, Rawan Kheder, 20, is an Iraqi Kurd, a group
which is locked in bitter fighting with Islamic State militants.

They described the student - seen here dressed in a dinner suit in a picture
taken from his Facebook page - as a polite and hard-working young man.

In March, he organised an event called 'Discover Islam' at Nottingham
University. The family of the fourth suspect, who cannot be identified, live in
a council flat in central London.

More than 48 hours after their arrest, the Daily Mail can reveal police are
probing whether the men are linked to terrorist Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary - better
known as the 'hip-hop jihadi'.

The extremist is several years older than the suspects but moved in the same
West London circles.

Several close friends of those in custody have even appeared in his amateur
music videos filmed on the streets of Maida Vale and Ladbroke Grove.

Abdel Bary, 24, abandoned a fledgling career as a rapper to travel to Syria and
join militants fighting the Assad regime.

At one stage the extremist, whose father was a lieutenant of Osama bin Laden,
was incorrectly suspected of being Islamic State hostage murderer Jihadi John.

He has been outspoken on social networking sites, posing for macabre photographs
with guns and a severed head.

Last night, Scotland Yard revealed a fifth man was arrested as part of the
terror swoop on Tuesday but his detention was kept secret for 'operational
reasons'.

The suspect, whose identity cannot be revealed, is also understood to be a
former pupil of Westminster City School.

It recently emerged Abuzeid appeared in a short film as part of an A-level media
studies project, in which he was 'kidnapped'.

In the video the main character, played by Abuzeid, can be seen running through
the school before two men confront and kidnap him. They are then seen
interrogating him about the location of a 'file'.

Neighbours of Abuzeid, who lives in a modern apartment block in Marylebone, were
shocked at his arrest.

One woman said: 'There was nothing to say he was really religious, he wore
jeans, trainers just like any Brit. I've lived next door to his family for a
year-and-a-half... they are very well-to-do.'

Kheder's family home in Chelsea, west London, was raided by 'dozens' of armed
police on Tuesday morning, according to neighbours.

They said his father runs a plumbing firm and that Kheder is a martial arts fan
and keen follower of Arsenal FC.

Nacer Dahmas, 58, said: 'They have lived here for at least 20 years and they are
the most wonderfully kind family. All the neighbours say the same thing. He
never mentioned politics.

'There was nothing to say he was really religious, he wore jeans, trainers just
like any Brit. I've lived next door to his family for a year-and-a-half... they
are very well-to-do' Neighbour of Gusai Abuzeid, man who is suspected of terror
plot

'He was a practising Muslim but never seemed like a fanatic. I think the family
are Iraqi Kurds. They were a hard working moderate family.

'His older brother has finished university and his older sister is married with
a little child. I think she might be a solicitor.'

Friends of Hassane, whose Moroccan mother works at a school, have defended him
after it emerged he wrote 'I smell war' on Twitter just hours before he was
arrested.

Launching a 'Justice for Tarik' campaign, many said it simply referred to a
'bunch of rowdy girls' who were bickering on the social networking site.

Neighbours said forensic teams have 'pulled up' the floors of two flats occupied
by his aunt and uncle on the Princess Alice estate, west London, in their search
for clues.

The suspects could remain in custody for up to 14 days. A magistrate has already
granted an extension until next Tuesday.

They were held on suspicion of being concerned in the commission, preparation or
instigation of acts of terrorism, which carries a life sentence if they are
convicted.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 11, 2014 Saturday

Iran MP says Pakistan should be accountable for recent "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 180 words


An Iranian MP has held Pakistan accountable for recent "terrorist activities"
carried out in the border city of Saravan in Iran's southeastern
Sistan-Baluchestan Province, Mehr news agency reported on 11 October.

"Since Pakistan does not take any action to deal with terrorist groups, Iran
should take its own measures to defend and ensure security in this area," a
member of the Majlis National Security and Foreign Policy Committee, Seyyed
Baqer Hoseyni, was quoted as saying in an interview.

"Pakistan has neither attempted to prevent these attacks nor it has the
capability to deal with terrorist groups in its territory," he added.

"Therefore, serious measures including closing borders should be taken into
consideration by Iranian officials in this regard."

The report comes at a time when the two "terrorist attacks" reportedly carried
out by the Sunni militant Jaishuladl (Army of Justice) group, on Iranian border
guards in Sistan-Baluchestan on 8 and 9 October, which led to the death of four
Iranian servicemen.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 0504 gmt 11 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 11, 2014 Saturday

Afghan province police chief says Pakistan behind terror groups, rocket attacks

LENGTH: 572 words


Text of report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV)

[Presenter] Twelve groups affiliated with the Pakistani intelligence network are
fighting the government in [the eastern] province of Konar.

The Konar police chief said that the groups are directly financed, equipped and
trained by the Pakistani military, especially the country's intelligence
organization.

Since the new government has been formed in the country [Afghanistan], Pakistan
has fired more than 200 rockets onto various parts of Konar Province.

Qeyam Nuri has the following report:

[Correspondent] Konar is an outlying, mountainous area and the most deprived
eastern province of Afghanistan. However, the deep-seated insecurity in this
province has always made news.

The rocket attacks on this province are not the only component of the Pakistani
military's destructive plans. On top of that the Pakistani ISI has recruited 12
terrorist groups in this province. The groups consist of 8,000 fighters and each
seeks bringing this province to its knees.

[Konar Police Chief Abdol Habib Sayed Khel, captioned, talking to the camera]
There are 12 groups which are financed by the Pakistani ISI. The groups' names
are as follows: The Islamic Emirate, Hezb-e Eslami led by Hekmatyar,
Lashkar-e-Toiba, the al-Badr network, Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan, the Jahish
Mohammad, [inaudible] Eslam and so on. These are the groups which are present
here. Before there were 11 groups but a new one named Khorasan Emirate, or the
Jnob-e Khorasn [as heard] has been recently established. And there are other
people in this group.

[Correspondent] These 12 groups do not have a clear military goal but plant
bombs and target military and civilians in this province.

[Abdol Habib Sayed Khel] They largely use various mines like anti-personnel,
vehicle mines and magnetic mines and landmines. And they do not only target
security forces but try to threaten innocent and defenceless people there.

[Correspondent] Since the national unity government was established in
Afghanistan, the Pakistani military have fired more than 200 rockets onto
various parts of the province. But what has been the new government's response
to the attacks?

[Abdol Habib Sayed Khel] They have told us that we should make our own
preparations and adopt measures [to protect] our people. And the people in the
areas which come under [the rocket] attacks have left the areas and we have told
a number of them to go to secure areas. God forbid! They are not harmed.

[Correspondent] The figures about the destruction here are so shocking. For
instance: since the month of Hamal [March 2014], 6,738 missiles have been fired
on Konar Province; 16 civilians have been killed and about 90 others injured; in
all, 544 families have been displaced; one mosque and 66 houses have been
destroyed; about 500 livestock have been killed; 40 jeribs of agriculture lands
(five jeribs equal one hectare) have been destroyed; the Pakistani military have
stolen 480 livestock.

[Correspondent] The Konar police chief said that a while ago, the Pakistani
Taleban cut a woman into pieces and threw her dead body in a bazaar. That
triggered people's uprising against the Taleban in this province.

Currently, the people play a big role in ensuring security of Konar Province.

[Video shows interview with the Konar police chief, archive footage of military
servicemen and artillery fire]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1315gmt 10 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 11, 2014 Saturday

Iranian police arrest culprits behind Saravan terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 280 words


Text of report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news agency

Tehran: Iranian police forces have managed to arrest several perpetrators of
terrorist attacks in the southeastern town of Saravan, near the border with
Pakistan, in which four police officers were killed, Iran's police chief said.

"Currently, several people have been arrested and several others have fled to
Pakistan, and the judiciary is pursuing (the issue)," Brigadier General Esmail
Ahmadi Moqaddam told reporters on Saturday [11 October].

Meanwhile, Iran's Justice Minister Mostafa Purmohammadi confirmed that the
culprits have been caught and will go on trial.

A car bomb attack on a police station in the border city left one police officer
dead and three others injured on Thursday morning, said Hedayatollah Mir
Moradzehi, who represents the southeastern city of Saravan at the Iranian
parliament.

The attack came a day after three other police forces were killed in a separate
terrorist attack in the city.

"About 7 p.m. (local time) a fight was reported to the police and three police
officers were dispatched to the area but it was a trap. Unfortunately, all three
officers were shot dead in the place. The terrorists ran away after a group of
Iranian police officers rushed to the area," the Iranian lawmaker told the
Tasnim News Agency about Wednesday attack.

Asked about a statement by the Jaish-ul-Adl terrorist group which claimed
responsibility for the deadly attacks, Mir Moradzehi said there has been no
official confirmation yet.

The Pakistani-based group has already carried out terrorist activities in the
area.

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 1310 gmt 11 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 11, 2014 Saturday

No terrorist attack on official in southeastern Iran - governor

LENGTH: 98 words


The governor of Iranshahr County in Iran's south-eastern Sistan-Baluchestan
Province, Nabibakhsh Davudi, has said that there was no terrorist attack on
Bahram Bashandeh, the head of social affairs in the county's governor's office,
Iranian Students News Agency (ISNA) reported on 11 October.

"This incident was not a terrorist attack, but the result of a family discord,"
Davudi said.

Bashandeh was attacked on the morning of 11 October while leaving his residence.
He was hospitalized. He is in fair health condition, the agency added.

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 1039gmt 11 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     October 11, 2014 Saturday 12:36 PM GMT

Stable owner rapist jailed for 11 years for string of attacks in eight-year
reign of terror;
BRAZILIAN Robson Perreira will be deported after he serves his sentence for
raping two women and sexually assaulting four others.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 219 words


A STABLE owner who raped two women and sexually assaulted four others during an
eight year reign of terror has been jailed for 11 years.

Brazilian Robson Pereira, 50, will be deported back to his homeland after his
sentence.

The dad of four ran Kirkclaugh Stables in Gatehouse of Fleet,
Kirkcudbrightshire.

He was know in the local area for his charity work and gave free horse rides to
disabled people.

Last month, Pereira was convicted of rape and other sex offences .

Yesterday he appeared at the High Court in Edinburgh for sentencing.

Passing sentence, judge Lord Malcolm told Pereira that jail was the only option
available to him.

He added: "It is clear that you exploited your position as the leader of a
riding school and that you abused the trust placed in you as a person of
standing in the community.

"It is clear that given the gravity of the offences to which you have been
convicted of, a substantial custodial sentence is justified."

Pereira, of Castle Douglas, targeted his victims between February 2004 and July
2012.

Three of his victims were young girls who went to the stables because of their
love of horses, the fourth was a woman who he assaulted in her car.

Throughout his trial at the High Court in Glasgow Pereira claimed his victims
were lying.Have a go at today's news quiz Quick Quiz: News 11/10/14

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                           October 11, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

DAD: MY TERROR ATTACK ORDEAL;
Engineer, 48, hid from raiders in gas plant siege

BYLINE: JOHN SIDDLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 607 words


A MERSEYSIDE dad who survived a terrorist siege in Algeria barricaded himself in
a stationery cupboard as militants captured and killed his colleagues. David
Murray, 48, heard an Islamic fanatic tell an American citizen "you're welcome"
before he was murdered at the In Amenas BP plant last year, an inquest heard.

Six British men were among 40 hostages killed after al-Qaida managed to
establish a cell at the facility in January last year.

Those killed included systems supervisor Garry Barlow, 49, from Allerton, and
Paul Morgan, a 46-yearold security expert from Aigburth.

David ¦ ¦ Mr Murray, an engineer from Kirkby, told the inquest that he managed
to evade the terrorists by hiding in a cupboard. But the dad-oftwo told how he
listened to boss Gordon Rowan being led to his death after confessing his US
citizenship.

The court in West Sussex heard Mr Murray, an Everton fan, went into his office
before dawn broke on January 16 to check the previous night's football results
when the "power went".

He said: "The general alarm automatically sounded. It was very dark. There were
a couple of us guys milling around inside. Garry Barlow was one of them.

"At the time, it was just [the sounds] pop-pop, crack-crackcrack. We didn't
really know what it was.

"We were still joking and quite happy."

Mr Murray said he, Mr Barlow and a few other colleagues began to wander to the
mustering point.

But he criticised the positioning of the site, saying he had "complained about
that area for a while, because there was no escape route from there".

He said: "We had complained a few times about the positioning of where the
mustering point was.

"The group decided to leave the vulnerable and exposed assembly point, returning
to their office building - a decision which probably saved many lives.

"It was still a little bit dark at the time but there was a lot of chatter on
the radio. We could hear gunfire - a lot of chatter.

"Then the message came that Paul Morgan had been shot."

Mr Murray said he was loath to believe his fellow Liverpudlian was dead or
dying.

He said: "At the time, I didn't want to believe it."

From his window, Mr Murray then saw two Arab men park up and approach their
building at speed. One was"carrying something that looked like a firearm".

He added: "I shouted through the office for everybody to get down - somebody is
coming in. They came bounding in, both the doors were kicked open. I just dived
for cover underneath the nearest desk I could see.

"I couldn't see anything but I could hear everything."

Mr Murray described how his American colleague Mr Rowan, 58, was caught.

He said: "I know Gordon didn't move, he basically just stood. He didn't have
time to react. I heard one of them say 'come here'.

"He didn't say anything, he just walked away slowly." Asked who he was, Mr Rowan
replied: "I am Gordon Rowan - I am an American", Mr Murray said.

He added: "There was then a lot of screaming and shouting in Arabic.

"After he said who he was, the terrorist said to him: 'You're welcome'. " Mr
Murray said the tone of the desperate negotiations between his loyal Algerian
colleagues and the terrorists showed the US citizen was in extreme danger.

Mr Rowan, from Oregon, was later murdered by the militants.

Mr Murray, with two others, barricaded himself into a stationery cupboard and
survived the unfolding horrors.

The inquest into the deaths of Carlos Estrada, of Chelsea, west London; Kenneth
Whiteside, of Glenrothes, Fife; Carson Bilsland, of Bridge of Cally, Perthshire;
Sebastian John, of Norfolk; Stephen Green, of Hampshire; Mr Morgan and Mr
Barlow, continues.

The In Amenas gas field, in Algeria, where the attack took place ¦

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Murray

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2014 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           October 11, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TERROR ALERT OVER POLICE ATTACK PLOT

BYLINE: MIKE SULLIVAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 152 words


COPS were yesterday warned they are at risk - amid fears of a Lee Rigby-style
execution.

The alert came as five men continued to be quizzed on allegations of the first
Islamic State jihadist plot on British soil. Britain's top anti-terror cop Mark
Rowley said: "The threat level to police officers and staff has been heightened.
We are reminding them to remain vigilant and alert. But we are used to
confronting danger."

Sources said the warning was over fears of an abduction and public beheading
similar to that of soldier Lee Rigby, 25, in Woolwich, South London, last April.
Security has been tightened after a swoop on a suspected IS cell in West London
this week.

One of the suspects, Tarik Hassane, 21, tweeted "I smell war" the day before his
arrest.

It also follows calls by IS frontman Abu Mohammad al-Adnani to kill non-Muslims
and the foiling of a plot in Australia to behead a cop.

mike.sullivan@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fears . . Rowley & Sun story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 11, 2014 Saturday 1:19 AM GMT

Fears grow of terror attack on police officers

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill, Will Humphries

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 685 words


Police across the country were warned yesterday that they were targets for
violent attacks by Islamic State sympathisers. The alert was issued by the
Association of Chief Police Officers three days after five men were arrested on
suspicion of planning a terrorist attack in London.

The five, aged 21 and 20, who have been friends since their secondary school
days in west London, remain in custody at high-security police stations.

Police are understood to have recovered a Russian-made Baikal handgun, a
silencer and ammunition in a separate operation last month. Acpo declined to
comment on what specific intelligence from the Joint Terrorism ­Analysis Centre
lay behind its warning.

People working in police stations or other police buildings are being advised
against wearing items of uniform or distinct insignia, especially when off-duty
or arriving at and leaving work.

The two men who killed Fusilier Lee Rigby outside Woolwich Barracks in May 2013
singled him out because he was wearing a "Help For Heroes" top and carried a
camouflage rucksack.

Assistant commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing lead officer for
counter­terrorism, said: "The threat level to police officers and staff has been
heightened, but we are used to ­confronting risk and danger. This is what we do
on a daily basis, and we are well trained.

"We are informing our officers and staff of the heightened risk and reminding
them to remain vigilant and alert to any possible dangers. We are asking them to
follow existing policies and good practice. Measures are being put in place to
increase vigilance." There would be "no major changes in the way we continue to
police the UK and ­engage with our communities - our emphasis is on vigilance",
he added.

Investigations into the suspected plot broken up by police and MI5 this week are
continuing. Last night Scotland Yard said that it had searched another property.

Four of the men in custody were pupils at Westminster City School, which
describes itself as a "Christian non-denominational comprehensive academy". The
school, which became an academy in 2012, declined to comment on the arrests.
Despite its Christian ethos, about a third of its pupils are of other faiths.

It has a military cadet detachment that goes on trips to the Brecon Beacons and
visits the Field of Remembrance at Westminster Abbey each year. Cadets learn
about firearms and are taught to shoot, but it is thought none of those arrested
was a member.

The men in detention are Tarik Hassane, 21, who is studying medicine in Sudan
and was arrested, friends said, 48 hours after returning to London to spend Eid
with his family; Rawan Kheder, 20, who comes from an Iraqi Kurdish family and
whose father is a prominent member of the community; Gusai Abuzeid, 21, a
student at Greenwich School of Management; and Yasir Mahmoud, 20, who lived with
his mother and was described by friends as "well educated and a nice guy".

A fifth man, aged 20, who studies physics at a leading university, cannot be
named for legal reasons.

Yesterday the family of Momen Motasim, 21, who was separately charged with
possessing a gun and a silencer after a police raid on a flat in St John's Wood
on September 24, denied he had been caught up in an alleged terrorist plot.

Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, claimed that security services were keeping
track of "thousands" of suspected would-be terrorists in the ­capital. "In
London we're very, very ­vigiliant and very, very concerned," he told The Daily
Telegraph.

"Every day - as you saw recently, we had to raise the threat level - every day
the security services are involved in thousands of operations. There are
probably in the low thousands of people that we are monitoring in London."

Sir Iain Lobban, the director of GCHQ, claimed that his analysts now needed
typically three times as much time as before to decrypt terrorists' messages
because of the information leaked by Edward Snowden, the American whistleblower.
He told the newspaper that it would now take six weeks to "deliver the magic" on
a target, where previously it would have taken a fortnight on average.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 11, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Fears grow of terror attack on police officers

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill; Will Humphries

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 503 words


Police across the country were warned yesterday that they were targets for
violent attacks by Islamic State sympathisers. The unprecedented alert was
issued by the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) three days after five
men were arrested on suspicion of planning a terrorist attack in London.

The five, aged 21 and 20, who have been friends since their secondary school
days in west London, remain in custody at high-security police stations.

Police are understood to have recovered a Russian-made Baikal handgun, a
silencer and ammunition in a separate operation last month. ACPO declined to
comment on what specific intelligence from the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre
lay behind its warning.

People working in police stations or other police buildings are being advised
against wearing any items of uniform or distinct insignia, especially when
offduty or arriving at and leaving work. The two men who killed Fusilier Lee
Rigby outside Woolwich Barracks in May 2013 singled him out because he was
wearing a "Help For Heroes" top and carried a camouflage rucksack.

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing lead for
counterterrorism, said: "The threat level to police officers and staff has been
heightened, but we are used to confronting risk and danger, this is what we do
on a daily basis, and we are well trained.

"We are informing our officers and staff of the heightened risk and reminding
them to remain vigilant and alert to any possible dangers. We are asking them to
follow existing policies and good practice. Measures are being put in place to
increase vigilance."

There would be "no major changes in the way we continue to police the UK and
engage with our communities - our emphasis is on vigilance", he added.

Investigations into the suspected plot broken up by police and MI5 this week are
continuing, with further searches of properties carried out.

Four of the men in custody were pupils together at Westminster City School,
which describes itself as a "Christian non-denominational comprehensive
academy".

The school, which became an academy in 2012, declined to comment on the arrests.
Despite its Christian ethos about one third of its pupils are of other faiths.

It has a military cadet detachment that goes on trips to the Brecon Beacons and
visits the Field of Remembrance at Westminster Abbey every year. Cadets learn
about firearms and are taught to shoot but it is thought none of those arrested
was a member.

The men in detention are Tarik Hassane, 21, who is studying medicine in Sudan
and was arrested, friends say, 48 hours after returning to London to spend Eid
with his family; Rawan Kheder, 20, who comes from an Iraqi Kurdish family and
whose father is a prominent member of the community; Gusai Abuzeid, 21, a
student at Greenwich School of Management; and Yasir Mahmoud, 20, who lived with
his mother and was described by friends as "well educated and a nice guy".

A fifth man, aged 20, who studies physics at a leading university, cannot be
named for legal reasons.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Friends described Yasir Mahmoud as "a nice guy"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      The Argus (Newsquest Regional Press)

                            October 12, 2014 Sunday

Brighton Bomber returns to city to promote forgiveness in event 30 years since
terrorist attack

BYLINE: Flora Thompson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 417 words


THE IRA activist behind the Brighton bombing will return to the city to mark the
30th anniversary of the deadly blast tonight.

Patrick Magee killed five and injured more than 30 others when he planted a bomb
at The Grand hotel in a bid to kill Margaret Thatcher and her cabinet.

Thirty years to the day he returns to promote forgiveness and understanding.

He will appear alongside Jo Berry, who lost her father Sir Anthony Berry in the
blast, at a film screening and question-and- answer session at The Old Market in
Upper Market Street.

He was convicted of five counts of murder and given a 35-year sentence. However,
he served only 14 years and was released under the Good Friday Agreement in
1999.

Following his release, Ms Berry sought to meet her father's killer.

The film Beyond Right And Wrong tells the story of her reconciliation with
Magee.

She said: "We were going to hold it in London but I feel really strongly about
having it here. "We cannot take away the fact that this event happened here. If
we can have an event to inspire and change people then that is part of the
healing process."

James Turnbull, programmer at The Old Market, said he had received emails from
the public questioning why the killer was being allowed in the venue.

He said: "More than 40% of Brighton and Hove's population were not alive at the
time of the bombing and we feel we should be able to look back, reflect and
discuss what happened. "Surely by looking back we can learn from what has
happened and use it to move forward."

One who believes the event should not be taking place is Norman Tebbit. The
Conservative politician was badly injured in the blast and his wife remains in a
wheelchair because of her injuries.

He said: "Magee is still living off this. He is still trying to excuse it."

He called on the Brighton Bomber to reveal the names of those behind the attack.

Describing him as a "little rat", he said he had not forgiven him.

He said: "If you go and have a look at the book of common prayer on Sunday you
will see the condition of forgiveness is repentance. The offender must repent.
He hasn't, so I haven't forgiven." "Magee is a little rat. He ultimately planted
the bomb but he is the monkey on the barrel organ.

"He didn't plan it, he didn't fund it and he didn't authorise it. But he knows
who did and if he wanted to show repentance he would go to his local police
station and tell them what he knows.

"Murder is murder - and there should be justice."

For more details and tickets, visit theoldmarket.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            October 12, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GANGLAND GUNMAN FIRES AT INNOCENT FAMILY'S HOUSE;
HUNT AFTER HITMAN TARGETS WRONG HOME ; Late-night attack terror of mum and her
son, 13

BYLINE: Norman Silvester

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 418 words


A family suffered a terrifying late-night ordeal when a gunman opened fire on
their home.

It is believed the hitman picked the wrong property and may have been trying to
target gangland enforcer Don Webley, who lives nearby.

One of the occupants when the shots were fired at the house in Clermiston,
Edinburgh, late on Friday was a 13-yearold boy. He was at home with his mum and
another www.woman.No one was injured in the attack in Drumbrae Terrace.

Webley, 32, was the first person to be banned from every nightclub in Edinburgh
for life.

He was barred under the U-night scheme in 2008 after an assault on drug dealer
James Carlin outside the City disco.

Webley was previously jailed for throwing a petrol bomb at staff outside the
Revolution club in 2003.

Police Scotland said yesterday: "The incident happened around 11.30pm when shots
were allegedly fired at a property on Drumbrae Terrace.

"There are no reports of anyone having been injured as a result.

"A man wearing a light coloured top and black jogging bottoms was seen in the
area, near woodland, and we are now appealing for anyone who was in the area at
the time, or who heard or saw any suspicious activity, to come forward."

Detective Inspector Allan O'Brien said: "We have a dedicated team in place to
thoroughly investigate this dangerous and reckless act."

Chief Inspector Bob Paris added: "This is a quiet area of Edinburgh and I would
like to reassure the public that incidents like this are very rare.

"We will be stepping up high-visibility patrols in the area to offer community
reassurance as well as carrying out doorto-door inquiries to speak with anyone
who has information that can assist."

Webley is a close friend of notorious drug dealer Terry Scott, 32, whose lavish
wedding was featured in our sister paper the Daily Record last week.

He was a top-table guest and sat only a few places away from the groom.

Scott was jailed last month for six years after an undercover police operation
targeted his multi-million-pound trafficking network in north Edinburgh.

He is being pursued under the Proceeds of Crime Act for money he is believed to
have amassed from drug peddling.

It is thought the wedding reception and the rings - all paid for in cash - form
part of the inquiry.

Webley's younger brother Marc was jailed for 11 years in 2005 for shooting
convicted drug dealer Peter Simpson in the back in Granton.

The 28-year-old was jailed again last year after he pled guilty to trying to
intimidate a man into handing over £1000 at a Leith garage.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: QUIET AREA Police on scene yesterday. Inset, presumed target Webley

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


             Copyright 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                October 12, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TARGET BY UDA THUGS;
COWARDLY ACTS SHANKILL BULLIES Anti-drugs campaigner's relatives under attack as
terror gangcarry out latestcampaign of intimidation

BYLINE: Tony Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 687 words


UDA thugs attacked the homes of relatives of Tracey Coulter in the latest
cowardly act of intimidation against the outspoken anti-drugs campaigner.

The windows of two houses on Boundary Way and Malvern Way in Belfast's Lower
Shankill estate were smashed on Monday night, and again on Thursday night.

Paint was also thrown around the properties, one of which is lived in by
Tracey's frail 58-year-old mother Agnes Coulter - the widow of UDA man Jackie
Coul-ter who was killed during the 2000 loyalist feud.

PSNI Inspector James Murphy said: "Windows were broken and paint was thrown at
properties in Malvern Way and Boundary Way.

"Police are investigating and would ask anyone with any information about these
incidents to contact Tennent Street police station."

Police have also officially warned Tracey that loyalist paramilitaries intend to
kill kill her "when she returns to the Shankill estate".

WRECKED

Showing this newspaper around her wrecked home Agnes Coulter, who is in ill
health, said: "The UDA are nothing but a bunch of cowards who attack homes in
the middle of the night.

"They broke the windows in my other daughter Natalie's house, even though her
eightyear-old son Jake was inside, and they know he suffers from a serious heart
defect.

"If the UDA thinks they are going to intimidate me out they are wrong. I'm going
nowhere."

Agnes Coulter believes the UDA targeted her home because her anti-drugs
campaigner daughter Tracey has been an outspoken critic of the terror gang.

Last year Tracey was forced to flee the Shankill after repeated UDA attacks on
her house, including one incident in which slates were ripped off the roof and
petrol poured inside and set alight.

The arson bid came a few weeks after she was headbutted by UDA killer Mo
Courtney inside the government funded offices of the Lower Shankill Community
Association, which she is now suing.

Tracey had gone there to complain about the UDA selling drugs in the area which
led to the overdose death of her cousin Neil Orr.

Courtney was given a suspended jail sentence for the assault when he appeared in
court last January.

Like her mother Agnes, single mum Tracey is convinced Lower Shankill UDA leader
Courtney, and his number two Dee Coleman, ordered the attack on the homes of her
relatives.

She said: "They are now targeting my family because I don't live on the Shankill
any longer. They have told me they will put my family out unless I keep my mouth
shut.

"Well, I've news for the pair of them. I'm not going to be bullied into staying
quiet, and my mum and sister Natalie will not be intimidated out of the Shankill
by cowards in the UDA."

Tracey also revealed that the UDA found out about a meeting she had with a PSNI
Inspector on Thursday to discuss the intimidation before the sit down even took
place.

LEAKED

"Someone leaked the information to the UDA who went out of its way to mention it
to my relatives," explained Tracey.

"I've a fair idea who was behind this and so do the police." Sunday Life
understands that West Belfast UDA leader Matt Kincaid met with Mo Courtney and
Dee Coleman wanting answers as to why the Coulters were targeted.

But later he simply shrugged his shoulders and told the Coulters "there's
nothing I can do about it".

UDA sources say that is because Kincaid does not want to risk upsetting Mo
Courtney whose squad of teenage hoods are making the terror gang a fortune
selling drugs in the Lower Shankill.

Like his pal Courtney, convicted extortionist Dee Coleman - who celebrated his
29th birthday last Tuesday - is no stranger to a prison cell.

In 2000, aged just 14, he was part of a Johnny Adair UDA 'C' Company mob that
attacked UVF members in the Rex Bar sparking a feud between the terror groups.

In 2003 Coleman, who has an address on Hopewell Crescent, was jailed for two
years for his role in the violence. In 2007 he was jailed again, this time for
six years, for trying to extort £5,000 for the UDA from an undercover policeman
who he thought was a builder.

Last Thursday, Coleman added another rap to his criminal record when he was
fined £400 at Belfast Magistrates Court for possessing drugs.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UDA CHIEF: Mo Courtney headbutted Tracey Coulter last year and she is
now suing over the incidentSICKENED: Tracey CoulterSHOCKED: Frail Agnes Coulter
outside her vandalised home

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2014 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      October 12, 2014 Sunday 12:09 PM GMT

Fears grow of terror attack on police officers

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill, Will Humphries

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 505 words


Police across the country were warned yesterday that they were targets for
violent attacks by Islamic State sympathisers. The alert was issued by the
Association of Chief Police Officers three days after five men were arrested on
suspicion of planning a terrorist attack in London.

The five, aged 21 and 20, who have been friends since their secondary school
days in west London, remain in custody at high-security police stations.

Police are understood to have recovered a Russian-made Baikal handgun, a
silencer and ammunition in a separate operation last month. Acpo declined to
comment on what specific intelligence from the Joint Terrorism ­Analysis Centre
lay behind its warning.

People working in police stations or other police buildings are being advised
against wearing items of uniform or distinct insignia, especially when off-duty
or arriving at and leaving work.

The two men who killed Fusilier Lee Rigby outside Woolwich Barracks in May 2013
singled him out because he was wearing a "Help For Heroes" top and carried a
camouflage rucksack.

Assistant commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing lead officer for
counter­terrorism, said: "The threat level to police officers and staff has been
heightened, but we are used to ­confronting risk and danger. This is what we do
on a daily basis, and we are well trained.

"We are informing our officers and staff of the heightened risk and reminding
them to remain vigilant and alert to any possible dangers. We are asking them to
follow existing policies and good practice. Measures are being put in place to
increase vigilance." There would be "no major changes in the way we continue to
police the UK and ­engage with our communities - our emphasis is on vigilance",
he added.

Investigations into the suspected plot broken up by police and MI5 this week are
continuing. Last night Scotland Yard said that it had searched another property.

Four of the men in custody were pupils at Westminster City School, which
describes itself as a "Christian non-denominational comprehensive academy". The
school, which became an academy in 2012, declined to comment on the arrests.
Despite its Christian ethos, about a third of its pupils are of other faiths.

It has a military cadet detachment that goes on trips to the Brecon Beacons and
visits the Field of Remembrance at Westminster Abbey each year. Cadets learn
about firearms and are taught to shoot, but it is thought none of those arrested
was a member.

The men in detention are Tarik Hassane, 21, who is studying medicine in Sudan
and was arrested, friends said, 48 hours after returning to London to spend Eid
with his family; Rawan Kheder, 20, who comes from an Iraqi Kurdish family and
whose father is a prominent member of the community; Gusai Abuzeid, 21, a
student at Greenwich School of Management; and Yasir Mahmoud, 20, who lived with
his mother and was described by friends as "well educated and a nice guy".

A fifth man, aged 20, who studies physics at a leading university, cannot be
named for legal reasons.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 13, 2014 Monday 8:15 PM GMT

Three more men arrested in London on suspicion of planning terrorist attack;
Five men were arrested in a series of dawn raids last week

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 178 words


Three more men have been arrested in central London on suspicion of planning a
terrorist attack.

The suspects, aged 24, 21 and 25 are being held in custody after being detained
on Monday by the Metropolitan Police.

A spokesperson said: "All three were arrested on suspicion of being concerned in
the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism."

A search was also conducted at a business address in west London and at a
further four homes in the north-west of the capital.

The arrests on Monday were in connection to an alleged Islamist plot that was
foiled last week.

Five men were arrested on 7 October following a series of dawn raids amid
heightened alert over the possibility of jihadists returning from Syria posing a
threat to Britain.

Two of the men, who have not been officially named, were released from custody
on Monday and three others remain at central London police stations.

Read more: Police swoop on suspected Isis terror cellPolice vigilant after
terror threat level increasesTHOUSANDS OF TERROR SUSPECTS BEING MONITORED BY
SECURITY SERVICES

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 13, 2014 Monday 11:55 PM GMT

Dick Cheney warns next terror attack on U.S. will be 'far deadlier' than
September 11

BYLINE: FRANCESCA CHAMBERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 554 words



     ·    'I think 9/11 will turn out to be not nearly as bad as the next mass
          casualty attack against the United States,' Cheney said
     ·    The former vice president credited the increased odds of an attack to
          'the dramatic spread of terrorist organizations' over the last several
          years
     ·    He also defended the Bush administration's aggressive anti-terrorism
          tactics: 'I don't think we have any apologies to make'


Former Vice President Dick Cheney cautioned on Sunday that the next attack on
the homeland will be 'far deadlier' than the last one.

'We're in a very dangerous period,' Cheney told the Weekly Standard's Bill
Kristol in a video interview released on Sunday. 'I think it's more threatening
than the period before 9/11.

'I think 9/11 will turn out to be not nearly as bad as the next mass casualty
attack against the United States, which, if and when it comes, will be with
something far deadlier than airline tickets and box cutters,' he continued.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Cheney credited the increased odds of an attack to 'the dramatic spread of
terrorist organizations' over the last several years and the 'proliferation' of
areas where terrorists can find safe haven.

All the U.S. had to worry about before 9/11 was Afghanistan, he said. Now the
U.S. faces significant threats from terrorist cells in Mali, Nigeria, and all of
North Africa up through the middle East to Indonesia.

The former George W. Bush administration official acknowledged that 'some of the
decisions' his boss made were controversial and still are now, six years later,
the administration's methods were effective at 'preventing another mass casualty
attack on the U.S.'

'I don't think we have any apologies to make,' Cheney said.

'I think in a similar situation today, I would do exactly the same thing,' he
stated.

Not citing the sitting president, Barack Obama, by name, Cheney suggested that
his unwillingness to engage Middle Eastern countries militarily could prove
detrimental to the U.S. and the international community.

'For us to look at that part of the world and think we can hide behind our
ocean, everything's fine, that's crazy,' he said. 'You gotta be a fool to
believe isolationist strategy is the way to go.

'We have no choice to be involved in that part of the world, and if we're not
actively involved, some very bad things are gonna happen,' he added.

Cheney also listed a nuclear Iran, cuts to the military and Chinese hackers as
worrisome threats to the U.S.

'I think we're entering a period of considerable danger with the United States
that relative to other nations is weaker than we oughta be,' he said.

'What we need is strong leadership. We need a president and a Congress who
understand the nature of the threat.

The retired politician expressed hope that the U.S. 'will rise to the occasion
now as we did in the past' during World War I and World War II and warned that
it's 'very important that we do so.'

'This is not the time for us to rest on our laurels' or cut defense budget he
said, referring to Obama's reduction in the military's size and scope.

Cheney did not indicate who he thought would make a good replacement for Obama
once he leaves office in early 2017, but he said America needs 'somebody who
will step up and remind the world what the United States is capable of and
demonstrate the ability and willingness to do that.'

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

Mosque in Syrian capital damaged in terror attack

LENGTH: 91 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus, SANA -A mortar shell fired by terrorists on Tuesday [14 October]
landed on Abd-al-Rahman al-Siddik Mosque at Baghdad Street in Damascus causing
material damage in the mosque.

A source at Damascus Police Command told SANA reporter that a mortar round fell
on the mosque causing only material damage in it and in a number of cars, no
causalities among civilians were reported.

R. al-Jazaeri/ R. Milhem

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0905 gmt 14 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

Pakistan authorities fear possibility of terrorist attack on politician

LENGTH: 170 words


Text of report by Pakistan daily The Nation website on 14 October

Four days before Pakistan Peoples Party's large public gathering in Karachi,
Sindh Home Ministry today expressed possibility of terrorist attack on PPP
patron-in-chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari.

Militants from an outlawed group are planning to carry out attack on Bilawal
Bhutto, said a letter issued by the Sindh Home Ministry to Rangers and police
chiefs. According to sources, the ministry has directed DG Rangers and IG police
to take "effective" security measures for Bilawal, the only son of former
president Asif Ali Zardari and PPP's slain chairperson Benazir Bhutto.

Sources said there are no details available to the ministry about when and where
the possible attack could take place. It should be noted that the PPP Chairman
was set to launch his political career by holding a massive rally in Karachi's
Mazar-e-Quaid on 18th October, the anniversary of the Karsaz terrorist attack in
2007.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 14 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

Kazakhstan steps up security to prevent possible terrorist attacks - expert

LENGTH: 234 words


Excerpt from report by Uzbek news website 12news.uz on 14 October

Tashkent, 14 October: The head of the Institute of Geopolitical Studies, PhD in
history Asylbek Izbairov, has said that Kazakh security services have stepped up
security to prevent possible terrorist attacks following reports that the
Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) had joined Islamic State (IS).

He said that the terrorist group Islamic Jihad Union, a part of the IMU,
committed four terrorist attacks in Tashkent in 2004. A Kazakh citizen,
Zhakshybek Biymurzayev, organized the explosions and other Kazakh citizens
committed them.

Asylbek Izbairov does not rule out that after having strong training in camps of
Islamic State, Kazakh nationals (various sources say there are about 250 Kazakhs
in the ranks of IS) can return to their homeland and continue their extremist
activities here.

"Ten years ago, Biymurzayev alone could create big problems and exacerbate
inter-state relations with Uzbekistan. And if at least 10 of such people return
to the country, it will pose a serious threat. We must already take measures so
that the number of terrorists is not increased by Kazakhs," Megapolis.kz quoted
the expert.

[Passage omitted: the US State Department included the Islamic Jihad Union in
the list of international terrorist organizations under the name of Islamic
Jihad Group]

Source: 12news.uz, Tashkent, in Russian 0813 gmt 14 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

Commentary blames Pakistan, Saudi for recent "terror attacks" in Iran

LENGTH: 976 words


Text of commentary by Amirhoseyn Yazdanpanah entitled: "The Saravan  incident
and the opportunity that is being missed", published by Iranian newspaper
Khorasan on 11 October


Once again during the past 11 months a terrorist incident in Saravan made the
name of this city headline news in the domestic and foreign media. Next to the
regret and sorrow over the loss of a number of our compatriots in this region, a
point that should be noted is the fact that unfortunately the repetition of such
incidents and the exacerbation of insecurity in this region may grant certain
hostile groups the opportunity to exploit the situation. However, we should not
forget the important fact that if such blind terrorist attacks like the one on
Wednesday night and early Thursday morning in the city display the inability of
the terrorists to resort to serious actions against the region's security and,
generally speaking, these are disruptive attacks that the terrorist plan and
implement merely in order to spread fear and for media coverage. Nevertheless,
the repetition of such incidents also increases the fear of the continuous
spread of "a feeling of insecurity;" and this is worse than insecurity per se.

Moreover, viewed from another perspective, it obstructs development along Iran's
southeastern border that according to the government's statements during recent
months should receive special attention. Therefore, serious thought beyond
extends beyond all the promises that have been made and the actions that have
been taken should be given to this issue. It is unacceptable for a powerful
country, which has the first and last work in regional equations and its defence
structure target extends hundreds of kilometres beyond Iran's borders, to allow
a group of notorious terrorists whose ringleaders and labelled individuals and
members who are probably known to our security and military institutions to fool
around with the security of this area of the country with such actions. We will
look at some points in relation with this.

1. Diplomacy sector: Since Pakistan is the source of these terrorist groups and
unfortunately thus far this country has not given the least bit of attention to
Iran's warnings, and at a time when according to the commander of NAJA [Law
Enforcement Forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran], Pakistan's intelligence
services transfer the information we give them about the terrorists to the
terrorists and allows them to escape, the country's diplomacy apparatus should
make more serious decisions about this area and about the approach of the
Pakistani side. The next issue in this sector is that if Pakistani territory is
to be a paradise for terrorists of various names who are trained in that country
with Saudi Arabia's dollars and escape to Pakistan after their operations on
Iranian territory, and Iran's defence institutions are unable to do anything
about this, what will happen to our security agreement with Pakistan that was
signed 19 months ago and what are such agreements worth when every so often the
blood of innocent people is shed in Iran by terrorists who enter from Pakistan?

2. Security sector: The emergence of terrorist groups such as Jaysh al-Adl,
which has been creating insecurity in the region for several months, is nothing
new to us. At least, during the past 36 years many such groups have been
created. But thanks to our strength on the borders, they have been destroyed or
have lost their ability to carry out any other operations against us. The
question is: Can't the methods that are being used in other areas - for example,
on the northwestern border and in the west of the country in general - be
effective in confronting these armed terrorist groups? At this point after
activating diplomacy further, it may be possibly necessary to destroy, once and
for all, the sources of such actions with operations like the one carried out by
the IRGC ground forces in the northwest in 1390 [the operations against the
Party for a Free Life in Kurdistan - PJAK - in September 2011] and mop up the
region of terrorists and let the people taste the sweetness of this? After all,
we should use Iran's capability of using various means for ensuring security and
monitoring terrorist movements in this area. For example, have UAVs played their
important role for this purpose thus far?

The next point in this field is the concerns of martyr [IRGC Commander Brig-Gen
Nur Ali] Shushtari [killed in a suicide attack in October 2009]. Throughout the
years of his service in the southeast and until the day he was martyred, he
pursued three important issues. The first was the issue of unity between Shi'is
and Sunnis. The second was ensuring the region's security by the native people
and groups. His other concern was the issue of serving the people. These efforts
were so effective that an anti-terrorism centre in London referred to them as an
example of fighting terrorists.

The area's progress: Dr Rouhani's government has a significant capital in this
region, and that is the trust of 80 per cent of the people in the 11th
government, which was manifested during the 11th presidential election. This
trust of the people is the most important capital of the government, which
should seize the remaining opportunity to render services to this region and
take the steps that were not taken by previous governments. This 80-per cent
trust is also the ground for upgrading the region's security with a targeted
fight against terrorists and the sources where they are formed and thus relieve
some of the burden on the shoulders of the politicians who have made promises to
the people in this deprived area. From this perspective, incidents like the ones
we see and, God forbid, their repetition may destroy the opportunity for
progress and development in the region.

Source: Khorasan, Mashhad, in Persian 11 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

Armed men involved in "terrorist attack" in southeast Iran arrested

LENGTH: 117 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Zahedan, 14 October, IRNA - All three gunmen involved in the terrorist attack
which wounded three police officers in Rask near the city of Sarbaz in the
southern province of Sistan-Baluchistan were arrested, Sistan-Baluchestan Police
chief Brigadier Hoseyn Rahimi said Tuesday [14 October].

Three police officers were ambushed and wounded by terrorists earlier in the
day, Rahimi said, adding that all the attackers were wounded and arrested in
less than three hours.

Rahimi said that the wounded Iranian police officers are in good health.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1645 gmt 14 Oct
14

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Terror attack 12 to be executed

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 57 words


BEIJING: Twelve people blamed for terrorist attacks that killed 37 in July have
been sentenced to death at a court in China's western Xinjiang region. The court
in the Kashgar prefecture sentenced another 15 people to death with a two-year
reprieve, with another nine people receiving life sentences. Another 20
defendants received jail terms.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2014 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 14, 2014 Tuesday 5:50 PM GMT

Tony Blair 'terror attack': Former prime minister potentially target of an
attack, court hears;
Papers uncovered with former PM's address and alleged terror preparations

BYLINE: Tom Harper

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 792 words


A terror suspect plotting a Mumbai-style attack on the streets of Britain may
have been targeting former Prime Minister Tony Blair, a court has heard.

As Britain's first secret terror trial opened at the Old Bailey, prosecutors
alleged Erol Incedal, 26, was found with the address of Mr Blair and his wife
Cherie in a white Versace glasses case when he was first arrested last year.

Inside his black Mercedes, the court heard, detectives also discovered a
handwritten note that read: "Oh you the believers, fight those of the infidel
who are near to you. Why do you not fight in Allah's cause for those oppressed
men, women and children who cry out: 'Rescue us from this town.'"

Richard Whittam QC, prosecuting counsel, said that Mr Incedal had not decided on
a particular target, but that the Blairs' address may "have some significance".
He said Mr Incedal is believed to have been plotting to attack one prominent
person, or a small group, or perhaps an indiscriminate attack on a hotel,
similar to the Mumbai atrocity in 2008 which left 174 dead.

The trial, which will largely be heard in secret, heard that police monitored Mr
Incedal, from south London after his first arrest for a road traffic offence in
September last year, when the address for the Blairs was first uncovered.

Tony Blair: A career of controversies

Mr Whittam QC said a covert listening device was then placed in the Mercedes
which later recorded Mr Incedal saying they should "go to Plan B" after he and
another man were stopped by police.

Mr Incedal was heard saying: "I hate white people so much. I might have to
destroy everything and do something else. These pigs, I just feel like running
them over. They are pigs. Kaffar call them pigs."

In another chat, the court was told, he says: "I made a big mistake. Some very
important stuff was in the car. If they find it, we're f*****".

Jihadist music was played in the car to the words "slaughter, looking at the
enemy, looking at the bodies. In this operation they kill approximately 100
kaffar...", the court heard. There was also talk of renting an "illegal house"
because "you cannot carry rucksacks - it's too dangerous".

When Mr Incedal was arrested again the following month, the jury heard that
police found bomb-making instructions on a secure digital card.

The court heard that Mr Incedal had the black flag of Isis as his iPhone's
wallpaper, and that he had taken a picture of a synagogue.

The prosecution said a search of his family home in Southwark, south London,
revealed a document using the phrase "Plan A", which included references to "two
tennis rackets", "one month's surveillance", "rent flat nearby", uniforms,
transport, and rehearsals.

Other papers referred to physical endurance, cover stories, secure
communications and how to evade detection, jurors were told.

When Mr Incedal's car was stopped for a second time by police who fired shotgun
rounds into the tyres, he was arrested along with Mounir Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, also
26 and from south London.

Mr Whittam QC told the jury: 'You will hear that (Mr Incedal) was actively
engaged with another or others who were abroad.

"The prosecution case is that such engagement was for an act or acts of
terrorism either against a limited number of individuals, an individual of
significance or a more wide-ranging and indiscriminate attack such as the one in
Mumbai in 2008; an attack on members of the public in general, particularly in a
hotel."

The entire trial was originally scheduled to be heard in secret, which would
have been unprecedented. However, the decision was overturned by the Court of
Appeal after a challenge by media organisations, who said open justice was the
"hallmark and a safeguard" of the rule of law.

The Court of Appeal ordered one part of the trial to be heard in open court but
other parts cannot be reported.

A second will be heard in private, and the third will be heard partly in private
with a limited number of journalists present on the basis that they may not yet
report the evidence.

Mr Whittam told jurors: "This is an exceptional case. Whilst it is one single
trial, the evidence will be heard in three parts. It is important that you do
not promote one part above the other in your consideration."

Mr Incedal, said to be from Turkey, is charged with engaging in conduct in
preparation of acts of terrorism and collecting or recording information likely
to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism.

Mounir Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, said to be of Algerian origin, was with Mr Incedal
when they were arrested last October.

He has pleaded guilty to the charge of possession of documents or records likely
to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism on or
before 13 October last year.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 14, 2014 Tuesday 11:43 AM GMT

Tony Blair 'terror attack': Former prime minister potentially target of an
attack, court hears;
Erol Incedal has been accused of preparing acts of terrorism and possessing a
document entitled Bomb Making on a memory card

BYLINE: James Rush

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 181 words


Former prime minister Tony Blair was potentially the target of a terror attack,
a secret trial has heard.

Erol Incedal, from London, has been accused of preparing acts of terrorism and
possessing a document entitled Bomb Making on a memory card.

The 26-year-old, who is being tried at the Old Bailey partly in secret, denies
the charges.

Prosecutor Richard Whittam QC told jurors Incedal was stopped for a road traffic
offence on September 30, 2013.

Police found a number of items inside the black Mercedes he was in, including a
piece of paper with the address of a property owned by the Blairs on it.

The court heard it was found inside Incedal's glasses case.

Mr Whittam said: "Count 1 does not suggest that Erol Incedal had settled on a
specific target or a particular methodology but in the context of the case as a
whole and the evidence that I am going to come to, you may think that this
address does have some significance."

The court heard that during the search, a listening device was put in the car.

Additional reporting by Press Association

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 14, 2014 Tuesday 1:02 AM GMT

Three more men arrested in London on suspicion of planning terrorist attack;
Five men were arrested in a series of dawn raids last week

BYLINE: Kunal Dutta

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 243 words


Three men were arrested in central London yesterday as part of an investigation
into Islamist-related terrorism.

The trio, aged 21, 24 and 25, were being held in custody on suspicion of being
involved in the commission, preparation or instigation of terrorism, Scotland
Yard said.

The arrests come nearly a week after five men were arrested in dawn raids that
Whitehall officials said "may have foiled the early stages" of a plan to attack
the UK. Last night Scotland Yard confirmed that two men had been released from
custody. The other three suspects arrested last week remain in custody after a
warrant of  further detention was granted at a magistrates' court. Under the
Terrorism Act, suspects can be held without charge for up to 14 days.

A business address in west London was searched as part of the operation and
there were ongoing searches at a further four residential addresses in
north-west London, the Met Police said.

There is heightened concern among security services of a potential attack by
those connected to Syria or Iraq, with London particularly vulnerable. Over the
weekend the Mayor of London Boris Johnson said thousands of potential terrorists
are being monitored in London with "a third or maybe half" of the 500 British
Isis fighters believed to be from the capital.

Read more: Police swoop on suspected Isis terror cellPolice vigilant after
terror threat level increasesTHOUSANDS OF TERROR SUSPECTS BEING MONITORED BY
SECURITY SERVICES

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 14, 2014 Tuesday 12:27 PM GMT

Terror suspect 'plotting Mumbai-style attack was caught with Tony and Cherie
Blair's address', secret trial is told

BYLINE: HARRIET ARKELL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 619 words



     ·    Erol Incedal, 26, who is of Turkish origin, was stopped in London last
          year
     ·    He 'was found to have a memory card with document called 'Bomb
          Making''
     ·    He 'also had address of Blairs' property on piece of paper in glasses
          case'
     ·    Incedal, a Londoner, appeared at the Old Bailey accused of terror
          offences
     ·    Prosecutor says it was possibly a plot for a terror attack on
          individuals
     ·    Or, court hears, it may have been in preparation for 'Mumbai-style
          attack'
     ·    He denies charges in a trial to be held largely in secret for security
          reasons


A terror suspect plotting a Mumbai-style attack may have been targeting former
Prime Minister Tony Blair, a high-security trial heard today.

Erol Incedal, 26, had a piece of paper with the address of a property owned by
Mr Blair and his wife, Cherie, as well as a bomb-making document when he was
stopped by police a year ago, the Old Bailey heard.

Incedal, who lives in London, is accused of preparing acts of terrorism and
possessing a document entitled 'Bomb Making' on a memory card.

He denies the charges.

Today, prosecutor Richard Whittam QC opened the trial, which will be largely
heard in secret, saying that Incedal was put under surveillance last autumn
after police stopped him in a black Mercedes E class for a road traffic offence.

He said as well as information on bomb-making, the defendant also had a piece of
paper in a Versace glasses case which had an address on it.

He told jurors: 'That is a property owned by Tony and Cherie Blair.'

The prosecutor went on: 'The prosecution don't suggest there had been any
settled intention or any target decided on or any particular methodology, but in
the context of this case as a whole you may think it has some significance.'

Mr Whittam added: 'You will hear that he was actively engaged with another or
others who were abroad.

'The prosecution case is that such engagement was for an act or acts if
terrorism either against a limited number of individuals, an individual of
significance or a more wide-ranging and indiscriminate attack such as the one in
Mumbai in 2008.'

The bomb making document was found on a secure digital card hidden on the inside
of Incedal's iPhone case, the court heard.  An Acer computer and Sim card were
also found.

Jurors were also told that a bug was fitted to Incedal's Mercedes during the
initial search of the car.

They heard the Incedal, who was originally referred to as AB in the case, was
secretly recorded saying they should 'go to Plan B' after he and another man
were stopped by police.

He was heard saying: 'These pigs, I just feel like running them over,' while
music in the background referred to jihad and killing unbelievers, it is
claimed.

One part of the trial is being heard in open court but other sections can not be
reported.

A second part will be heard in private without either the press or the public
present, and the third will be heard partly in private with a limited number of
journalists allowed in on the basis they do not report it.

Me Whittam told jurors: 'This is an exceptional case. Whilst it is one single
trial, the evidence will be heard in three parts.

'It is important that you do not promote one part above the other in your
consideration.'

Incedal, said to be from Turkey, is charged with engaging in conduct in
preparation of acts of terrorism and collecting or recording information likely
to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism.

Mounir Rarmoul-Bohadjar, said to be of Algerian origin, was with Incedal when
they were arrested last October.

He has pleaded guilty to the charge of possession of documents or records likely
to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism on or
before 13 October last year.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 14, 2014 Tuesday 11:45 AM GMT

Terror suspect 'plotted to attack Tony and Cherie Blair in Mumbai-style attack',
secret trial is told

BYLINE: HARRIET ARKELL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 530 words



     ·    Erol Incedal, 26, who is of Turkish origin, was stopped in London last
          year
     ·    He 'was found to have a memory card with document called 'Bomb
          Making''
     ·    He 'also had address of Blairs' property on piece of paper in glasses
          case'
     ·    Incedal, a Londoner, appeared at the Old Bailey accused of terror
          offences
     ·    He denies charges in a trial to be held largely in secret for security
          reasons


A terror suspect plotting a Mumbai-style attack may have been targeting former
Prime Minister Tony Blair, a high-security trial heard today.

Erol Incedal, 26, had a piece of paper with the address of a property owned by
Mr Blair and his wife, Cherie, as well as a bomb-making document when he was
stopped by police a year ago, the Old Bailey heard.

Incedal, who lives in London, is accused of preparing acts of terrorism and
possessing a document entitled 'Bomb Making' on a memory card.

He denies the charges.

Today, prosecutor Richard Whittam QC opened the trial, which will be largely
heard in secret, saying that Incedal was put under surveillance last autumn
after police stopped him in a black Mercedes E class for a road traffic offence.

He said as well as information on bomb-making, the defendant also had a piece of
paper in a Versace glasses case which had an address on it.

He told jurors: 'That is a property owned by Tony and Cherie Blair.'

The prosecutor went on: 'The prosecution don't suggest there had been any
settled intention or any target decided on or any particular methodology, but in
the context of this case as a whole you may think it has some significance.'

Mr Whittam added: 'You will hear that he was actively engaged with another or
others who were abroad.

'The prosecution case is that such engagement was for an act or acts if
terrorism either against a limited number of individuals, an individual of
significance or a more wide-ranging and indiscriminate attack such as the one in
Mumbai in 2008.'

The bomb making document was found on a secure digital card hidden on the inside
of Incedal's iPhone case, the court heard.

Jurors were also told that a bug was fitted to Incedal's Mercedes during the
initial search of the car.

One part of the trial is being heard in open court but other sections can not be
reported.

A second part will be heard in private without either the press or the public
present, and the third will be heard partly in private with a limited number of
journalists allowed in on the basis they do not report it.

Me Whittam told jurors: 'This is an exceptional case. Whilst it is one single
trial, the evidence will be heard in three parts.

'It is important that you do not promote one part above the other in your
consideration.'

Incedal, said to be from Turkey, is charged with engaging in conduct in
preparation of acts of terrorism and collecting or recording information likely
to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism.

Mounir Rarmoul-Bohadjar, said to be of Algerian origin, was with Incedal when
they were arrested last October.

He has pleaded guilty to the charge of possession of documents or records likely
to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism on or
before 13 October last year.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 14, 2014 Tuesday 7:05 PM GMT

Secret terror trial: Erol Incedal 'planned attack on Tony Blair's house or
Mumbai-style atrocity' jury hears;
Britain's first terrorism trial to be held largely in secret opens with a brief
public statement of the case against Erol Incedal before going into closed
session

BYLINE: By Victoria Ward and Gordon Rayner

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1345 words


To anyone driving past Erol Incedal's car after it had been stopped by police a
year ago, the everyday scene would have given no clue that they were witnessing
a key moment in a case that would make legal history.

Mr Incedal, 26, thought he had been pulled over for a routine traffic offence,
and the officers who searched his car gave every outward impression that he was
in no more trouble than the average errant motorist.

In fact, the policemen who were running the rule over Mr Incedal's black
Mercedes on September 30, 2013 secretly planted a hidden listening device,
starting a chain of events that led to the first terrorism trial to be held
largely in secret in a British court.

Today, in one of the only parts of the trial to be heard in open court, a jury
was told that Mr Incedal had the address of Tony and Cherie Blair in his car and
may have been planning an attack on an "individual of significance" or a more
indiscriminate attack modelled on the 2008 Mumbai terrorist atrocity.

Richard Whittam QC, opening the case for the prosecution, told the jury at the
Old Bailey in London that they were part of an "exceptional" trial, the majority
of which will be heard behind closed doors.

He said the bug planted in Mr Incedal's car recorded him saying "I hate white
people" and telling his wife he might have to switch to "plan B" after his car
was searched.

When he was arrested two weeks after the initial "traffic offence" incident,
police seized material including a memory card containing a bomb-making manual.

Mr Whittam said: "You will hear that he was actively engaged with another or
others who were abroad. The prosecution case is that such engagement was for an
act, or acts of terrorism either against a limited number of individuals of
significance or a more wide-ranging and indiscriminate attack such as the one in
Mumbai in 2008."

Referring to the Blair address found on a piece of paper inside a spectacles
case, Mr Whittam said that although Mr Incedal had not decided on a particular
target or methodology, the address may "have some significance".

Mr Incedal denies preparing acts of terrorism and possessing a document titled
Bomb Making.

The prosecution's opening speech gave a rare insight into the tactics used by
anti-terrorism police in gathering evidence against suspects.

The jury was told that the officers searched the car and found various items of
interest, including the address for one of Tony and Cherie Blair's homes,
written on a piece of paper inside a white Versace spectacles case.

Also found was an Acer laptop computer, a pocket notebook and a USB dongle.
Unbeknown to Mr Incedal, who was unable to see what was going on, the officers
took photographs of the evidence but did not remove anything from the vehicle.
Mr Incedal was then allowed to go on his way.

Mr Incedal's encounter with the law unsettled him, it is alleged, but he
appeared to have no inkling that a bug had been planted, the jury heard.

In the two weeks that followed, Mr Incedal was recorded expressing concern that
his alleged plot may have been thwarted.

The court heard that he told his wife: "Made a big mistake. There was some very
important stuff in the car. If they found it, we're f----d."

The listening device also recorded him saying: "I hate white people so much. I
might have to destroy everything and do something else, Plan B.

"These pigs. I just feel like running them over. Everyone, even the kuffar, call
them pigs."

The jury was told that the listening device had picked up a reference to running
an illegal house and a suggestion that it was "too dangerous" to carry
rucksacks. Snippets of chatter also included references to Bin Laden, fatwa,
Syria and jihad.

Music was being played in the background that referred to "slaughter, looking at
the enemy and looking at the bodies."

The next time Mr Incedal encountered the police, at 7.12pm on October 13 last
year, the circumstances were rather different. Again his car was stopped, but
this time armed officers shot out the tyres of the Mercedes on the approach to
Tower Bridge to prevent him trying to drive away as he was arrested on suspicion
of terrorist offences.

Once again, the car was searched. Hidden between his iPhone and its protective
case was a memory card wrapped in masking tape that contained three files
relating to "bomb making", the jury was told.

They included references to latex gloves, goggles, chemicals to use and a
description of how to use ground down matchstick heads. There was also a "rather
comical" drawing of a bomb going off in the back of a car, said Richard Whittam
QC, prosecuting.

The iPhone had been used to search the internet for "Islamic State of Iraq" in
both English and Arabic.

Hand written notes in a pocket notebook stated: "Fight those of the infidels who
are near to you and why do you not fight in Allah's cause for those oppressed
men, women and children who cry out 'Lord rescue us from this town'".

When he was arrested, Mr Incedal gave his home address in Southwark, south
London, and said: "Are you going into my address with guns? My wife and kids are
there." He failed to mention that he had access to a second address in
Bayswater, west London, at which he had been living for some time, Mr Whittam
said.

It was there that his Acer laptop was found, as well as the white Versace
glasses case and registration documents for the Mercedes.

At Mr Incedal's home address, police found an A4 pad of handwritten notes which
primarily referred to the establishment of a kebab shop business, the jury
heard.

There was also a reference to "Plan A", which appeared to concern a check list
for a potential operation involving "one month surveillance", the renting of a
nearby flat, transport, uniforms and references to planning, rehearsals, action,
resources and route.

A handwritten spider diagram found under the bed included the words security,
intelligence, communication and recruitment. Another diagram concerned "secure
communications" and "methods to communicate".

A map detailed a route through Saudi Arabia to the Pakistan border and referred
to "physical endurance and core strength". A list for travel included an item
called "cover stories".

Details of a Skype conversation found on the hard drive of the laptop contained
coded messages referring to "the use of kalashnikovs like the ones used in the
attack in Mumbai in 2008," Mr Whittam said.

One of the chats between "Fatima Hamoodi" and "Zaynab Alawi" referred to being
able to send "straps", a slang word for guns, said Mr Whittam.

It went on: "These straps are not the little ones, they are like the ones we
have here u knw."

The message then referred to a "k 1122aa shhh".

Mr Whittam told the jury: "You may think that is short for Kalashnikov."

It is alleged Incedal used the Fatima identity to communicate from July 2013.

The message continued: "If they are able to get this type and it works may want
to do mo88m 55bayy style."

Mr Whittam said this referred to "the use of a Kalashnikov like the ones in
Mumbai in 2008."

He told the jury: "You will have to consider first of all, what were they
talking about. Was it in preparation for something and if that was the topic
what was this defendant's role in that?"

The entire trial of Mr Incedal - formerly known in the case as "AB" - was
originally scheduled to be heard in secret, which would have been unprecedented
in British legal history. But the decision was overturned by the Court of Appeal
after a successful challenge by media organisations including The Daily
Telegraph. Senior judges said open justice was the "hallmark and a safeguard" of
the "priceless asset" that is the rule of law.

Only a small group of accredited journalists, including one from The Daily
Telegraph, will be granted access to much of the trial but will not be able to
report on proceedings. The jury has been told that some of the evidence they
hear will never be made public.

A second defendant, Mounir Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, 26, pleaded guilty last week to
possessing a terrorist document and is awaiting sentence.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 15, 2014 Wednesday

Iran paper blames US, London, Riyadh, Tel Aviv for recent "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 1418 words


Text of commentary by Ja'far Qannadbashi: "The Behind-the-Scene of the Incident
in Saravan [County in Sistan -Baluchestan Province; bordering with Pakistan]" by
Iranian newspaper Hemayat website on 11 October

Terrorism has deep roots in history and resorting to violence for advancing
one's political, religious or ideological goals has been a practice that has
existed from long time ago and different groups have made use of it. Many groups
and governments with different ideologies have resorted to acts of terrorism as
a means or a tool for achieving a certain goal on the basis of the famous saying
by Machiavelli that "ends justify the means".

The use of terrorism in Sistan and Baluchestan Province also goes back a long
way in history. However, in more recent times, after Reza Khan [Reza Shah] came
to power and suppressed various tribes there were many examples of terrorism
again. Two decades after the Islamic revolution, once again new terrorist groups
emerged with different ideologies and made use of different methods.

These new groups were mainly religious, and they had been influenced by Takfiri
[militant Sunni groups that regard Shi'is as heretics] terrorist groups, such as
Al-Qa'idah. In the year 1373 [the year that started on 20 March 1994] a
terrorist group known as "Iran's Islamic Movement" was formed, and in the year
1384 Abdul-Majid Rigi, known as Abdul-Malek Rigi, founded the terrorist group
Jondullah [or Jundallah, the Army of Allah]. During its five years of
activities, which ended with the arrest and execution of Abdul-Malek Rigi, there
were a number of splits in that organization, and it resulted in the killing or
wounding of more than 500 people in the country.

After Abdul-Malek Rigi's death, there were new splits in that organization. The
terrorist groups active in Sistan-Baluchestan Province received financial,
logistical, intelligence and other forms of assistance from other terrorist
groups active in that region. However, recently, they have formed strong,
extensive and unholy alliances with other terrorist groups active in the region,
as well as with the intelligence services of some countries in the region and
beyond.

In this connection, last Wednesday night [October 8, 2014], a report was
published about a campaign by various hostile terrorist groups against the
law-enforcement officers of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The following day,
there was a grenade attack as well as a suicide attack by a terrorist mini-group
against a post of the law-enforcement forces. Regarding those terrorist attacks
it should be pointed out that rather than being offensive moves, such attacks
are defensive and are carried out due to weakness.

In fact, those who deceive and make use of those individuals and terrorist
groups and who provide them with weapons and financial and intelligence
assistance know very well that the Islamic Republic of Iran enjoys a high degree
of power, and has delivered many blows at those groups. In other words, we can
say that one of the reasons for those blind attacks is their fear of the
increasing influence and power of Iran in the region and in the world.

Iran's enemies imagine that they must show some reaction to the defeats that
they have suffered from Iran in the region and the world. Therefore, one should
look for the roots of those attacks in Washington, London, Riyadh, and Tel Aviv.
Of course, this does not mean that the Pakistani government should be absolved
of responsibility and accountability.

The enemies of Iran have decided to keep Iran preoccupied with marginal issues
in order to keep her away from the regional and international equations that
have been turned into their Achilles's heels. Therefore, keeping Iran engaged in
the scenes behind the battlefront is one of the tools that they use in order to
reduce Iran's influence at various levels.

Those attacks also reveal the defeat of the enemies in the cultural front as
well, because by engaging in cultural, ethnic and sectarian efforts they were
trying to target our national unity by creating different diversions beyond
Iran's borders, whether in the Eastern or Western borders. Their failure in that
strategy has forced them to resort to the worst kinds of battles against Iran,
because any act of terrorism and killing will impose heavy material and moral
losses on them.

The message that is conveyed by such operations that are totally worthless from
a military and political point of view is that those who order, support or carry
out those operations have failed in any other action [against Iran], and as the
result of their desperation they have now resorted to such blind and fruitless
actions. In other words, this has been the most that they are capable of doing,
and nothing else. The people in the Eastern parts of the country are strongly
opposed to such actions, and have repeatedly expressed their readiness to arrest
those who have been responsible for such terrorist acts.

This is also the sign of the success of the system [the Iranian regime] in its
cultural policies in attracting [winning the support of] various ethnic and
religious groups, and it is also another sign of the strength of Iranian
national unity and solidarity. On the other hand, it is also a manifestation of
the failure of the enemies' moves in various fields for introducing instability
to Iranian borders and undermining Iranian security and national unity. The fact
that the perpetrators of such acts flee to foreign countries after committing
those crimes is another proof of the fact that the perpetrators of those
activities have no place among the people of the region.

Unfortunately, the Pakistani soil has become a secure base for such terrorist
attacks. This is despite the fact that in a spirit of good neighbourliness Iran
has never provided a base for the opponents of the regional and neighbouring
countries. Some Pakistani politicians and military officials, under the
influence of [Saudi] Arabian dollars and due to their fear of American power,
commit certain acts that are contrary to the security and the national interests
of Iran and Pakistan.

Pakistani politicians and military officials should know that they should not
allow themselves to be used as toys as the result of the dollars of some Arab
countries and American power, because after their sell-by date has expired they
will be discarded, the same as was done to Saddam [Husayn] and to other Western
pawns. Therefore, their fate should be a good lesson for some Pakistani
officials and should warn them against establishing a secure base in their
territory for Iran's enemies.

On the other hand, such acts are a great treason to Islam, because those groups
portray a violent and unrealistic picture of Islam to the people of the world.
They are doing cheaply for the West what the West has been unable to achieve by
spending billions of dollars. Therefore, by realizing these facts, Pakistani
politicians and military officials should act in keeping with the national
interests of both countries, and they should also stand up against the
interventionist operations of the West.

Some actions, such as the attacks by Western unmanned vehicles [Pahbad or
drones] against residential areas violate Pakistan's security and independence.
Those are the issued that they must attend to, not strengthening and equipping
Iran's enemies. They should also pay attention to the independence and national
security of the entire Islamic world, and to supporting the resistance axis and
Palestine, and they should refrain from any action that will result in divisions
in the Islamic world. This is something that the West and some reactionary
regimes that are operating as the enemies of the Islamic world are trying hard
to achieve. The West would like to force Iran and Pakistan to confront one
another.

However, as the result of having good relations that are in keeping with the
interests of both nations, Iran and Pakistan have so far managed to neutralize
the plots of the enemies. Pakistan's activities that reveal the greater power of
that country should not place that country alongside Washington, Tel Aviv,
Riyadh and London.

We expect the Pakistani government to fight terrorism with greater might. If the
government in Islamabad procrastinates in this effort or is unable to manage
that effort, the Islamic Republic of Iran has the capability to safeguard her
national security against from any side when it finds it necessary to act.

Source: Hemayat website, Tehran, in Persian 11 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 15, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Suspect plotting terror attack had Tony and Cherie's address'

BYLINE: John Chapman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 797 words


FORMER prime minister Tony Blair and his wife Cherie may have been the targets
of a terror plot, an Old Bailey trial was told yesterday.

Erol Incedal, 26, from London, may also have been looking at a "Mumbai-style"
atrocity with the use of a Kalashnikov rifle, according to coded messages found
on his computer, the trial, which is being held partly in secret, heard.

But the alleged plot was scuppered after police stopped Incedal's car for a
motoring offence.

Officers planted a bugging device which picked up snippets of chatter about "bin
Laden, fatwa, Syria and jihad".

Incedal, formerly known in the case as AB, denies charges of preparing acts of
terrorism and possessing a document entitled Bomb Making on a memory card.

Attack

Jurors were told his co-defendant, Mounir Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, also 26, from
London, who was known as CD, has admitted possessing a terrorist document.

Opening the case against Incedal, prosecutor Richard Whittam QC said: "You will
hear that he was actively engaged with another or others who were abroad.

"The prosecution case is that such engagement was for an act, or acts of
terrorism either against a limited number of individuals of significance or a
more wide-ranging and indiscriminate attack such as the one in Mumbai in 2008."

When police first stopped Incedal's black Mercedes on September 30 2013, they
found an Acer laptop computer, a notebook and a Versace glasses case which
contained a scrap of paper with the Blairs' address written on it.

Mr Whittam said: "Count 1 does not suggest that Erol Incedal had settled on a
specific target or a particular methodology, but in the context of the case as a
whole and the evidence that I am going to come to, you may think that this
address does have some significance."

During the search, police planted a bugging device in Incedal's car which picked
up conversations that gave a "flavour" of what was going on in the following
weeks, Mr Whittam said.

In one, Incedal complains about the police and talks about going to a "Plan B"
after being stopped.

He says: "I hate white people so much. I might have to destroy everything and do
something else."

In another chat, he says: "I made a big mistake. Some very important stuff was
in the car. If they find it, we're ******." Jihadist music was played in the car
to the words "slaughter, looking at the enemy, looking at the bodies. In this
operation they kill approximately 100 kaffar", the court heard.

There was also talk of renting an "illegal house" because "you cannot carry
rucksacks, it's too dangerous," the court heard.

Screensaver

Armed police swooped on the car on the evening of October 13 last year after it
had crossed Tower Bridge into the City of London.

Incedal was driving and codefendant Rarmoul-Bouhadjar was in the passenger seat,
Mr Whittam said.

Incedal was arrested on suspicion of being a terrorist and told to hand over the
pin numbers for his two mobiles.

He gave an address as Unity Court, in south-east London, but failed to mention
that he also had another London address in Sussex Gardens.

The jury was told he had a Turkish residency permit with him as well as a UK
passport with various entry stamps in it.

Mr Whittam told the court that Incedal's phone contained various images of a
synagogue and a YouTube page in support of the Islamic State in Iraq.

The iPhone had internet searches in English and Arabic for IS in Iraq and the IS
black flag as a screensaver. Inside its protective case was a micro SD card
containing a bomb making document, the court heard.

During the search of the Sussex Gardens address near Paddington, police
recovered the laptop which had been in the car during the first police stop.

On it they found references to guns and the attack on Mumbai in India.

At the Unity Court home, police found hand-written notes with reference to
"security", "use law as cover", "finances" and "secure communications".

The trial continues.

JUDGE ISSUES JAIL WARNING TO JURY

JURORS at Britain's first secret terror trial have been warned they face jail if
they discuss the case outside court.

Large parts of the case will be held behind closed doors because of security
issues.

Journalists, too, have to abide by strict rules. Mr Justice Nicol said: "No
member of the jury may disclose anything that is said or disclose the contents
of any document or recording or other evidence." He has previously explained
that any breach of his directions could result in a jail sentence.

Ten journalists who are allowed to hear part of the private evidence will not be
allowed to report on the proceedings. They signed an undertaking and have to
place their phones in a locked cabinet at the start of secret sessions. Their
notes cannot leave the court room and are placed in a special folder at the end
of the day.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Artist's impression of the Old Bailey yesterday as Richard Whittam QC
opens the case against IncedalThe address of Tony and Cherie Blair was found in
a Versace glasses case

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    October 15, 2014 Wednesday 10:18 PM GMT

UEFA open proceedings against Serbia and Albania for their abandoned Euro 2016
qualifier... but Serbian FA say incident was a 'planned terrorist attack' on
their country

BYLINE: LAURIE WHITWELL

SECTION: FOOTBALL

LENGTH: 2342 words



     ·    Serbia's Euro 2016 qualifier against Albania was abandoned on Tuesday
     ·    A drone carrying the Albanian flag was flow over the pitch in the
          first half
     ·    Serbian defender Stefan Mitrovic pulled down the flag resulting in
          fighting
     ·    Serbian FA believe the drone was part of a 'planned terrorist attack'
     ·    UEFA are now investigating the ugly scenes that happened in Belgrade


Serbia and Albania can expect severe punishments after UEFA launched an
investigation into a night of unprecedented violence in Belgrade, described as
'inexcusable' by Michel Platini.

Recriminations continued on Wednesday after the Euro 2016 qualifier between the
fierce Balkan rivals descended into violence and chaos involving players, fans
and staff when a drone carrying a flag bearing a politically-charged message was
flown into Belgrade's Partizan Stadium.


     ·    Albania players told how they feared for their safety as hooligans
          invaded the pitch and threw missiles as they ran to the tunnel for
          cover.
     ·    Serbia accused the perpetrators behind the flag of committing 'a
          terrorist act'.
     ·    The brother of Albania's prime minister was forced to deny he was
          steering the drone from his VIP box.
     ·    Serbia claimed they should be awarded a 3-0 victory by UEFA despite
          loudly jeering the Albanian anthem.


English referee Martin Atkinson was at the centre of the storm, forced to
abandon the tie as Albania's players refused to continue once they had taken
refuge in the dressing room.

£50 DRONE THAT STARTED A RIOT

An unmanned aerial vehicle piloted by remote control, it is used primarily by
the military for surveillance and checking for bombs and landmines.

How do they work?

They are used mainly in situations where manned flight is too dangerous or
difficult, and can therefore be controlled from long distances - smaller drones,
such as the type spotted during the Serbia v Albania match, commonly have a
range of around 1km.

Can anyone just buy one?

Yes, very easily. It is legal to fly drones weighing less than 20kg in most
British airspaces, and they can be purchased for as little as £50 from various
websites.

The mass brawl was sparked with the score at 0-0 in the 40th minute when Serbia
defender Stefan Mitrovic dragged down the flag, which displayed a map of
so-called 'Greater Albania' - including Kosovo - and the word 'autochthonous',
meaning indigenous.

Mitrovic was grabbed by two Albanians and the flag was taken by Albania striker
Bekim Balaj, who was attacked with a chair by a Serbian fan.

Albania captain Lorik Cana, once of Sunderland, wrestled the thug to the floor
before more pitch invaders forced the visiting team to dash down the tunnel,
fending off kicks and missiles as they did so.

Cana, now at Lazio, said he suffered injuries to his face in the melee, adding:
'We came to play football, but we were physically attacked by Serbian fans and
therefore did not want to return to the field.'

KOSOVO AT THE ROOT OF IT

Albania fans were banned from the match due to the turbulent history between the
Balkan nations.

This is mainly because of Kosovo, recognised as an independent state since 2008
by 108 countries including the US and UK but not Serbia, which still considers
the territory its own province.

Kosovo is dominated by ethnic Albanians and seven members of the national squad
were born there.

In 1999, NATO intervened with air strikes to halt Serbian forces who had killed
more than 10,000 ethnic Albanians and displaced around one million more during
the Yugoslav Wars.

Kosovo does not belong to the UN, FIFA or UEFA but this year has been allowed to
play official friendlies.

Chelsea's Branislav Ivanovic, Serbia's captain, said: 'All I can say is that we
wanted to carry on and that we shielded the Albanian players every step of the
way to the tunnel. The Albanian team said they were unfit physically and
mentally to carry on after talking to the officials and they will now decide the
fate of this match.'

UEFA formally opened disciplinary proceedings on Wednesday night. Serbia will be
investigated on five counts, including setting off fireworks, crowd disturbance
and poor organisation.

Albania are accused of breaching two rules: refusing to play and the display of
an illicit banner.

UEFA president Platini said he was 'deeply saddened,' adding: 'The scenes in
Belgrade were inexcusable.'

In a statement, the Serbian FA 'strongly stressed' that 'at all times safety was
guaranteed to every member' of Albania's team - then accused Olsi Rama, brother
of Albanian prime minister Edi, of flying the drone from the stands.

They insisted they should be awarded a 3-0 victory because their visitors were
'directly guilty for the match abandonment', adding: 'Serbia are aghast by the
provocation and are afraid this is a scenario of a terrorist action planned in
advance.'

Serbian media reported Olsi Rama had been arrested with controls in his hands
but he denied the claims, saying: 'I've never used a drone in my life... only
bought my son a toy helicopter.'

A 3,000-strong crowd cheered the Albania team's return in Tirana. Their prime
minister tweeted: 'Proud of the black and red team. Regret for our neighbours
who presented themselves badly with their ugly show.'

READ FULL STATEMENT FROM SERBIAN FA OVER ABANDONED MATCH

After last night's UEFA EURO 2016 Group I qualifier between Serbia and Albania
(0:0, 41st minute, FK Partizan Stadium, Belgrade) abandonment, Football
Association of Serbia is issuing the following press release.

Football Association of Serbia is expressing regret that the match between
Serbia and Albania did not finish in a sports manner, as a very important event
of two countries' best teams should have.

In atmosphere that has not been seen for a long time in Serbia, with support of
fans acting like one, Serbian National team players, with their good game, were
heading towards an important victory on their way to France 2016. Unfortunately,
because of a provocation from the opponent's side, started by entering a flag of
non-existing so-called "Great Albania" that as such offends feelings of all
citizens of Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Greece, with help of a drone that
came from outside of the stadium, and that was continued by inappropriate scenes
on the pitch, the match was not finished in the usual way and therefore our
national team players lost chance to show who was better and of more quality in
a fair, sportsmanlike and chivalrous contest.

At this moment we do not want to deal with presumptions about the final
solution. We do emphasise that while preparing this match we were in constant
touch with all appropriate and relevant state authorities.

However, we would like to inform domestic and foreign public about certain
undisputable facts regarding last night's match between Serbia and Albania:

1. Match suspension was in the 41st minute, upon appearance of the mentioned
flag that came from outside of the stadium, carried by a drone and as such found
itself in the space foreseen for the game. Appearance of the object is a
well-planned political diversion. It will turn out that it was the only and key
reason for definite abandonment of the match that came later on. Referee Martin
Atkinson stopped the match, expecting for the object to be removed. The act that
the referee stopped the match was a clear sign that it had to be removed
immediately. At one moment, Serbian player Stefan Mitrovic managed to catch the
flag and, as it can be clearly seen on all the footages, started to fold it as
calmly as possible, in order to give it to the fourth official and for the match
to be continued. Absolutely all of the Serbian players and officials on the
bench were in their seats, calm and without any attempt to show force or rage
because of the incident. However, Albanian players acted very aggressively and
physically attacked Mitrovic.

2. By this way FA of Serbia would like to thank to enormous number of supporters
present at the stadium, who remained in their seats and behaving as they did,
contributed for the mentioned nationally and politically based provocation not
to end with tragic consequences. Unfortunately, individuals who entered the
pitch succumbed to the provocation and wanted only one thing - to remove the
mentioned flag. Regardless understanding we have, we must not tolerate such an
act and FA of Serbia will press charges against them, all in accordance with the
law, legal regulations and obligations, and after reviewing footage of security
cameras. Furthermore, the same procedure will be started against a person who
broke into the Radio Television Serbia studio and sent offensive messages to the
Prime Minister of Republic of Serbia.

3. What came next were moments of acting in crisis circumstances. Forming a
group of appropriate officials and being familiar with all steps and rules,
members of the FA of Serbia took part in UEFA meetings in the best possible way.
We declare under full responsibility that the match referee and the match
delegate made a decision for the match to be continued. FA of Serbia and our
representatives accepted that, but unfortunately not the people from the
Albanian FF and their national team.

4. Wanting only football game to be the winner, we proposed the following
options foreseen by the relevant regulations to the delegate, referees and
Albanian FF:

- For the match to be continued according to the decision of the referee and
delegate - Albanian FF refused that

- For the match to be continued after emptying the stands - Albanian FF refused
that

- For the match to be postponed and played on Wednesday, 15th October 2014 -
Albanian FF refused that

For every of the proposed options FA of Serbia had full support of all relevant
authorities - match referees, match delegate and other match officials.

Proposals had also been refused by the highest officials of the Albanian FF and
also by their team captain Cana who was present on behalf of their national
team.

Further to all the above, referee Atkinson told our captain Branislav Ivanovic
to take the team to the pitch and therefore show decisiveness of Serbia to play,
which was done accordingly.

After few consultations with his teammates, Albanian team captain Cana
officially confirmed that Albania did not want to continue with the match, out
of reason that some of the players were mentally unfit at that moment.

Referee Atkinson informed the present people that there were four remaining
minutes of the game in the first half and up till then already defined two
minutes of additional time.

5. FA of Serbia emphasise that before and during the played part of the match,
and also after the match was abandoned neither any of the Albanian flags had
been burnt nor there had been any banners with inappropriate content.
Furthermore, we strongly stress the fact that at all times safety was guaranteed
to every member of the Albanian FF delegation.

Events that happened during the match and that resulted in the match to be
abandoned have shown us one incredible synchronisation of the whole event that
had only one aim - to cause abandonment of the match in Belgrade! And let us
immediately stress that Football Association of Serbia has never evaded
responsibility, that is not our intention now, but for the truth and justice we
will not and do not want to allow the perpetrators who violated football to
present themselves as victims.

It is a scandalous fact that the other party, with their "job well done" is
ridiculing not only FA of Serbia and Serbian people but also, we dare to say,
UEFA. Starting with the person detained for questioning who operated the drone
with the flag of "Great Albania", the flag that offends not only Serbian
citizens, but also people of Greece, Montenegro and FYR Macedonia, to those who
now boast they had brought that drone to Belgrade and display photos on social
networks. It is devastating and also easily seen through that even the Albanian
Prime Minister himself spoke, he, whose brother allegedly was directly
responsible for taking the drone into the stadium! Now we ask: how the world,
many politicians, EU and UEFA representatives would react if such a crazy,
shameless scenario was to happen in Albania and directed by our "officials"?
Also, do not forget organised festivities in the countries of the region after
the last night's match was abandoned, when the mentioned flag and abandoned
match were celebrated. Those events are in favour of the idea of the FA of
Serbia for both matches between Serbia and Albania to be played without guest
supporters.

Because of all that, FA of Serbia strongly condemn scenes of violence at the FK
Partizan stadium, but also football being shamefully politicized, what is
contrary to all UEFA and FIFA regulations and what is the main reason of the
match being abandoned. Football Association of Serbia also request from UEFA
disciplinary bodies to react as in the Genoa case and act according to the same
criteria.

We welcomed our guests from the Albanian FF in the best possible way. Because of
that, we are truly worried by the fact that, after decision of the match
officials (delegate and referee) for the match to be continued, they did not do
anything for that to happen. They simply took UEFA rules in their own hands
interpreting them as they preferred. According to that, we estimate that they
are directly guilty for the match abandonment and we expect that UEFA
disciplinary bodies will register the match with 3:0 result, in favour of
Serbia.

At the same time, we warn UEFA that, sadly, something like this can also happen
on other stadiums all around Europe and future safety measures should also
foresee this new "Albanian way" of acting against football and all parties
involved.

Summarizing all, FA of Serbia are aghast by the seen provocation and are afraid
that this is scenario of a terrorist action planned in advance, above all
directed against interests of our country, Republic of Serbia.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 15, 2014 Wednesday 8:54 PM GMT

Terror suspect accused of plotting attack on Tony Blair sang 'we're going to
slit their throats' during song praising mujahadeen fighters, court hears

BYLINE: STEPH COCKROFT FOR MAILONLINE and CHRIS GREENWOOD FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1467 words



     ·    Erol Incedal, 26, of Turkish origin, on trial for alleged terrorism
          offences
     ·    He spoke of hating white people and sang about throat-slitting
     ·    Incedal watched ultra-violent jihadi videos featuring carnage in Syria
     ·    Police also searched flat in Paddington which Incedal did not tell
          them about
     ·    Old Bailey heard officers found evidence of several people living
          there
     ·    Shoes, condoms and Nicholas Cage DVDs found strewn across flat, jury
          told
     ·    Jury previously heard Incedal kept Tony Blair's address on piece of
          paper
     ·    Incedal denies charges - trial being held largely in secret for
          security reasons


A law student accused of plotting a terrorist attack on Tony Blair sang 'We're
gonna slit their throats!' during an Arabic song praising mujahedeen fighters, a
court heard today.

Erol Incedal also warned his wife and mother of his three children 'I'm not
going to be around long', and that he was in the 'last few months of his life'.

The 26-year-old, who is of Turkish origin, said he hated white people and wanted
to run over police officers - who he called 'pigs' - with a car, the Old Bailey
was told.

The comments were recorded by a bug planted in his car which captured the
suspected terrorist laughing and joking as he watched ultra-violent jihadi
videos featuring scenes of carnage from the war in Syria.

A jury heard Incedal telling two friends the Al Qaeda and Islamic State
propaganda 'puts this thing in your head' that made him want to shoot people in
a 'drive-by'.

He sang 'we're gonna slit their throats!' during a song praising fighters and
made shooting noises while pointing his mobile phone at people.

Incedal, of South-East London, has pleaded not guilty to plotting acts of
terrorism over 20 months until his arrest at gunpoint in October last year.

Prosecutors say he was at the centre of a plot to carry out an attack on an
unknown target, which may have mirrored the 2008 shootings in Mumbai.

He was caught with the address of former Prime Minister Mr Blair and a hidden
memory stick loaded with detailed bomb-making instructions, it is claimed.

The counter-terrorism police investigation into Incedal moved up a gear on
September 30 last year when he was arrested for driving offences. Police hid a
listening device in his Mercedes and within hours of his release it caught his
wife Kadeejah Baluch shouting at him.

The row was sparked by his confession that he had been speaking to a Russian
woman in a shisha café while he did not allow her to speak to men.

Mrs Baluch said she was leaving him because of his 'double standards' and his
refusal to look after their children.

'No problem, I'm gonna leave very soon. I'm not going to come back this time,'
Incedal told her.

'I think we should just finish it,' his wife hit back.

'I'm never going to be around for long anyway so it doesn't make any difference
to me. At least the last few months of my life, I'll live with peace of mind,'
Incedal said.

I'm never going to be around for long anyway so it doesn't make any difference
to me.

At least the last few months of my life, I'll live with peace of mind.

Earlier, he told Mrs Baluch, 'I hate white people so much', and said he wanted
to run police officers - who he called 'pigs' - over with a car.

The following day Incedal was recorded as he sang along to a song about Islamic
State. While alone in the car he watched a conspiracy film, blaming 9/11 on
Jewish people and praising Osama bin Laden as a revolutionary.

The jury was also played recordings while Incedal was with his friend Mounir
Rarmoul-Bouhadjar and a third man.

The men watched violent videos promoting Islamic State which included the sound
of explosions and machine gunfire set to traditional music.

Commenting on one video, which was apparently being played on a laptop, Incedal
branded the armies of Syrian leader Bashar Assad as 'basically children'.

And he spoke admiringly of a military commander in Chechnya and the use of a
Russian heavy-calibre machine gun.

On the evening of October 1, less than 24 hours after he was released by police,
Incedal was making gunshot sounds as he sat in the car.

Rarmoul-Bouhadjar warned him: 'They were looking at you and everything when you
did that.'

Incedal replied: 'F*** you, what are they going to do about it?' before his
friend said the police would shoot him, even if he did not have a gun.

The suspected terrorist then said he had watched many jihadi videos but 'it
doesn't do anything to me'.

Laughing, he added: 'But the Dola [Al Qaeda] ones... it just puts this thing in
your head that you just want to do drive-bys.

'They do it a lot, bruv, and they have got this special Uzi machine gun and
silencer with it - it is nuts.'

The jury were told that Dola means 'the State' and referred to Al Qaeda in Iraq,
a forerunner of Islamic State.

Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, of South London, pleaded guilty last week to possessing
terrorist documents and is not in the dock. The trial is expected to last up to
six weeks.

Earlier today it was reported that the terror suspect had notes entitled 'Plan
A' stashed on top of a wardrobe in the home he shared with his wife and three
young children.

Among the items listed on Erol Incedal's document were the words 'legitimacy'
'assess risk' and 'assess security', jurors were told.

Incedal also mentioned 'three to four workers', 'two tennis racquets' and 'one
month's surveillance' in his 'Plan A' list.

The document was found by detectives during a search of Incedal's home after his
dramatic arrest near Tower Bridge in October last year, the Old Bailey was told.

Incedal, formerly known as AB, was arrested at gunpoint after a bug that police
planted in his car recorded his rants against the West.

He is now on trial accused of preparing acts of terrorism and possessing a
document entitled Bomb Making on a memory card.

Today, the Old Bailey heard how police searched two addresses following
Incedal's arrest.

The first was his home in Unity Court, south east London, and the second was a
flat in Sussex Gardens near Paddington, which the defendant failed to tell them
about.

When detectives arrived at Unity Court with a search warrant, Incedal's wife
Kadeejah Baluch answered the door.

The court heard there were four children at the flat at the time, including
Incedal's own aged six, four and 11 months.

Ms Baluch confirmed to officers that her husband was Incedal and said: 'He
normally lives here but not for the last four days', the court was told.

It was during the search that police found the document headed 'Plan A' on top
of a wardrobe in a bedroom, the court heard.

Prosecutor Richard Whittam QC said it listed 'three to four workers, two tennis
racquets, one month's surveillance, rent nearby flat, transport, assess
security, assess risk, legitimacy, action etc'.

Other officers searched Incedal's second address in central London where they
found evidence of a number of people living there, the court was told.

They found toothbrushes in the bathroom, three pairs of shoes and three beds
made up - one of which was done up with 'classy' fake black silk sheets, the
court was told.

There were also condoms and various DVDs of Hollywood films strewn around the
flat, the court heard.

During his evidence, Mr Whittam - referring to the Hollywood actor - said to
crime scene examiner Matt Rogers: 'Someone is a Nick Cage fan?'

The detective constable replied: 'That appears to be the case.'

The court previously heard how officers also allegedly found a micro memory card
hidden in Incedal's iPhone case with a step-by-step guide on making an
improvised explosive device.

The mobile, which had the black flag of jihadist group Islamic State as its home
screen, had been used to visit extremist sites and monitor the war in Syria.

The jury had been told how forensic experts discovered they were loaded with
three files with innocent titles but which allegedly contained detailed
bombmaking instructions.

The material included a 'car bomb recognition guide', details of a 'gas bomb',
information to help make detonators and a photograph of an exploding jet.

Police also found a laptop in a drawer in the bedroom, which the jury has heard
contained coded messages referring to a 'Mumbai-style' attack and Kalashnikov
rifles.

The jury has been told that Incedal was conspiring with others to either target
individuals or launch a wide-ranging, indiscriminate attack such as the Mumbai
massacre in 2008.

Yesterday, prosecutors said the handwritten address of Mr Blair and his wife
Cherie was found in Incedal's Versace glasses case.

The Old Bailey trial is being held in conditions of extreme secrecy with the
vast majority of the evidence to be heard behind closed doors.

The case would not have been reported at all had the media not persuaded a High
Court judge that complete secrecy was an affront to centuries of open justice.

Incedal denies the charges against him.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 15, 2014 Wednesday 8:36 PM GMT

UEFA open proceedings against Serbia and Albania for their abandoned Euro 2016
qualifier... but Serbian FA say incident was a 'planned terrorist attack' on
their country

BYLINE: OLIVER TODD FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: FOOTBALL

LENGTH: 2165 words



     ·    Serbia's Euro 2016 qualifier against Albania was abandoned on Tuesday
     ·    A drone carrying the Albanian flag was flow over the pitch in the
          first half
     ·    Serbian defender Stefan Mitrovic pulled down the flag resulting in
          fighting
     ·    Serbian FA believe the drone was part of a 'planned terrorist attack'
     ·    UEFA are now investigating the ugly scenes that happened in Belgrade
     ·    Neither country is expected to be kicked out of the competition


The Serbian FA claim the drone that caused their game against Albania to be
abandoned was a 'planned terrorist attack', as UEFA announced both sides will
face disciplinary proceedings.

Serbia have been charged with the throwing of missiles and fireworks, crowd
disturbance, invasion of the pitch by supporters, insufficient organisation and
use of a laser pointer.

While Albania have been charged with refusing to play and the display of an
illicit banner.

WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?

Both Serbia and Albania can expect heavy fines and other sanctions when they
face a UEFA disciplinary body on October 23.

Albania could forfeit the match, while Serbia may be made to play behind closed
doors.

UEFA are not expected to kick them out of Euro 2016 qualifying.

But in a letter released on Wednesday, Serbian football's governing body claim
that the disruption during Tuesday night's European Championship qualifier -
which was abandoned after 41 minutes - was part of a terrorist plot on their
country as a whole.

The brother of the Albanian Prime Minister has been arrested on suspicion of
operating the flag-carrying drone.

Both countries are likely to be handed heavy fines and other sanctions,
including possible points deductions, when UEFA's disciplinary body hears the
case on October 23.

Albania face forfeiting the match and Serbia could play future games behind
closed doors, but UEFA is not expected to expel the countries from the
competition.

UEFA president Michel Platini said in a statement: 'Football is supposed to
bring people together and our game should not be mixed with politics of any
kind. The scenes in Belgrade (on Tuesday) night were inexcusable.'

FIFA president Sepp Blatter added: 'Football should never be used for political
messages. I strongly condemn what happened in Belgrade.'

WHAT IS THE HISTORY INVOLVED IN THE SERBIA-ALBANIA ISSUE?

Albanian fans were banned from attending the match between the two Balkan rival
nations, due to the turbulent relations between the two.

These have mainly surrounded the former ethnic Albanian-dominated Serbian
province of Kosovo.

Kosovo declared independence in 2008, but this is not recognised by Serbia, who
feel the loss keenly.

NATO waged a 78-day air war in 1999 to halt the killing and expulsion of more
than 10,000 ethnic Albanians in Kosovo by Serbian forces fighting a two-year
counter-insurgency war.

Seven of Albania's squad were born in the Kosovo region.

But the Serbian FA are unwilling to accept the blame and say they 'do not want
to allow the perpetrators who violated football to present themselves as
victims'.

As well as blaming Albanian provocation for the trouble, they say their visiting
opponents were attempting to shame UEFA.

They argue that Serbia should be awarded a 3-0 victory by UEFA after the
Albanian FA refused to resume or replay the game at a later date.

Tuesday's match in Belgrade's Partizan Stadium was abandoned by English referee
Martin Atikinson in the 41st minute after a mass brawl ensued between the
opposing players and fans.

The match was called off after home defender Stefan Mitrovic pulled down the
flag carried by the drone - leading to chaos on the field and in the stands and
the arrest of the brother of the Albanian Prime Minister.

UEFA delegate Harry Been said: 'It is a regretful situation on which we will
report; the referee, myself and the security adviser. The circumstances were
such that we couldn't continue the match.

'You all saw what happened and I cannot comment on who is to blame or what to
blame. I will submit a report with my colleagues to UEFA and UEFA will decide
what will happen further.'

Serbia's full statement can be read below.

READ FULL STATEMENT FROM SERBIAN FA OVER ABANDONED MATCH

After last night's UEFA EURO 2016 Group I qualifier between Serbia and Albania
(0:0, 41st minute, FK Partizan Stadium, Belgrade) abandonment, Football
Association of Serbia is issuing the following press release.

Football Association of Serbia is expressing regret that the match between
Serbia and Albania did not finish in a sports manner, as a very important event
of two countries' best teams should have.

In atmosphere that has not been seen for a long time in Serbia, with support of
fans acting like one, Serbian National team players, with their good game, were
heading towards an important victory on their way to France 2016. Unfortunately,
because of a provocation from the opponent's side, started by entering a flag of
non-existing so-called "Great Albania" that as such offends feelings of all
citizens of Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Greece, with help of a drone that
came from outside of the stadium, and that was continued by inappropriate scenes
on the pitch, the match was not finished in the usual way and therefore our
national team players lost chance to show who was better and of more quality in
a fair, sportsmanlike and chivalrous contest.

At this moment we do not want to deal with presumptions about the final
solution. We do emphasise that while preparing this match we were in constant
touch with all appropriate and relevant state authorities.

However, we would like to inform domestic and foreign public about certain
undisputable facts regarding last night's match between Serbia and Albania:

1. Match suspension was in the 41st minute, upon appearance of the mentioned
flag that came from outside of the stadium, carried by a drone and as such found
itself in the space foreseen for the game. Appearance of the object is a
well-planned political diversion. It will turn out that it was the only and key
reason for definite abandonment of the match that came later on. Referee Martin
Atkinson stopped the match, expecting for the object to be removed. The act that
the referee stopped the match was a clear sign that it had to be removed
immediately. At one moment, Serbian player Stefan Mitrovic managed to catch the
flag and, as it can be clearly seen on all the footages, started to fold it as
calmly as possible, in order to give it to the fourth official and for the match
to be continued. Absolutely all of the Serbian players and officials on the
bench were in their seats, calm and without any attempt to show force or rage
because of the incident. However, Albanian players acted very aggressively and
physically attacked Mitrovic.

2. By this way FA of Serbia would like to thank to enormous number of supporters
present at the stadium, who remained in their seats and behaving as they did,
contributed for the mentioned nationally and politically based provocation not
to end with tragic consequences. Unfortunately, individuals who entered the
pitch succumbed to the provocation and wanted only one thing - to remove the
mentioned flag. Regardless understanding we have, we must not tolerate such an
act and FA of Serbia will press charges against them, all in accordance with the
law, legal regulations and obligations, and after reviewing footage of security
cameras. Furthermore, the same procedure will be started against a person who
broke into the Radio Television Serbia studio and sent offensive messages to the
Prime Minister of Republic of Serbia.

3. What came next were moments of acting in crisis circumstances. Forming a
group of appropriate officials and being familiar with all steps and rules,
members of the FA of Serbia took part in UEFA meetings in the best possible way.
We declare under full responsibility that the match referee and the match
delegate made a decision for the match to be continued. FA of Serbia and our
representatives accepted that, but unfortunately not the people from the
Albanian FF and their national team.

4. Wanting only football game to be the winner, we proposed the following
options foreseen by the relevant regulations to the delegate, referees and
Albanian FF:

- For the match to be continued according to the decision of the referee and
delegate - Albanian FF refused that

- For the match to be continued after emptying the stands - Albanian FF refused
that

- For the match to be postponed and played on Wednesday, 15th October 2014 -
Albanian FF refused that

For every of the proposed options FA of Serbia had full support of all relevant
authorities - match referees, match delegate and other match officials.

Proposals had also been refused by the highest officials of the Albanian FF and
also by their team captain Cana who was present on behalf of their national
team.

Further to all the above, referee Atkinson told our captain Branislav Ivanovic
to take the team to the pitch and therefore show decisiveness of Serbia to play,
which was done accordingly.

After few consultations with his teammates, Albanian team captain Cana
officially confirmed that Albania did not want to continue with the match, out
of reason that some of the players were mentally unfit at that moment.

Referee Atkinson informed the present people that there were four remaining
minutes of the game in the first half and up till then already defined two
minutes of additional time.

5. FA of Serbia emphasise that before and during the played part of the match,
and also after the match was abandoned neither any of the Albanian flags had
been burnt nor there had been any banners with inappropriate content.
Furthermore, we strongly stress the fact that at all times safety was guaranteed
to every member of the Albanian FF delegation.

Events that happened during the match and that resulted in the match to be
abandoned have shown us one incredible synchronisation of the whole event that
had only one aim - to cause abandonment of the match in Belgrade! And let us
immediately stress that Football Association of Serbia has never evaded
responsibility, that is not our intention now, but for the truth and justice we
will not and do not want to allow the perpetrators who violated football to
present themselves as victims.

It is a scandalous fact that the other party, with their "job well done" is
ridiculing not only FA of Serbia and Serbian people but also, we dare to say,
UEFA. Starting with the person detained for questioning who operated the drone
with the flag of "Great Albania", the flag that offends not only Serbian
citizens, but also people of Greece, Montenegro and FYR Macedonia, to those who
now boast they had brought that drone to Belgrade and display photos on social
networks. It is devastating and also easily seen through that even the Albanian
Prime Minister himself spoke, he, whose brother allegedly was directly
responsible for taking the drone into the stadium! Now we ask: how the world,
many politicians, EU and UEFA representatives would react if such a crazy,
shameless scenario was to happen in Albania and directed by our "officials"?
Also, do not forget organised festivities in the countries of the region after
the last night's match was abandoned, when the mentioned flag and abandoned
match were celebrated. Those events are in favour of the idea of the FA of
Serbia for both matches between Serbia and Albania to be played without guest
supporters.

Because of all that, FA of Serbia strongly condemn scenes of violence at the FK
Partizan stadium, but also football being shamefully politicized, what is
contrary to all UEFA and FIFA regulations and what is the main reason of the
match being abandoned. Football Association of Serbia also request from UEFA
disciplinary bodies to react as in the Genoa case and act according to the same
criteria.

We welcomed our guests from the Albanian FF in the best possible way. Because of
that, we are truly worried by the fact that, after decision of the match
officials (delegate and referee) for the match to be continued, they did not do
anything for that to happen. They simply took UEFA rules in their own hands
interpreting them as they preferred. According to that, we estimate that they
are directly guilty for the match abandonment and we expect that UEFA
disciplinary bodies will register the match with 3:0 result, in favour of
Serbia.

At the same time, we warn UEFA that, sadly, something like this can also happen
on other stadiums all around Europe and future safety measures should also
foresee this new "Albanian way" of acting against football and all parties
involved.

Summarizing all, FA of Serbia are aghast by the seen provocation and are afraid
that this is scenario of a terrorist action planned in advance, above all
directed against interests of our country, Republic of Serbia.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 15, 2014 Wednesday 6:19 PM GMT

Serbian FA believe their abandoned Euro 2016 qualifier against Albania was due
to a 'planned terrorist attack' on their country

BYLINE: LUKE AUGUSTUS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: FOOTBALL

LENGTH: 2019 words



     ·    Serbia's Euro 2016 qualifier against Albania was abandoned on Tuesday
     ·    A drone carrying the Albanian flag was flown above the pitch late in
          the first half
     ·    Serbian defender Stefan Mitrovic pulled down the flag resulting in
          fighting
     ·    Serbian FA believe the drone was part of a 'planned terrorist attack'
     ·    UEFA are now investigating the ugly scenes that happened in Belgrade


WHAT IS THE HISTORY INVOLVED IN THE SERBIA-ALBANIA ISSUE?

Albanian fans were banned from attending the match between the two Balkan rival
nations, due to the turbulent relations between the two.

These have mainly surrounded the former ethnic Albanian-dominated Serbian
province of Kosovo.

Kosovo declared independence in 2008, but this is not recognised by Serbia, who
feel the loss keenly.

NATO waged a 78-day air war in 1999 to halt the killing and expulsion of more
than 10,000 ethnic Albanians in Kosovo by Serbian forces fighting a two-year
counter-insurgency war.

Seven of Albania's squad were born in the Kosovo region.

The Serbian FA has defended their country's part in their abandoned Euro 2016
qualifier against Albania - believing that they were the target of a terrorist
attack.

Tuesday's match in Belgrade's Partizan Stadium was suspended by English referee
Martin Atikinson in the 41st minute after a mass brawl ensued between the
opposing players and fans.

The match was called off after home defender Stefan Mitrovic pulled down a flag
carried by a drone - leading to chaos on the field and in the stands of the
Partizan Stadium and the arrest of the brother of the Albanian Prime Minister.

UEFA have since confirmed they have opened disciplinary proceedings against both
nations.

In a statement released by the Serbian FA  on Wednesday they say that they
believe the violence was part of a planned terrorist attack on the country as a
whole by their Eastern European neighbours.

In addition, it adds that they should be awarded a 3-0 victory by UEFA after the
Albanian FA refused to resume or replay the game at a later date.

The Albanian players were forced flee the field after the tension bubbled over,
followed by Serbia's XI that included the likes of Premier League stars
Branislav Ivanovic, Matija Nastasic, Aleksandar Kolarov, Dusan Tadic and Nemanja
Matic.

At first, the home support had cheered the flag, but once it became clear that
it was Albanian the mood in the stands turned. Flares were lit, with a NATO flag
burnt as supporters clashed with riot police.

Manchester City defender Kolarov was among the players who urged fans to calm
down as the Albanian players fled to the tunnel, putting his arm around one
opponent to help him away from the pitch.

Bizarrely, the announcer at the stadium played Cher's ' Believe' in an attempt
to calm fans during the break, to no avail. After a delay of around half an
hour, Atkinson abandoned the game.

UEFA delegate Harry Been told journalists: 'It is a regretful situation on which
we will report; the referee, myself and the security adviser. The circumstances
were such that we couldn't continue the match.

'You all saw what happened and I cannot comment on who is to blame or what to
blame. I will submit a report with my colleagues to UEFA and UEFA will decide
what will happen further.'

Serbia's full statement can be read below.

Serbian FA's statement about their abandoned match against Albania

After last night's UEFA EURO 2016 Group I qualifier between Serbia and Albania
(0:0, 41st minute, FK Partizan Stadium, Belgrade) abandonment, Football
Association of Serbia is issuing the following press release.

Football Association of Serbia is expressing regret that the match between
Serbia and Albania did not finish in a sports manner, as a very important event
of two countries' best teams should have.

In atmosphere that has not been seen for a long time in Serbia, with support of
fans acting like one, Serbian National team players, with their good game, were
heading towards an important victory on their way to France 2016. Unfortunately,
because of a provocation from the opponent's side, started by entering a flag of
non-existing so-called "Great Albania" that as such offends feelings of all
citizens of Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Greece, with help of a drone that
came from outside of the stadium, and that was continued by inappropriate scenes
on the pitch, the match was not finished in the usual way and therefore our
national team players lost chance to show who was better and of more quality in
a fair, sportsmanlike and chivalrous contest.

At this moment we do not want to deal with presumptions about the final
solution. We do emphasise that while preparing this match we were in constant
touch with all appropriate and relevant state authorities.

However, we would like to inform domestic and foreign public about certain
undisputable facts regarding last night's match between Serbia and Albania:

1. Match suspension was in the 41st minute, upon appearance of the mentioned
flag that came from outside of the stadium, carried by a drone and as such found
itself in the space foreseen for the game. Appearance of the object is a
well-planned political diversion. It will turn out that it was the only and key
reason for definite abandonment of the match that came later on. Referee Martin
Atkinson stopped the match, expecting for the object to be removed. The act that
the referee stopped the match was a clear sign that it had to be removed
immediately. At one moment, Serbian player Stefan Mitrovic managed to catch the
flag and, as it can be clearly seen on all the footages, started to fold it as
calmly as possible, in order to give it to the fourth official and for the match
to be continued. Absolutely all of the Serbian players and officials on the
bench were in their seats, calm and without any attempt to show force or rage
because of the incident. However, Albanian players acted very aggressively and
physically attacked Mitrovic.

2. By this way FA of Serbia would like to thank to enormous number of supporters
present at the stadium, who remained in their seats and behaving as they did,
contributed for the mentioned nationally and politically based provocation not
to end with tragic consequences. Unfortunately, individuals who entered the
pitch succumbed to the provocation and wanted only one thing - to remove the
mentioned flag. Regardless understanding we have, we must not tolerate such an
act and FA of Serbia will press charges against them, all in accordance with the
law, legal regulations and obligations, and after reviewing footage of security
cameras. Furthermore, the same procedure will be started against a person who
broke into the Radio Television Serbia studio and sent offensive messages to the
Prime Minister of Republic of Serbia.

3. What came next were moments of acting in crisis circumstances. Forming a
group of appropriate officials and being familiar with all steps and rules,
members of the FA of Serbia took part in UEFA meetings in the best possible way.
We declare under full responsibility that the match referee and the match
delegate made a decision for the match to be continued. FA of Serbia and our
representatives accepted that, but unfortunately not the people from the
Albanian FF and their national team.

4. Wanting only football game to be the winner, we proposed the following
options foreseen by the relevant regulations to the delegate, referees and
Albanian FF:

- For the match to be continued according to the decision of the referee and
delegate - Albanian FF refused that

- For the match to be continued after emptying the stands - Albanian FF refused
that

- For the match to be postponed and played on Wednesday, 15th October 2014 -
Albanian FF refused that

For every of the proposed options FA of Serbia had full support of all relevant
authorities - match referees, match delegate and other match officials.

Proposals had also been refused by the highest officials of the Albanian FF and
also by their team captain Cana who was present on behalf of their national
team.

Further to all the above, referee Atkinson told our captain Branislav Ivanovic
to take the team to the pitch and therefore show decisiveness of Serbia to play,
which was done accordingly.

After few consultations with his teammates, Albanian team captain Cana
officially confirmed that Albania did not want to continue with the match, out
of reason that some of the players were mentally unfit at that moment.

Referee Atkinson informed the present people that there were four remaining
minutes of the game in the first half and up till then already defined two
minutes of additional time.

5. FA of Serbia emphasise that before and during the played part of the match,
and also after the match was abandoned neither any of the Albanian flags had
been burnt nor there had been any banners with inappropriate content.
Furthermore, we strongly stress the fact that at all times safety was guaranteed
to every member of the Albanian FF delegation.

Events that happened during the match and that resulted in the match to be
abandoned have shown us one incredible synchronisation of the whole event that
had only one aim - to cause abandonment of the match in Belgrade! And let us
immediately stress that Football Association of Serbia has never evaded
responsibility, that is not our intention now, but for the truth and justice we
will not and do not want to allow the perpetrators who violated football to
present themselves as victims.

It is a scandalous fact that the other party, with their "job well done" is
ridiculing not only FA of Serbia and Serbian people but also, we dare to say,
UEFA. Starting with the person detained for questioning who operated the drone
with the flag of "Great Albania", the flag that offends not only Serbian
citizens, but also people of Greece, Montenegro and FYR Macedonia, to those who
now boast they had brought that drone to Belgrade and display photos on social
networks. It is devastating and also easily seen through that even the Albanian
Prime Minister himself spoke, he, whose brother allegedly was directly
responsible for taking the drone into the stadium! Now we ask: how the world,
many politicians, EU and UEFA representatives would react if such a crazy,
shameless scenario was to happen in Albania and directed by our "officials"?
Also, do not forget organised festivities in the countries of the region after
the last night's match was abandoned, when the mentioned flag and abandoned
match were celebrated. Those events are in favour of the idea of the FA of
Serbia for both matches between Serbia and Albania to be played without guest
supporters.

Because of all that, FA of Serbia strongly condemn scenes of violence at the FK
Partizan stadium, but also football being shamefully politicized, what is
contrary to all UEFA and FIFA regulations and what is the main reason of the
match being abandoned. Football Association of Serbia also request from UEFA
disciplinary bodies to react as in the Genoa case and act according to the same
criteria.

We welcomed our guests from the Albanian FF in the best possible way. Because of
that, we are truly worried by the fact that, after decision of the match
officials (delegate and referee) for the match to be continued, they did not do
anything for that to happen. They simply took UEFA rules in their own hands
interpreting them as they preferred. According to that, we estimate that they
are directly guilty for the match abandonment and we expect that UEFA
disciplinary bodies will register the match with 3:0 result, in favour of
Serbia.

At the same time, we warn UEFA that, sadly, something like this can also happen
on other stadiums all around Europe and future safety measures should also
foresee this new "Albanian way" of acting against football and all parties
involved.

Summarizing all, FA of Serbia are aghast by the seen provocation and are afraid
that this is scenario of a terrorist action planned in advance, above all
directed against interests of our country, Republic of Serbia.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 16, 2014 Thursday

"Terrorists" attack, kill two policemen east of Algeria

LENGTH: 98 words


A "terrorist group", has attacked a police vehicle in Zemmoura, 30 Kilometers
east of Bordj Bou Arreridj province, east of the country, leading to the death
of two police officers, privately-owned Algerian newspaper Echourouk El Youmi
website reported on 16 October.

The Algerian military and security apparatus had reportedly been investigating
the group before the attack, the report added.

This incident happened while police officers protested outside the presidential
headquarters in Algiers on 16 October, Echourouk noted.

Source: Echourouk El Youmi website, Algiers, in Arabic 16 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           October 16, 2014 Thursday

Terror attack accused told wife he had only months to live

BYLINE: Ian Cobain

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 507 words


A man accused of plotting terrorist attacks in London told his wife that he had
just a few months to live, the Old Bailey heard.

Erol Incedal was recorded making the statement after a listening device was
placed in his car two weeks before his arrest.

The jury heard that Incedal, 26, a law student from south London, made the
comment in an outburst during a row with his wife, after she suggested that
their marriage should end.

"Wallah, happy with that because I'm never going to be around for long anyway,
so it doesn't make any difference to me," Incedal was recorded saying.

Incedal's wife, Kadeejah Baluch, replies: "I don't care."

Incedal: "At least the last few months of my life I'll live with peace of mind."

Baluch: "Yeah, and I'll live with peace of mind as well."

The listening device had been secreted inside Incedal's black E-Class Mercedes
in September 2013 after he was arrested and accused of committing a road traffic
offence.

When police had looked inside his white Versace glasses case, they had found a
piece of paper on which was written the home address of Tony Blair and his wife
Cherie Booth.

After spending two hours in a police cell, Incedal was freed, and the jury was
played a number of recordings made over the following three days.

In one, he and two of his friends, Mounir Rarmoul-Bouhadjar and Ruslan Mamedov,
could be heard watching videos depicting opposition fighters engaged in gun
battles against the Syrian army, while sitting in the car. Afterwards, Incedal
could be heard making gunshot noises, while apparently pointing at passersby, as
they drive around London.

Incedal was recorded saying that videos depicting al-Qaida in Iraq "just puts
this thing in your head that you just want to do drive-bys". He was recorded
singing along with a soundtrack on one video: "'Cos we're going to cut their
throats. Shia!"

In another recording, Incedal lowers his voice to a whisper to tell Mamedov that
his laptop had been in the car when the vehicle was searched by police.

Incedal and Rarmoul-Bouhadjar were arrested two weeks later when three cars
carrying armed police surrounded the Mercedes near Tower Bridge, and officers
shot the tyres.

Both men are alleged to have been carrying SD memory cards containing documents
concerning bomb-making. The jury has heard that Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, also 26 and
from south London, has admitted possession of the documents. He will be
sentenced after Incedal's trial.

Incedal denies two terrorism charges.

The jury has been told that Incedal was preparing to mount an attack that could
have been against a small group of people or a single prominent person.
Alternatively, the prosecution alleges, he may have been planning an
indiscriminate attack on a hotel, such as that mounted in Mumbai, India, in
2008.

Significant parts of the evidence are being heard in secret, in what the
prosecution has described as an exceptional case.

The case continues.

Captions:

A court artist's sketch of Erol Incedal who is on trial at the Old Bailey in
London. He is accused of preparing acts of terrorism

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 16, 2014 Thursday 8:26 PM GMT

Iraq crisis: 'At least 50 killed' in wave of terrorist attacks across Baghdad;
Isis have claimed responsibility for one bombing and could be behind others

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 500 words


At least 50 people have been killed and many wounded in a wave of bomb attacks
on Baghdad bearing the hallmarks of Isis.

The Islamist group, which controls several major cities and towns surrounding
the Iraqi capital, has claimed responsibility for the most deadly attack in the
Dawlai district.

Two car bombs exploded simultaneously in a shopping area, killing between 14 and
16 civilians and wounding more than 30 others, according to varying reports.

Also on Thursday, a suicide bomber rammed a car laden with explosives into a
police checkpoint in the eastern suburb of Talibiyah at 2.30pm, killing at least
12 people, a police officer said.

Seven policemen and five civilians were among those killed, he added, and at
least 28 other people were wounded.

An hour later, five mortar rounds hit the Shia district of al-Shaoula, killing
another five and wounding 21 others.

A car bomb then exploded in the nearby Hurriyah district, leaving six dead and
wounding 14 others. Three people also died and six were wounded in a bomb blast
by a row of coffee shops in the Shia working class district of Allawi.

The violence also reached the countryside south of Baghdad, a mixed area that is
often a battlefront in the war between Sunni jihadists and the Shia-led
government.

Read more: Air strikes fail to drive Isis back from BaghdadIraq descends into
anarchy as Shia militias take revengeIsis fighters warn West - 'we will chop off
your heads'

In the district of Mahmoudiya, a car bomb killed seven and wounded 18, while a
roadside bomb blast claimed the lives of three Iraqi soldiers and wounded one
other on patrol in Madain.

Isis has vowed to take over Baghdad after overrunning vast areas of western and
northern Iraq and neighbouring Syria.

"They are making a statement to the Shias fighting them...we can target you in
your household," said Kareem al-Noori, from the Badr Organisation, a Shia
political party with a militia wing.

More than 162 people are believed to have been killed in terrorist attacks in
Iraq since Sunday, although the number of fatalities is difficult to confirm as
injured people succumb to their wounds.

Residents angered by the failure of government forces to protect them threw
stones at police checkpoints and police cars that arrived to respond to the
blasts on Thursday, prompting police to withdraw from some areas.

Iraqi politicians have tried to reassure residents that the capital is too
well-protected for militants to capture, even as they struggle to stop frequent
near daily deadly attacks.

In pictures: The rise of Isis

Troops backed by Shia militias and US-led air strikes have stopped Isis
advancing but have been unable to push it back.

Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi declared in a televised speech at a military
ceremony on Wednesday that Baghdad was "safe and the vicious terrorists can't
and will not reach it".

"Our brave security forces have managed to secure Baghdad and its perimeter," he
added.

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 16, 2014 Thursday 1:50 AM GMT

Terror suspect accused of plotting attack on Tony Blair sang 'we're going to
slit their throats' during song praising mujahadeen fighters, court hears

BYLINE: STEPH COCKROFT FOR MAILONLINE and CHRIS GREENWOOD FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1672 words



     ·    Erol Incedal, 26, of Turkish origin, on trial for alleged terrorism
          offences
     ·    He spoke of hating white people and sang about throat-slitting
     ·    Incedal watched ultra-violent jihadi videos featuring carnage in Syria
     ·    Police also searched flat in Paddington which Incedal did not tell
          them about
     ·    Old Bailey heard officers found evidence of several people living
          there
     ·    Shoes, condoms and Nicholas Cage DVDs found strewn across flat, jury
          told
     ·    Jury previously heard Incedal kept Tony Blair's address on piece of
          paper
     ·    Incedal denies charges - trial being held largely in secret for
          security reasons


A law student accused of plotting a terrorist attack on Tony Blair sang 'We're
gonna slit their throats!' during an Arabic song praising mujahedeen fighters, a
court heard today.

Erol Incedal also warned his wife and mother of his three children 'I'm not
going to be around long', and that he was in the 'last few months of his life'.

The 26-year-old, who is of Turkish origin, said he hated white people and wanted
to run over police officers - who he called 'pigs' - with a car, the Old Bailey
was told.

The comments were recorded by a bug planted in his car which captured the
suspected terrorist laughing and joking as he watched ultra-violent jihadi
videos featuring scenes of carnage from the war in Syria.

A jury heard Incedal telling two friends the Al Qaeda and Islamic State
propaganda 'puts this thing in your head' that made him want to shoot people in
a 'drive-by'.

He sang 'we're gonna slit their throats!' during a song praising fighters and
made shooting noises while pointing his mobile phone at people.

Incedal, of South-East London, has pleaded not guilty to plotting acts of
terrorism over 20 months until his arrest at gunpoint in October last year.

Prosecutors say he was at the centre of a plot to carry out an attack on an
unknown target, which may have mirrored the 2008 shootings in Mumbai.

He was caught with the address of former Prime Minister Mr Blair and a hidden
memory stick loaded with detailed bomb-making instructions, it is claimed.

The counter-terrorism police investigation into Incedal moved up a gear on
September 30 last year when he was arrested for driving offences. Police hid a
listening device in his Mercedes and within hours of his release it caught his
wife Kadeejah Baluch shouting at him.

The row was sparked by his confession that he had been speaking to a Russian
woman in a shisha café while he did not allow her to speak to men.

Mrs Baluch said she was leaving him because of his 'double standards' and his
refusal to look after their children.

'No problem, I'm gonna leave very soon. I'm not going to come back this time,'
Incedal told her.

'I think we should just finish it,' his wife hit back.

'I'm never going to be around for long anyway so it doesn't make any difference
to me. At least the last few months of my life, I'll live with peace of mind,'
Incedal said.

I'm never going to be around for long anyway so it doesn't make any difference
to me.

At least the last few months of my life, I'll live with peace of mind.

Earlier, he told Mrs Baluch, 'I hate white people so much', and said he wanted
to run police officers - who he called 'pigs' - over with a car.

The following day Incedal was recorded as he sang along to a song about Islamic
State. While alone in the car he watched a conspiracy film, blaming 9/11 on
Jewish people and praising Osama bin Laden as a revolutionary.

The jury was also played recordings while Incedal was with his friend Mounir
Rarmoul-Bouhadjar and a third man.

The men watched violent videos promoting Islamic State which included the sound
of explosions and machine gunfire set to traditional music.

Commenting on one video, which was apparently being played on a laptop, Incedal
branded the armies of Syrian leader Bashar Assad as 'basically children'.

And he spoke admiringly of a military commander in Chechnya and the use of a
Russian heavy-calibre machine gun.

On the evening of October 1, less than 24 hours after he was released by police,
Incedal was making gunshot sounds as he sat in the car.

Rarmoul-Bouhadjar warned him: 'They were looking at you and everything when you
did that.'

Incedal replied: 'F*** you, what are they going to do about it?' before his
friend said the police would shoot him, even if he did not have a gun.

The suspected terrorist then said he had watched many jihadi videos but 'it
doesn't do anything to me'.

Laughing, he added: 'But the Dola [Al Qaeda] ones... it just puts this thing in
your head that you just want to do drive-bys.

'They do it a lot, bruv, and they have got this special Uzi machine gun and
silencer with it - it is nuts.'

The jury were told that Dola means 'the State' and referred to Al Qaeda in Iraq,
a forerunner of Islamic State.

Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, of South London, pleaded guilty last week to possessing
terrorist documents and is not in the dock. The trial is expected to last up to
six weeks.

Earlier today it was reported that the terror suspect had notes entitled 'Plan
A' stashed on top of a wardrobe in the home he shared with his wife and three
young children.

Among the items listed on Erol Incedal's document were the words 'legitimacy'
'assess risk' and 'assess security', jurors were told.

Incedal also mentioned 'three to four workers', 'two tennis racquets' and 'one
month's surveillance' in his 'Plan A' list.

The document was found by detectives during a search of Incedal's home after his
dramatic arrest near Tower Bridge in October last year, the Old Bailey was told.

Incedal, formerly known as AB, was arrested at gunpoint after a bug that police
planted in his car recorded his rants against the West.

He is now on trial accused of preparing acts of terrorism and possessing a
document entitled Bomb Making on a memory card.

Today, the Old Bailey heard how police searched two addresses following
Incedal's arrest.

The first was his home in Unity Court, south east London, and the second was a
flat in Sussex Gardens near Paddington, which the defendant failed to tell them
about.

When detectives arrived at Unity Court with a search warrant, Incedal's wife
Kadeejah Baluch answered the door.

The court heard there were four children at the flat at the time, including
Incedal's own aged six, four and 11 months.

Ms Baluch confirmed to officers that her husband was Incedal and said: 'He
normally lives here but not for the last four days', the court was told.

It was during the search that police found the document headed 'Plan A' on top
of a wardrobe in a bedroom, the court heard.

Prosecutor Richard Whittam QC said it listed 'three to four workers, two tennis
racquets, one month's surveillance, rent nearby flat, transport, assess
security, assess risk, legitimacy, action etc'.

Other officers searched Incedal's second address in central London where they
found evidence of a number of people living there, the court was told.

They found toothbrushes in the bathroom, three pairs of shoes and three beds
made up - one of which was done up with 'classy' fake black silk sheets, the
court was told.

There were also condoms and various DVDs of Hollywood films strewn around the
flat, the court heard.

During his evidence, Mr Whittam - referring to the Hollywood actor - said to
crime scene examiner Matt Rogers: 'Someone is a Nick Cage fan?'

The detective constable replied: 'That appears to be the case.'

The court previously heard how officers also allegedly found a micro memory card
hidden in Incedal's iPhone case with a step-by-step guide on making an
improvised explosive device.

The mobile, which had the black flag of jihadist group Islamic State as its home
screen, had been used to visit extremist sites and monitor the war in Syria.

The jury had been told how forensic experts discovered they were loaded with
three files with innocent titles but which allegedly contained detailed
bombmaking instructions.

The material included a 'car bomb recognition guide', details of a 'gas bomb',
information to help make detonators and a photograph of an exploding jet.

Police also found a laptop in a drawer in the bedroom, which the jury has heard
contained coded messages referring to a 'Mumbai-style' attack and Kalashnikov
rifles.

The jury has been told that Incedal was conspiring with others to either target
individuals or launch a wide-ranging, indiscriminate attack such as the Mumbai
massacre in 2008.

Yesterday, prosecutors said the handwritten address of Mr Blair and his wife
Cherie was found in Incedal's Versace glasses case.

The Old Bailey trial is being held in conditions of extreme secrecy with the
vast majority of the evidence to be heard behind closed doors.

The case would not have been reported at all had the media not persuaded a High
Court judge that complete secrecy was an affront to centuries of open justice.

Incedal denies the charges against him.

A SECOND FLAT ACCUSED MAN DIDN'T TELL THE POLICE ABOUT

Erol Incedal failed to tell police about a second flat where he often stayed
away from his family, the jury was told.

Officers discovered condoms and beds made up with black satin sheets in a flat
he used in Sussex Gardens in Bayswater, West London.

The large flat had been 'made comfortable', the court heard, and seemed to be
used as temporary lodging for several people.

Prosecutors said an Acer laptop used by Incedal to communicate with a shadowy
figure overseas was found hidden in a plastic bag at the flat.

The laptop was allegedly used to send the Skype messages in which Incedal talked
of trying to get hold of a Kalashnikov and was told he should launch a
Mumbai-style shooting attack.

The flat is on the opposite side of London to where Incedal's wife, Kadeejah
Baluch, lived with their three young children.

Police discovered a 'sparse' wardrobe, an outdoor coat, three pairs of shoes and
a wheeled suitcase when they smashed down the door of the flat. At least three
beds were made up and there were several toothbrushes in the bathroom as well as
snacks, tea and coffee and a large collection of DVDs.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Plymouth Herald

                           October 16, 2014 Thursday

Racial abuse and attack left student terrorised

BYLINE: STUART ABEL and SAM BLACKLEDGE; Herald reporters

SECTION: AGENCY:FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 361  words


A BLACK student told a court of his terror as he was racially abused and
assaulted in the street by a stranger.

Evan Gitere said he felt degraded after he was insulted and had his head pushed
by Michael Stick.

Giving evidence from behind a screen eight months later, Mr Gitere said: "I am
still traumatised even today by what he did."

Stick, aged 40, appeared for trial but changed his plea to admit causing
racially aggravated harassment, alarm or distress and a separate charge of
assault by beating.

Jurors at Plymouth Crown Court were directed to return a not guilty verdict on a
charge of racially aggravated assault by beating.

Prosecutor Julia Cox said Stick accepts he used a racist term and shouted: "What
are you doing here?" as Mr Gitere was crossing Alexandra Road towards Mutley
Plain at 7.45pm on February 20.

Giving evidence on the first day of the trial, Mr Gitere said he was "minding
his own business" when two men blocked his path.

"I was very terrified at that point," he said.

The court heard he retracted his steps back across the road towards North Hill,
but the men followed.

Mr Gitere called the police on his mobile phone and said Stick "changed his
attitude" and started apologising.

Mr Gitere said Stick put a clenched fist to his cheek as he held the phone and
pushed his head back.

Recorder Leslie Blohm told Stick: "Even on the basis to which you plead guilty,
this was a nasty and unpleasant offence. I bear in mind that although you
pleaded guilty to two offences, I regard the sequence of events as being one
continuous event.

"I note in particular Mr Gitere's evidence that not only were you abusive
towards him but by your manner, following him and talking very close to him,
trying to overbear him, you were particularly threatening towards him and put
him in fear.

"I regard this as a serious offence of its type. It is plain from your
antecedence that you have in the past had a difficulty with your temper and the
consequences of that are unfortunate for those who behold it."

Stick, of Bramfield Place, Eggbuckland, was released on conditional bail and
told he must cooperate with the probation service ahead of a sentencing hearing
next month.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Stick

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 16, 2014 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

Terror attack suspect told his wife: 'I won't be around long'

BYLINE: Sean O&#8217;Neill, Crime and Security Editor

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 408 words


A law student suspected of planning a terrorist attack on Tony Blair told his
wife he was "not going to be around long", the Old Bailey heard yesterday.

Erol Incedal's conversations with his wife and his friends were recorded by a
listening device planted in his Mercedes when he was stopped by police in London
on September 30 last year.

Over the next two weeks he was heard frequently arguing with his wife, Kadeejah
Baluch, whispering about plans to rent a house and swearing about the "pigs" who
had stopped him.

Extracts from the recordings were played to the jury in the trial, which is
being conducted in partial secrecy, with core sections of evidence presented in
the absence of journalists and the public.

In the middle of an argument over a friend's Russian girlfriend, Mr Incedal
shouted at his wife: "I'm going to leave very soon. I'm not going to come back
this time.

"At least my last few months of my life I will live with peace of mind. I'm not
going to be around long anyway."

The jury has heard that Mr Incedal, 26, the father of three young children, had
discussed a range of terrorist attack plans, including a Mumbai-style gun attack
and an attack on a prominent person. The address of a house belonging to Tony
Blair, the former prime minister, was found in his car and bomb-making
instructions were found on a memory card in his iPhone case.

Just 24 hours after he was stopped, Mr Incedal was back in his car with two
friends excitedly watching violent video footage recorded in Syrian war zones.

After one clip of jihadist fighters firing a Russian "dushka" heavy machine gun,
Mr Incedal says: "We used that in the - " before Mounir Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, a
friend, interjects: "The bullets are that big."

A quasi-religious song, is heard playing in the car, with lyrics including: "We
have come to slaughter you, O Alawaite, with the permission of Allah, we are
conquerors." Mr Incedal joins in, singing in Arabic: "We're going to cut their
throats - Shia."

Mr Incedal was arrested by armed police on October 13 last year and taken into
custody while police searched two properties where he had been living. At the
flat occupied by his wife and children they found notes about "surveillance",
"action" and "legitimacy".

He denies charges of preparing for acts of terrorism and possessing documents of
use to terrorists. Rarmoul-Bouhadjar has pleaded guilty to possessing terrorist
documents and will be sentenced later. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 17, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

100 UK TERROR ATTACKS SMASHED EVERY WEEK;
Isis plots to murder Brits SPECIAL REPORT

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 34 words


SECRET service agents are foiling 100 UK terror plots a week, it was revealed
yesterday.

News of the shock toll came amid growing fears Isis monsters will unleash mass
murder on British soil.

Full story: Page 9

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FOILED: Isis gun maniac

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 17, 2014 Friday 9:11 AM GMT

Accused terrorist Agim Kruezi stocked up on weapons and was 'plotting home-soil
terror attack'

BYLINE: AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 507 words



     ·    Agim Kruezi, 22, was allegedly planning a terrorist attack on
          Australian soil
     ·    Mr Kruezi transported a gun and stockpiled machetes, knives and
          balaclavas
     ·    He faces a total of seven charges
     ·    Mr Kruezi, Omar Succarieh, 31, and Louis Maestracci, 32, were arrested

           in September in counter-terrorism raids in the Brisbane and Logan
          areas


A young Queensland man charged with supporting terrorists in Syria was also
planning a terrorist attack on Australian soil, it will be alleged.

Fresh charges were laid against 22-year-old Agim Kruezi on Friday, including
that he transported a gun and stockpiled machetes, knives and balaclavas in
preparation for a terrorist act.

It's understood a case will be made that Kruezi was planning a home-soil attack
in Australia, but no other details, including an intended target, are known.

Kruezi is now facing a total of seven charges, including the new ones that
accuse him of transporting a firearm in preparation for a terrorist act, and
possessing equipment - including machetes, knives, balaclavas, military fatigues
and a firearm - in preparation for a terrorist act.

The older charges, laid after his arrest in September, allege he was preparing
for incursions into war-torn Syria, and recruiting people to join that fight.

The case against Kruezi was mentioned in the Brisbane Magistrates Court on
Friday, along with charges against two other terror suspects, Omar Succarieh,
31, and Louis Maestracci, 32, who were also arrested earlier this year.

All three matters were adjourned until December 19 after crown prosecutor Shane
Hunter requested the lengthy delay to allow Australian Federal Police enough
time to prepare evidence briefs.

'Their commitment to the event (G20) that's going to occur in Brisbane in
November is significant and that will hamper the timeframe to which the briefs
can be prepared,' Mr Hunter told the court.

Succarieh's lawyer James Wallace urged Magistrate John McGrath to have his
client's matter brought forward given the amount of time he had already spent in
custody.

'It is unfortunate that the upcoming G20 summit is going to be used as a reason
to delay proceedings,' Mr Wallace said.

'In circumstances where Mr Succarieh is in custody for the very first time away
from his wife and children, where he is subject to orders that mean he is
currently in solitary confinement.'

However, Mr McGrath said because the three matters were related, they should all
be heard on the same day. None of the men are required in court on the next
appearance on December 19.

Kruezi and Succarieh were arrested in September in counter-terrorism raids in
the Brisbane and Logan areas.

Like Kruezi, Succarieh is also accused of preparing for incursions into Syria.
But he's also facing a charge of providing funds to the terrorist organisation
Jabhat al-Nusra in Syria.

Maestracci was arrested following counter-terrorism raids at his home in
Kingston, South of Brisbane, in September.

He's accused of dealing with money that could have been used to fund terrorist
operatives overseas. He's currently on bail.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 17, 2014 Friday 2:24 AM GMT

'Mumbai 26/11 was just a curtain raiser': NSG chief warns of 'multi-city' terror
attacks but insists 'India is prepared'

BYLINE: MAIL TODAY BUREAU

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 683 words


The elite National Security Guard (NSG) has been preparing to combat multi-city
attacks declared by global terror outfits such as ISIS and Al-Qaeda after
receiving warnings from intelligence agencies.

The warning of a combined terror attack was sounded by NSG Director General J.N.
Choudhury who, while describing the threat perception, called the 26\11 Mumbai
attacks that killed 166 people "just a curtain raiser."

The NSG chief, at the same time, said the force is fully prepared and will
respond to any critical situation as and when it is required.

Choudhury said it was more than a possibility now that the global terror groups
might find allies in similar organisations like Harkatul- Mujahideen, Jaish-e-
Mohammad, Indian Mujahideen and Lashkar-e- Taiba, which already have a presence
in India.

Raising Day

"So the apprehension we have is that if they do have a combined strategy or
operations, we have to be prepared and be alert if a combined group gets into
action.

"Then there is a threat and possibility of a multi-city multiple attacks. That
is what we are preparing for and hence we are also working with anti-terrorist
forces and state police forces," Chaudhary said.

He was speaking on the sidelines of the 30th Raising Day of the force that was
set up in 1984 for special combat tasks.

The director general said while the National Security Guard does not have an
independent intelligence wing to corroborate these emerging security
developments in the country and across the globe, these possibilities have been
given to intelligence agencies working in this domain.

"What happened in Mumbai on 26/11 was just a curtain raiser. That's why we are
taking efforts to make sure that we will anticipate and try to prepare for any
contingency," he said.

Chaudhary, however, asserted that he can assure the country that the force is
prepared to effectively counter any such scenario.

The NSG chief said the commando force is also planning to train its men in
countering "fidayeen" attacks, which could be launched with the help of
Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs).

He said apart from equipping the commandos with a host of new gadgets, weapons,
equipment and training being given to them, the fundamentalists are also taking
up a new module to prepare the 'black cats' in undertaking operations in the
inland waterways, the jungle theatre and chemical and biological warfare, and a
five-year plan has been prepared in this regard.

'No country can warn India'

Home Minister Rajnath Singh, who was also present at the NSG Raising Day,
reacted strongly to China's objection to constructing a road along the border in
Arunachal Pradesh.

"Today, no country can give warnings to India. India has emerged as a strong
country in the world. As far as Indo-China border issue is concerned, I think
China should sit with India and resolve the issue," he said.

Singh was asked about China's strong reaction to India's plans to construct a
road network along the McMahon Line from Mago-Thingbu in Tawang to Vijaynagar in
Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh to match China's infrastructure
development.

"There is a dispute about the eastern part of the China-India border. Before
final settlement is reached we hope that India will not take any action that may
further complicate the situation," Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesman Hong Lie
had said.

The Government is taking a number of steps to improve infrastructure along the
Sino-Indian border.

NSG team at Burdwan blast site

By Soudhriti Bhabani

A 13-member team of NSG commandos carried out a search operation in and around
an abandoned madrasa in West Bengal's Burdwan district on Thursday.

The team recovered tape recorders, wires, timer devices and chemicals from the
area during the raid jointly conducted with the National Investigation Agency
(NIA) sleuths.

According to sources, the team suspects the madarsa was a training camp for
terrorists. Meanwhile, NIA officials expressed concern over their security.

The Border Security Force (BSF) has been put on high alert. Border areas with
neighbouring Bangladesh have also been sealed.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                            October 17, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

100 UK TERROR ATTACKS SMASHED EVERY WEEK;
Isis plots to murder Brits DAILY STAR OF SCOTLAND SPECIAL REPORT

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 35 words


SECRET service agents are foiling 100 UK terror plots a week, it was revealed
yesterday.

Forces across Britain, including Police Scotland, are working flat out to
prevent any possible ISIS attacks.

Full story: Page 9

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FOILED: Isis gun maniac

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 18, 2014 Saturday

UN special envoy condemns terrorist attacks, vows to support DRCongo rout rebels

LENGTH: 295 words


Text of report by DRCongo's UN-sponsored Radio Okapi on 17 October

[Presenter] The death toll after recent terrorist attacks in Ngadi neighborhood
and Kadohu locality, Beni territory, has increased to 30 people.

Exposed at the 8 March tribune on Beni town's main road, the victims are to be
buried on Friday 17 October.

Richard Muyej, national minister of internal affairs, security and customary
affairs is expected in Beni before the burial is held.

Martin Kobler, UN Secretary General's special representative in DRCongo also
arrived in Beni today in the morning and paid tribute to the victims of the
terrorist attacks perpetrated by the Allied Democratic Forces National Army for
the Liberation of Uganda [ADF NALU] as they were displayed at the 08 March
tribune.

He re-affirmed the determination of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in
DRCongo [Monusco] to put an end to violence committed by armed groups in Beni.

He was interviewed by Martial Papy Mukeba, our reporter in Beni.

[Kobler] It is a solidarity visit; it is also a visit that gives me the occasion
to strongly condemn the ADF NALU's activities.

It was a slaughter, a massacre and it is unacceptable.

I am also here with the deputy commander of the UN Mission's forces.

It is very important now to have joint military operations with the Armed Forces
of the Democratic Republic of Congo [FARDC] and the UN intervention brigade in a
view to protect civilians.

This is a day of mourning but it is also a day in which we need to think of the
future; how to prevent such attacks.

It is the Monusco's engagement to promote the support of the governor, that of
the people and other leaders here on ground against violence and the strength of
armed groups.

Source: Radio Okapi (Goma), Goma, in French 1300 gmt 17 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           October 18, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Four men in court over 'terror plot';
Group are accused of planning attack on police officers or soldiers in London

BYLINE: JAMIE GRIERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 265 words


FOUR men have appeared in court accused of plotting a terror attack on police
officers or soldiers on the streets of London.

Tarik Hassane, 21, Suhaib Majeed, 20, Nyall Hamlett, 24, and Momen Motasim, 21,
appeared at Westminster Magistrates' Court charged with intending to commit acts
of terrorism.

Members of the gang allegedly swore allegiance to extremist group Islamic State
(IS) and scouted out Shepherd's Bush police station and White City Territorial
Army Barracks. Hassane and Majeed laughed as details of the alleged plot were
read to the court.

They allegedly kept Instagram images of two Scotland Yard police officers and
two Metropolitan Police community support officers, as well as a trove of
jihadist material including videos of beheadings. In addition, they are accused
of having a Baikal handgun, silencer and six rounds of ammunition.

It is alleged the men discussed sourcing and stashing a moped as part of the
terror plot and are said to have used codewords over secret communication
channels.

A fifth man, Nathan Cuffy, 25, also appeared in court charged with firearms
offences.

The five men, dressed in prison-issue grey sweatshirts and trousers, con-firmed
their names and addresses.

All men live at addresses across London.

The men were flanked in the dock by 10 plainclothes police officers, some of
whom were wearing white stabproof vests, and four uniformed dock officers.

They arrived at court under heavy police protection including a helicopter, two
vans and several marked cars.

Judge Emma Arbuthnot remanded the men in custody to appear at the Old Bailey on
October 27.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           October 18, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'IS terrorism attack' plot four in court

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 143 words


FOUR men who allegedly swore allegiance to extremist group Islamic State (IS)
have appeared in court charged with plotting a terror attack in London.

Tarik Hassane, 21, Suhaib Majeed, 20, Nyall Hamlett, 24, and Momen Motasim, 21,
have all been charged with intending to commit acts of terrorism.

A fifth man, Nathan Cuffy, 25, has been charged with firearms offences.

The five men, dressed in grey sweatshirts, appeared at Westminster Magistrates
Court and con-firmed their names and addresses. All men live at addresses across
London.

District judge Emma Arbuthnot adjourned proceedings to allow the men to see
defence barristers.

Details of the charges, provided by the Metropolitan Police, allege that the
four men conducted "hostile reconnaissance" of Shepherd's Bush police station
and White City Territorial Army Barracks and took an oath of allegiance to IS.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           October 18, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

SECURITY RISK' AT TERROR ATTACK SITE

BYLINE: KRISSY STORRAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 146 words


AN oil plant where two Scots died in a terrorist attack failed to meet "minimum
security standards", an inquest has heard.

Kenneth Whiteside and Carson Bilsland were shot dead after al-Qaeda fanatics
seized control of the site in Algeria.

They were among 40 hostages who died in an attempt to free them. The probe into
their deaths heard no basic precautions had been taken to protect workers. And
there were no reinforced gates or speed bumps on the approach to the plant,
meaning militants could storm the complex. William Johnson, the site's business
support manager, told the hearing: "There was no discussion about physical
security."

Kenneth, 59, left, of Glenrothes, Fife, and Carson, 46, from Bridge of Cally,
Perthshire, were killed in January last year. Four other Britons also died. The
hearing at the Royal Courts of Justice in London continues.

scottish-sun@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shot dead ... Carson Bilsland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2014 Sunday

Terror attacks thwarted in Tajik north

LENGTH: 292 words


Text of report headlined "Major terror attacks foiled in Tajik north" by
privately-owned Tajik Avesta website on 18 October

The police in Sughd Region's Spitamen District [northern Tajikistan] have
conducted a special operation and caught some suspected members of the terrorist
group Jondollah [also spelt as Jundallah].

The region's police department told Avesta that among the detained was the
group's leader in Panjakent town, Mansur Boboyorov, born in 1978.

An investigation established that before coming to northern Tajikistan, Mansur
Boboyorov, was Jondollah's leader in Russia's Sverdlovsk Region, the report
said.

"There, he used to recruit Tajik migrant workers into the terrorist group.
Mansur Boboyorov was also engaged in similar activities in Ufa, capital of
[Russia's] Bashkortostan," the source said.

During a special search operation, officers of Sughd Region's police department
and their colleagues from Spitamen District jointly arrested Jondollah's 13
suspected members, whose leader was Mansur Boboyorov, the report added.

"The investigation also established that Mansur Boboyorov and his accomplices
were plotting a number of terrorist acts in Sughd Region. The plans of the
terrorist suspects included attacks on a military unit in Panjakent and a local
police station in order to seize weapons," the source said.

When the detained were interrogated, they said that they were going to arrange
explosions in two vehicle tunnels - Istiqlol and Shahriston - which link the
country's central part with its northern region.

"Criminal proceedings have been launched against all of the arrested, and a
thorough investigation is under way," the regional police department concluded.

Source: Avesta website, Dushanbe, in Russian 0607 gmt 18 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2014 Sunday

"Terrorist" attack causes power outage in Syria's Aleppo, Idlib

LENGTH: 80 words


Text of report by Manal Ismael published in English by state-run Syrian news
agency SANA website

Damascus - A source at the Electricity Ministry said terrorists on Sunday [19
October] attacked Zaizun-Al-Zerbeh high-voltage power line, causing power outage
in Aleppo and Idlib provinces.

Power and gas lines across Syria have been repeated targets for terrorists,
causing frequent outages in several provinces.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1610 gmt 19 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                            October 20, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

JAIL FOR TERROR PARK ATTACK .

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 46 words


Scott Johnson, 22, has been jailed for an horrific attack on a Gloucester
prostitute.

The assault only ended when a man heard his victim's screams and chased him
away. The offence happened while Johnson was on bail for another sexual assault.

www.gloucestercitizen.co.uk/crime PAGE 5

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2014 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday

Ukrainian prosecutors treat attack on election candidate as "act of terrorism"

LENGTH: 287 words


Excerpt from report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 21 October: The criminal proceedings over the attack on Volodymyr
Borysenko, a parliamentary candidate in constituency No 98 (Boryspil, Kiev
Region), have been reclassified as an act of terrorism, the press service of the
Prosecutor-General's Office has reported.

"There was an attempt on the life of a parliamentary candidate in Boryspil on 20
October. He was shot at when he was entering his own home. A few seconds later
an unidentified explosive device went off near the politician. The victim was
taken to hospital with a diagnosis of bruising of soft tissue. Now, at the
request of the prosecution service, in the criminal proceedings over the attempt
on the life of the parliamentary candidate, the crime has been reclassified as
an act of terrorism (Part 1 of Article 258 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine)," it
says in a statement.

The pretrial investigation has been entrusted to the main directorate of the
Security Service of Ukraine in Kiev Region. The criminal proceedings are being
supervised by the Kiev Region prosecution service.

Earlier, Anton Herashchenko, an adviser to the interior minister [Arsen Avakov],
reported that a RGD-5 grenade was thrown at Borysenko and a short-barreled
weapon was fired at him. "Criminal proceedings have been opened by the
investigative directorate of the Interior Ministry's directorate in Kiev Region
under Part 1 Article 115 - attempted murder," he said.

[Passage omitted: background]

[In a blog post at 1815 gmt on 20 October, Herashchenko reported that an
"improvised battle-noise simulator" (Rus: samodelnyy vzryvpaket) was thrown at
Borysenko.]

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 0832 gmt 21 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday

Iran justice minister says acid attacks in Esfahan terrorist act

LENGTH: 212 words


Justice Minister Hojjat ol-Eslam val-Moslemin Mostafa Purmohammadi has said that
Iran's Law Enforcement Forces and related bodies are looking to identify the
perpetrators of the acid attacks on women in the central city of Esfahan and
described these incidents as "terrorist and sabotage acts", Islamic Republic
News Agency (IRNA) reported on 21 October.

"We are very concerned and hope that the perpetrators of these attacks are
arrested and brought to justice", the justice minister said.

He added that the relative officials are trying their utmost to identify these
individuals and expressed the hope that authorities would not allow such
incidents occur in the future.

[BBCM note:] Recent acid attacks on women in Esfahan have caused concern among
citizens and sparked official reactions, amid speculation that the victims were
targeted for improper veiling (hijab). Esfahan police have confirmed four
attacks on women in the historic city, but unofficial reports and social media
suggest the number exceeds four. On 20 October, ISNA news agency quoted the
deputy interior minister, Morteza Mirbaqeri, as saying that "three to four"
people were arrested in connection with the recent attacks.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 0804 gmt 21 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      October 21, 2014 Tuesday 4:01 PM GMT

Soldier dies after 'terror attack'

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 559 words


One of two Canadian soldiers hit by a car in an apparent terrorist attack has
died of his injuries.

The soldier, whose name was not released at the request of his family, died
early on Tuesday, Quebec provincial police said.

The suspect was shot and killed by police after he struck two members of the
Canadian military with his car in a city near Montreal.

An official identified the suspect as Martin Couture Rouleau, 25, of
Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec, and said he was influenced by radical
Islamists.

The other soldier's injuries were described as less serious.

Royal Canadian Mounted Police spokesman David Falls said that the suspect "was
known to federal authorities" and "authorities were concerned that he had become
radicalised".

One neighbour told reporters that Rouleau stopped wearing jeans and started
wearing a tunic and that he had changed over the past year and was alone a lot.
Another neighbour said Rouleau converted to Islam a little over a year ago.

A Quebec business database shows Rouleau started a water-pressure cleaning
company in St-Jean-sur-Richelieu in 2012 with two other people.

Police declined to provide details, citing the investigation.

Quebec police shot the man after two Canadian Forces members were struck by the
motorist on Monday in a shopping mall car park near Montreal. The suspect died a
few hours after being shot.

Quebec provincial police Lt Michel Brunet said earlier that police ended up
shooting the man after a car chase in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, about 26 miles
(42 kilometres) south east of Montreal.

After the man hit the two soldiers, he fled the scene in his vehicle, triggering
a police chase that ended with the man losing control and his car rolling over
several times.

Lt Brunet said the man exited the car and was shot. He said they found a knife
on the ground but could not say if the suspect had it in his hand when police
fired their weapons. Television images showed a large knife in the grass near
the flipped-over car.

Lt Brunet said he did not know if the soldiers were wearing uniforms at the time
they were struck.

Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper was briefed about the incident by the
head of Canada's national police force, the head of the military and his
national security adviser.

Mr Harper said earlier in parliament that he was aware of the reports and called
them "extremely troubling".

"First and foremost our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their
families; we're closely monitoring the situation and obviously we will make
available all of the resources of the federal government," Mr Harper said.

The case is similar to one in London last year in which an al Qaida-inspired
extremist and another man ran over a soldier with a car before hacking the
off-duty soldier to death. Images of Michael Adebolajo, 29, holding a butcher
knife and cleaver with bloodied hands in the moments after the May 2013 killing
of Fusilier Lee Rigby shocked people around the world and sparked fears of
Islamist terrorism in Britain.

The Islamic State group has urged supporters to carry out attacks against
Western countries, including Canada, that are participating in the US-led
coalition fighting the militants who have taken over large swathes of territory
in Iraq and Syria.

It was not known whether the suspect in the Quebec attack had any ties to
Islamic militant groups.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 21, 2014 Tuesday 7:35 PM GMT

One of two young soldiers mowed down by radicalized Canadian Muslim in terror
attack dies in hospital from his injures

BYLINE: KIERAN CORCORAN FOR MAILONLINE and REUTERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 799 words



     ·    Martin Couture-Rouleau, 25, smashed his car into two soldiers in
          Quebec  on Monday
     ·    Reportedly then drove off boasting to 911 about striking in name of
          Allah
     ·    Police pursued him until he lost control of car and landed in a ditch
     ·    Witnesses say he got out, charged at cops with knife and was shot
     ·    Both victims survived, but one was left with life-threatening injuries
     ·    That man, Patrice Vincent, 53, died in hospital early Tuesday
     ·    Couture-Rouleau, a recent convert, posted anti-West messages online
     ·    Government today announced Couture-Rouleau is a known radical


A radicalized Muslim convert ran down two soldiers in his car - killing one - in
an apparent terror attack on Monday, before being shot dead by police.

Martin Couture-Rouleau, 25, sped into the two young soldiers - one uniformed and
one not - around 11.30am in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, not far from Montreal.

After the impact he sped off, but was chased down by Canadian police, who shot
him dead.

Both soldiers survived the attack, however one died from his injuries in
hospital early Tuesday.

The fallen solider has been identified as Patrice Vincent, 53.

The second soldier is recovering.

A Canadian government spokesman confirmed that Couture-Rouleau, who describes
himself as a recent convert online, was on a list of known radicals.

One neighbor told reporters that the man had fallen in with extremist Muslims
around a year ago. On social media websites, Couture-Rouleau posted polemics
attacking Christianity, Western leaders and Israel.

He also published images seemingly to glorify armed jihadist extremists,
denigrating Westerners as 'kaffir', a derogatory Arabic term for non-believers.

After he ran down the two men, Couture-Rouleau called 911 and boasted to
operators that he had attacked in the name of Allah, the Toronto Sun  reported.

Eyewitnesses told the newspaper how during the police chase which followed,
Couture-Rouleau rolled his car after hitting a spike striped put down by police.

He landed upside down in a ditch.

Scroll down for video

They told how he emerged from the car with a long knife and charged at police -
who then opened fire.

One witness said: 'I heard [the police] shout several times, "Get out of the
car, get out of the car and raise your hands."

'The man got out and charged towards the policewoman. Then that's when we heard
seven gunshots, then the man was on the ground.'

In a statement released shortly after the incident, a spokesman for Prime
Minister Stephen Harper said: 'The individual who struck the two [Canadian Armed
Forces] members with his car is known to federal authorities, including the
Integrated National Security Enforcement Team.

'Federal authorities have confirmed that there are clear indications that the
individual had become radicalized.'

Earlier in the day, Randy Hoback, a member of Parliament for the ruling
Conservative Party, referred in the House of Commons to unconfirmed reports of
'a possible terror attack against two members of the Canadian armed forces.'

At the time, Harper said the reports were 'extremely troubling' but declined to
give more details.

A spokesman for the Surete du Quebec police force said they were investigating
whether the soldiers had been specifically targeted.

Police said Tuesday that Rouleau had been waiting in the carpark for at least
two hours, according to CBC News.

Witnesses have said they saw his car - a gold Nissan Altima - in the car park
from about 9.15am.

A least one of the soldiers was in uniform, police said.

The Canadian government recently pledged six fighter jets to take part in the
U.S.-led campaign against ISIS militants in Iraq.

Canadian security officials have fretted for years about the potential threat of
radicalized young men, especially those traveling abroad to join militant groups
including Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.

There was no immediate indication Rouleau had traveled abroad.

Ray Boisvert, former assistant director for intelligence at the Canadian
Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) spy agency, said he suspects Rouleau was a
lone actor who would have been difficult for authorities to stop.

'It reflects what's going on in a very active threat environment. You have far
too many targets and far too many active targets,' he said.

The case bears some parallels to the murder in the UK last year of Lee Rigby, a
member of the British Army who was run down then beheaded by two Muslim
fanatics.

Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale rammed their car into Rigby as he walked
down the street in the Woolwich suburb of London.

They then hacked his head from his shoulders with a meat cleaver and delivered
threatening messages, characterizing the murder as a revenge attack, to
bystanders recording with their phones.

Both were tried and convicted for the murder and are serving decades-long prison
sentences.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 21, 2014 Tuesday 1:16 PM GMT

IRA rape case re-opened: Prosecutors probe claims teenage niece of terror group
leader was attacked by Belfast commander and Gerry Adams covered it up

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE, DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 888 words



     ·    Mairia Cahil accuses the IRA of protecting rapist who attacked her
          aged 16
     ·    She is the great niece of the former terrorist group's leader  Joe
          Cahill
     ·    Gerry Adams admits IRA's policy of shooting sex offenders failed
          victims
     ·    Comes amid claims IRA boss Cahill was himself a child abuser
     ·    He was  allegedly turned by secret agents using photos of him abusing
          a teen
     ·    IRA boss was never prosecuted after alleged incident in the 1970s
     ·    Security Source claims he was Britain's 'prized asset' in Northern
          Ireland


A woman who claims she was the victim of an IRA cover-up after being raped by
one of the terror group's commanders will have her case looked at again,
prosecutors said today.

Mairia Cahill, 33, claims the IRA conducted its own kangaroo court inquiry into
her account before acquitting her alleged attacker. Sinn Fein chief Gerry Adams
has denied Ms Cahill's allegations but admitted the IRA investigated sex abuse
and paedophile claims and even killed abusers.

Today's development comes after it emerged British secret services blackmailed
former IRA chief of staff Joe Cahill - Ms Cahill's great uncle - to spy for them
after he was allegedly caught abusing a 14-year-old girl.

Scroll down for video

The man Ms Cahill has accused of raping her when she was just 16 was later
acquitted of criminal charges in court after she withdrew her evidence. Charges
were also dropped against those allegedly involved in the IRA's internal
inquiry.

Ms Cahill's story was highlighted in a BBC Spotlight documentary last week.

Northern Ireland director of public prosecutions Barra McGrory announced that he
was establishing an independent review of the 'prosecutorial systems and
processes' in relation to three cases involving sex abuse and terrorist related
charges connected to Ms Cahill's alleged rape.

Yesterday the Daily Mirror claimed Mr Cahill - the IRA's former Chief of staff -
was photographed by a covert unit in his car but never prosecuted - instead he
was convinced to share secrets about the IRA's leadership, it was claimed today.

Cahill, who died in 2004 and whose coffin was carried by Gerry Adams and Martin
McGuinness, was considered one of Britain's 'prized assets' in Northern Ireland,
it was alleged.

As a member of the IRA's leadership Cahill would have had detailed knowledge
about its bombing campaigns and would be involved in arming members and raising
funding for terrorism.

A security services source has claimed Cahill was followed around Belfast by
spies in the 1970s before he was caught abusing the 14-year-old child.

Officers then turned him to spy for Britain during the Troubles.

'The pictures clearly identified both Cahill and his victim,' the source told
the Daily Mirror.

'Her father would have killed him if he had found out. He was never prosecuted
and instead the pictures were used to turn him. He was a prized asset.'

Cahill was a founding commander of the modern Provisional IRA that killed nearly
1,800 people during a failed 1970-1997 campaign to force Northern Ireland out of
the United Kingdom.

He himself was sentenced to death for killing a policeman in the 1940s, but this
was changed to a life sentence after pressure from Britain by the Irish
government and the Vatican.

He served less than ten years before his release but jailed again during the
IRA's Border Campaign of the 1950s.

The new allegations about Cahill being a double agent means he may have been
working for one of several secret services units working in Northern Ireland at
the time.

Members would spy on Republicans and female members were known to have sex with
IRA members for information.

Cahill's alleged role as a British agent was only known to a small number of
people but an IRA source told the Mirror there were suspicions he was an
informer.

Last week Adams also faced new accusations that he concealed child-abuse crimes
within his own secretive movement, this time allegedly committed by a Belfast
officer of the outlawed Irish Republican Army.

Ms Cahill is a grand-niece of Joe Cahill, but she was not his victim. She
received legal anonymity when she went to police with her accusations.

In 2012 the man she accused of raping her, Martin Morris, was charged with IRA
membership and 13 counts of sexual assault. He always denied her claims and was
acquitted of all charges.

Four others were charged with IRA membership based on Cahill's accusation that
they interrogated her several times in 1999 and 2000 about her accusations
against Morris, when the IRA attempted to determine whether Cahill or Morris was
telling the truth.

She said at one point the IRA forced her to confront Morris face to face.
Prosecutors withdrew the case without explanation earlier this year.

Cahill waived her anonymity in a BBC documentary broadcast last Tuesday, during
which she accused Adams of telling her she might have enjoyed the abuse.

Adams acknowledged meeting Cahill around that time, but rejected her account and
denied knowing of any IRA inquiry into her case.

Last year the paedophile brother of Gerry Adams was jailed for 16 years for
raping his daughter.

Liam Adams, 58, was found guilty of a string of vile sexual assaults on his
child Aine Dahlstrom when she was aged between four and nine in the late 1970s
and early 1980s.

The 40-year-old, who has waived her right to anonymity, wiped tears from her
eyes as she watched him jailed.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                     October 21, 2014 Tuesday 10:12 AM GMT

Attack On Canadian Soldiers Sparks Terror Fear

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 353 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Canadian man who was killed by police after trying to run over two
soldiers had become influenced by radical Islam, officials said.


  The attack in Quebec was the first such incident in Canada since the country
joined the fight against Islamic State militants.

Royal Canadian Mounted Police spokesman David Falls said the suspect "was known
to Federal authorities" and "authorities were concerned that he had become
radicalised".

The suspect has been identified as Martin Couture Rouleau, 25, of
Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, a small town about 26 miles (42km) southeast of
Montreal.

One neighbour said Rouleau had stopped wearing jeans and started wearing a
tunic. The neighbour also said that he had changed over the last year and was
alone a lot.

Another neighbour said Rouleau converted to Islam a little over a year ago.

The man hit the two soldiers and fled the scene in his vehicle, triggering a
police chase that ended with the man losing control and his car rolling over
several times before ending up in a ditch.

Police shot the man, Quebec provincial police Lieutenant Michel Brunet said.

Lt Brunet said they found a knife on the ground but he could not say if the
suspect had it in his hand when police fired their weapons.

Television footage showed a large knife in the grass near the flipped over car.

One of the soldiers was listed in a critical condition, while the other's
injuries were described as less serious.

The case is similar to the murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby in London last year, in
which two men ran him over with a car before hacking the off-duty soldier to
death.

Images of Michael Adebolajo, 29, holding a butcher knife and cleaver with
bloodied hands in the moments after the May 2013 killing shocked people around
the world and sparked fears of Islamist terrorism in Britain.

Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale were convicted of murdering Fusilier Rigby, who
was 25.

Canada is sending six fighter jets to take part in the US-led campaign against
Islamic State militants in Iraq.

IS has urged supporters to carry out attacks against Western countries that are
participating in the campaign.

It was not known whether the suspect in the Quebec attack had any ties to
Islamic militant groups.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2014 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      October 21, 2014 Tuesday 1:50 PM GMT

Hit-and-run soldier in Quebec 'terror attack' dies

BYLINE: Will Pavia, New York

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 384 words


One of the two Canadian soldiers injured in a suspected terrorist hit and run
yesterday has died. The two soldiers were mown down in a Quebec car park on
Monday and the driver was later shot and killed after the police gave chase.

The soldiers were walking through a shopping centre car park a mile and a half
from a military college in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, southeast of Montreal, at
11.30am when they were struck by the car.

The second soldier's injuries were said to be less serious. The driver raced
away and police chased the car for several miles before his vehicle rolled from
the road into a ditch.

Police told reporters that the suspect climbed out of the car before he was shot
dead. Witnesses told the French language TVA Network that they saw the man climb
from the vehicle, which lay upside-down beside the road, with his hands in the
air, before at least one police officer opened fire. They estimated that up to
seven shots were fired.

Stephen Harper, the Canadian prime minister, acknowledged in parliament before
news of the soldier's death that the 25-year-old driver may have been executing
a terrorist attack, and said the incident was "extremely troubling".

Later the prime minister's office said that the driver was "known to federal
authorities, including the Integrated National Security Enforcement Team".

It said in a statement: "Federal authorities have confirmed that there are clear
indications that the individual had become radicalised."

One official, speaking off the record, identified the suspect as Martin Couture
Rouleau, 25, of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec, and said he was influenced by
radical Islamists.

Footage appeared to show the suspect holding a knife with an elaborate handle.
Police later confirmed that a bladed weapon had been found at the scene.

A spokesman for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) said in a statement
that both the "Integrated National Security Investigations team in Montreal" and
"other authorities were concerned that [the suspect] had become radicalised".

"Out of respect and deference to the ongoing criminal investigation arising from
today's terrible events the RCMP will not comment further except to say that we
are working with our law enforcement partners to ensure all avenues of
investigation are pursued," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Soldiers' attacker 'was a terrorist'.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 39 words


Ottawa A man aged 25 who injured two Canadian soldiers in a hit-and-run attack
near Montreal on Monday before being shot dead by police is likely to have been
a terrorist, Stephen Harper, the country's prime minister, said in parliament.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Al-Arab (English)

                                October 22, 2014

Egypt court sentences 25 people over 'terrorist attacks'

LENGTH: 227  words


Court jails 25 men for from seven years to life for planning 'terrorist attacks'
on state institutions during presidency of Islamist Mohamed Morsi.


Arrested in 2012 after exchange of fire in Nasr
City


CAIRO - An Egyptian court jailed 25 men Wednesday for from seven years to life
for planning "terrorist attacks" on state institutions during the presidency of
Islamist Mohamed Morsi.

The accused, members of the so-called "Nasr City Cell," were arrested in 2012
after an exchange of fire in Cairo's upscale district of Nasr City.

Mohamed Jamal, one of those sentenced to life, is listed as a "terrorist
individual" by the United Nations and the US State Department for his alleged
links to Al-Qaeda.

The United Nations says Jamal is the leader of the Nasr City Cell.

The State Department says he travelled to Afghanistan in the late 1980s, where
he trained with Al-Qaeda and learned how to construct bombs.

The Cairo court handed down 12 life sentences, including three to people tried
in absentia. A life sentence in Egypt amounts to 25 years.

Four others were sentenced to 15 years, six to 10 years and three to seven
years.

One defendant was acquitted.

The court found the accused guilty of planning "terrorist attacks" against state
institutions, founding an illegal group that aimed to disturb public peace and
security, and possessing arms and explosives.

Alarab Online.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 172


                         Copyright 2014 Alarab Online.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                     October 22, 2014 Wednesday 9:40 AM GMT

University of Birmingham report warns football matches could be targeted by
drone terror attacks;
Shopping centres, sporting events and public rallies face being exposed to
chemical or biological attacks by terror groups

BYLINE: By James Cartledge

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


Drone use in British skies will expand rapidly over the next 20 years, posing a
serious security risk and significant privacy concerns, University of Birmingham
experts have warned.

Shopping centres, sporting events and public rallies face being exposed to
chemical or biological attacks by terror groups exploiting unmanned aircraft,
the research claimed.

Terrorists could also turn the Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) into flying bombs
by hooking them up to improvised explosive devices, according to the University
of Birmingham Policy Commission Report.

Drones were the "ideal lookouts for burglars, train robbers and poachers" and
mean traditional ways of securing buildings can be bypassed, it said.

Lightweight commercial RPAs were also likely to become the "weapon of choice"
for paparazzi in search of intimate photographs of celebrities, according to the
report.

Police in Merseyside; Staffordshire, Essex, Wiltshire and the West Midlands have
used drones for surveillance and guidelines must be looked at governing how and
when they can be used, it added.

The research, led Sir David Omand, a former director at GCHQ, found greater
civil and military use of the unmanned aircraft was inevitable and could have
"significant benefits" for the UK's security and economy.

But it called for the Government to be open and transparent about the use of the
controversial aircraft to increase understanding and acceptance of the "legal
and ethical soundness" of using drones.

The research was published after a suspected drone pilot was arrested on
suspicion of breaching an air navigation order after a device was flown over a
packed football stadium.

The 41-year-old man was held in the car park of an Asda store near Manchester
City's Etihad Stadium after reports of a drone flying overhead during Saturday's
match against Spurs.

The Commission called for "urgent" measures to safeguard British airspace and
the privacy of citizens to cope with civil and commercial use, which is expected
to be more widespread by 2035.

The report said: "The security threat posed by individuals misusing RPA is a
serious one, whether for criminal or terrorist purposes.

"Vulnerable targets might be hardened to withstand attack from outside, but it
is entirely possible that in a public space like a shopping centre or sporting
stadium, an attack could be launched from within.

"Crowds at sporting events or rallies could be vulnerable in a similar way if a
future terrorist group were to look for means of dispersing chemical or
biological agents."

·  The recent Euro 2016 qualifier between Serbia and Albania in Belgrade was
abandoned after violence broke out on the pitch when a mini unmanned drone
trailed a pro-Albania flag over the stadium.

UEFA has charged both countries with a number of offences following the game,
which saw a melee erupt on the pitch.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                    October 22, 2014 Wednesday 12:05 AM GMT

Terror attack on Canadian solider

LENGTH: 88 words


A SOLDIER was mown down and killed in a suspected terrorist attack.

Another was injured after a 25-year-old man, later shot and killed by police,
drove at them near a military base in Quebec, Canada.

Government minister Steven Blaney said the attack was "clearly linked to
terrorist ideology".

Related articles EXCLUSIVE: London is the jihadi capital of Europe MI5 quizzing
IS terror suspect known as 'The Surgeon' 'Terror plot to kill Tony Blair' in
sick Mumbai-style attack foiled by chance

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           October 22, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SHOP STAFF INIRONBAR ATTACK TERROR;
They lock themselves in back room as man smashes windows

BYLINE: JEZ HEMMING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 39 words


TERRIFIED staff locked the doors and hid in a back room as a man smashed shop
windows with an iron bar.

A 37-year-old man was arrested shortly after the incident yesterday at Nigel
Roberts's newsagent shop in Llandudno.

FULL STORY - PAGE 5

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Smashed: Windows damaged in iron bar attack ¦

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           October 22, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Shop staff's terror in iron bar attack

BYLINE: JEZ HEMMING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 367 words


TERRIFIED staff locked the doors of a newsagent's shop and hid in a back room as
a man smashed the windows with an iron bar.

One eye-witness to the attack at Nigel Roberts's shop on Gloddaeth Avenue,
Llandudno, said the sound "was like a bomb going off ".

Police were quickly at the scene and detained a 37-year-old man nearby. He was
later arrested on suspicion of criminal damage.

Mr Roberts, who was the author of the controversial Thoughts of Oscar blog,
said: "We have had problems with this person before."

He stressed the attack was nothing to do with the blog controversy. Mr Roberts
was not in the store at the time of the attack, but was told of the drama in a
phone call from staff.

"My first concern on having the phone call was the safety of the staff," he
said.

"Thankfully they are well but a little shocked, and we are very grateful for the
council CCTV which monitored and recorded it all.

"They liaised with police who were here in moments. I am just glad no innocent
people were hurt."

According to one eyewitness the assailant, who was described as tall and wearing
an army jacket and jeans, walked calmly down Bodhyfryd Road, put down his things
and started systematically smashing the windows with an iron bar.

Two female staff, who were in the store at the time, reacted quickly to lock the
door and hide themselves in a back room, as up to four police units sped to the
scene.

Council CCTV cameras caught the incident and the message was relayed to police.
In-store cameras also recorded the attack.

Manager Lisa Murray was on her way to work when the incident took place. "The
girls locked themselves in the back but they said the police were here really
quickly," she said.

Two butchers who work for Poynton's next door rushed out when they heard the
commotion.

"We were just stood here and we heard this loud bang," said Craig Jones. "The
guy was whacking the windows with a bar."

His colleague at the shop, Dwyfor Williams, said they regularly saw the man
passing by.

"I went outside and he looked at me then picked up a sign and threw it through
the window," he said.

Another eyewitness, John West, 58, from Llandudno, said: "I was standing across
the road and it was like a bomb going off."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police at scene and ¦damaged shop windows

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           October 22, 2014 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Cop dies after 'terror attack'

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 60 words


CANADA: One of two  soldiers hit by a car in an apparent terrorist attack has
died of his injuries.

Police said they shot and killed the suspect after he struck two members of the
Canadian military with his car near Montreal.

He was named as Martin Couture Rouleau, 25, of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec,
and was said to have been influenced by radical Islamists.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2014 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     October 22, 2014 Wednesday 7:27 PM GMT

Baby killed and eight wounded in suspected terror attack in Jerusalem;
Driver shot and arrested while trying to flee after vehicle ploughed through
people standing on light railway platform

BYLINE: Peter Beaumont in Jerusalem

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 687 words


A three-month old baby was killed and eight other people wounded in Jerusalem -
one seriously - in what Israel police are describing as a "terrorist attack" in
which a speeding car drove onto a pavement crowded with pedestrians alighting
from the city's light railway.

Video footage posted on social media appears to show a car on the main road
slowing slightly before crossing to the train tracks and climbing on to the
station pavement and ploughing through the people standing on it.

According to a tweet from an Israeli government spokesman for the Arab media,
the driver - a former Palestinian prisoner - "is a member of Hamas".

Video footage of the injured suspect showed a young man in blue jeans and a blue
T-shirt lying on the ground.

The incident occurred on Wednesday evening at about 6pm on Road 1 - one of
Jerusalem's main arterial roads - as passengers were getting off one of the
city's light railway trains a a stop on Ammunition Hill near the national police
headquarters.

The baby girl, who suffered serious head injuries in the incident, died a few
hours later of her wounds in a nearby medical centre.

Israeli prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu immediately blamed Palestinian
president Mahmoud Abbas, accusing him of "incitement to an attack on Jews in
Jerusalem." Netanyahu has ordered police reinforcements in Jerusalem, following
consultations with public security minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch.

"This is how Abu Mazen (Abbas') partners in government work. This is the same
Abbas that only a few days ago called for harming Jews in Jerusalem," said
Netanyahu.

Netanyahu was referring to to Abbas' call last week to Palestinians to use "any
means" to prevent Israeli settlers from accessing the Temple Mount.

Chief police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld added: "We can confirm that this was a
terrorist attack. The driver... is a resident of Silwan and has a terrorist
background. He has served time in jail for terror activity," Rosenfeld said.

The driver of the car, named as a 21-year old Arab resident of the Silwan area
of east Jerusalem who has been jailed three times for stone throwing, was shot
by armed police nearby and arrested reportedly while trying to flee the scene.

He was described as being in a serious condition and under guard at one of the
city's hospitals.

"A private car which arrived from the direction of the French Hill junction hit
a number of pedestrians who were on the pavement and injured nine of them,"
police spokeswoman Luba Samri said in a statement.

"The driver apparently tried to flee on foot and was shot and wounded by a
policeman from the Jerusalem district."

A paramedic who was at the scene told the Ynet website that he had treated the
baby's mother "for a serious head wound" and that the car had hit the stroller
with her baby in.

Photographs from the scene of the showed a silver Volkswagen hatchback car, its
doors open, resting on a fallen lamppost. The car in the images appears to match
the one caught on video.

Although details are sketchy, police said suspect the incident is what is known
as a so called "run-over" attack that in the past has seen vehicles driven into
passersby.

East Jerusalem has experienced months of unrest since a Palestinian teenager was
kidnapped and burned to death by Jewish extremists in early July.

The light railway that runs through the city has been the target of repeated
stone throwing incidents since the summer.

Tensions have been high in Jerusalem since the 50-day Gaza war that ended in
August and the killing of a Palestinian teen in the city by alleged Israeli
assailants to avenge the deaths of three abducted Israeli youths in the occupied
West Bank.

The last deadly incidents in Jerusalem took place in August when a Palestinian
killed an Israeli and overturned a bus with a construction vehicle and a gunman
wounded a soldier in attacks that appeared to be a backlash against Israel's
Gaza war.

Israel captured east Jerusalem along with Gaza and the West Bank in the 1967 Six
Day War. It annexed the city shortly afterwards and passed a law in 1980 that
declared all of Jerusalem its capital, a move not recognised internationally.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 22, 2014 Wednesday 6:45 PM GMT

Radical Muslim convert launched terror attack in Canada killing one soldier
after his passport was confiscated as he tried to leave and join ISIS

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 841 words



     ·    Martin Couture-Rouleau, 25, ran over two Canadian soldiers, killing
          one
     ·    Investigators say he had become radicalized by Islam and was feared to
          be en route to become a jihadi
     ·    Warrant Officer Patrice Vincent succumbed to his injuries


A young convert to Islam who killed a Canadian soldier in a hit-and-run had been
on the radar of federal investigators, who feared he had jihadist ambitions and
seized his passport when he tried to travel to Turkey, authorities said Tuesday.

Public Safety Minister Steven Blaney said the attack Monday was 'clearly linked
to terrorist ideology.' Quebec Police spokesman Guy Lapointe said the act was
deliberate and that one of the two soldiers was in uniform.

Police said the suspect, Martin Couture-Rouleau, called 911 to report his
hit-and-run as police chased him in the Quebec city of Saint-Jean-Sur-Richelieu.

He later was shot dead by police after his car flipped over into a ditch and he
brandished a knife as he exited his car. A second soldier suffered minor
injuries in the attack.

Scroll down for video

Couture-Rouleau, 25, was one of 90 people in the country suspected of intending
to join fights abroad or who have returned from overseas, according to Royal
Canadian Mounted Police Commissioner Bob Paulson.

He first came to attention of authorities in June because of Facebook postings
that showed he had become radicalized and wanted to leave the country to fight,
said Royal Canadian Mounted Police Supt. Martine Fontaine.

Police seized his passport at the airport in July when he tried to travel to
Turkey, Fontaine said. He was arrested and questioned but there wasn't enough
evidence to charge him with a crime, she said.

Fontaine said police subsequently met with him several times, including as
recently as Oct. 9, when she said he indicated that wanted to take steps to
change. They also met his parents and the imam of his mosque and tried to exert
a positive influence over him.

'Many interventions with him were carried out to try and avoid the tragic
events,' Fontaine said. 'It's very difficult when someone is planning an act
alone and there is no obvious preparation involved and used a vehicle as a
weapon.'

Fontaine said they couldn't arrest him for having radical thoughts.

It was not known whether Couture-Rouleau had any ties to Islamic militant
groups.

'He was part of our investigative efforts to try and identify those people who
might commit a criminal act travelling abroad for terrorist purposes,' Paulson
said.

Canada raised its domestic terror threat level from low to medium Tuesday due to
'an increase in general chatter from radical Islamist organizations like ISIL,
al-Qaida, al-Shabab and others who pose a clear threat to Canadians,' said
Jean-Christophe de Le Rue, a spokesman for the public safety minister.

'This increase is not the result of a specific threat,' de Le Rue said.

Nobody answered the door at Couture-Rouleau's single story white brick home in
Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, where he lives with his father.

Neighbor Daniel Fortin said he had known Couture-Rouleau since he was a child.

Fortin said over the past year or so, he grew out his beard and began wearing
loose-fitting Muslim clothing but that he never felt threatened by him. Fortin
said Couture-Roleau's father was worried as he became increasingly radicalized
and 'tried everything,' to help him.

A Quebec business data base shows he started a water-pressure cleaning company
in St-Jean-sur-Richelieu in 2012 with two other people.

Prime Minister Stephen Harper said the slain soldier, 53-year-old Warrant
Officer Patrice Vincent, was a 28-year veteran with 'distinguished service.'

'This was a despicable act of violence that strikes against not just this
soldier and his colleagues but frankly against our very values as a civilized
democracy,' Harper said in Parliament.

Lapointe said the suspect sat in his car in the parking lot outside a veterans'
support center for at least two hours before the hit and run. He said the other
soldier is in stable condition with minor injuries.

The case is similar to one in London last year in which an al-Qaida-inspired
extremist and another man ran over a soldier with a car before hacking the
off-duty soldier to death.

Images of Michael Adebolajo, 29, holding a butcher knife and cleaver with
bloodied hands in the moments after the May 2013 killing of Fusilier Lee Rigby
shocked people around the world and sparked fears of Islamist terrorism in
Britain.

The Islamic State group has urged supporters to carry out attacks against
Western countries, including Canada, that are participating in the U.S.-led
coalition fighting the militants who have taken over large swaths of territory
in Iraq and Syria. Eight Canadian fighter jets, including two spares, are set to
depart for the region Tuesday.

U.S. State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf condemned the attack and said they
have been in touch with Canadian officials.

'We deplore acts of violence toward military and law enforcement, and stand
ready to assist our Canadian partners as they investigate this act,' Harf said.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           October 22, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

GIRL, 8, IN DOG ATTACK TERROR;
FURY OVER MUTT MAULING ; Tiana bitten on back

BYLINE: KEVIN DUGUID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 218 words


By KEVIN DUGUID A SCREAMING schoolgirl was mauled by a crazed dog just weeks
after neighbours campaigned to have it put down.

Terrified Tiana McPhillips, eight, suffered a bite on her back after the vicious
Bull Mastiff jumped and sunk its teeth into her.

Mum Leona McPhillips told how the dog pounced as Tiana walked up to the door of
a house in Bathgate, West Lothian, with a young boy who lived there.

The 40-year-old, of nearby Boghouse, said: "Tiana left him at the door and the
dog ran out of the house.

"She was walking away but it ran and jumped on her. It bit her on the back and
she fell to the ground. She was hysterical."

Miss McPhillips said the owner intervened before the dog could do more damage.

Tina was then driven to hospital by a relative following Monday night's attack.

The bite was treated by medics and Tiana given antibiotics. Leona added: "If it
had got her face or throat, it could have killed her."

The dog was taken to the Edinburgh Cat And Dog home. Experts are deciding
whether to destroy it.

It emerged a campaign was started in July to get the dog put down over claims it
mauled another pet.

Valerie Millen, 45, whose dog was allegedly attacked, said: "I'm not surprised."

Police Scotland said: "A 30-year-old man has been charged under the Dangerous
Dog Act."

kevin.duguid@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shock ... Tiana and Leona

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 22, 2014 Wednesday 7:09 PM GMT

Three-month-old baby dies in 'terror' attack on Israeli tram station;
Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel's prime minister, pins the blame on Mahmoud Abbas,
his Palestinian counterpart, accusing him of 'incitement'

BYLINE: By Robert Tait Jerusalem

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 674 words


Tensions between Israel and the Palestinians threatened to rise to a dangerous
new pitch on Wednesday when a three-year-old baby girl died after a car ploughed
into a busy tram stop in Jerusalem at rush hour in what police said was a
deliberate "terror" attack.

The driver of the vehicle was in custody after being shot and wounded by
officers near the scene of Wednesday's incident, which happened at the
Ammunition Hill station, outside the city centre. The detained man was reported
to be Abd al-Rahman Shaloudi, 21, a Palestinian from Silwan in East Jerusalem,
who had served three jail sentences for "security offences", including stone
throwing.

Israeli officials insisted he was a member of Hamas, the Palestinian militant
organisation, and said responsibility lay with the Palestinian leadership, whom
they accused of "incitement".

Eight passengers were also hurt, including a 60-year-old woman whose condition
was said to be serious. One other person was also said to be seriously injured.

Video footage on social media purporting to be a recording of the incident
shows a silver saloon car driving across the tram line before apparently
colliding with the stationary tram.

Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel's prime minister, immeditately pinned the blame on
Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian Authority leader, seizing on his decision to form
a unity government with Hamas, against which Israel waged a 50-day military
campaign in Gaza in the summer.

"This is how Abu Mazen's [Mr Abbas] partners in government act, the same Abu
Mazen who - only a few days ago - incited toward a terrorist attack in
Jerusalem," Mr Netanyahu said.

Initial reports said the car drove into the station - a busy hub - as passengers
disembarked from a stationary tram at around 5.54pm local time

Police immediately sealed off roads leading to the station, causing heavy
traffic jams during Jerusalem's evening rush hour.

Luba Samri, an Israeli police spokeswoman, said early investigations appeared to
suggest a "hit-and-run terror attack".

"A private car which arrived from the direction of the French Hill junction hit
a number of pedestrians who were on the pavement and injured nine of them," she
said in a statement. "The driver apparently tried to flee on foot and was shot
and wounded by a policeman from the Jerusalem district."

Jerusalem's state-of-the-art tram network - showcased as symbolically unifying
the city's Jewish western and traditionally Arab eastern sectors when it opened
in 2011 - has become a flashpoint for rising tensions in recent months.

Dozens of carriages have been damaged and put out of commission after coming
under attack from stone throwers while passing through Arab neighbourhoods.

The tram network became a target following the murder by Jewish vigilantes of
Mohammed Abu Khdeir, a 16-year-old Palestinian youth, last July in revenge the
killing of three Israeli youths in the West Bank. In the days following
Mohammed's death, Palestinian protesters vandalised stations and track in his
local neighbourhood of Shuafat.

The spate of stone-throwing incidents has deterred many Jewish passengers from
travelling east of the Ammunition Hill station, scene of Wednesday's incident.
Many choose to disembark there and complete their journey by bus to avoid
travelling through Arab areas.

Attacks using vehicles have become a known phenomenon in Jerusalem. In August, a
Palestinian man used a digger to flip over a bus, killing the Israeli driver and
injuring five others. Police termed that incident a "terror" attack.

Separately, two Israeli soldiers - one male and one female - were injured near
the border with Egypt on Wednesday after their vehicle came under attack from an
anti-tank missile and small arms fire from across the frontier.

It was not immediately clear who carried out the attack, which happened in the
southern Negev desert, near Eruz. Islamist groups in Egypt's lawless Sinai
peninsula have attempted several attacks against Israel in recent years.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    October 22, 2014 Wednesday 10:02 AM GMT

Terrorist 'could use drones for chemical and biological attacks';
Remotely-piloted drone aircraft could be used by terrorists to attack shopping
centres, sporting events and public gatherings, research suggests

BYLINE: By Ben Farmer Defence Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 965 words


Shopping centres, sporting events and public gatherings could face chemical or
biological attacks by terror groups using unmanned drone aircraft, research led
by a former director of GCHQ has warned.

Terrorists could also turn the remotely-piloted aircraft into flying bombs by
hooking them up to improvised explosive devices, according to the University of
Birmingham Policy Commission Report.

The Commission's research into the security impact of remotely-controlled drones
found they could have "significant benefits" for the UK's security and economy.

But they are also open to misuse according to the research led by Sir David
Omand, a former director at the Government's eavesdropping agency.

The research suggested drones are "ideal lookouts for burglars, train robbers
and poachers".

It also predicted lightweight commercial remotely piloted aircraft are also
likely to become the "weapon of choice" for paparazzi in search of intimate
photographs of celebrities.

The commission calls for "urgent" measures to safeguard British airspace and the
privacy of citizens to cope with civil and commercial use, which is expected to
be more widespread by 2035.

The report says the security threat posed by people using such aircraft "is a
serious one, whether for criminal or terrorist purposes".

"While the hazards presented by inadvertent or accidental misuse of remotely
piloted aircraft, or the consequences of their malfunctioning are becoming
better understood, more thought needs to be given to their employment for malign
purposes in the domestic environment."

It adds: "Vulnerable targets might be hardened to withstand attack from outside,
but it is entirely possible that in a public space like a shopping centre or
sporting stadium, an attack could be launched from within.

"Crowds at sporting events or rallies could be vulnerable in a similar way if a
future terrorist group were to look for means of dispersing chemical or
biological agents. While such a scenario has so far not posed a real danger to
UK citizens, as noted below, it is a threat that the UK authorities took
seriously during the 2012 Olympics."

Sir David also warns in today's Telegraph that Britain should do more in
international efforts to regulate or even ban the creation of killer military
robots.

He says the prospect of military machines one day being programmed to open fire
without human control terrifies all those who value justice and the sanctity of
life.

Such weapons would be unable to tell the difference between enemies and friends
or civilians and unable to obey the international laws of war, he predicts.

The report found remotely-piloted drones such as the RAF Reapers Britain will
soon begin flying over Iraq and Syria "pose no greater ethical challenges than
those already involved in decisions to use any other type of UK military asset".

Sir David said the drones had gained a reputation as unaccountable killing
machines because of their widespread used in America's controversial
anti-terrorist campaigns in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia.

Britain should do more to distance itself from US drone campaigns, so people
realise it has a "very different" approach to using the technology.

He said the RAF had used strict rules of engagement to fly the aircraft in
Afghanistan and had gone beyond strict legal requirements to prevent the deaths
of civilians.

But he says creating more advanced robots, where pilots are not in control,
would pose "an altogether different, and more troubling, ethical and legal
challenge".

A growing number of international organisations have warned in recent months
about the development of such "lethal autonomous weapons systems" and called for
a pre-emptive ban.

Earlier this year Angela Kane, the UN's high representative for disarmament,
told The Telegraph that killer robots were just a "small step" from the
battlefield and military powers should agree to outlaw them.

Sir David writes: "War, by its very nature, is messy and chaotic - certainly not
conducive to an autonomous weapons system making split-second decisions of life
and death. The prospect of developing this technology pushes us deeper into the
realms of science-fiction. From Westworld to The Terminator, stories of machines
running amok provoke a deep cultural anxiety. The concept strikes fear into the
hearts of those who value the laws of war, the sanctity of life and the values
of human justice, responsibility and accountability. These are not something
that can be programmed.

"To put it simply, it may well be possible to develop autonomous systems with
the capability of launching air strikes. But there is no guarantee that the
ethical strictures of international humanitarian law could be successfully
applied."

While the British and US governments have pledged not to develop such technology
"for the foreseeable future", other, he warns "may not have the same qualms".

He says: "We urge the Government to take a leading role in the arms control
negotiations taking place in Geneva next month. There is a strong need for an
international consensus on the regulation - or even pre-emptive prohibition - of
lethal autonomous weapons systems."

Militaries are making increasing use of robots, from bomb disposal machines to
armed remotely piloted drones carrying out missile strikes. Israel has
experimented with border control robots and American has trialled them in Iraq
and Afghanistan. But all current machines' weapons are controlled and directed
by humans, who make the final decision whether to fire.

Experts have questioned whether it will ever be possible to create robots able
to make sophisticated battlefield decisions and argue human commanders would be
reluctant to give up control.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 22, 2014 Wednesday 8:33 PM GMT

Soldier shot dead in suspected terror attack at Canadian parliament

BYLINE: Will Pavia and David Taylor

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 1165 words


Canada's national parliament went into lockdown today after at least two armed
men mounted what appeared to be a terrorist attack, fatally shooting a soldier.

The soldier was hit during the changing of the guard at the national war
memorial after which two gunmen entered parliament, where dozens of other shots
were heard in the ensuing minutes.

One of the gunmen was said to have been shot by the parliamentary
sergeant-at-arms - a senior police officer in charge of security at the complex
- but the other was still on the loose as police SWAT teams spread out.

One of the suspects has also died, and a parliamentary guard was injured. There
were unconfirmed reports of a gunman on a roof near parliament shooting at
people in the street below.

The first shots rang out at the war memorial in Ottawa a little before ten in
the morning and echoed on the streets filling with workers. They were heard in
Canada's parliament building, where Liberal and Conservative politicians were
already in a meeting. The Centre Block building, as it is known, is not far from
the memorial and was full of MPs and their staff.

It was a beautiful autumn morning, with a thin gauze of cloud not quite blocking
the blue sky beyond. Two white-gloved soldiers were guarding the memorial, built
to commemorate Canadian troops of the First World War and later embellished and
rededicated to those lost in later conflicts. In 2000, a Tomb of the Unknown
Soldier was added, to symbolise the sacrifice of all those who had died in those
conflicts, and in others yet to come.

There, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge had greeted crowds of cheering
Canadians during their first royal tour.

Witnesses to today's attack said they had seen a car pulling up on Wellington
Street, between the memorial and the parliament buildings; a brown Toyota
Corolla, without licence plates. Some recalled seeing two men climb from the
vehicle, leaving the engine running. One was seen walking towards the war
memorial, carrying what appeared to be a bundle of blankets.

He was said to have been about 5ft 10in tall, and white, although one witness
described him as "South American" looking. He was also said to be slightly
overweight, and about 30 years old. A witness named Raivo Nommik said the man
was wearing a hoodie, as well as a bandana tied around his head. Another said he
had a black-and-white "Arabic scarf". He approached the memorial and the
soldiers from behind - and opened fire.

Matthew Blais, a workman, told the Ottawa Citizen that he "heard a bunch of pops
and I looked over at the war memorial and I saw a man with a rifle shooting at
innocent people". After shooting one of the soldiers, he is said to have shouted
something into the morning air.

Peter Henderscare, a reporter, heard the shots as he was securing his bike on a
nearby street corner. He said two came in quick succession, then another two. He
ran to the scene and saw a soldier lying in front of the memorial, with
civilians and military personnel rushing to his aid.

At least five people crouched over the dying man. A woman administered mouth to
mouth resuscitation; two men bent over him at the bottom of the steps to the
memorial to perform chest compressions, their workbags and the soldier's rifle
scattered around them.

Barry Willis, a construction worker, told reporters that he saw the gunman
coming from the war memorial. As the man pointed a rifle at him, Mr Willis dived
into his van. "It scared the s*** out of me," he said.

He said the gunman had then commandeered a car and driven to the gates of the
main parliament building, and rushed towards the entrance.

Mr Blais said the gunman had jumped "into a green car and headed up the street.
He parked right in front of parliament and ran into the building."

Marc-Andre Viau, a spokesman for the New Democratic party in Canada, was walking
from the front door of the Centre Block building when a police officer shouted
at him to take cover.

A reporter named Josh Wingrove, who works for The Globe and Mail in Toronto,
said he saw a man rushing into the building, chased by police officers who were
shouting 'Centre Block, Centre Block!" A parliamentary librarian then saw a man
with a rifle walking through the corridors of parliament.

Liberal MPs meeting in the basement heard the sound of shots being fired. In one
of the building's chambers, politicians pushed the stately green leather chairs
against the dark wood doors to create an improvised barricade.

Mr Wingrove watched as armed police swept down the grand hall, then rushed
forward to the sound of shots being fired. Soon, MPs reported that the gunman
had been killed.

The prime minister, Stephen Harper, was believed to have been escorted to safety
- but the crisis was not over. While the centre of the city remained in
lockdown, Ottawa police confirmed that there had been another shooting, at a
nearby shopping centre.

Later, the Canadian press reported that the gunman in parliament had been shot
dead by the Sergeant-At-Arms, Kevin Vickers. MPs expressed their gratitude for
the courage and bravery of staff guarding the building during the unprecedented
attack. Julian Fantino, the minister of veterans' affairs, said he was
"profoundly grateful" to Mr Vickers and "our security forces for the selfless
act of keeping us safe".

Ottawa hospital said it had received three patients from the incident, two of
whom were in a stable condition. However, witnesses who saw the first shooting
held out little hope for the soldier who had been guarding the memorial. His
wounds were said to be "catastrophic", and a few hours after the incident police
confirmed that he had died.

Embassies in the capital were closed, offices were shut, residents attending a
local gym were kept inside and streets were cleared.

Senator George Baker, who was one of those in lockdown at the parliament
building, said he was alerted that something was wrong by the sound of shots
being fired in the distance. "Then about 15 minutes later, all of a sudden the
police converge on the hall and say: 'No, you have to go back to your office -
you're not allowed to look out through the window'."

Speaking to the MSNBC television channel by telephone from his locked office, he
offered a possible explanation for the gunman being able to burst into the
Canadian parliament, before being hunted down and shot dead in an alcove.

He said politicians had agreed, barely two months earlier, to tighten security
in parliament - but that the new rules were due to come into place in three
months' time. "The tourists come on Parliament Hill and they don't see any of
our officers with guns. Nobody has a gun that you can visibly see," he said of
the current rules.

Jim Munson, a Liberal senator, said on Twitter that senators and staff were safe
but shaken. As they were finally escorted from the building, they could still
smell gun smoke in the air. "Unlike you or the US, we don't have security
outside with machineguns," he told the BBC. "We've lost our innocence as a
nation."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 22, 2014 Wednesday 6:46 PM GMT

Soldier shot in suspected terror attack at Canadian parliament

BYLINE: Philippe Naughton

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 489 words


Canada's national parliament went into panicked lockdown today after at least
two armed men mounted what appeared to be a terrorist attack.

The attack began with the shooting of a soldier during the changing of the guard
at the national war memorial after which two gunmen entered parliament, where
dozens of other shots were heard in the ensuing minutes.

One of the gunmen was said to have been shot by the parliamentary
sergeant-at-arms - a senior police officer in charge of security at the complex
- but the other was still on the loose as police SWAT teams spread out.

Shortly before 11am local time (1600 BST), more than an hour after the start of
the incident, further exchanges of gunfire were reported from around the
parliamentary complex. Police said that "multiple assailants" were involved,
suggesting that there may have been a third gunman.

There were unconfirmed reports of a gunman on a roof near parliament shooting at
people in the street below. Police also reported a shooting at the Rideau
Centre, a shopping mall.

Police cleared the area around parliament block by block, forcing parliamentary
staffers and journalists to move away, told residents to stay away from windows
or roofs.

The University of Ottawa, which is just five minutes from parliament, also went
into lockdown. Parents were told not to pick up their children from schools or
nurseries.

The wounded soldier was treated by paramedics on the steps of the memorial
before being taken away in an ambulance.

Tony Clement, a cabinet minister, tweeted that at least 30 shots were heard
inside the parliament building, where Conservative and Liberal MPs were holding
their weekly caucus meetings. "I feared this day would come, and my prayers are
with the fallen soldier," he added.

The incident comes just two days after a French-Canadian convert to Islam who
had sought to join Islamic State (Isis) killed a soldier and wounded another by
running them over in a car park in Quebec - an incident which raised fresh fears
of home-grown terrorism in the country.

The Canadian parliament, unlike Westminster, has relatively lax security.
Stephen Harper, the prime minister, was in the building when the attack started
but officials said that he was quickly moved to a safe location.

He was due to meet Malala Yousafzai, the newly-appointed Nobel laureate, at an
event in Toronto this evening but has cancelled following the shootings.

Lee Berthiaume, a parliamentary reporter for the Ottawa Citizen, cited witnesses
as saying that the soldiers were performing a changing of the guard ceremony in
front of the granite memorial when a man pulled out a rifle and shot.

Witnesses said the gunman had "long curly dark hair" and was wearing a white
bandana and a hoodie. He was said to be about 5ft 9ins and overweight.

The Princess Royal is due to attend a Remembrance Day service at Ottawa's
National War Memorial next month as part of a two-day tour of the area.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Al-Arab (English)

                                October 23, 2014

Only in Israel: Car crash can become 'hit and run terror attack'

LENGTH: 779  words


Jerusalem police vow 'zero tolerance' after Palestinian rammed his car into
crowd, killing three-month-old girl and triggering clashes.


Driver later died of his
injuries


Jerusalem police vowed a "zero tolerance" policy towards violence Thursday after
a Palestinian rammed his car into a crowd, killing a baby and triggering clashes
across the city's annexed eastern sector.

It was the second such deadly incident involving a Palestinian driving a vehicle
in three months, and prompted Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to order
an immediate increase in the police presence across the Holy City.

The driver, 21-year-old Abdelrahman Shaludi from the east Jerusalem
neighbourhood of Silwan, drove his car at high speed into a group of
pedestrians, killing a three-month-old girl and injuring six other people.

He was shot by police as he tried to flee the scene and later died of his
injuries, a hospital spokeswoman said.

The early evening incident triggered clashes between stonethrowing youths and
police in several east Jerusalem neighbourhoods which lasted late into the
night.

Police warned they would not tolerate any further unrest, referring to clashes
which have gripped the eastern part of the city on an almost daily basis for the
past four months.

"Jerusalem police emphasises that it will demonstrate zero tolerance towards any
incident of violence and will put its hand on anyone who disturbs public order
in the city and prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law," police
spokeswoman Luba Samri said in a statement.

Overnight, clashes took place in the districts of Silwan, Issawiya, Shuafat
refugee camp, Al-Tur and Ras al-Amud -- all of them flashpoints in Arab east
Jerusalem, which was occupied and annexed by Israel during the 1967 Six-Day War
in a move never recognised by the international community.

Stones were also thrown at the light rail in Shuafat, which has repeatedly been
a target for local anger in recent months. Police said the train was damaged but
nobody was injured.

Most of the extra police forces were deployed in areas of friction, police
spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said.

He said a number of people had been arrested for stonethrowing overnight but
declined to give numbers.

"On an operational level, police presence was reinforced with extra border
police, a motorcycle unit and other units who specialise in public order," he
said, indicating they were deployed in areas such as Wadi Joz, Issawiya and
Silwan to prevent any fresh unrest.

He said police had activated "a strategic plan" to end the wave of unrest, which
would incorporate human resources, technological resources and intelligence.

Washington denounced the attack as "despicable" and called for both sides to
demonstrate restraint.

"We urge all sides to maintain calm and avoid escalating tensions in the wake of
this incident," State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said in a statement,
without confirming reports that the infant had US citizenship.

Shaludi drove his car at top speed into pedestrians near the Ammunition Hill
tram stop on the seamline between west and occupied east Jerusalem.

Three-month-old Haya Zissel Braun died of her injuries and was buried on
Wednesday evening.

Among the six others, one was in serious condition, another was moderately hurt
and four sustained light injuries, medics said.

Samri described the incident as a "hit and run terror attack" -- the second in
the area in just under three months.

During the most recent incident in August, a Palestinian man rammed a bus with
an excavator, killing one Israeli and injuring five. Police shot the driver
dead.

Witnesses to Wednesday's attack said the car had ploughed into the crowd "at
full speed".

Footage posted on YouTube showed a car veering off the main road and cutting
down a group of people on the pavement.

Family members said Shaludi had been recently released from an Israeli prison
where he served 14 months for disturbing the peace, a euphemism for throwing
stones or participating in unrest.

Silwan, where he came from, is a densely populated Arab neighbourhood on a steep
hillside just south of the Old City that has been wracked by unrest in recent
years after Jewish hardliners took up residence in the area.

It hit the headlines in the past month after settlers acquired another 35
apartments there, triggering a furious reaction from both the Palestinians and
the international community.

Netanyahu's office alleged that Shaludi was a member of Hamas.

Relatives confirmed that Shaludi was a nephew of senior Hamas bomb-maker Muhi
al-Din Sharif who was killed in the West Bank in 1998, but it was not clear
whether the 21-year-old was a member of the Islamist movement.

Alarab Online.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 172


                         Copyright 2014 Alarab Online.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 3:24 PM GMT

Israel Deploys Police, Condemns "Terrorist Attack" In East Jerusalem

LENGTH: 509 words


Jerusalem (Alliance News) - Palestinian youths clashed with Israeli police in
East Jerusalem on Thursday, continuing protests that erupted after a Palestinian
man rammed his car into a railway station and was shot by Israeli police.

Israel and the Palestinian Authority exchanged angry accusations after the
crash, which killed a 3-month-old Jewish baby who was a US citizen, and left
eight people injured.

Israeli officials called the incident an intentional terrorist attack and
deployed hundreds of police officers to respond to protests in the city, as
tensions ramped up in a region already strained by the summer's 50-day Gaza
conflict that left thousands dead.

Dozens of masked Palestinian youths threw rocks at police in various areas of
East Jerusalem as security forces responded with stun grenades. A kindergarten
yard was littered with stones.

Two civilian buses elsewhere in the city were stoned, and a bus driver lightly
injured.

After holding meetings at Jerusalem's police headquarters, Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accused Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas of
"glorifying" Palestinian attackers. Abbas' secular Fatah party formed a unity
government with Hamas in June after a seven-year feud.

The Palestinian Authority declined to condemn the incident, treating it as an
accident. Chief negotiator Saeb Erekat blasted Netanyahu for indirectly blaming
Abbas, calling his statements "inflammatory and unfounded."

The 20-year-old driver in the crash, Abd Shalodi, died of critical wounds
overnight at the Shaare Zedek hospital, spokeswoman Shoham Ruvio confirmed to
dpa Thursday.

Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld confirmed that the baby killed, and her
parents, were US citizens. An uncle said the parents had come from America to
study in a Jerusalem yeshiva (religious seminary).

Footage from security cameras showed the car driving out of its lane right onto
the light railway platform - off limits for motorized traffic - and at full
speed running over the passengers waiting at the rail stop Wednesday evening.

Shalodi had served time in Israeli jails for security-related charges, police
said.

On his Facebook page, he had portrayed himself as an ardent supporter of Hamas,
the radical Islamist movement in de facto control of Gaza. His cover photo
features masked fighters of the Qassam Brigades, Hamas' armed wing.

But his East Jerusalem family insisted that the hit-and-run had been an
accident. Family members declined an autopsy.

Palestinian witnesses said he lost control of the vehicle and was shot when he
exited the car.

But Jewish witnesses said he rammed into the pedestrians on purpose and tried to
flee.

"The car waited for many people to gather and get off the train. Then the car
sped up," Shimshon Halperin, the grandfather of the three-month-old killed, told
reporters.

US officials also described the crash as a terrorist attack and condemned the
"despicable" act.

"We urge all sides to maintain calm and avoid escalating tensions in the wake of
this incident," State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said.

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2014 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Netanyahu says Palestinian leader Abbas "incited" Jerusalem "terror" attack

LENGTH: 532 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 22 October

[Unattributed report: "Netanyahu blames Abbas incitement for Jerusalem terror
attack"]

Palestinian [National] Authority President Mahmoud Abbas encouraged violence
against Jews in Jerusalem, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said following the
vehicular terror attack in Jerusalem Wednesday.

"This is how Abbas' partners in government [Hamas] act. This is the same Abbas
who, only a few days ago, incited towards a terrorist attack in Jerusalem," he
said.

Netanyahu ordered that security forces in Jerusalem be reinforced following the
attack, consulting with Public Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch, Israel
Police Commissioner Insp.-Gen. Yohanan Danino and Shin Bet Director Yoram Cohen.

"Not even Satan could create sufficient vengeance for the blood of a
three-month-baby," Economy Minister Naftali Bennett said. "An enemy that murders
babies must be treated as such."

Bennett called for police to treat every rock-thrower and arsonist as a terror
attack.

Politicians on the Right blamed what they called the government's complacency
towards ongoing violence in Jerusalem for leading to the attack.

Housing and Construction Minister Uri Ariel, whose ministry is a short walk from
the Ammunition Hill light rail station, where the attack took place, said "the
violence in Jerusalem reached its peak today. The reality in recent months of
repeated violent incidents by [Arabs] must stop.

"It started with throwing rocks and Molotov cocktails and continued to
deteriorate and today, unfortunately, Jewish blood was spilled," he said.

Ariel demanded that Netanyahu and Aharonovich take action against those who seek
to harm Israeli citizens and increase police forces in Jerusalem to stop the
deterioration of security in the capital.

Knesset Finance Committee chairman Nissan Slomiansky (Bayit Yehudi) called to
put an end to the "silent Intifada" and bring security back to the streets of
Jerusalem.

"Once again we see that any concessions in Jerusalem, specifically on the Temple
Mount, is seen by the other side as weakness and increases terrorism," he
posited. "The time has come for the Government of Israel to give clear
instructions and the means for security forces to act against the rock-throwing
and other attacks."

MK Danny Danon (Likud) said there is a war in Jerusalem and terrorism must be
fought without hesitation.

"The blood of Jerusalem's residents has become cheap. The time has come to stop
the rioters, the Arabs of east Jerusalem who are led by extremist leaders. They
have to know that there is zero tolerance for such acts," he stated.

MK Eli Yishai (Shas) said the government's apathy towards the wave of
rock-throwing in east Jerusalem encourages terrorists.

"For a long time, residents of Jerusalem are hopeless hostages in facing the
growth of Arab rioting. A terrorist is a terrorist, whether he is throwing a
rock or holding a gun. They face the same fate and they should be stopped with
the same determination," he said.

Yishai called to demolish terrorists' homes to deter others from carrying out
attacks.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 22 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Open places at risk of terrorist drone attack, say experts

BYLINE: James Cartledge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 455 words


SHOPPING centres, sporting events and public rallies face the risk of chemical,
biological or bomb attacks by terror groups flying remote-controlled drones,
Birmingham experts have warned.

The warning comes after an alleged drone pilot was arrested after a device was
flown over Manchester City's Etihad Stadium on Saturday during the match against
Spurs, sparking safety fears.

And a similar incident at an international game between Serbia and Albania
sparked an international incident.

New research by the University of Birmingham Policy Commission says drone use in
British skies will expand rapidly over the next 20 years, posing a serious
security risk and significant privacy concerns.

There are concerns that terror groups cs ould use the unmanned aircraft to
target shopping centres, sports events and public meetings with chemical or
biological attacks, or turn drones into improvised explosive devices.

The research, led by former GCHQ former boss Sir David Omand, was published
yesterday after a 41-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of breaching an air
navigation order on Saturday at the Premier League match in Manchester.

He was held in the car park of a nearby Asda store.

Birmingham university experts warned that drones were also the criminals who
could bypass traditional security measures, mirroring storylines in US crime
shows NCIS and Hawaii Five-0. Lightweight commercial drones were also likely to
become the "weapon of choice" for paparazzi in search of intimate photographs of
celebrities, according to the report.

Researchers also found that greater civil and military use of unmanned aircraft
could have "significant benefits" for the UK's security and economy.

But they called for the Government to be open and transparent about the use of
the controversial aircraft to increase understanding and acceptance of the
"legal and ethical soundness" of using drones.

Police in Merseyside, Staffordshire, Essex, Wiltshire and the West Midlands have
used drones for surveillance, and the report recommends that guidelines must
govern how, and when, they can be used.

The report said: "The security threat posed by individuals misusing such
aircraft is a serious one, whether for criminal or terrorist purposes.

"Vulnerable targets might be hardened to withstand attack from outside, but it
is entirely possible that in a public space like a shopping centre or sporting
stadium, an attack could be launched from within.

"Crowds at sporting events or rallies could be vulnerable in a similar way if a
future terrorist group were to look for means of dispersing chemical or
biological agents."

'"The security threat posed by individuals misusing such aircraft is a serious
one, whether for criminal or terrorist purposes

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ Violence flared in Belgrade after a ¦drone (circled) flew a flag in
the stadium in the Serbia v Albania match. Above, the drone device flown over
the Etihad Stadium in Manchester on Saturday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Canada Terror Attacks Raise Risk Of 'Lone Wolf' Action Elsewhere

LENGTH: 1068  words



HIGHLIGHT: The latest terror attacks in Canada reflect a shift towards a more
individualised form of strikes by radical Islamist activists, as opposed to
mass-casualty bomb attacks on aircraft, trains, and public places - although the
latter will remain a significant risk. Meanwhile, the Canada attacks are likely
to inspire copy-cat attempts in other Western countries.


 BMI View: The latest terror attacks in Canada reflect a shift towards a more
individualisedform of strikesby radical Islamist activists, as opposed to
mass-casualty bomb attacks on aircraft, trains, and public places-although the
latter will remain a significant risk.Meanwhile, the Canada attacks are likely
to inspire copy-catattemptsin other Western countries.

Canada's Activist Foreign Policy Exposes It To Revenge Terror Attacks

The October 2014 terror attacks in Canada by radical Islamist converts are in
line with threats issued by the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL,
ISIS, or the Islamic State) in a video released by group spokesman Abu Muhammad
al-Adnani on September 21. Adnani specifically named Canadians - along with
Americans, Europeans (especially the French), and Australians - as future
targets. Adnani warned Americans and Europeans that their governments' actions
in Iraq will bring them retribution, and he urged ISIS followers wherever they
are in the world to target police, security, and intelligence personnel in their
countries, as well as citizens in general, in any manner.

Canada was most likely targeted because of its highly activist foreign policy in
recent years under Prime Minister Stephen Harper. Although Canadian troops were
withdrawn from Afghanistan in March 2014, they had served in that country for 12
years, peaking at around 3,000 personnel in 2011. In total, around 40,000
Canadian troops served in Afghanistan, of which 158 were killed. In
mid-September 2014, Canada announced it was sending 69 special forces to Iraq to
help the latter's government in its war against ISIS, and on October 21 - the
day before the attack on the Canadian parliament in Ottawa - Canada sent six
warplanes to the Middle East to join the US-led air campaign against ISIS. A day
earlier, a suspected radicalised convert to Islam ran over two Canadian soldiers
in a supermarket car park in Quebec, killing one of them, before being fatally
shot by police. Although it is too early to say how the latest terror attacks
will affect general elections scheduled for October 2015, the incidents are
bound to raise discomfort in some circles about Canada's foreign policy profile.

The terror threat to Canada is not new, and will linger for years to come.
Canadian police in April 2013 foiled a plot to attack a passenger train in the
Greater Toronto area ( see April 23, 2013, 'North America-Terrorism: The Threat
That Refuses To Go Away'). Over the past 20 years, Canada's security services
have foiled multiple terror plots within the country or involving Canadians in
some role. For example, in 1999, two Muslim residents of Canada were accused of
plotting to bomb Los Angeles International Airport in the so-called 'Millennium
Plot'. In 2006, police rounded up a group of 18 men in Toronto for plotting
attacks against the Canadian Stock Exchange, Canadian intelligence, and a
military base. In 2013, two Canadians were among militants that seized the In
Amenas gas plant in Algeria and held it under siege, resulting in the deaths of
37 hostages. Also in 2013, police foiled a plot to attack the British Columbia
legislature on Canada Day (July 1). Given this long history of terror-related
activity, and Ottawa's participation in the war against ISIS, we believe that
Canada will remain a terror target for years to come.

Terror attacks in Canada indirectly threaten the US. By carrying out terror
attacks in Canada, radical Islamist activists appear to be sending a message to
Americans that they too can or will be targeted. Due to Canada's adjacency to
the US, terror attacks by ISIS supporters in Canada will arguably have a greater
psychological impact on the US than an attack in a European city would have. In
other words, the message is that North America is not safe from Islamist
militants, despite its greater distance from the Middle East. There will be
great discomfort in Canada about the unsecure nature of its parliament, while in
the US the Secret Service has recently been criticised for failing to prevent an
intruder from entering the White House. Consequently, we expect the US to step
up its domestic security arrangements, and this could lead to tighter border
controls between the US and Canada that disrupts two-way commerce and travel.
The US-Canada trade relationship is the biggest in the world, and trade volumes
suffered declines in late 2001, 2002, and 2003 following the 9/11 terror attacks
in New York and Washington, DC, as border security was stepped up.

The role of converts suggests that tougher immigration rules would not
necessarily prevent terrorism. The perpetrators of the latest terror plots were
born-and-raised Canadian citizens, meaning that the Canadian authorities will
need to be more vigilant towards the 'home grown' threat. (Both men were already
known to Canadian security.) This is already the case in European countries with
large second-generation Muslim populations, such as the UK and France. In
addition, the fact that Canada is one of the most orderly, prosperous, and
tolerant countries in the world, yet still attracts or produces those inclined
towards terrorism, suggests that radical Islamist ideology can be extremely
persuasive, rather than merely a belief system that only flourishes amid
socioeconomic deprivation or conditions of military conflict.

Other Western Countries Could Face Copy-Cat Attacks

Vigilance in other Western countries will be heightened, for fear of copy-cat or
similar attacks. Already, on September 18, Australian police had foiled a plot
to kidnap and behead a random member of the public, and a similar plot was
thwarted in the UK on October 7. Previous statements from ISIS have urged their
supporters to kill people in the streets. This appears to suggest a shift away
from 'traditional' terror plots involving multiple operatives and attacks
against high-value targets such as airliners and trains, which would have dozens
of victims, towards more individualistic killings that could increase the sense
of horror in society. If ISIS or similar groups persuade more 'lone wolf'
activists to go on the offensive, then such attacks will be harder to foil,
since there would be no organisational framework that could be detected and
disrupted. Even so, we would still expect Islamist militants to seek to carry
out mass-casualty attacks, since these tend to have a greater political impact.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political Risk Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2014 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Canada PM: attacks against soldiers are terrorism

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 135 words


OTTAWA, Ontario - Canada's prime minister says Wednesday's fatal shooting of a
Canadian soldier in Ottawa and a hit-and-run that killed another earlier this
week are grim reminders that Canada is not immune to terrorism.

"But let there be no misunderstanding, we will not be intimidated. Canada will
never be intimidated," Prime Minister Stephen Harper said in a televised address
to the nation.

Harper says the two, separate attacks will strengthen Canada's resolve to work
to keep Canada safe and work with allies around the world to fight terrorist
organizations.

Harper spoke hours after a gunman shot a soldier guarding a war memorial then
stormed Parliament before he was killed. On Monday, a man allegedly inspired by
radical Muslim beliefs rammed his car against two Canadian soldiers, one of whom
died.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Baby killed, seven injured in terror attack in Jerusalem

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 389 words


JERUSALEM -- A Palestinian man slammed a car into a crowded rail station in
Jerusalem, killing an infant and injuring seven other people on Wednesday, in a
suspected "terror attack," police said.

Asi Aharoni, a spokesperson for the Jerusalem district police, said that at
approximately 18:00 (15:00 GMT), a motorist on a private car hit pedestrians
near a light rail station in Jerusalem. "The suspect tried to flee the area on
foot, but a policeman identified him and shot and wounded him," Aharoni said.

The suspect was taken to hospital in "a fatal condition," a spokesperson with
Magen David Adom, Israel's Red Cross, told Xinhua.

The police said the perpetrator's car belong to a Palestinian resident of
Silwan, a Palestinian neighborhood of east Jerusalem. Channel 10 identified the
man as Abdelrahman A-Shuldi, a 21-year old Hamas member who served time in
Israeli prison for "security offenses."

The attack wounded eight people, including a three-month old baby who later
succumbed to her wounds and died, the Hadassah hospital said in a statement.

Following the incident, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu held "a security
consultation" with the Minister of Public Security Minister Yitzhak
Aharonovitch, Police Commissioner Insp.-Gen. Yohanan Danino and Israel Security
Service (Shin Bet) Director Yoram Cohen. Netanyahu ordered that security forces
in Jerusalem should be reinforced.

Netanyahu blamed Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas for the incident, saying
"This is how Abu Mazen's partners in government act, the same Abu Mazen who--
only a few days ago -- incited toward a terrorist attack in Jerusalem."

The incident occurred at a light rail stop in the Ammunition Hill, located on
the seamline between west and occupied east Jerusalem.

There have been numerous attacks by Palestinians in recent weeks against the
light rail in Jerusalem, amidst simmering tensions in the city since Israel's
embarked in July on a 50-day long devastating military campaign in Gaza.

Silwan is located in east Jerusalem, a territory Israel captured from Jordan in
the 1967 Middle East war and which was later annexed in a move that has not been
recognized internationally.

Over the past month, Jewish settlers took over more than 30 apartments in
Silwan, as part of their efforts to settle as many Jews as possible in Arab
neighborhoods of Jerusalem.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Canada attack stirs terror fears

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 849 words


OTTAWA, Ontario- Two deadly attacks in three days against members of the
military stunned Canadians and raised fears their country was being targeted for
reprisals for joining the U.S.-led air campaign against an extremist Islamic
group in Iraq and Syria.

"We will not be intimidated. Canada will never be intimidated," Prime Minister
Stephen Harper vowed in a nationally televised address hours after a masked
gunman killed a soldier standing guard at Ottawa's war memorial shortly before
10 a.m. on Wednesday. The suspect then stormed Parliament in a dramatic attack
that was stopped cold when he was shot to death by the ceremonial
sergeant-at-arms.

Harper called it the country's second terrorist attack in three days. A man
Harper described as an "ISIL-inspired terrorist" on Monday ran over two soldiers
in a parking lot in Quebec, killing one and injuring another before being shot
to death by police. Like the suspect from Wednesday's shooting in Ottawa, he was
a recent convert to Islam.

Investigators offered little information about the gunman in Ottawa, identified
as 32-year-old petty criminal Michael Zehaf-Bibeau. But Harper said: "In the
days to come we will learn about the terrorist and any accomplices he may have
had."

Witnesses said the soldier posted at the National War Memorial, identified as
Cpl. Nathan Cirillo, was gunned down at point-blank range by a man carrying a
rifle and dressed all in black, his face half-covered with a scarf. The gunman
appeared to raise his arms in triumph, then entered Parliament, a few hundred
yards away, where dozens of shots soon rang out, according to witnesses.

People fled the complex by scrambling down scaffolding erected for renovations,
while others took cover inside as police with rifles and body armor took up
positions outside and cordoned off the normally bustling streets around
Parliament.

On Twitter, Canada's justice minister and other government officials credited
58-year-old sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers with shooting the attacker just
outside the MPs' caucus rooms. Vickers serves a largely ceremonial role at the
House of Commons, carrying a scepter and wearing rich green robes, white gloves
and a tall imperial hat.

At least three people were treated for minor injuries.

In Washington, President Barack Obama condemned the shootings as "outrageous"
and said: "We have to remain vigilant." The U.S. Embassy in Ottawa was locked
down as a precaution, and security was tightened at the Tomb of the Unknown
Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery just outside Washington.

Harper vowed that the attacks will "lead us to strengthen our resolve and
redouble our efforts" to keep the country safe and work with Canada's allies to
fight terrorists.

Court records that appear to be the gunman's show that he had a long rap sheet,
with a string of convictions for assault, robbery, drug and weapons offenses,
and other crimes.

Tony Zobl said he witnessed the Canadian soldier being gunned down from his
fourth-floor window directly above the National War Memorial, a 70-foot
(21.34-meter), arched granite cenotaph, or tomb, with bronze sculptures
commemorating World War I.

"I looked out the window and saw a shooter, a man dressed all in black with a
kerchief over his nose and mouth and something over his head as well, holding a
rifle and shooting an honor guard in front of the cenotaph point-blank, twice,"
Zobl told the Canadian Press news agency. "The honor guard dropped to the
ground, and the shooter kind of raised his arms in triumph holding the rifle."

The Canadian Broadcasting Corp. had video of the gunman going to his car alone
with his weapon after the shooting at the memorial. The car was later spotted
parked in front of Parliament Hill, just down the block.

Cabinet minister Tony Clement tweeted that at least 30 shots were heard inside
Parliament, where Conservative and Liberal MPs were holding their weekly caucus
meetings.

"I was just taking off my jacket to go into caucus. I hear this pop, pop, pop.
Possibly 10 shots, don't really know. Thought it was dynamite or construction
rather than anything else," said John McKay, a member of Parliament.

He said security guards then came rushing down the halls, herding them toward
the back of the buildings.

"And then we started talking to another woman and she was apparently inside the
library of Parliament, saw the fellow, wearing a hoodie, carrying a gun," McKay
said, "and then the implications of this start to sink in."

The attack came two days after a recent convert to Islam killed the Canadian
soldier and injured another with his car in a parking lot in the Quebec city of
Saint-Jean-Sur-Richelieu. The killer had been on the radar of federal
investigators, who feared he had jihadist ambitions and seized his passport when
he tried to travel to Turkey.

Canada had raised its domestic terror threat level from low to medium Tuesday
because of what it called "an increase in general chatter from radical Islamist
organizations." As recently as Tuesday, Canada sent eight fighter jets to the
Mideast to join the battle against Islamic State.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 11:15 AM GMT

Tourist photographs slain Canadian soldier moments before terror attack

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 212 words


THE CANADIAN solder gunned down as he guarded a war memorial posed for photos
just hours before he was murdered.

Corporal Nathan Cirillo was pictured in full uniform standing at attention
moments before Michael Zehaf-Bibeau opened fire, fatally wounding the
24-year-old.

Despite being rushed to hospital he died around two hours after the incident.

Twitter user Kamakazi19982 posted the photo with the caption: "Ok so we were on
tour at the war monument in Ottawa a few minutes ago, a few seconds later there
was a shooting."

Another image was posted on reddit of the slain soldier smiling with a blonde
tourist.

"On Sunday, we asked a very handsome guard for a picture with my friend visiting
from Cali - RIP Nathan Cirillo," wrote user Sarke1.

One of the soldier's heartbroken friends has spoken of how she found out about
his death on TV.

"I saw his face and it was him," Marie Michele told CBS News.

"That's how I found out it was Nathan.

"He was a good man. He would give anything to anyone."

Corporal Cirillo's mother is said to be in complete shock at the terrible news.

"She's saying she doesn't believe it," Jim Cirillo, Nathan's uncle, told CBC.

"She went on the Internet and she saw it and she... I don't know how she didn't
pass out."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 8:45 AM GMT

Islamic State calls for more terror attacks after Canada shooting

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 259 words


THE ISLAMIC State has called for more radicals to carry out terror attacks in
Canada after the murders of two soldiers in a week.

On Monday night suspected jihadist Martin Rouleau carried out a hit-and-run in
Quebec.

And on Wednesday Muslim convert Michael Zehaf-Bibeau stormed Parliament Hill in
Ottawa and gunned down Corporal Nathan Cirillo.

Since the attacks IS loyalists have flooded social media with praise for the two
attacks and called for "justice" in the wake of Canadian support for strikes
against IS in Syria and Iraq.

"Muslims in Canada, follow the footsteps of our brave brother Martin Rouleau who
took revenge for Canadian military aggression in our lands," wrote Abu Khalid
Al-Kanadi.

Another posted: "After Canada decided to Bomb and murder Muslims, Supposedly
just a few bullets shook all of #Canada. Expected wasnt it?"

Abu Khalid Al-Kanadi

It is thought as many as 130 Canadians have fled the country to travel to the
Middle East.

The Muslim Community fears the actual number may be much higher.

Damian Clairmont, known as Mustafa, died fighting near the Syrian city of Aleppo
after leaving Canada by telling his mother he was going to the Middle East to
study Arabic and Islam.

Speaking after the shootings in Ottawa, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper
warned terrorists they would find "no safe haven" in his country.

"Let there be no misunderstanding - we will not be intimidated," he said.

"Canada will never be intimidated."

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 7:46 AM GMT

Baby dies in Jerusalem 'terrorist attack' as car rams into pedestrians on
railway platform

LENGTH: 201 words


A BABY was killed and eight people were injured when a car slammed into
pedestrians in a "terrorist attack" in Jerusalem yesterday.

Police inspect a car after it rammed into pedestrians in Jerusalem [GETTY]

The car driver was shot by police as he tried to flee on foot and was taken to
hospital with serious injuries.

Two of the injured pedestrians were also seriously ill last night.

Footage of the attack showed the car veer out of traffic and hurtle at speed
into a Jerusalem Light Railway platform, hitting the pedestrians before coming
to a halt.

It happened on a main route leading into the centre of Jerusalem, close to the
national police headquarters.

Israeli police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said: "We can confirm that this was a
terrorist attack. The driver has a terrorist background. He has served time in
jail for terror activity."

The attacker is a resident of Arab East Jerusalem.

The tram-like light railway links Arab and Jewish neighbourhoods but has been
subject to repeated terror attacks.

Related articles Israel fires rockets into Lebanon after border blast injures
soldiers Protestors tell Qatar - Stop funding Hamas or quit the World Cup Lady
Gaga confirms Israel show amid Gaza conflict

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 7:47 PM GMT

The Guardian view on the terror attacks in Ottawa: hold fast to tolerance and
diversity;
There will be an understandable rush for new security legislation in Canada.
That would risk handing victory to the terrorists

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: COMMENT IS FREE

LENGTH: 541 words


A soldier killed by a bullet in the chest as he stood by a war memorial. Shots
fired inside the parliament building. A prime minister whisked away to safety.
MPs barricading themselves in offices as security forces locked down the
premises. Those were the scenes that unfolded on Wednesday as a gunman spread
terror at the heart of Canada's parliament before being shot dead himself - by
the sergeant-at-arms, Kevin Vickers, the holder of a post that may never before
have required the holder to fire a shot in anger. Such drama in Ottawa, Canada's
usually quiet political capital, has understandably left emotions running high.

More than a day later, the motives and circumstances behind this attack remain
uncertain, but the presumed and dominant narrative has been that of a terrorist
act connected to radical Islamism. The gunman was identified as Michael
Zehaf-Bibeau, a 32-year-old convert. Stephen Harper, the prime minister,
declaring in a short TV broadcast that "we will not be intimidated", linked the
attack to extremism inspired by the so-called Islamic State (Isis). It appears
to have been the second such attack in three days: on Monday, another Canadian,
named as Martin Couture-Rouleau, also known to police as a newly radicalised
Muslim, had run over two soldiers with a car near Montreal, killing one. He too
was shot dead at the scene.

So long as the details remain uncertain, it is hard to judge the exact
significance of this week's events. But there is no question that homegrown
terrorism is uniquely challenging to a nation's sense of identity, all the more
so in a country such as Canada that was multi-ethnic before it was a country,
and which has successfully sustained a long tradition of welcoming immigration.
A fifth of the country's 35 million people were born abroad and more than 1
million have arrived since 2006, particularly from Asia and the Middle East.
This diversity is reflected in an acute sensitivity to the risks of conflating
the threat of terror with Islam itself, which represents the country's second
largest faith community.

And diversity is only one part of Canadian identity. It is also a country with a
reputation for mediation, the birthplace of the international commission on
intervention and state sovereignty in 2001, which formulated the doctrine of
"the responsibility to protect". Its armed forces are prominent supporters of UN
peacekeeping efforts. But it is no pacifist haven. Although it stayed out of the
2003 Iraq war, it was significantly involved in Afghanistan, where Canadian
troops suffered their heaviest losses in a single military operation since the
Korean war. And only a fortnight ago, its parliament voted to join the coalition
in support of the US bombing of Isis targets: the country's security agencies
were clear that they believed the decision would heighten the risk of a
terrorist attack.

Lawmakers were drafting legislation to combat radical violence before this
latest attack. Politicians should now pause before succumbing to the temptation
to rush through laws that further restrict civil liberties in the name of
national security. It would be a betrayal of all that Canada represents if it
allowed exceptional, and horrific, events to remould that society.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 9:51 AM GMT

Baby killed and eight wounded in suspected terror attack in Jerusalem;
Driver of car that ploughed through people standing on light railway platform
dies after being shot by police

BYLINE: Peter Beaumont in Jerusalem

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 791 words


A three-month old baby was killed in Jerusalem and eight other people wounded -
one seriously - in what Israel police described as a "terrorist attack" when a
speeding car drove onto a pavement crowded with pedestrians alighting from the
city's light railway.

The child killed in the attack was later named as Chaya Zissel Braun, a US
citizen, whose family had been visiting the Western Wall.

Video footage posted on social media showed a car on the main road slowing
slightly before crossing to the train tracks and climbing on to the station
pavement, ploughing through the people standing on it.

The incident occurred on Wednesday evening at about 6pm on Road 1 - one of
Jerusalem's main arterial roads - as passengers were getting off one of the
city's light railway trains at a stop on Ammunition Hill near the national
police headquarters.

A paramedic who was at the scene said he treated the baby's mother for a serious
head wound and that the car had hit the baby's stroller.

The driver of the car, a 20-year-old resident of Silwan in East Jerusalem named
as Abed a-Rahman a-Shaludi, was shot by police officers as he apparently
attempted to flee the scene. He died a few hours later.

Although Shaludi's family told journalists later that the incident had been an
accident, Israeli officials said he was a former Palestinian prisoner and "a
member of Hamas" who had served several prison sentences including for preparing
petrol bombs.

Silwan, a neighbourhood bordering on Jerusalem's old walled city, has been a
focal point of violence in past weeks with Palestinians protesting against
Israeli settlers moving into houses in the predominantly Palestinian-populated
district.

Following the incident Silwan residents clashed with police, who responded to
rocks and petrol bombs with stun grenades that could be heard echoing across the
city.

Police clashed with stone-throwing protesters elsewhere in the city as well,
with one person injured and two more arrested.

Images of Shaludi posted on websites linked his picture with an image of
five-year-old Einas Khalil, a Palestinian girl who was run over and killed this
week by a resident of the Yitzhar settlement in the West Bank town in a hit and
run.

The Israeli prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, immediately blamed Palestinian
President Mahmoud Abbas, accusing him of "incitement to an attack on Jews in
Jerusalem". Netanyahu has ordered police reinforcements in Jerusalem following
consultations with the public security minister, Yitzhak Aharonovitch.

"This is how Abu Mazen's [Abbas's] partners in government work. This is the same
Abbas that only a few days ago called for harming Jews in Jerusalem," said
Netanyahu.

Netanyahu was referring to to Abbas's call last week to Palestinians to use "any
means" to prevent Israeli settlers accessing the Temple Mount.

Photographs from the scene showed a silver Volkswagen hatchback car, its doors
open, resting on a fallen lamppost. The car in the images appears to match the
one caught on video.

Although details were sketchy, police said they suspected the incident was what
is termed a "run-over" attack, similar to past cases where vehicles have been
driven into passersby.

That claim, however, was denied by Shaludi's family who told Israeli media: "We
are certain that this was a regular car accident. Over the past few days he did
not feel well and it could be due to his illness that he lost control of the
wheel. Many similar accidents have occurred in many places and there was no
suspicion of a terrorist attack.

"A few days ago a Jewish settler knocked over two girls near Ramallah. He killed
one and the other is in serious condition. The police immediately said it was a
car accident. In our case they said the opposite in seconds. This is because the
driver was an Arab driver. When a Jewish driver was involved in an accident the
attitude was different and no one shot him."

East Jerusalem has experienced months of unrest since a Palestinian teenager was
kidnapped and burned to death by Jewish extremists in early July.

The light railway that runs through the city has been the target of repeated
stone throwing incidents since the summer.

Tensions have been high in Jerusalem since the 50-day Gaza war that ended in
August and the killing of a Palestinian teen in the city by alleged Israeli
assailants to avenge the deaths of three abducted Israeli youths in the occupied
West Bank.

In Washington, state department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said: "The United States
condemns in the strongest possible terms today's terrorist attack in Jerusalem."
Psaki offered condolences to the family of the baby, "reportedly an American
citizen".

"We urge all sides to maintain calm and avoid escalating tensions in the wake of
this incident," Psaki said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               ICIS Chemical News

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Canada steps up security after suspected terrorist attack

LENGTH: 243 words


TORONTO (ICIS)--Canadian authorities on Thursday continued to step up security
at federal and provincial parliaments and at barracks following a suspected
terrorist attack at the country's parliament in Ottawa on Wednesday morning. A
gunman shot a soldier standing guard at a war memorial near parliament at around
09:50 hours local time on Wednesday, 22 October.

He then entered the parliament building where was later killed in a shoot-out
with police. While many details have yet to be confirmed, Prime Minister Stephen
Harper and media commentators spoke about a terrorist attack. "In the days to
come, we will learn more about the terrorist and any accomplices he may have
had, but this week's events are a grim reminder that Canada is not immune to the
types of terrorist attacks we have seen elsewhere around the world," Harper said
in a briefing late Wednesday. Police said that the gunman's father was a Quebec
businessman with links to Libya. His mother was a high-ranking federal civil
servant. In an earlier attack on Monday, 20 October, a man who was on a police
list of suspected terrorists struck two soldiers with his car, killing one, at a
parking lot at St-Jean-sur-Richelieu, near Montreal, Quebec. Quebec officials
said that the two attacks may be linked. Meanwhile, Canadian Armed Forces
personnel in the Ottawa area have been ordered not to wear their uniforms in
public, unless on duty. Additional reporting by Joe Kamalick in Washington

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Reed Business Information Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 1:54 PM GMT

Ottawa shooting: Police confirm only one gunman was involved in terror attack;
Ottawa Police Chief Charles Bordeleau says 'there is no longer a threat to
public safety'

BYLINE: James Rush

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 308 words


Police in Canada have confirmed it was a lone gunman who shot a soldier in
Ottawa before storming the nearby parliament building.

Ottawa Police Chief Charles Bordeleau has told the Canadian Broadcasting Corp
that "there is no longer a threat to public safety."

Corporal Nathan Cirillo was killed after a gunman opened fire at the National
War Memorial just before 10am on Wednesday.

The gunman is believed to have then driven in a car up to the Parliament Centre
Block, where a gun fight with police took place before he was shot dead by
sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers.

In the initial hours following the shootings police said as many as two other
gunmen may have taken part. Parliament Hill and the downtown core area were
under lockdown for 10 hours on Wednesday as police searched for more possible
suspects.  Parliament Hill and the downtown core were under lockdown for 10
hours on Wednesday as police scoured the area for more possible suspects.

A Royal Canadian Mounted Police officer, guarding Parliament Hill on Thursday,
told Reuters: "There was only one gunman."

He said in the confusion following the shooting, witnesses had seen things from
different angles, suggesting the possibility of a second shooter. Videos and
further interviews  however had showed this was not the case, he said.

Police Constable Marc Soucy has also confirmed to The Associated Press that
officers are satisfied there was only one attacker.

Canadian officials have identified the man who they believe to be the shooter as
32-year-old Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, born in Quebec.

A petty criminal with a string of minor convictions dating back to 2001,
Zehaf-Bibeau had recently converted to Islam and dreamed of travelling to the
Middle East to study Arabic, Canadian media reported.

Additional reporting by Associated Press and Reuters

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 11:15 AM GMT

Ottawa shooting: Canadian prime minister says country 'will never be
intimidated' following deadly attack;
Prime Minister Stephen Harper said the shooting was a reminder the country is
'not immune' to 'terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: James Rush

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 418 words


The prime minister of Canada has declared the country "will never be
intimidated" following the fatal shooting of a soldier in Ottawa but said it was
a reminder the country is "not immune" to "terrorist attacks".

An attacker shot and killed a soldier guarding the National War Memorial on
Wednesday. Shortly afterwards a gunman raced into the parliament building, where
witnesses said up to 50 shots were fired before he was shot dead by the
58-year-old sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers.

Prime minister Stephen Harper, who was just a few yards away from the shooting
talking to his legislators, has condemned the "brutal attack" and said Canada
would continue to work with allies in the fight against extremist organisations.

In his first address to the nation since the attack, Mr Harper, who was
evacuated from the building at the time of the shooting, said: "For the second
time this week, there has been a brutal and violent act on our soil.  "In the
days to come we will learn more about the terrorist and any accomplices he may
have had. This week's events are a grim reminder that Canada is not immune to
the types of terrorist attacks we have seen elsewhere around the world.In
pictures: Ottawa shooting

"But let there be no misunderstanding, we will not be intimidated. Canada will
never be intimidated.

"In fact this will lead us to strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts to
take all necessary steps to identify and counter threats and keep Canada safe
here at home.

"Just as it will strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts to work with
our allies around the world and fight against the terrorist organisations who
brutalise those in other countries with the hope of bringing their savagery to
our shores.

"They will have no safe haven."

The soldier has been named locally as Corporal Nathan Cirillo, with thousands
praising him on social media.

Canadian officials have identified the man who they believe to be the shooter as
32-year-old Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, born in Quebec.

In his address, Mr Harper added that a suspect in an earlier attack on Monday,
when a man allegedly rammed his car into two Canadian soldiers, killing one and
injuring the other, was an "Isil (Islamic State)-inspired terrorist".

David Cameron responded last night to the events on Twitter.

He wrote: "I'm appalled by today's attack in Ottawa. I offer my full support to
pmharper and the Canadian people as they deal with this incident."

Additional reporting by Press Association

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 10:33 AM GMT

Ottawa shootings: Terror strikes Canadian capital as attacks leave one soldier
and one suspect dead;
Prime Minister rushed to safety after deadly gunfight in parliament

BYLINE: Tim Walker

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1085 words


Terror arrived at the doors of the Canadian government on Wednesday, as at least
one gunman mounted a murderous attack in the heart of Ottawa.

An attacker shot and killed a soldier guarding the National War Memorial. A
gunman then raced into the parliament building, where witnesses said up to 50
shots were fired before he was himself shot dead by the House of Commons
Sergeant-at-Arms, Kevin Vickers. The dead shooter was named by an official as
32-year-old Canadian national Michael Zehaf-Bibeau.

Police had been scouring the centre of Ottawa for as many as two other possible
gunmen, saying they could not yet confirm that the man who had shot the soldier
was the same person who later attacked the parliament, but the restrictions were
later lifted.

In a televised address late on Wednesday, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper
said: "We will not be intimidated. Canada will never be intimidated.

"In fact this will lead us to strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts...
to take all necessary steps to identify and counter threats and keep Canada
safe."

The dead soldier was identified as Cpl Nathan Cirillo, a 24-year-old reservist
with the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, based in Hamilton, Ontario.

Though there was no immediate evidence that the incident was a co-ordinated
terrorist attack, it came just days after Canada raised its terrorism alert
level, and followed the death on Monday of another soldier, killed in a
hit-and-run attack in Quebec by a man with suspected jihadist sympathies.

Other nations including the UK have also been on heightened alert, in response
to the violent spread of Isis across swathes of Iraq and Syria. Canada is among
the countries  that joined the US-led coalition to combat Isis, with Canadian
aircraft due to participate in the bombing campaign against the extremists.

Mr Harper paid tribute to Cpl Cirillo, those that came to his aid and the
security services after a second deadly attack in three days.

"This is a grim reminder that Canada is not immune to the types of terrorist
attacks we have seen elsewhere around the world. But let there be no
misunderstanding: we will not be intimidated. This will lead us to strengthen
our resolve and redouble our efforts... to take all necessary steps to identify
and counter threats to keep Canada safe," he said.

He also pledged to "to work with our allies around the world and fight against
the terrorist organisations who brutalise those in other countries in the hope
of bringing their savagery to our shores."

The first gunshots broke the characteristic calm of Canada's orderly capital
shortly before 10am, at the war memorial in Confederation Square, where the
attacker shot Cpl Cirillo, who was standing guard in ceremonial uniform. Fellow
servicemen and civilians performed CPR on the injured soldier before he was
taken to hospital, where he was later declared dead. A witness, Tony Zobl, 35,
told the Canadian Press news agency that he watched the incident unfold from a
window overlooking the memorial.

In pictures: Ottawa shooting

"I looked out the window and saw a shooter, a man dressed all in black with a
kerchief over his nose and mouth and something over his head as well, holding a
rifle and shooting an honour guard in front of the cenotaph point-blank, twice,"
Mr Zobl said. "The honour guard dropped to the ground, and the shooter kind of
raised his arms in triumph holding the rifle."

Read more: SLAIN SOLDIER and SUSPECT named SERGEANT-AT-ARMS LABELLED A 'HERO'
AFTER TAKING DOWN GUNMANVIOLENT CRIME IS MORE COMMON IN CANADA THAN YOU MIGHT
THINKCOMMENT: HARPER'S PRO-US AGENDA HAS TURNED CANADA INTO A TARGET

A construction worker Scott Walsh, 21, told Canadian broadcaster CBC that he
then saw the gunman running towards parliament holding what appeared to be a
double-barrelled shotgun. The man vaulted a low fence and forced a driver from a
car at gunpoint, which he then drove up to the doors of the government building,
Mr Walsh said, adding: "It was intense. I didn't think it was real."

Parliament and the surrounding area were placed on lockdown as officers
converged on the scene. Journalists in the lobby of the House of Commons were
ordered by police to lie on the floor. Other bystanders fled the building, some
clambering down from higher floors via scaffolding erected for renovation work,
witnesses said.

Watch: Multiple shots fired as police move into Parliament's Centre Block

 Mr Harper and the leaders of the two main opposition parties were all said to
have left the building safely. One senior MP, Tony Clement, tweeted that a
cabinet meeting had been under way when shots were fired nearby. Mr Vickers, 58,
a former officer with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, was widely hailed as a
hero after being credited with shooting the gunman.

Globe and Mail political reporter Josh Wingrove tweeted that the gothic hallways
of parliament were filled with the smell of gunpowder, and that he had seen a
"motionless body... outside the library of parliament," thought to be that of
the suspect.

The Canadian military closed all its bases to the public following the attack.
Three other people were reportedly being treated for injuries at an Ottawa
hospital, including one member of the Parliament Hill security team, who was
wounded during the shootout.

A social media account linked to Islamist militants posted a photograph of a man
claimed to be the shooter wearing a scarf over his face and holding what
appeared to be a rifle.

On Monday, another Canadian soldier was killed when he was run over in a car
park near Montreal by a 25-year-old Islamic convert, Martin Rouleau, who sped
away from the scene pursued by police. Rouleau lost control of his vehicle and
flipped it into a ditch. As he emerged from the car, reportedly brandishing a
large knife, he was shot several times by police. He later died in hospital.

There is no indication that the incident was related to today's shootings, but
Rouleau was one of 90 Canadians being monitored, having been deemed a potential
threat to national security. On social media, Rouleau reportedly went by the
name Ahmad LeConverti ("Ahmad the Converted"), posting jihadist propaganda
including a video featuring the Isis logo. His passport had been confiscated.

On Tuesday Canada raised its national terrorism alert level from "low" to
"medium". At the time the authorities said the move was not "the result of a
specific threat," but rather a response to an increase in "general chatter"
among radical groups online.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 1:42 AM GMT

Ottawa shooting: Terror strikes Canada's capital as attacks leave one soldier
and one suspect dead;
Prime Minister rushed to safety after deadly gunfight in parliament, while
police scour city for other gunmen

BYLINE: Tim Walker

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1030 words


Terror arrived at the doors of the Canadian government on Wednesday, as at least
one gunman mounted a murderous attack in the heart of Ottawa.

An attacker shot and killed a soldier guarding the National War Memorial. A
gunman then raced into the parliament building, where witnesses said up to 50
shots were fired before he was himself shot dead by the House of Commons
Sergeant-at-Arms, Kevin Vickers. The dead shooter was named by an official as
32-year-old Canadian national Michael Zehaf-Bibeau.

Police are scouring the centre of Ottawa for as many as two other possible
gunmen, saying they could not yet confirm that the man who had shot the soldier
was the same person who later attacked the parliament. The dead soldier was
identified as Cpl Nathan Cirillo, a 24-year-old reservist with the Argyll and
Sutherland Highlanders, based in Hamilton, Ontario.

Though there was no immediate evidence that the incident was a co-ordinated
terrorist attack, it came just days after Canada raised its terrorism alert
level, and followed the death on Monday of another soldier, killed in a
hit-and-run attack in Quebec by a man with suspected jihadist sympathies.

Other nations including the UK have also been on heightened alert, in response
to the violent spread of Isis across swathes of Iraq and Syria. Canada is among
the countries  that joined the US-led coalition to combat Isis, with Canadian
aircraft due to participate in the bombing campaign against the extremists.

Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper paid tribute to Cpl Cirillo, those that
came to his aid and the security services after a second deadly attack in three
days.

"This is a grim reminder that Canada is not immune to the types of terrorist
attacks we have seen elsewhere around the world. But let there be no
misunderstanding: we will not be intimidated. This will lead us to strengthen
our resolve and redouble our efforts... to take all necessary steps to identify
and counter threats to keep Canada safe," he said.

He also pledged to "to work with our allies around the world and fight against
the terrorist organisations who brutalise those in other countries in the hope
of bringing their savagery to our shores."

The first gunshots broke the characteristic calm of Canada's orderly capital
shortly before 10am, at the war memorial in Confederation Square, where the
attacker shot Cpl Cirillo, who was standing guard in ceremonial uniform. Fellow
servicemen and civilians performed CPR on the injured soldier before he was
taken to hospital, where he was later declared dead. A witness, Tony Zobl, 35,
told the Canadian Press news agency that he watched the incident unfold from a
window overlooking the memorial.

In pictures: Ottawa shooting

"I looked out the window and saw a shooter, a man dressed all in black with a
kerchief over his nose and mouth and something over his head as well, holding a
rifle and shooting an honour guard in front of the cenotaph point-blank, twice,"
Mr Zobl said. "The honour guard dropped to the ground, and the shooter kind of
raised his arms in triumph holding the rifle."

Read more: SLAIN SOLDIER and SUSPECT named SERGEANT-AT-ARMS LABELLED A 'HERO'
AFTER TAKING DOWN GUNMANVIOLENT CRIME IS MORE COMMON IN CANADA THAN YOU MIGHT
THINKCOMMENT: HARPER'S PRO-US AGENDA HAS TURNED CANADA INTO A TARGET

A construction worker Scott Walsh, 21, told Canadian broadcaster CBC that he
then saw the gunman running towards parliament holding what appeared to be a
double-barrelled shotgun. The man vaulted a low fence and forced a driver from a
car at gunpoint, which he then drove up to the doors of the government building,
Mr Walsh said, adding: "It was intense. I didn't think it was real."

Parliament and the surrounding area were placed on lockdown as officers
converged on the scene. Journalists in the lobby of the House of Commons were
ordered by police to lie on the floor. Other bystanders fled the building, some
clambering down from higher floors via scaffolding erected for renovation work,
witnesses said.

Watch: Multiple shots fired as police move into Parliament's Centre Block

Mr Harper and the leaders of the two main opposition parties were all said to
have left the building safely. One senior MP, Tony Clement, tweeted that a
cabinet meeting had been under way when shots were fired nearby. Mr Vickers, 58,
a former officer with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, was widely hailed as a
hero after being credited with shooting the gunman.

Globe and Mail political reporter Josh Wingrove tweeted that the gothic hallways
of parliament were filled with the smell of gunpowder, and that he had seen a
"motionless body... outside the library of parliament," thought to be that of
the suspect.

The Canadian military closed all its bases to the public following the attack.
Three other people were reportedly being treated for injuries at an Ottawa
hospital, including one member of the Parliament Hill security team, who was
wounded during the shootout.

A social media account linked to Islamist militants posted a photograph of a man
claimed to be the shooter wearing a scarf over his face and holding what
appeared to be a rifle.

On Monday, another Canadian soldier was killed when he was run over in a car
park near Montreal by a 25-year-old Islamic convert, Martin Rouleau, who sped
away from the scene pursued by police. Rouleau lost control of his vehicle and
flipped it into a ditch. As he emerged from the car, reportedly brandishing a
large knife, he was shot several times by police. He later died in hospital.

There is no indication that the incident was related to today's shootings, but
Rouleau was one of 90 Canadians being monitored, having been deemed a potential
threat to national security. On social media, Rouleau reportedly went by the
name Ahmad LeConverti ("Ahmad the Converted"), posting jihadist propaganda
including a video featuring the Isis logo. His passport had been confiscated.

On Tuesday Canada raised its national terrorism alert level from "low" to
"medium". At the time the authorities said the move was not "the result of a
specific threat," but rather a response to an increase in "general chatter"
among radical groups online.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday
                                 First Edition

The battle of Ottawa;
* Terror strikes Canada's capital as attacks leave one soldier and one suspect
dead * Prime Minister rushed to safety after deadly gunfight in parliament *
Police scour city for other gunmen Terror sweeps Ottawa after soldier killed in
gun battle

BYLINE: TIM WALKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 862 words


Terror arrived at the doors of the Canadian government yesterday, as at least
one gunman mounted a murderous attack in the heart of Ottawa.

An attacker shot and killed a soldier guarding the National War Memorial. A
gunman then raced into the parliament building, where witnesses said up to 50
shots were fired before he was himself shot dead by the House of Commons
Sergeant-at-Arms, Kevin Vickers. The dead shooter was named by an official as
32-year-old Canadian national Michael Zehaf-Bibeau.

Police were scouring the centre of Ottawa for as many as two other possible
gunmen last night, saying they could not yet confirm that the man who had shot
the soldier was the same person who later attacked the parliament. The dead
soldier was identified as Cpl Nathan Cirillo, a 24-year-old reservist with the
Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, based in Hamilton, Ontario.

Though there was no immediate evidence that the incident was a co-ordinated
terrorist attack, it came just days after Canada raised its terrorism alert
level, and followed the death on Monday of another soldier, killed in a
hit-and-run attack in Quebec by a man with suspected jihadist sympathies.

Other nations including the UK have also been on heightened alert, in response
to the violent spread of Isis across swathes of Iraq and Syria. Canada is among
the countries that joined the US-led coalition to combat Isis, with Canadian
aircraft due to participate in the bombing campaign against the extremists.

The first gunshots broke the characteristic calm of Canada's orderly capital
shortly before 10am, at the war memorial in Confederation Square, where the
attacker shot Cpl Cirillo, who was standing guard in ceremonial uniform. Fellow
servicemen and civilians performed CPR on the injured soldier before he was
taken to hospital, where he was later declared dead. A witness, Tony Zobl, 35,
told the Canadian Press news agency that he watched the incident unfold from a
window overlooking the memorial.

"I looked out the window and saw a shooter, a man dressed all in black with a
kerchief over his nose and mouth and something over his head as well, holding a
rifle and shooting an honour guard in front of the cenotaph point-blank, twice,"
Mr Zobl said. "The honour guard dropped to the ground, and the shooter kind of
raised his arms in triumph holding the rifle."

A construction worker Scott Walsh, 21, told Canadian broadcaster CBC that he
then saw the gunman running towards parliament holding what appeared to be a
double-barrelled shotgun. The man vaulted a low fence and forced a driver from a
car at gunpoint, which he then drove up to the doors of the government building,
Mr Walsh said, adding: "It was intense. I didn't think it was real."

Parliament and the surrounding area were placed on lockdown as officers
converged on the scene. Journalists in the lobby of the House of Commons were
ordered by police to lie on the floor. Other bystanders fled the building, some
clambering down from higher floors via scaffolding erected for renovation work,
witnesses said.

Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper and the leaders of the two main
opposition parties were all said to have left the building safely. One senior
MP, Tony Clement, tweeted that a cabinet meeting had been under way when shots
were fired nearby. Mr Vickers, 58, a former officer with the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police, was widely hailed as a hero after being credited with shooting
the gunman.

Globe and Mail political reporter Josh Wingrove tweeted that the gothic hallways
of parliament were filled with the smell of gunpowder, and that he had seen a
"motionless body... outside the library of parliament," thought to be that of
the suspect.

The Canadian military closed all its bases to the public following the attack.
Three other people were reportedly being treated for injuries at an Ottawa
hospital, including one member of the Parliament Hill security team, who was
wounded during the shootout.

Last night a social media account linked to Islamist militants posted a
photograph of a man claimed to be the shooter wearing a scarf over his face and
holding what appeared to be a rifle.

On Monday, another Canadian soldier was killed when he was run over in a car
park near Montreal by a 25-year-old Islamic convert, Martin Rouleau, who sped
away from the scene pursued by police. Rouleau lost control of his vehicle and
flipped it into a ditch. As he emerged from the car, reportedly brandishing a
large knife, he was shot several times by police. He later died in hospital.

There is no indication that the incident was related to yesterday's shootings,
but Rouleau was one of 90 Canadians being monitored, having been deemed a
potential threat to national security. On social media, Rouleau reportedly went
by the name Ahmad LeConverti ("Ahmad the Converted"), posting jihadist
propaganda including a video featuring the Isis logo. His passport had been
confiscated.

On Tuesday Canada raised its national terrorism alert level from "low" to
"medium". At the time the authorities said the move was not "the result of a
specific threat," but rather a response to an increase in "general chatter"
among radical groups online.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2014 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Terrorist Attack in Jerusalem

LENGTH: 76 words


October 22, 2014

Jen Psaki

Department Spokesperson Washington, DC

The United States condemns in the strongest possible terms today's terrorist
attack in Jerusalem. We express our deepest condolences to the family of the
baby, reportedly an American citizen, who was killed in this despicable attack,
and extend our prayers for a full recovery to those injured. We urge all sides
to maintain calm and avoid escalating tensions in the wake of this incident.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 4:33 PM GMT

American baby girl killed and her parents injured in Jerusalem when Palestinian
smashes car into commuters at train stop in 'terrorist attack'

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS and MICHAEL ZENNIE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1043 words



     ·    Chaya Zissel Braun was thrown from her stroller and killed
     ·    Abed Abdelrahman Shaludeh, a Palestinian with a history of terrorist
          connections, smashed his car full-speed onto a train platform
     ·    He was shot dead by police as he fled the scene
     ·    Eight people were injured, including the girl's parents
     ·    Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu blamed Palestinian president
          Mahmoud Abbas for increasing tension in the region
     ·    He accused Abbas of inciting Palestinians to attack Jews in Jerusalem


A three-month-old American baby girl was thrown from her stroller and killed in
Jerusalem Wednesday when a Palestinian driver smashed his car into commuters
waiting at a train platform.

Chaya Zissel Braun's parents, who are US citizens, were among eight people hit.
Israeli authorities labeled it a 'terrorist attack.'

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu issued a statement today blaming his
Palestinian counterpart President Mahmoud Abbas for increasing tension in the
region.

Scroll down for video

Netanyahu claimed that Abbas 'just a few days ago incited (Palestinians) to
attack Jews in Jerusalem'.

He said that Abbas had called upon Palestinians to prevent Jews 'by any means'
from visiting the Temple Mount in Jerusalem which is known as the Noble
Sanctuary in Islam.

Abed Abdelrahman Shaludeh, a 21-year-old Palestinian from East Jerusalem with a
history of terrorist activities, was identified as the perpetrator. He was shot
and killed by police while trying to flee the scene.

The violence came after months of tensions between Jews and Palestinians in east
Jerusalem - the section of the city the Palestinians demand as their future
capital. The area has experienced unrest and near-daily attacks on the city's
light rail by Palestinian youths since a wave of violence over the summer,
capped by a 50-day war between Israel and Hamas militants in Gaza.

The car struck the train station near the national headquarters of Israel's
police force. Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said the driver got out of the
car and tried to flee before he was shot by a police officer.

He said footage captured by security cameras indicated the driver deliberately
struck people waiting at the stop.

'We look at this incident as a terrorist attack,' Rosenfeld said. He said the
area was cordoned off and forensic and bomb disposal experts were on the scene
examining the car.

The footage, posted on the Ynet news site, showed the car turning out of moving
traffic and heading straight into the station, accelerating while plowing
through several rows of people.

Dr. Yaakov Barkun of Hadassah Medical Center said a 3-month-old girl was injured
in the attack and later died of her wounds.

'She is a pure baby girl who hasn't done anything bad to anyone,' Shimshon
Halperin, the girl's grandfather, who is Israeli, told Channel 2 TV. 'She was
murdered for no reason.'

It was not immediately clear if the baby and her parents also held Israeli
citizenship.

Rosenfeld said the driver, a resident of the east Jerusalem neighborhood of
Silwan, was in serious condition. He added that the driver 'has served time in
Israeli prison for terrorism.' Israeli media reported he was a member of the
Islamic militant group Hamas.

The Israeli government informed the U.S. that Hamas was believed responsible for
the attack, a U.S. official said. The official wasn't authorized to speak
publicly on the matter and demanded anonymity.

It wasn't clear, however, if the attack was the work of a lone wolf, the
official added. There was no immediate information of any orders to carry out
the attack delivered by high-level members of Hamas, the official said.

Silwan, a predominantly Arab neighborhood, has seen tensions spike in recent
weeks since Jewish nationalists moved into several homes in Arab areas.

The home sales have been facilitated by nationalist Jewish groups intent on
solidifying the Jewish presence in east Jerusalem. Palestinians, who seek east
Jerusalem as their capital, consider the arrival of their Jewish neighbors to be
a provocation.

East Jerusalem has experienced months of unrest since a wave of violence erupted
over the summer. Train passengers have reported Palestinians attacking the
carriages with rocks and other violence.

The unrest began with the kidnapping and killings of three teenage Israelis in
the West Bank in June by a pair of Hamas operatives. Several weeks later, Jewish
extremists kidnapped and burned to death a Palestinian teenager in east
Jerusalem. Then, on July 8, Israel launched its war against Hamas in Gaza in
response to heavy rocket fire.

East Jerusalem is home to Jerusalem's more than 200,000 Arab residents, as well
as 200,000 Israelis.

Israel captured east Jerusalem, along with the West Bank and Gaza Strip, in the
1967 Mideast war and annexed the area as part of its capital - a step that has
not been recognized internationally. The Palestinians seek east Jerusalem as the
capital of a future state that would also include the West Bank and Gaza.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu issued a statement, blaming
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas for adding fuel to the soaring tensions in
Jerusalem with recent antagonistic comments.

Abbas 'just a few days ago incited (Palestinians) to attack Jews in Jerusalem,'
Netanyahu said.

Abbas had called on Palestinians to prevent Jews 'by any means' from visiting a
Jerusalem holy site revered by both Muslims and Jews. He was referring to the
hilltop compound sacred to Jews as the Temple Mount, where the two biblical
Jewish Temples stood. It is also sacred to Muslims, who refer to it as Noble
Sanctuary, the place from where they believe the Prophet Muhammad ascended to
heaven.

The site is the holiest in Judaism and the third holiest in Islam, and a
frequent flashpoint for Palestinian demonstrations.

Jen Psaki, spokesperson for the U.S. State Department, said in a statement that
the U.S. condemned the attack and expressed condolences to the family.

'We urge all sides to maintain calm and avoid escalating tensions in the wake of
this incident,' she said.

Barkat said police presence would be beefed up in the city.

'We must restore peace and security in Jerusalem,' he said. 'The situation in
Jerusalem is intolerable and we must act unequivocally against all violence
taking place in the city.'

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 7:20 AM GMT

American baby girl killed and her parents injured in Jerusalem when Palestinian
smashes car into commuters at train stop in 'terrorist attack'

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS and MICHAEL ZENNIE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 938 words



     ·    Chaya Zissel Braun was thrown from her stroller and killed
     ·    Abed Abdelrahman Shaludeh, a Palestinian with a history of terrorist
          connections, smashed his car full-speed onto a train platform
     ·    He was shot dead by police as he fled the scene
     ·    Eight people were injured, including the girl's parents


A three-month-old American baby girl was thrown from her stroller and killed in
Jerusalem Wednesday when a Palestinian driver smashed his car into commuters
waiting at a train platform.

Chaya Zissel Braun's parents, who are US citizens, were among eight people hit.
Israeli authorities labeled it a 'terrorist attack.'

Abed Abdelrahman Shaludeh, a 21-year-old Palestinian from East Jerusalem with a
history of terrorist activities, was identified as the perpetrator. He was shot
and killed by police while trying to flee the scene.

The violence came after months of tensions between Jews and Palestinians in east
Jerusalem - the section of the city the Palestinians demand as their future
capital. The area has experienced unrest and near-daily attacks on the city's
light rail by Palestinian youths since a wave of violence over the summer,
capped by a 50-day war between Israel and Hamas militants in Gaza.

Scroll down for video

The car struck the train station near the national headquarters of Israel's
police force. Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said the driver got out of the
car and tried to flee before he was shot by a police officer.

He said footage captured by security cameras indicated the driver deliberately
struck people waiting at the stop.

'We look at this incident as a terrorist attack,' Rosenfeld said. He said the
area was cordoned off and forensic and bomb disposal experts were on the scene
examining the car.

The footage, posted on the Ynet news site, showed the car turning out of moving
traffic and heading straight into the station, accelerating while plowing
through several rows of people.

Dr. Yaakov Barkun of Hadassah Medical Center said a 3-month-old girl was injured
in the attack and later died of her wounds.

'She is a pure baby girl who hasn't done anything bad to anyone,' Shimshon
Halperin, the girl's grandfather, who is Israeli, told Channel 2 TV. 'She was
murdered for no reason.'

It was not immediately clear if the baby and her parents also held Israeli
citizenship.

Rosenfeld said the driver, a resident of the east Jerusalem neighborhood of
Silwan, was in serious condition. He added that the driver 'has served time in
Israeli prison for terrorism.' Israeli media reported he was a member of the
Islamic militant group Hamas.

The Israeli government informed the U.S. that Hamas was believed responsible for
the attack, a U.S. official said. The official wasn't authorized to speak
publicly on the matter and demanded anonymity.

It wasn't clear, however, if the attack was the work of a lone wolf, the
official added. There was no immediate information of any orders to carry out
the attack delivered by high-level members of Hamas, the official said.

Silwan, a predominantly Arab neighborhood, has seen tensions spike in recent
weeks since Jewish nationalists moved into several homes in Arab areas.

The home sales have been facilitated by nationalist Jewish groups intent on
solidifying the Jewish presence in east Jerusalem. Palestinians, who seek east
Jerusalem as their capital, consider the arrival of their Jewish neighbors to be
a provocation.

East Jerusalem has experienced months of unrest since a wave of violence erupted
over the summer. Train passengers have reported Palestinians attacking the
carriages with rocks and other violence.

The unrest began with the kidnapping and killings of three teenage Israelis in
the West Bank in June by a pair of Hamas operatives. Several weeks later, Jewish
extremists kidnapped and burned to death a Palestinian teenager in east
Jerusalem. Then, on July 8, Israel launched its war against Hamas in Gaza in
response to heavy rocket fire.

East Jerusalem is home to Jerusalem's more than 200,000 Arab residents, as well
as 200,000 Israelis.

Israel captured east Jerusalem, along with the West Bank and Gaza Strip, in the
1967 Mideast war and annexed the area as part of its capital - a step that has
not been recognized internationally. The Palestinians seek east Jerusalem as the
capital of a future state that would also include the West Bank and Gaza.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu issued a statement, blaming
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas for adding fuel to the soaring tensions in
Jerusalem with recent antagonistic comments.

Abbas 'just a few days ago incited (Palestinians) to attack Jews in Jerusalem,'
Netanyahu said.

Abbas had called on Palestinians to prevent Jews 'by any means' from visiting a
Jerusalem holy site revered by both Muslims and Jews. He was referring to the
hilltop compound sacred to Jews as the Temple Mount, where the two biblical
Jewish Temples stood. It is also sacred to Muslims, who refer to it as Noble
Sanctuary, the place from where they believe the Prophet Muhammad ascended to
heaven.

The site is the holiest in Judaism and the third holiest in Islam, and a
frequent flashpoint for Palestinian demonstrations.

Jen Psaki, spokesperson for the U.S. State Department, said in a statement that
the U.S. condemned the attack and expressed condolences to the family.

'We urge all sides to maintain calm and avoid escalating tensions in the wake of
this incident,' she said.

Barkat said police presence would be beefed up in the city.

'We must restore peace and security in Jerusalem,' he said. 'The situation in
Jerusalem is intolerable and we must act unequivocally against all violence
taking place in the city.'

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 6:22 AM GMT

O Canada! Pittsburgh fans sing Canadian national anthem at NHL game in a show of
support after Ottawa terrorist attack

BYLINE: JAMES GORDON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 276 words


The Pittsburgh Penguins and Philadelphia Flyers paid tribute to Canada before
their game last nightas the entire arena stood to sing the country's national
anthem, O Canada.

The special performance of the Canadian national anthem was to show solidarity
with the people of Ottawa following the tragic events that unfolded in Canada's
capital city earlier in the day.

Since the game in Pittsburgh did not involve a Canadian team, there was no
requirement for the Penguins to do this, but it was still a touching and
heartfelt gesture on their part.

Scroll down for video...

Penguins performer Jeff Jimerson sang the anthem while the lyrics were displayed
to allow the crowd to sing along.

'Ladies and gentlemen, tonight our thoughts and prayers are with our friends in
Ottawa and across Canada. Please join us in the singing of 'O Canada,' the
announcement said.

'O Canada' is typically only sung if a Canadian team is playing, but fans inside
the Consol Energy Center joined together as two maple leaves were projected onto
the ice.

Nathan Cirillo, while guarding Ottawa's War Memorial, was killed by a shooter
who, along with at least one believed counterpart, went on to fire shots in the
Canadian Parliamentary building.

The incidents left the Canadian capital on lockdown, canceled a scheduled
Sens-Leafs game and deeply affected the country overall.

The Penguins and Flyers' rosters are filled with Canadians, including Pittsburgh
captain Sidney Crosby and goalie Marc-Andre Fleury.

During the game, the Penguins tweeted from their official Twitter account,
saying, 'Some things are bigger than hockey. Tonight Pens fans sang along with
with Canadian anthem.'

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 3:56 AM GMT

EXCLUSIVE: The SISTER of 'beheading' terror suspect was charged with attacking
and intimidating a police officer during the nation's largest ever terror raids

BYLINE: DANIEL PIOTROWSKI FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 686 words



     ·    Sister of alleged terror suspect Omarjan Azari was charged with
          attacking and intimidating police during last month's raids
     ·    Mursal Azari pleaded not guilty to the allegations through a solicitor
          in court on Wednesday
     ·    'We are going to be defending the charges', Ms Azari's solicitor told
          Daily Mail Australia
     ·    Her brother, Omarjan, is facing charges of conspiracy to prepare to
          commit a terrorist act


The sister of terror suspect Omarjan Azari is facing charges of attacking and
intimidating police officers at the family home during last month's dramatic
counter-terrorism raids.

Police alleged in court on Wednesday that Mursal Azari, 23, assaulted a male
constable between 4:45 and 4:46am as officers stormed the brick property in
Guildford, in Sydney's western suburbs.

During that same tense minute on the morning of September 18, Ms Azari also
allegedly intimidated a female constable, police told a court.

The raids saw Ms Azari's younger brother, Omarjan, arrested and charged with
conspiracy to commit acts in preparation of a terrorist attack. Police alleged
he was involved in a plot to behead a random member of the public.

At Parramatta Local Court on Wednesday, Ms Azari pleaded not guilty to both
charges through a solicitor. The case is expected to be heard again on December
3.

Ms Azari declined to comment at the family home on Wednesday, referring any
questions to a barrister who has been reported as representing her brother.

Ms Azari's solicitor, Penelope Purcell, told Daily Mail Australia: 'We are going
to be defending the charges', but refused to provide further comment.

By some indications, Azaris' family life has returned to somewhat normal since
the raids, while Mr Azari remains in prison.

The raids involved more than 800 New South Wales police officers and were the
largest operation of its kind in the nation's history.

AFP and NSW police officers executed search warrants across the western and
north-western suburbs of Sydney, executing search warrants in Beecroft,
Bellavista, Guildford, Merrylands, Northmead, Wentworthville, Marsfield,
Westmead, Castle Hill, Revesby, Bass Hill and Regents Park.

Bundles of cash and a curved sword - later identified as plastic and as
possessing religious significance - were some of the evidence removed from a
Sydney home.

Helicopters swooped overhead and dozens of police crowded into the Azaris'
Guildford street that September morning. The street had been under surveillance
since the second week of May.

In evidence tendered to Central Local Court, police alleged Mr Azari received a
phone call from Mohamed Ali Baryalei - the former Underbelly actor and bouncer
who security agencies have identified as a leading recruiter of Australian
Islamic State militants - where the conspiracy was discussed.

According to reports, security officials believe half of the 60 Australians
fighting for militant groups in the Middle East were recruited by Baryalei.

Ms Azari's parents, Amaljan and Gulpeika, were overseas on the annual Hajj
pilgrimage at the time of the raids. It is understood they have since returned
to Australia.

On Thursday morning, a young man at the Azari residence, believed to be a
sibling of Omarjan, headed to his place of work as a tradesman and a small
kitten played in the sunshine in the sill of their front window.

Last month, relatives of Omarjan Azari told Daily Mail Australia he was a
'gentle loving person' who had been fanatical about soccer and a keen cricket
fan. They said the allegations did not make sense.

His cousin, Rami, said last month that Omarjan, who was very religious, 'didn't
have time' to be involved in any terror plots because 'he studies at night'.

Rami said Omarjan had been aware he was being followed. 'He's only a kid. He was
petrified. He's been scared for a long time,' he said.

'He's been scared for a long time because he was being followed.'

Rami said when they talked, Omarjan would insist they put their mobile phones in
the car, so they could ensure no one was listening.

For that reason, he could not believe police had any evidence of a phone call.

Omarjan Azari will return to court in November.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terror hits at the heart of power;
Attack at Canadian parliament' I saw man in black with kerchief on his face,
holding a gun'

BYLINE: DOMINIC YEATMAN

SECTION: Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 325 words


ISLAMIC militants are believed to be behind a terror attack on the Canadian
parliament that left a soldier dead and the country's capital in lockdown
yesterday.

Gunman Michael Zehaf-Bibeau fired 30 times as people fled the building by
climbing down scaffolding put up for repair works. MPs barricaded themselves in
the chamber with chairs before the intruder was shot dead outside the room where
prime minister Stephen Harper was holding a cabinet meeting.

More shots were reportedly heard nearby - and police said they were hunting
'more than one individual'.

The killer began by shooting Cpl Nathan Cirillo, a member of the honour guard
watching over Canada's tomb of the unknown soldier.

Witness Tony Zobl, 35, said: 'I saw a man dressed all in black with a kerchief
over his nose and mouth and something over his head as well, holding a rifle.

'The honour guard dropped to the ground and the shooter kind of raised his arms
in triumph.' After the killing, Zehaf-Bibeau, 32, ran to the parliament, where
armed police chased him as shots rang out.

A guard suffered a bullet wound before the intruder was shot dead by an
ex-Mountie in the Hall of Honour.

In the aftermath of the shootout, armed police sealed off roads and bridges in
the capital and searched buildings near the parliament.

Police stations were closed to the public and residents were told to stay away
from roofs and windows. Canadian media said shots had been heard at the nearby
Rideau shopping centre but police said there had been no alert there.

Reservist Cpl Cirillo, 24, died of his injuries in hospital soon after he was
shot, while the wounded parliamentary guard was said to be in a stable
condition. David Cameron said yesterday: 'I'm appalled by the attack. I offer my
full support to prime minister Harper and the Canadian people.'

The attack came 24 hours after Quebec police shot dead Islamic militant Martin
Rouleau when he rammed his car into two Canadian soldiers, killing one.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alert: Stunned officers react to killer on the prowl at
parliamentPICTURE: REUTERSPursuit: Police chasing parliament gunman hide behind
pillarsRapid response: A Mountie races to scene PICTURE: APStretcher: Medics
carry Cirillo away. Right, officer chases killerVolunteer: Nathan Cirillo, left,
died after being shot at the memorial. Above, medics treat him PICTURE:
APPICTURES: APWatch: Police on Parliament Hill after killingPICTURE: REUTERSLook
up: Masked officers scan for signs of more gunmenPICTURE: SKY NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTRscot


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 7:06 PM GMT

Violent clashes in Jerusalem after Palestinian 'drove vehicle into crowd,
killing baby';
The incident - branded by authorities as a 'terror attack' - triggered clashes
between stone-throwing youths and police in east Jerusalem

BYLINE: By Sam Rkaina

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 433 words


Clashes in Jerusalem

There have been violent clashes in Jerusalem after a Palestinian rammed his car
into a crowd, killing a baby.

The incident - branded by authorities as a 'terror attack' - triggered clashes
between stone-throwing youths and police in several east Jerusalem
neighbourhoods.

The driver, 21-year-old Abdelrahman Shaludi from the east Jerusalem
neighbourhood of Silwan, drove his car at high speed into a group of pedestrians
on Wednesday, killing a three-month-old girl and injuring six other people.

He was shot by police as he tried to flee the scene and later died of his
injuries, a hospital spokeswoman said.

Overnight clashes followed in the districts of Silwan, Issawiya, the Shuafat
refugee camp, Al-Tur and Ras al-Amud - all flashpoints in Arab east Jerusalem,
which was occupied and annexed by Israel in 1967 in a move never recognised by
the international community.

Stones were also thrown at the light rail in Shuafat, which has repeatedly been
a target for local anger in recent months. Police said the train was damaged but
nobody was injured.

Most of the extra police were deployed in key areas of friction - Wadi Joz,
Issawiya and Silwan - to prevent further unrest, police said. They confirmed
arrests overnight but did not give numbers.

It was the second deadly incident involving a Palestinian driving a vehicle in
three months and prompted Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to order an
immediate increase in the police presence across the Holy City.

Unrest has gripped the eastern part of the city on an almost daily basis for the
past four months, and several Israeli commentators said the unrest was being
fanned by recent acquisitions of homes in the area by Jewish settlers.

Police warned today they would not tolerate further unrest.

"Jerusalem police emphasises that it will demonstrate zero tolerance towards any
incident of violence and will put its hand on anyone who disturbs public order
in the city and prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law," police
spokeswoman Luba Samri said in a statement.

Washington denounced Wednesday's attack as 'despicable' and called for both
sides to demonstrate restraint to "avoid escalating tensions", but did not
confirm reports that the infant who was killed had US nationality.

The victim, three-month-old Haya Zissel Braun, was buried at a late-night
funeral in Jerusalem.

Witnesses told Agence France-Presse the car had ploughed into the crowd "at full
speed" and footage posted on YouTube showed the car speeding off the road and
cutting down a group of people.

Police described it as a "hit and run terror attack".

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 2:11 AM BST

PM CONDEMNS 'BRUTAL' TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Press Association Reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1872 words


Canada's prime minister has said the shooting of a soldier guarding the National
War Memorial in Ottawa is a reminder the country is ``not immune'' to terrorist
attacks.

Ottawa police said the member of the Canadian Forces ``succumbed to injuries''
following a series of shooting incidents in the city yesterday morning.

The soldier was named locally as Corporal Nathan Cirillo, with his name trending
on Twitter and thousands praising him on other social media.

Canadian officials identified the gunman who killed him as Michael Zehaf-Bibeau.
He was also shot dead, reportedly by parliament's sergeant-at-arms Kevin
Vickers.

In his first address to the nation since the attack, prime minister Stephen
Harper condemned it as a ``brutal attack'' and said the country would continue
to work with allies in the fight against extremist organisations.

``For the second time this week, there has been a brutal and violent act on our
soil,'' Mr Harper, who was evacuated from the parliament building at the time of
the shooting, said.

``In the days to come we will learn more about the terrorists. This week's
events are a grim reminder that Canada is not immune to the types of terrorist
attacks we have seen elsewhere.

``But let there be no misunderstanding, we will not be intimidated. Canada will
never be intimidated.

``It will strengthen our resolve to take all necessary steps to identify and
counter threats and keep Canada safe. We will redouble our efforts to fight
terrorist organisations.

``They will have no safe haven.''

He added that an earlier attack on Monday, when a man allegedly rammed his car
into two Canadian soldiers, killing one and injuring the other, was ``Isil
(Islamic State)-inspired''.

MP Craig Scott wrote on Twitter: ``MPs and Hill staff owe their safety, even
lives, to sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers who shot attacker just outside the MPs'
caucus rooms.''

It was unclear whether other gunmen remained at large, with police describing
the incident as an ``ongoing'' operation with no-one currently in custody.

Police received a number of calls at 9.52am local time after the soldier was
shot, with further gunfire then taking place inside Parliament Hill.

``This is an ongoing operation and we are asking members of the public to stay
away from the downtown core,'' Ottawa police chief Charles Bordeleau told a
press conference.

He added that members of the public should remain ``vigilant'' as police warned
people in the area to stay away from windows and rooftops and asked for them to
not post videos or photos of the ``ongoing incident'' to ensure the safety of
emergency services and the public.

Officers said that, contrary to reports, no third incident occurred at the
Rideau Centre shopping mall.

The force said in a statement yesterday: ``The Ottawa Police Service and Royal
Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) responded to reports of shooting incidents this
morning in the downtown area.

``Police can now confirm that incidents occurred at the National War Memorial
and on Parliament Hill.

``One shooting victim succumbed to injuries. He was a member of the Canadian
Forces. Our thoughts and prayers are with him and his loved ones.''

A Facebook page was set up named Rest In Peace Cpl Nathan Cirillo, which has
already been looked at by thousands.

One message, from Bob Rodkin, read: ``RIP Nathan. Thank you for your service and
the ultimate sacrifice. So tragic, so unnecessary. My prayers go out for you and
to your family, friends and colleagues.''

Another message, from Olivia Marie, said: ``RIP Nathan! Thank you for defending
our country, your son is so proud of you. I miss you.''

Cabinet minister Tony Clement tweeted that at least 30 shots were fired while a
meeting was taking place between prime minister Stephen Harper and other MPs.

``I feared this day would come, and my prayers are with the fallen soldier,'' he
added.

A spokesman for Mr Harper later confirmed he was safe and had left the area.

Video filmed from inside the parliament building shows officers rushing down a
large marble hallway with weapons drawn in front of them, before the sound of
gunfire and shouting rings out.

The footage becomes shaky as the cameraman, believed to be a local reporter,
rushes for cover behind a pillar.

People inside the parliament building scrambled down scaffolding to escape,
witnesses said.

A photograph of chairs piled up against a door as a barricade was being heavily
circulated on Twitter, apparently taken inside the meeting room in the
parliament building where MPs earlier held their talks.

Ottawa mayor Jim Watson said he was ``shocked and saddened'' by the events.

``Ottawa police services are engaged with other law enforcement agencies at this
time in pursuit of the criminal or criminals who have carried out this vicious
and unwarranted attack,'' he said in a statement.

Alain Merizier, a waiter in the parliament dining room, said he was on his way
to work when he saw a gunman run from a car towards the parliament.

``I saw a car suddenly stop,'' he told the BBC. ``There was only one man in the
car. He went out of the left side.

``He had a long gun and he ran away to the front and went inside the parliament.
I heard one shot. I saw an officer running after him.''

Mr Merizier said the man had long dark hair and a small beard.

Vancouver South MP Wai Young said it had been ``a difficult day''.

She said: ``I am absolutely stunned because here in Canada we pride ourselves on
being open, democratic and welcoming. To have this type of random terrorist
attack happen in one of the safest places in Canada is quite shocking.''

The shootings came two days after a recent convert to Islam killed one Canadian
soldier and injured another in a hit-and-run incident before being gunned down
by police.

David Cameron responded last night to the events on Twitter.

``I'm appalled by today's attack in Ottawa. I offer my full support to @pmharper
and the Canadian people as they deal with this incident,'' he wrote.

The Ottawa Hospital said all three patients admitted after being involved in the
shooting had been discharged.

It was unclear whether other gunmen remained at large, with police describing
the incident as an ``ongoing'' operation with no-one currently in custody.

Police received a number of calls at 9.52am after the soldier was shot, with
further gunfire then taking place inside Parliament Hill.

``This is an ongoing operation and we are asking members of the public to stay
away from the downtown core,'' Ottawa police chief Charles Bordeleau told a
press conference.

He added that members of the public should remain ``vigilant'' as police warned
people in the area to stay away from windows and rooftops and asked for them to
not post videos or photos of the ``ongoing incident'' to ensure the safety of
emergency services and the public.

Officers said that, contrary to reports, no third incident occurred at the
Rideau Centre shopping mall.

The force said in a statement: ``The Ottawa Police Service and Royal Canadian
Mounted Police (RCMP) responded to reports of shooting incidents this morning in
the downtown area.

``Police can now confirm that incidents occurred at the National War Memorial
and on Parliament Hill.

``One shooting victim succumbed to injuries. He was a member of the Canadian
Forces. Our thoughts and prayers are with him and his loved ones.''

A Facebook page was set up named Rest In Peace Cpl Nathan Cirillo, which has
already been looked at by thousands.

One message, from Bob Rodkin, read: ``RIP Nathan. Thank you for your service and
the ultimate sacrifice. So tragic, so unnecessary. My prayers go out for you and
to your family, friends and colleagues.''

Another message, from Olivia Marie, said: ``RIP Nathan! Thank you for defending
our country, your son is so proud of you. I miss you.''

Cabinet minister Tony Clement tweeted that at least 30 shots were fired while a
meeting was taking place between prime minister Stephen Harper and other MPs.

``I feared this day would come, and my prayers are with the fallen soldier,'' he
added.

A spokesman for Mr Harper later confirmed he was safe and had left the area.

Video filmed from inside the parliament building shows officers rushing down a
large marble hallway with weapons drawn in front of them, before the sound of
gunfire and shouting rings out.

The footage becomes shaky as the cameraman, believed to be a local reporter,
rushes for cover behind a pillar.

People inside the parliament building scrambled down scaffolding to escape,
witnesses said.

A photograph of chairs piled up against a door as a barricade was being heavily
circulated on Twitter, apparently taken inside the meeting room in the
parliament building where MPs earlier held their talks.

Ottawa mayor Jim Watson said he was ``shocked and saddened'' by today's events.

``Ottawa police services are engaged with other law enforcement agencies at this
time in pursuit of the criminal or criminals who have carried out this vicious
and unwarranted attack,'' he said in a statement.

Alain Merizier, a waiter in the parliament dining room, said he was on his way
to work when he saw a gunman run from a car towards the parliament.

``I saw a car suddenly stop,'' he told the BBC. ``There was only one man in the
car. He went out of the left side.

``He had a long gun and he ran away to the front and went inside the parliament.
I heard one shot. I saw an officer running after him.''

Mr Merizier said the man had long dark hair and a small beard.

Vancouver South MP Wai Young said it had been ``a difficult day''.

She said: ``I am absolutely stunned because here in Canada we pride ourselves on
being open, democratic and welcoming. To have this type of random terrorist
attack happen in one of the safest places in Canada is quite shocking.''

The shootings come two days after a recent convert to Islam killed one Canadian
soldier and injured another in a hit-and-run incident before being gunned down
by police.

David Cameron responded to the events on Twitter.

``I'm appalled by today's attack in Ottawa. I offer my full support to @pmharper
and the Canadian people as they deal with this incident,'' he wrote.

The Ottawa Hospital said all three patients admitted after being involved in the
shooting had been discharged.

Parliament sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers was named on Twitter tonight as the
man who shot the gunman.

MP Craig Scott said: ``MPs and Hill staff owe their safety, even lives, to
sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers who shot attacker just outside the MPs' caucus
rooms.''

The dead soldier was named locally as Nathan Cirillo.

A Facebook page was set up named Rest In Peace Cpl Nathan Cirillo, which has
already been looked at by thousands.

One message, from Bob Rodkin, read: ``RIP Nathan. Thank you for your service and
the ultimate sacrifice. So tragic, so unnecessary. My prayers go out for you and
to your family, friends and colleagues.''

Another message, from Olivia Marie, said: ``RIP Nathan! Thank you for defending
our country, your son is so proud of you. I miss you.''

Ottawa mayor Jim Watson said he was ``shocked and saddened'' by today's events.

``Ottawa police services are engaged with other law enforcement agencies at this
time in pursuit of the criminal or criminals who have carried out this vicious
and unwarranted attack,'' he said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2014 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Scottish Daily Mail

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

GUN HORROR IN PARLIAMENT;
Soldier is killed then gunman terrorises MPs in 'jihadi attack' on Canada

BYLINE: David Williams; Daniel Bates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1135 words


A CANADIAN soldier was shot dead in Ottawa yesterday by a masked man who then
launched an attack on the parliament building.

As medics and passers-by desperately tried to save the guard's life, terrified
MPs used chairs and tables to barricade themselves inside the government
chamber.

Others fled the complex by scrambling down scaffolding erected for renovations,
while heavily armed police and soldiers cordoned off the surrounding streets
amid fears there was more than one attacker.

The gunman was shot dead by the parliament's sergeant-at-arms.

Witnesses said the soldier - named last night as Corporal Nathan Cirillo - had
been gunned down at point-blank range by a man carrying a rifle and dressed all
in black, with a scarf over his face.

The attacker then hijacked a car and fired dozens of shots inside the parliament
complex a few hundred yards away. Gunfire was also heard at a shopping mall.

The shootings raised fears of a co-ordinated terrorist attack, with Canada
already on alert after a fatal hit-and-run earlier in the week against two
Canadian soldiers by a man who police say was a radical Muslim.

Prime minister Stephen Harper was evacuated by his security guards following the
gunfire in three areas of the capital city.

The killing came as the country raised its terror-threat www.levels.No one had
last night claimed responsibility for the death but suspicion rested with
Islamic terrorists after Canada had announced plans to join the US-led campaign
of air strikes against Islamic State militants in Iraq. The sergeant-at-arms,
Kevin Vickers, a former policeman, is believed to have grabbed the gun that he
keeps in his office as the terrorist unleashed 50 bullets outside the
parliamentary library, hitting a security guard.

The attacks began shortly before 10am at Ottawa's memorial to the unknown
soldier.

Mr Cirillo, a 24-year-old father of one and a reservist with the Canadian Argyll
and Sutherland Highlanders - named after the Scottish regiment - was wearing
full ceremonial uniform. 'It was clearly targeted,' said Peter Henderson, who
saw the shooting. Photos posted on Twitter showed the soldier lying on the steps
of the memorial as members of the public performed CPR. He later died in
hospital.

Scott Walsh said he saw a man with long black hair, wearing a black jacket with
his face covered by a white scarf. 'He had a double-barrelled shotgun, he was
about five feet from me, and he ran right beside us, ran past the woman with the
stroller and child,' Mr Walsh said.

The suspect has not yet been identified but a Toyota Corolla with no number
plates was left outside of Parliament Hill. Multiple witorating nesses said they
saw the gunman climb out and attack the soldier. A bomb disposal team was
examining the car last night.

Tony Zobl, 35, said he saw Mr Cirillo being gunned down from his fourth-floor
window directly above the National War Memorial - a 70ft arched granite cenotaph
commem-the First World War. 'I looked out the window and saw a shooter, a man
dressed all in black with a kerchief over his nose and mouth and something over
his head as well, holding a rifle and shooting an honour guard in front of the
cenotaph point-blank,' Mr Zobl said.

'The honour guard dropped to the ground, and the shooter kind of raised his arms
in triumph holding the rifle.' He said the gunman then ran toward Parliament
Hill. Shots were later fired at a shopping mall, police said. All three sites
are within less than a mile of each other.

Cabinet minister Tony Clement wrote on Twitter that at least 30 shots were heard
inside parliament, where Conservative and Liberal MPs were holding caucus
meetings.

'I'm safe locked in an office awaiting security,' Kyle Seeback, another MP,
wrote. Journalists and staff inside reportedly began praying as they huddled
together in fear.

New Democrat MP Charlie Angus said he barricaded the chamber he was in when he
heard the gunshots go off in two separate bursts, He added: 'People put up
furniture. We put tables against the door. We lay down.' Footage from inside
showed police walking hunched over with their guns drawn. Around a dozen shots
could be heard in the room known as the Hall of Honour.

Liberal MP John McKay, said: 'I hear this pop, pop, pop. Maybe ten shots, I
don't really know. I thought it was dynamite from construction rather than
anything else.

'Suddenly security guards come rushing down the hallways ushered us all out to
the back of the parliament buildings and then we started talking to another
woman.

'She was apparently inside the library of parliament, saw the fellow, wearing a
hoodie, carrying a gun and then the implications of this start to sink in.

'Then after that we got ushered off the hill, then we find out about the
soldier. This is the kind of day that changes everything.' Royal Canadian
Mounted Police warned people in central Ottawa to stay away from windows and
rooftops as they hunted for gunmen.

At a press conference Ottawa mayor Jim Watson said it was a 'sad and tragic day
for our city and our country' and that his thoughts were with the soldier's
family, adding: 'There's no pain greater than losing a loved one.

'To have it happen in such circumstance is beyond expression and underlined by a
sad anger within my heart. But I will not let that anger rule the day. Our city,
Ottawa, the capital of our country, has seen and lived through tragedy in the
past.

'We all want answers, none more so than me'.

Immediately after the shooting, political commentator John Ivison wrote on
Twitter: 'Canada has just lost her innocence.' Gilles Michaud, assistant
commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, said that the attack 'caught
us by surprise'.

He added that it was too early to say if the individual was known to
intelligence or not.

White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Barack Obama had been briefed on the
incident and had spoken to Mr Harper on the phone. He said that the US
president's 'thoughts and prayers' were with those affected and described
Can-ada as one of America's 'closest allies'. David Cameron wrote on Twitter
that he was 'appalled' by the attack and offered his 'full support' to Mr
Harper.

UN secretary general Ban Ki-Moon also expressed his condolences as the FBI said
it was assisting with the investigation. Ottawa Hospital said it had received
three victims from the shootings. Two of the patients were in a stable
condition, the hospital said.

A Facebook page was set up named Rest In Peace Cpl Nathan Cirillo. One message,
from Bob Rodkin, read: 'RIP Nathan. Thank you for your service and the ultimate
sacrifice. So tragic, so unnecessary. My prayers go out for you and to your
family, friends and colleagues.' Another message, from Olivia Marie, said: 'RIP
Nathan. Thank you for defending our country.'

'Canada's just lost its innocence'

'A tragic day for our country'

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fallen soldier: A woman tries to resuscitate Corporal Nathan Cirillo
(inset)Parliament in a panic: Conservative Party MPs barricade themselves inside
their caucus room

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMLscot


                    Copyright 2014 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 3:07 PM GMT

London landmarks at centre of terror alert after attack in Ottawa

BYLINE: Nicholas Cecil, Joe Murphy

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 391 words


Emergency talks are being held to protect Parliament and major London
institutions following the terrorist attack on the Canadian capital Ottawa,
David Cameron said today.

Heads of MI5 and Scotland Yard met this morning to review "the security of
institutions in central London", the Prime Minister revealed.

He urged the public to maintain "permanent vigilance" and added: "Meetings are
taking place to ensure we have all the angles covered."

His alert came after a gunman rampaged through Canada's parliament before being
shot dead. The attacker, reportedly a Muslim convert named Michael Zehaf-Bibeau,
shot and killed a soldier at an Ottawa war memorial before entering parliament.
Mr Cameron said: "I was in a meeting with the Metropolitan Police commissioner
and the head of MI5 when the news about Ottawa broke.

"They immediately reassured me that they had been looking at the security of
institutions in central London but they would look again to see if there was
more that can be done.

"Those meetings are this morning. But from every- thing I see I know we are
taking steps across the board to meet the threats we face as a country."

He said the outrage in Ottawa "shows that we  have to be permanently vigilant
against this sort  of terrorist threat". Commons Leader William Hague told MPs
he is to send a message of solidarity from the British Parliament to Canada.
Labour leader Ed Miliband also said in a speech at Rochester, Kent: "We stand in
solidarity with the Canadian people."

Related links

Parliament's joint security committee will meet shortly. Its chairman Greg Hands
told the Standard: "I'm sure Canada and what happened there will feature in our
discussions.

"It's no secret the Canadian Parliament and UK Parliament are two of the most
similar legislatures, both in opera- tion and physical building." Guidance to
people working at Westminster - where staff turnover is high - on what to do if
gunmen get into one of the buildings may also be updated and re-sent.

Commons authorities have previously advised that if there is a terror attack on
Parliament people should try to get fully away rather than hide in offices.

The UK's terror threat level was  raised from "substantial" to "severe" -
meaning an attack is highly likely - in late August amid fears of a terrorist
strike linked to Islamic State or another extremist group.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

LOCK DOWN ON TERROR;
UK JIHAD SWOOPS ...AND ATTACK IN CANADA ; Soldier killed as parliament stormed

BYLINE: PETE SAMSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 477 words


A SUSPECTED terrorist pumped up to five bullets into a soldier at point-blank
range yesterday before rampaging through Canada's parliament building.

Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, 32 - said to be wearing an Arabic scarf - gunned down
Corporal Nathan Cirillo, 24, at Ottawa's National War Memorial.

He then stormed into the nearby seat of government, where dozens more shots were
fired before he was killed by Kevin Vickers, sergeant-at-arms of the Canadian
House of Commons.

Zehaf-Bibeau was born Michael Joseph Hall in Canada, but is understood to have
changed his name when he recently converted to Islam.

He had a record for drug trafficking in Montreal and robbery in Vancouver and
sources revealed he had recently been designated "highrisk" and had his passport
seized. Police were last night hunting other suspects after initially claiming
they were dealing with "numerous gunmen".

Terror gripped the city just before 10am local time yesterday as witnesses said
they saw a man climb out of a car with a rifle.

After shooting military reservist Cpl Cirillo - who has a young son - he ran
towards Parliament Hill.

Terrified politicians barricaded themselves in their offices as Zehaf-Bibeau
sprayed a volley of shots throughout the building. One person was said to be
injured outside the Library of Parliament.

Reports of another shooting at the nearby Rideau Centre shopping mall were a
false alarm.

Dutch tourist Jan Luchtenburg said: "We were waiting for a city tour and
suddenly I heard four shots. I saw a small guy with long black hair with a long
rifle."

A spokesman for Prime Minister Stephen Harper said he was safe and had been
evacuated from Parliament Hill.

David Cameron tweeted: "I'm appalled by today's attack. I offer my full support
to @pmharper and the Canadian people."

After the shootout, officers cleared streets around parliament and told people
to flee the area, shouting: "It's still active."

There were reports of another gunman on a roof and police said people in the
centre of Ottawa should stay away from windows.

Large parts of the city were still in lockdown last night.

Bridges were shut and cars searched. Local hospitals confirmed there were three
casualties.

Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson said: "Today is a sad and tragic day for our city and
our country."

It came a day after the domestic terror threat level was raised for the first
time in Canada in four years as Islamic State called for lone wolf attacks.

Two days earlier, two Canadian soldiers were run over - one killed - in Montreal
by an Islamic extremist.

Sergeant-at-arms Vickers was last night being hailed as a hero after shooting
dead the gunman.

The former Mountie was praised by politicians for his bravery.

QPRIME Minister's Questions was hit by a security scare yesterday when a man
hurled marbles towards MPs and shouted obscenities from the Commons public
gallery.

pete.samson@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Panic ... parliament hallwayRefuge ... MPs barricade themselves inside
Parliament... soldiers at the memorial one hour before shootingOn

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

LOCKDOWN ON TERROR;
UK JIHAD SWOOPS ...AND ATTACK IN CANADA ; Soldier killed as parliament stormed

BYLINE: PETE SAMSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 484 words


A GUNMAN killed a soldier in Canada's capital yesterday before storming its
parliament buildings.

The suspected terrorist died in a shootout with guards after the rampage in
Ottawa.

The city was put on lockdown amid fears at least two more gunmen were on the
loose.

It came two days after two Canadian soldiers were run over - one killed - in
Montreal by an Islamic extremist.

Yesterday politicians were kept locked in their offices as police revealed there
had been three shooting incidents in the city and "numerous gunmen" were
involved.

Terrified MPs had barricaded themselves in their rooms as the gunman fired a
volley of shots through the buildings.

A spokesman revealed Prime Minister Stephen Harper had been evacuated to safety.

There was another shooting incident - thought to be the work of a second gunman
- at the nearby Rideau Centre shopping mall.

And there were reports of a sniper on a roof near parliament.

The killer blasted a soldier guarding the National War Memorial - before
entering parliament, where dozens more shots were fired.

Witnesses reported seeing a man with a scarf over his face and holding a rifle
climb out of a car shortly before 10am local time.

Dutch tourist Jan Luchtenburg said: "We were waiting for a city tour and I heard
four shots.

"I saw a small guy with long black hair with a rifle, and he ran away after the
shots, in the direction of Parliament Hill." The parliament's sergeant-at-arms
Kevin Vickers was named on Twitter last night as the hero who shot the gunman.

The head of security, who is a former mountie, was praised by politicians for
saving many lives after halting the gunman's rampage.

Politician Julian Fantino tweeted: "I am safe & profoundly grateful to Sgt at
Arms Kevin Vickers & our security forces for selfless act of keeping us safe."

Following the shootout, officers cleared streets around parliament and told
people to flee the area, shouting: "It's still active."

Police told residents in downtown Ottawa to stay away from windows due to an
"ongoing incident."

Bridges were shut and cars attempting to leave the city were being searched.

Schools, universities, police stations and Canada's armed forces bases were
closed.

The Canadian Embassy in the US was also on lockdown.

Last night PM David Cameron said he was appalled by the attack. He tweeted: "I
offer my full support to @pmharper and the Canadian people as they deal with
this incident."

The shooting came a day after Canada's domestic terror threat level was raised
for the first time in four years as Islamic State called for lone wolf attacks.

Earlier this week Canadian soldier Patrice Vincent, 53, died after being hit by
a car driven by a suspected Islamic extremist in Montreal.

QPRIME Minister's Questions was hit by a security scare yesterday when a man
hurled marbles at MPs and shouted obscenities from the Commons public gallery
before being grabbed by ushers.

pete.samson@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Car victim ... PatriceRapid response ... armed police at parliament
buildingsOn guard ... soldiers at memorial 1hr before shootingPanic ... scene
after shooting

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 9:33 AM GMT

Stephen Harper: 'Canada will never be intimidated';
Canadian prime minister delivers defiant message, saying shootings are a
reminder that the country is not immune to terror attacks

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly New York

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 376 words


Canada's prime minister said his nation would not be intimidated by Wednesday's
gun attack in its capital but would redouble its efforts against terrorism.

In a televised address hours after MPs barricaded doors inside their parliament
building as a gunman opened fire, Stephen Harper said the violence was a
reminder that the country was not immune to terror attacks.

"But let there be no misunderstanding, we will not be intimidated. Canada will
never be intimidated," he said.

"In fact, this will lead us to strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts -
and those of our national security agencies - to take all necessary steps to
identify and counter threats and keep Canada safe here at home."

He addressed the nation after a gunman shot dead a soldier guarding the national
war memorial in Ottawa. The man, named by local officials as Michael
Zehaf-Bibeau, then moved on to open fire inside the city's parliament building.

He launched his attack shortly after Canadian authorities had raised its terror
threat level.

On Monday, a man allegedly inspired by extremists rammed his car against two
Canadian soldiers, one of whom died.

Both attacks took place after Canada announced this month it would send six jets
to take part in air strikes against Islamic State fighters who have taken over
parts of Iraq and Syria.

Mr Harper added that it would be known within the coming days whether the gunman
- whom he described as a terrorist - was working alone or with accomplices.

"This week's incidents are a grim reminder that Canada is not immune to the
types of terror attacks we have seen elsewhere around the world," he said.

"Attacks on our security personnel and on our institutions of government are by
their very nature attacks on our country, on our values, on our society and on
us Canadians."

Officials said Parliament would reopen at 10am (1400 GMT) on Thursday.

Treasury Board Minister Tony Clement tweeted that he would convene a regularly
scheduled meeting on Thursday and added "#terroristsbedamned".

Mr Clement and hundreds of legislators had spent about 10 hours locked up in the
Parliament as police searched the building.

Ottawa police warned the public to expect an increased presence by officers in
coming days in the national capital.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 9:18 AM GMT

Watch: Canada Prime Minister Stephen Harper reacts to Ottawa shooting;
Prime Minister Stephen Harper says those behind the deadly terrorist shooting
attack in Ottawa will have "no safe haven" and "Canada will not be intimidated"

BYLINE: By Charlotte Krol and AFP, video source APTN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 140 words


Canada's                      prime minister vowed on Wednesday to redouble the
nation's fight against "terrorist organizations" after a soldier was gunned down
in the capital and parliament was stormed by an assailant .

"Canada will never be intimidated," Stephen Harper told the nation in a
televised address.

"In fact, this will lead us to strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts
and those of national security agencies to take all necessary steps to identify
and counter threats and keep Canada safe here at home," he said.

Likewise, it will "lead us to strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts
and fight against the terrorist organizations who brutalize those in other
countries with the hope of bringing their savagery to our shores," he added.

"They will have no safe haven."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 6:49 AM GMT

Stephen Harper: 'Canada will never be intimidated';
Canadian prime minister delivers defiant message, saying shootings are a
reminder that the country is not immune to terror attacks

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly New York

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 270 words


Canada's prime minister said his nation would not be intimidated by Wednesday's
gun attack in its capital but would redouble its efforts against terrorism.

In a televised address hours after MPs barricaded doors inside their parliament
building as a gunman opened fire, Stephen Harper said the violence was a
reminder that the country was not immune to terror attacks.

"But let there be no misunderstanding, we will not be intimidated. Canada will
never be intimidated," he said.

"In fact, this will lead us to strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts -
and those of our national security agencies - to take all necessary steps to
identify and counter threats and keep Canada safe here at home."

He addressed the nation after a gunman shot dead a soldier guarding the national
war memorial in Ottawa. The man, named by local officials as Michael
Zehaf-Bibeau, then moved on to open fire inside the city's parliament building.

He launched his attack shortly after Canadian authorities had raised its terror
threat level.

On Monday, a man allegedly inspired by extremists rammed his car against two
Canadian soldiers, one of whom died.

Mr Harper added that it would be known within the coming days whether the gunman
- whom he described as a terrorist - was working alone or with accomplices.

"This week's incidents are a grim reminder that Canada is not immune to the
types of terror attacks we have seen elsewhere around the world," he said.

"Attacks on our security personnel and on our institutions of government are by
their very nature attacks on our country, on our values, on our society and on
us Canadians."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 4:27 AM GMT

Nathan Cirillo: Soldier killed in Canada terror attack;
Young reservist with six-year-old son who was killed guarding war memorial as
terror arrives in Ottawa

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 287 words


The soldier killed guarding the National War Memorial in Ottawa was named
locally as Cpl Nathan Cirillo, a 24-year-old reservist serving with the Argyll
and Sutherland Highlanders.

He was a father, with a young son, who loved dogs and would post dozens of
pictures his pets and family to social media sites.

At the time of his death, he was on guard duty and would have been carrying a
rifle that was not loaded.

Other members of his unit based in Hamilton said they had been told not to talk
to media.

Cpl Cirillo was training to join the Canada Border Services Agency, which is
responsible for border security, his aunt told The Globe and Mail.

Gen Tom Lawson, chief of the defence staff, said: "It is with great sadness that
I learned that Corporal Nathan Cirillo succumbed to the injuries he suffered
after being shot while on sentry duty at the National War Memorial this morning.
I extend my heartfelt condolences to Cpl Cirillo's family, friends and loved
ones during this shocking time of loss, and pledge our support for them, as we
would the families of any of our men and women who fall in the performance of
their duty."

A Facebook page set up to remember him attracted thousands of visitors last
night.

One message, from Bob Rodkin, read: "RIP Nathan. Thank you for your service and
the ultimate sacrifice. So tragic, so unnecessary. My prayers go out for you and
to your family, friends and colleagues."

Another message, from Olivia Marie, said: "RIP Nathan! Thank you for defending
our country, your son is so proud of you. I miss you."

His smiling face was also posted on Twitter by tourists who had posed with him
at the memorial in recent weeks.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 2:26 AM GMT

Stephen Harper: 'Canada will never be intimidated';
Canadian prime minister delivers defiant message, saying shootings are a
reminder that the country is not immune to terror attacks

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly New York

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 270 words


Canada's prime minister said his nation would not be intimidated by Wednesday's
gun attack in its capital but would redouble its efforts against terrorism.

In a televised address hours after MPs barricaded doors inside their parliament
building as a gunman opened fire, Stephen Harper said the violence was a
reminder that the country was not immune to terror attacks.

"But let there be no misunderstanding, we will not be intimidated. Canada will
never be intimidated," he said.

"In fact, this will lead us to strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts -
and those of our national security agencies - to take all necessary steps to
identify and counter threats and keep Canada safe here at home."

He addressed the nation after a gunman shot dead a soldier guarding the national
war memorial in Ottawa. The man, named by local officials as Michael
Zehaf-Bibeau, then moved on to open fire inside the city's parliament building.

He launched his attack shortly after Canadian authorities had raised its terror
threat level.

On Monday, a man allegedly inspired by extremists rammed his car against two
Canadian soldiers, one of whom died.

Mr Harper added that it would be known within the coming days whether the gunman
- whom he described as a terrorist - was working alone or with accomplices.

"This week's incidents are a grim reminder that Canada is not immune to the
types of terror attacks we have seen elsewhere around the world," he said.

"Attacks on our security personnel and on our institutions of government are by
their very nature attacks on our country, on our values, on our society and on
us Canadians."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 12:31 AM GMT

Soldier killed as gunman brings terror to Canadian Parliament;
Suspected attacker killed by police after shooting dead uniformed soldier at
Canada's national war memorial

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1246 words


Terror came to the heart of the Canadian capital Ottawa on Wednesday as a
suspected jihadist gunman shot dead a soldier at the national war memorial and
then rampaged through the halls of the federal parliament.

The attacker, who was killed in a gun battle inside parliament, was named as
Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, a Canadian-born 32-year-old.

He was a recent convert to Islam from Quebec with a history of drug abuse and
whose passport had been seized by authorities after he was designated a
"high-risk traveller", Canadian media reported.

The centre of Ottawa was paralysed as heavily armed police fanned out in search
of at least one other suspected gunman following what appeared to have been an
jiahdist terrorist attack on the heart of the country's government.

Canada was already on edge after a radical Muslim convert killed a soldier and
injured a second on Monday in a deliberate hit-and-run car attack in Quebec
before being shot to death by police.

The similarity in the reported backgrounds of the two killers has raised fears
that "lone-wolf" extremists - possibly a cell of radical converts in Quebec -
are targeting Canadian military personnel in retaliation for the government's
support of US-led air strikes in Iraq and Syria.

Zehaf-Bibeaus victim was identified as Cpl Nathan Cirillo, 24, a reserve
infantryman and young father who was part of a two-man honour guard carrying an
unloaded rifle at the war memorial.

In a chilling detail, a witness described how the gunman earlier raised his arms
in a display of triumph, a rifle in the air, after shooting Cpl Cirillo at point
blank rage in front of the cenotaph. The location for the start of his rampage
appeared horrifically symbolic as it honours the country's war dead.

Canada had just raised its domestic terror threat level from low to medium on
Tuesday because of "an increase in general chatter from radical Islamist
organisations", officials said. Ottawa also this week sent six fighter jets to
the Middle East to join US-led strikes against the Islamic State in Iraq and the
Levant after a parliamentary vote.

During his rampage, Zehaf-Bibeau came alarmingly close to Stephen Harper, the
prime minister who was meeting MPs as the gunman burst into the parliament with
his gun blazing. Mr Harper was rushed from the building while other politicians
dived for cover under tables.

The Ottawa Hospital said that it received three victims of the shooting,
including Cpl Cirillo who was pronounced dead despite frantic attempts by
passers-by to save his life. The other patients, one of whom was a parliamentary
aide, were discharged by the evening.

Kevin Vickers, the sergeant at arms, was praised by MPs for saving further lives
after he shot the gunman outside rooms packed with politicians gathered for
weekly caucus meetings.

"MPs and staff owe their safety, even lives, to Kevin Vickers, who shot the
attacker just outside the MPs' caucus rooms," said Craig Scott, a New Democrat
MP.

But with the centre of a Western capital under lockdown, troubling questions
were raised about security arrangements at the parliament after a gunman was
able to dash through the seat of government.

It emerged that the country's auditor-general called two years ago for a unified
security force to protect the complex, but his recommendations were not
implemented. Michael Ferguson identified potential flaws in the current shared
system under which the area is protected by four different federal and city
forces.

The mayhem erupted at 9.50am when a car reportedly drew up at the war memorial
and a gunman stepped out. As tourists watched in horror, he shot a ceremonial
guard with what witnesses described as a high-powered rifle.

"I looked out the window and saw a shooter, a man dressed all in black with a
kerchief over his nose and mouth and something over his head as well, holding a
rifle and shooting an honor guard in front of the cenotaph point-blank," said
Tony Zobl, 35, who witnessed the shooting from a window overlooking the
memorial.

"The honour guard dropped to the ground, and the shooter kind of raised his arms
in triumph holding the rifle."

Peter Henderson, a journalist, was just locking up his bike near the war
memorial when he heard gunshots. "I heard four shots from that direction and I
turned around and ran. I saw one of the soldiers laying on the ground," he told
CNN. "There's a ceremonial uniform they wear and it struck me as I ran, I just
saw the white gloves and I knew who he was. It sounded like [the shots] came
from a very high powered rifle."

The attacker then made his way the short distance to the parliament building,
which was full of MPs and senators as the major parties held their weekly caucus
meetings on Wednesday morning.

Gunfire broke out shortly before 10am. Politicians and aides barricaded doors
with chairs.

The gunman fought a running battle in the Gothic hallways with armed police and
security before he was felled in a hail of bullets. There were unconfirmed
reports of at least one more gunman running through the building or on the roof.

Tony Clement, a cabinet minister, described the scene inside parliament on
Twitter. "Shots fired during caucus meeting," he said. "At least 30 shots. MPs
piled out. I'm safe with 2 colleagues but we're still at risk."

Conservative MP Kyle Seeback also conveyed the mood after hearing the shots.
"Horrific day on parliament hill," he said. "Shots fired inside centre block
during our caucus meeting. I'm safe locked in a office awaiting security."

The parliament, nearby embassies, offices and schools remained in security
lockdown on Wednesday night and police told people to stay off streets and away
from windows amid reports that at least one other suspect was on the loose.

Zehaf-Bibeau apparently had several run-ins with Canadian police in the
French-speaking province of Quebec.

Quebec court records showed three 2004 cases involving a Michael Zehaf-Bibeau,
born in 1982, Reuters reported. That year he pleaded guilty to two drug-related
offences and one charge of failing to comply with a judge's order.

The Globe and Mail newspaper, citing government sources, said he was recently
designated a "high-risk traveller" by the Canadian government - meaning it was
feared he would travel abroad to commit crimes - and that his passport had been
seized.

Those were similar circumstances to Martin Couture-Rouleau, another recent
convert from Quebec who ran down and killed a soldier on Monday.

Couture-Rouleau was arrested at the airport in July on his way to Turkey and
also had his passport confiscated. He was among 90 people being tracked by the
Royal Canadian Mounted Police on suspicion of taking part in militant activities
abroad or planning to do so.

Just two days earlier, another recent Muslim convert killed a Canadian soldier
and injured another in a deliberate hit-and-run attack in Quebec before being
shot to death by police.

Canada recently estimated that at least 30 of its citizens were fighting with
Islamic extremist groups in Syria amid concerns about home-grown terrorist
attacks.

President Barack Obama was briefed on the attack by White House national
security officials and later spoke to Mr Harper by telephone.

Washington ordered tightened security at the tomb of the unknown soldier at
Arlington national cemetery amid concerns that American military personnel could
also be targeted.

Additional reporting by David Lawler in Washington

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 4:14 PM GMT

Canada troops ordered out of uniform after second terror attack

BYLINE: Jenny Booth

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 1174 words


Canada has ordered its soldiers to stop wearing uniform off-duty after a lone
gunman went on the rampage on Ottawa's Parliament Hill yesterday, shooting an
army reservist before dying himself in a hail of gunfire.

It was the second incident in two days in which a radicalised Muslim has
murdered a uniformed member of the Canadian armed forces, after Sergeant Patrice
Vincent was mown down by a car near Quebec on Monday.

As Canada began to deal with the shock of the attack, details began to emerge
about the background of the gunman.

Michael Zehaf-Bibeau was a drug addict and drifter whose Libyan-born father
Bulgasem Zehaf may have fought with the Libyan Islamist rebels who overthrew
Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, and whose Canadian mother Susan Bibeau is deputy
chairman of Canada's board of immigration.

"If I'm crying it's for the people, not for my son," Ms Bibeau said today,
weeping.

She expressed horror and sadness, explaining that she had seen her son for the
first time in five years last week, when she met him for lunch. He had seemed
lost "and did not fit in".

She said that she did not know what to say to those who were injured in the
attack. "Can you ever explain something like this? We are sorry."

A man named Bulgasem Zehaf was quoted in The Washington Times in August 2011 as
someone who had fought and been taken prisoner at the Libyan oil refinery town
of Zawiyah, but had since returned home to Montreal.

Zehaf-Bibeau, 32, had a criminal record for drug offences and minor violence
stretching back over a decade in Montreal, where he apparently grew up.

After 2006 he appears to have drifted to Quebec - hometown of Monday's hit and
run driver - and on to Vancouver in British Columbia, falling foul of the law in
both cities. At one point he gave his address in court as a Salvation Army
homeless hostel in Vancouver.

Earlier this year elders at the Masjid al-Salaam mosque in Burnaby, a city just
to the east of Vancouver, asked Zehaf-Bibeau to stop worshipping there as his
behaviour had become too erratic. He claimed to believe that Shaytan (Satan) was
chasing him.

Dave Bathurst, a Muslim convert who befriended Zehaf-Bibeau at the mosque and
even got him a job at his father's irrigation company in Burnaby, said that six
weeks ago his friend had spoken of going abroad to study Islam in Libya. He
claims he urged him to make sure it was really studying that he planned to do
and "not something else".

He says he has not seen Zehaf-Bideau since. Security sources have told the Globe
& Mail that Zehaf-Bideau applied for travel documents to go abroad but was
refused, under new laws that forbid travelling abroad for terrorist acts.

Mr Bathurst's father, John, said: "He was not all there. We are talking about
mental illness." He added that Zehaf-Bibeau "seemed unstable" and "didn't have
any kind of rational approach".

Yesterday Zehaf-Bideau resurfaced, pulling up in a dark grey car around 10am at
Canada's national war memorial. He shot twice with a rifle at close range at
Corporal Nathan Cirillo, 24, a reservist with Canada's Argyll and Sutherland
Highlanders. Passers-by tried to resuscitate him but he died in hospital.

The gunman returned to his car and drove to the entrance of parliament. He
walked up the entrance ramp holding his rifle at hip level and got into a
firefight with police and security guards in parliament's central corridor,
injuring three.

Frightened MPs, who were meeting their party leaders in caucus rooms off the
central corridor, barricaded themselves in.

They were led to safety once Zehaf-Bibeau was shot dead by Kevin Vickers, the
parliament's Sergeant-at-Arms, who has been hailed as a hero.

With rumours rife that there was more than one gunman, the centre of Ottawa
remained in lockdown for more than ten hours, with roads blocked, bridges closed
and helicopters hovering overhead. Mr Harper was held at a place of safety.

It was past 8pm before parents were able to retrieve their children from the day
nursery on Parliament Hill, and frightened workers were put on buses and allowed
to go home.

Police have not yet confirmed any links between Zehaf-Bibeau and Martin
Couture-Rouleau, the perpetrator of Monday's attack, although he too had
recently had his passport withdrawn to prevent him travelling to join radical
groups abroad.

Couture-Rouleau was a Twitter follower of an Islamic State affiliate who last
night tweeted a picture of Zehaf-Bibeau during his rifle rampage. He also
followed the British radical Anjem Choudary on the social network.

A second soldier survived Couture-Rouleau's hit and run, which bore similarities
to the murder of Lee Rigby in east London. Couture-Rouleau was in possession of
a large knife when shot dead by police.

Hasibullah Yusufzai, who in July became the first Canadian to be charged with
going abroad to fight for Islamic State in Syria, worshipped at the same mosque
in Burnaby as Zehaf-Bibeau, and was known to him. Yusufzai also reportedly
worked for Bathurst Irrigation briefly as a temporary labourer.

Within an hour of the Parliament Hill shootings, Rear Admiral John Newton sent
out a message marked "Urgent measures" to the 18,000 troops under his command in
Atlantic Canada, ordering: "Restrict movement in uniform in public as much as
possible."

Similar orders were given across the country. Military personnel were
specifically instructed not to stop at petrol stations or near schools while in
uniform, and security at military bases and government buildings was stepped up.

Stephen Harper, the Canadian prime minister, vowed in a televised address last
night that Canada would not be intimidated by the two terror attacks - the first
on Canadian soil since the start of the War on Terror.

David Cameron was the first to send commiserations, tweeting that he was
appalled and offering full support to Mr Harper and the Canadian people.

President Obama offered condolences to Corporal Cirillo's family and
six-year-old son, and said: "We're all shaken by it, but we're going to do
everything we can to make sure we're standing side by side with Canada."

Canada's terror threat level has been unchanged at "medium" for some time,
despite threats issued against Canada by the Isis terror group last month.

"If you can kill a disbelieving American or European, especially the spiteful
and filthy French, or an Australian, or a Canadian... including the citizens of
the countries that entered into a coalition against Islamic State, then rely
upon Allah, and kill him. Smash his head with a rock, or slaughter him with a
knife, or run him over with your car, or throw him down from a high place, or
choke him, or poison him," said Abu Mohammed al-Adnani, spokesman for the group.

The exhortation appears to have inspired several attempted attacks, including
the knifing of a policeman in Melbourne.

The threat level for Canada's parliament building was recently raised from "low"
to "medium", after Canadian MPs voted to join the US's military coalition to
crush Isis, which has taken over a large part of Iraq and Syria.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                thejournal.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 1:17 PM GMT

Morning news headlines: PM condemns 'brutal' Ottowa terror attack, EU must do
more to fight Ebola;
The latest news from around the world

BYLINE: By Dan Kay

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 795 words


PM CONDEMNS 'BRUTAL' TERROR ATTACK

Canada's prime minister has said the shooting of a soldier guarding the National
War Memorial in Ottawa is a reminder the country is "not immune" to terrorist
attacks.

Ottawa police said the member of the Canadian Forces "succumbed to injuries"
following a series of shooting incidents in the city yesterday morning.

The soldier was named locally as Corporal Nathan Cirillo, with his name trending
on Twitter and thousands praising him on other social media.

PM: EU MUST DO MORE TO FIGHT EBOLA

David Cameron is to urge fellow EU leaders to do more to tackle Ebola in west
Africa, warning that failure to halt the killer disease there would risk future
cases in Europe.

And he will also use a European Council leaders' summit in Brussels to set his
face against MEPs' demands for more money for the EU budget.

The meeting looks set to be overshadowed by talks scheduled for Friday among the
18 eurozone states over the latest crisis in the European single currency.

WORKER CASH PLAN TO TACKLE OBESITY

Workers could be rewarded with cash or shopping vouchers if they lose weight
under NHS-backed plans to tackle the obesity crisis.

Employers will be urged to offer incentives to staff who shed pounds as part of
efforts to ease the strain placed on the system by fat patients.

Moves to tackle obesity are part of a "radical" shake-up of the healthcare
system in England in the next parliament proposed by NHS bosses. Other measures
include tax cuts for volunteers and "breaking down the boundaries" between GPs
and hospitals.

60s COP KILLER ROBERTS TO BE FREED

Notorious police killer Harry Roberts is to be released from prison after
serving more than 45 years of a life sentence.

Roberts, now 78, was jailed for life for the murder of three policemen in
Shepherd's Bush, west London, in 1966. His 30-year minimum tariff expired 18
years ago.

The Parole Board is understood to have approved his release and he will be
subject to close monitoring by police and the Probation Service.

CUTS 'HITTING FERTILITY TREATMENT'

Women across Britain are being denied fertility treatment because NHS trusts are
trying to cut costs, a health watchdog has warned.

Thousands of couples struggling to conceive are being subjected to unfair
"postcode lotteries", causing "widespread inequality", experts have said.

And many are having to resort to costly private care because NHS provision is so
patchy and hard to access, fertility groups have warned.

COMMANDERS SLAM AFGHAN CAMPAIGN

British commanders have given a damning assessment of the military campaign in
Afghanistan, admitting that at times troops were so stretched there was a risk
they would be "massacred".

Senior figures including three former service chiefs have criticised planning,
and strategic errors in a BBC2 documentary to mark the withdrawal of forces.

The UK is said to have committed to a role in Afghanistan in 2004 despite
already being heavily engaged in Iraq and knowing two major campaigns could not
be sustained for any length of time.

EU TARGETS 'TO RAISE POWER BILLS'

Energy targets set by Brussels will force up annual household gas and
electricity bills by £149 within six years, research has found.

European Union red tape combined with a commitment to generate 15% of energy
through renewable sources will push up domestic prices by 11%, according to the
Open Europe report.

Britain's small and medium sized businesses face an even bigger hike, with an
average £350,000 rise, around 23%, in bills, the pro-reform think tank said.

TESCO BOSS FACES PROFITS PRESSURE

New Tesco boss Dave Lewis will be under pressure over plunging profits and a
£250 million accounting scandal when the company publishes half-year results
today.

The interim figures will come days after latest industry data showed Tesco's
sales falling at the fastest rate in the sector.

Trading profits for the period are expected to be down by nearly half to £850
million.

MAN AND BOY, 9, DIE IN HOUSE BLAZE

A nine-year-old boy and a 44-year-old man have died after a house fire, police
said.

A second boy aged 11 is critically ill in hospital following the blaze at a home
in Penistone, near Barnsley, South Yorkshire Police said.

A force spokesman said emergency services were called at 6.30pm yesterday and
the three were taken to hospital, where the man and youngest boy were pronounced
dead.

ALICE GROSS FUNERAL TO TAKE PLACE

The funeral of murdered schoolgirl Alice Gross will take place today.

Alice went missing on August 28, with police taking more than a month to find
her body despite Scotland Yard staging the biggest search operation since the
aftermath of the July 7 bombings.

Specialists search teams eventually discovered the 14-year-old's remains hidden
under logs in the bed of the River Brent in west London on September 30.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTJN


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 9:54 AM GMT

Soldier shot dead in 'terror attack' at Canadian parliament

BYLINE: Will Pavia and David Taylor

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 1751 words


Canada came under terrorist attack yesterday when a gunman stormed its heart of
power, spraying bullets around the parliamentary chamber shortly after shooting
dead a soldier guarding Ottawa's war memorial.

Armed police and security officers chased at least one gunman through the marble
halls of parliament, exchanging fire as they ran.

One assailant was eventually shot dead by the Sergeant-at-Arms, Kevin Vickers,
57, a veteran of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Two people were injured.

The fallen soldier, named as Corporal Nathan Cirillo, 24, was given
mouth-to-mouth resuscitation by a woman while another man applied pressure to
his chest as he lay on the pavement. He later died in hospital.

The gunman who was killed inside the parliament building was identified by
Canadian media as Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, a 32-year-old Muslim convert.

He was born in Canada and, according to some reports, may have been of Algerian
descent, although he appears to have changed his name from Michael Joseph Hall.

Montreal court records show he had a criminal record for possession of marijuana
and had been arrested five times since 2009: three times for drug possession and
twice for not respecting parole conditions.

Craig Scott, an MP, said on Twitter "MPs and Hill staff owe their lives" to Mr
Vickers, who he said shot the attacker just outside the MPs' caucus rooms, where
politicians had barricaded themselves inside by stacking chairs against the
door.

Ottawa Police said they believed two or three gunmen were involved in the
attack, but several hours after the shooting it was still unclear whether all
the terrorists had been accounted for. Stephen Harper, the Canadian prime
minister, was whisked away to safety to an undisclosed location.

Sources told The Globe and Mail, a Canadian newspaper, that the gunman had been
designated as a high-risk traveller by the government and that his passport had
been seized.

That follows the same pattern as the jihadist convert who killed a soldier in
Quebec by running him over earlier this week. Martin Couture-Rouleau was shot
dead by police after running down two soldiers, killing one, in the car park of
a military office in Quebec.

Last night Stephen Harper, the prime minister, told the nation in a televised
address that they would not be cowed by the attacks.

He said: "Canada will never be intimidated. In fact, this will lead us to
strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts and those of national security
agencies to take all necessary steps to identify and counter threats and keep
Canada safe here at home.

He added it would "lead us to... fight against the terrorist organisations who
brutalise those in other countries with the hope of bringing their savagery to
our shores. They will have no safe haven."

He said the incident was a "grim reminder that Canada is not immune to the types
of terrorist attacks we have seen elsewhere around the world.

"We are also reminded that attacks on our security personnel and on our
institutions of governance are by their very nature, attacks on our country, on
our values, on our society, on us Canadians as a free and democratic people who
embrace human dignity for all."

The attacks come amid growing concerns that disaffected young people in North
America are being drawn increasingly towards Islamists. Yesterday it emerged
that three teenage girls from Colorado played truant from school, stole money
from their parents and set off for Syria in what appears to be the latest case
of young Americans leaving home to join Islamic State.

Halted at Frankfurt airport in Germany, they were detained and questioned by the
FBI before being escorted home to their families in a suburb of Denver.
Officials have said that the girls - two sisters aged 17 and 15 and their
16-year-old friend - were hoping to reach Syria via Turkey.

Witnesses said that yesterday's attacks began at the war memorial, where a
soldier in in dress uniform was shot four times in the back by a masked gunman.
The fallen soldier, who carried a symbolically unloaded weapon as he stood
guard, was given mouth-to-mouth resuscitation by a woman as another man applied
pressure to his chest as he lay stricken on the pavement. Officials said later
that he had suffered "catastrophic" injuries and died in hospital.

The first shots rang out at the war memorial in Ottawa a little before ten in
the morning and echoed on the streets filling with workers. They were heard in
Canada's parliament building, where Liberal and Conservative politicians were
already in a meeting. The Centre Block building, as it is known, is not far from
the memorial and was full of MPs and their staff.

It was a beautiful autumn morning, with a thin gauze of cloud not quite blocking
the blue sky beyond. Two white-gloved soldiers were guarding the memorial, built
to commemorate Canadian troops of the First World War and later embellished and
rededicated to those lost in later conflicts. In 2000, a Tomb of the Unknown
Soldier was added, to symbolise the sacrifice of all those who had died in those
conflicts, and in others yet to come.

There, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge had greeted crowds of cheering
Canadians during their first royal tour.

Witnesses to yesterday's attack said they had seen a car pulling up on
Wellington Street, between the memorial and the parliament buildings; a brown
Toyota Corolla, without licence plates. Some recalled seeing two men climb from
the vehicle, leaving the engine running. One was seen walking towards the war
memorial, carrying what appeared to be a bundle of blankets.

He was said to have been about 5ft 10in tall, and white, although one witness
described him as "South-American" looking. He was also said to be slightly
overweight, and about 30 years old. A witness named Raivo Nommik said the man
was wearing a hoodie, as well as a bandana tied around his head. Another said he
had a black-and-white "Arabic scarf". He approached the memorial and the
soldiers from behind - and opened fire.

Matthew Blais, a workman, told the Ottawa Citizen that he "heard a bunch of pops
and I looked over at the war memorial and I saw a man with a rifle shooting at
innocent people". After shooting one of the soldiers, he is said to have shouted
something.

Peter Henderscare, a reporter, heard the shots as he was securing his bike on a
nearby street corner. He said two came in quick succession, then another two. He
ran to the scene and saw a soldier lying in front of the memorial, with
civilians and military personnel rushing to his aid.

At least five people crouched over the dying man. A woman administered mouth to
mouth resuscitation; two men bent over him at the bottom of the steps to the
memorial to perform chest compressions, their workbags and the soldier's rifle,
scattered around them.

Barry Willis, a construction worker, told reporters that he saw the gunman
coming from the war memorial. As the man pointed a rifle at him, Mr Willis dived
into his van. "It scared the s*** out of me," he said.

He said the gunman had then commandeered a car and driven to the gates of the
main parliament building, and rushed towards the entrance.

Mr Blais said the gunman had jumped "into a green car and headed up the street.
He parked right in front of parliament and ran into the building."

Marc-Andre Viau, a spokesman for the New Democratic party in Canada, was walking
from the front door of the Centre Block building when a police officer shouted
at him to take cover.

A reporter named Josh Wingrove, who works for The Globe and Mail in Toronto,
said he saw a man rushing into the building, chased by police officers who were
shouting 'Centre Block, Centre Block!" A parliamentary librarian then saw a man
with a rifle walking through the corridors of parliament.

Liberal MPs meeting in the basement heard the sound of shots being fired. In one
of the building's chambers, politicians pushed the stately green leather chairs
against the dark wood doors to create an improvised barricade.

Mr Wingrove watched as armed police swept down the grand hall, then rushed
forward to the sound of shots being fired. Soon, MPs reported that the gunman
had been killed.

The prime minister was escorted to safety - but the crisis was not over. While
the centre of the city remained in lockdown, Ottawa police confirmed that there
had been another shooting, at a nearby shopping centre.

Later, the Canadian press reported that the gunman in parliament had been shot
dead by the Sergeant-At-Arms, Kevin Vickers. MPs expressed their gratitude for
the courage and bravery of staff guarding the building during the unprecedented
attack. Julian Fantino, the minister of veterans' affairs, said he was
"profoundly grateful" to Mr Vickers and "our security forces for the selfless
act of keeping us safe".

Ottawa hospital said it had received three patients from the incident, two of
whom were in a stable condition. However, witnesses who saw the first shooting
held out little hope for the soldier who had been guarding the memorial. His
wounds were said to be "catastrophic", and a few hours after the incident police
confirmed that he had died.

Embassies in the capital were closed, offices were shut, residents attending a
local gym were kept inside and streets were cleared.

Senator George Baker, who was one of those in lockdown at the parliament
building, said he was alerted that something was wrong by the sound of shots
being fired in the distance. "Then about 15 minutes later, all of a sudden the
police converge on the hall and say: 'No, you have to go back to your office -
you're not allowed to look out through the window'."

Speaking to the MSNBC television channel by telephone from his locked office, he
offered a possible explanation for the gunman being able to burst into the
Canadian parliament, before being hunted down and shot dead in an alcove.

He said politicians had agreed, barely two months earlier, to tighten security
in parliament - but that the new rules were due to come into place in three
months' time. "The tourists come on Parliament Hill and they don't see any of
our officers with guns. Nobody has a gun that you can visibly see," he said of
the current rules.

Jim Munson, a Liberal senator, said on Twitter that senators and staff were safe
but shaken. As they were finally escorted from the building, they could still
smell gun smoke in the air. "Unlike you or the US, we don't have security
outside with machineguns," he told the BBC. "We've lost our innocence as a
nation."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 23, 2014 Thursday 1:14 AM GMT

Soldier shot dead in suspected terror attack at Canadian parliament

BYLINE: Will Pavia and David Taylor

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 1599 words


Canada came under terrorist attack yesterday when a gunman stormed its heart of
power, spraying bullets around the parliamentary chamber shortly after shooting
dead a soldier guarding Ottawa's War Memorial.

Armed police and security officers chased at least one gunman through the marble
halls of parliament, exchanging fire as they ran.

One assailant was eventually shot dead by the Sergeant-at-Arms, Kevin Vickers,
57, a veteran of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Two people were injured.

The fallen soldier, named as Corporal Nathan Cirillo, 24, was given
mouth-to-mouth resuscitation by a woman while another man applied pressure to
his chest as he lay on the pavement. He later died in hospital.

The gunman who was killed inside the parliament building was identified by
Canadian media as Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, a 32-year-old Muslim convert.

He was born in Canada and according to some reports may have been of Algerian
descent, although he appears to have changed his name from Michael Joseph Hall.

Montreal court records show he had a criminal record for possession of marijuana
and had been arrested five times since 2009, three times for drug possession and
twice for not respecting parole conditions.

Craig Scott, an MP, said on Twitter "MPs and Hill staff owe their lives" to Mr
Vickers, who he said shot the attacker just outside of the MPs' caucus rooms,
where politicians had barricaded themselves inside by stacking chairs against
the door.

Ottawa Police said they believed two or three gunmen were involved in the
attack, but several hours after the shooting began it was still unclear whether
all the terrorists had been accounted for. Stephen Harper, the Canadian prime
minister, was whisked away to safety to an undisclosed location.

Sources told The Globe and Mail, a Canadian newspaper, that the gunman had been
designated as a high-risk traveller by the government and that his passport had
been seized.

That follows the same pattern as the jihadist convert who killed a soldier in
Quebec by running him over earlier this week. Martin Couture-Rouleau was shot
dead by police after running down two soldiers, killing one, in the car park of
a military office in Quebec.

The attacks come amid growing concerns that disaffected young people in North
America are being drawn increasingly towards Islamists. Yesterday it emerged
that three teenage girls from Colorado played truant from school, stole money
from their parents and set off for Syria in what appears to be the latest case
of young Americans leaving home to join Islamic State.

Halted at Frankfurt airport in Germany, they were detained and questioned by the
FBI before being escorted home to their families in a suburb of Denver.
Officials have said that the girls - two sisters aged 17 and 15 and their
16-year-old friend - were hoping to reach Syria via Turkey.

Witnesses said that yesterday's attacks began at the war memorial, where a
soldier in in dress uniform was shot four times in the back by a masked gunman.
The fallen soldier, who carried a symbolically unloaded weapon as he stood
guard, was given mouth-to-mouth resuscitation by a woman as another man applied
pressure to his chest as he lay stricken on the pavement. Officials said later
that the unnamed soldier had suffered "catastrophic" injuries and died in
hospital.

The first shots rang out at the war memorial in Ottawa a little before ten in
the morning and echoed on the streets filling with workers. They were heard in
Canada's parliament building, where Liberal and Conservative politicians were
already in a meeting. The Centre Block building, as it is known, is not far from
the memorial and was full of MPs and their staff.

It was a beautiful autumn morning, with a thin gauze of cloud not quite blocking
the blue sky beyond. Two white-gloved soldiers were guarding the memorial, built
to commemorate Canadian troops of the First World War and later embellished and
rededicated to those lost in later conflicts. In 2000, a Tomb of the Unknown
Soldier was added, to symbolise the sacrifice of all those who had died in those
conflicts, and in others yet to come.

There, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge had greeted crowds of cheering
Canadians during their first royal tour.

Witnesses to yesterday's attack said they had seen a car pulling up on
Wellington Street, between the memorial and the parliament buildings; a brown
Toyota Corolla, without licence plates. Some recalled seeing two men climb from
the vehicle, leaving the engine running. One was seen walking towards the war
memorial, carrying what appeared to be a bundle of blankets.

He was said to have been about 5ft 10in tall, and white, although one witness
described him as "South American" looking. He was also said to be slightly
overweight, and about 30 years old. A witness named Raivo Nommik said the man
was wearing a hoodie, as well as a bandana tied around his head. Another said he
had a black-and-white "Arabic scarf". He approached the memorial and the
soldiers from behind - and opened fire.

Matthew Blais, a workman, told the Ottawa Citizen that he "heard a bunch of pops
and I looked over at the war memorial and I saw a man with a rifle shooting at
innocent people". After shooting one of the soldiers, he is said to have shouted
something into the morning air.

Peter Henderscare, a reporter, heard the shots as he was securing his bike on a
nearby street corner. He said two came in quick succession, then another two. He
ran to the scene and saw a soldier lying in front of the memorial, with
civilians and military personnel rushing to his aid.

At least five people crouched over the dying man. A woman administered mouth to
mouth resuscitation; two men bent over him at the bottom of the steps to the
memorial to perform chest compressions, their workbags and the soldier's rifle,
scattered around them.

Barry Willis, a construction worker, told reporters that he saw the gunman
coming from the war memorial. As the man pointed a rifle at him, Mr Willis dived
into his van. "It scared the s*** out of me," he said.

He said the gunman had then commandeered a car and driven to the gates of the
main parliament building, and rushed towards the entrance.

Mr Blais said the gunman had jumped "into a green car and headed up the street.
He parked right in front of parliament and ran into the building."

Marc-Andre Viau, a spokesman for the New Democratic party in Canada, was walking
from the front door of the Centre Block building when a police officer shouted
at him to take cover.

A reporter named Josh Wingrove, who works for The Globe and Mail in Toronto,
said he saw a man rushing into the building, chased by police officers who were
shouting 'Centre Block, Centre Block!" A parliamentary librarian then saw a man
with a rifle walking through the corridors of parliament.

Liberal MPs meeting in the basement heard the sound of shots being fired. In one
of the building's chambers, politicians pushed the stately green leather chairs
against the dark wood doors to create an improvised barricade.

Mr Wingrove watched as armed police swept down the grand hall, then rushed
forward to the sound of shots being fired. Soon, MPs reported that the gunman
had been killed.

The prime minister, Stephen Harper, was believed to have been escorted to safety
- but the crisis was not over. While the centre of the city remained in
lockdown, Ottawa police confirmed that there had been another shooting, at a
nearby shopping centre.

Later, the Canadian press reported that the gunman in parliament had been shot
dead by the Sergeant-At-Arms, Kevin Vickers. MPs expressed their gratitude for
the courage and bravery of staff guarding the building during the unprecedented
attack. Julian Fantino, the minister of veterans' affairs, said he was
"profoundly grateful" to Mr Vickers and "our security forces for the selfless
act of keeping us safe".

Ottawa hospital said it had received three patients from the incident, two of
whom were in a stable condition. However, witnesses who saw the first shooting
held out little hope for the soldier who had been guarding the memorial. His
wounds were said to be "catastrophic", and a few hours after the incident police
confirmed that he had died.

Embassies in the capital were closed, offices were shut, residents attending a
local gym were kept inside and streets were cleared.

Senator George Baker, who was one of those in lockdown at the parliament
building, said he was alerted that something was wrong by the sound of shots
being fired in the distance. "Then about 15 minutes later, all of a sudden the
police converge on the hall and say: 'No, you have to go back to your office -
you're not allowed to look out through the window'."

Speaking to the MSNBC television channel by telephone from his locked office, he
offered a possible explanation for the gunman being able to burst into the
Canadian parliament, before being hunted down and shot dead in an alcove.

He said politicians had agreed, barely two months earlier, to tighten security
in parliament - but that the new rules were due to come into place in three
months' time. "The tourists come on Parliament Hill and they don't see any of
our officers with guns. Nobody has a gun that you can visibly see," he said of
the current rules.

Jim Munson, a Liberal senator, said on Twitter that senators and staff were safe
but shaken. As they were finally escorted from the building, they could still
smell gun smoke in the air. "Unlike you or the US, we don't have security
outside with machineguns," he told the BBC. "We've lost our innocence as a
nation."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Soldier shot dead in terror attack on Canadian capital

BYLINE: David Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 278 words


Canada came under terrorist attack yesterday when a gunman shot dead a soldier
guarding Ottawa's war memorial before storming the country's heart of power,
spraying bullets around the parliamentary chamber.

Armed police and security officers chased at least one attacker through the
marble halls of parliament, exchanging fire as they ran. One assailant was shot
dead by the sergeant-at-arms, Kevin Vickers, 57, a veteran of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police. Three people were injured.

Craig Scott, an MP, said on Twitter that MPs and staff owed their lives to Mr
Vickers. He said that Mr Vickers shot the attacker outside the MPs' offices,
where politicians had barricaded themselves inside by stacking chairs against
the doors.

Police in Ottawa said that they believed that two or three gunmen might have
been involved, but several hours after the shooting it was not clear whether all
the terrorists had been accounted for.

Stephen Harper, the Canadian prime minister, was whisked away to safety at an
undisclosed location.

It was Canada's second terrorist attack in three days. Earlier this week a
jihadist convert killed a soldier in a hitand-run at a shopping centre car park.
Witnesses said that yesterday's attacks began at the war memorial, where a
soldier in dress uniform was shot four times in the back by a masked gunman. The
fallen soldier, named as Corporal Nathan Cirillo, 24, was given mouth-to-mouth
resuscitation by a woman while another man applied pressure to his chest as he
lay on the pavement. He later died in hospital.

Canadian media identified the suspected gunman as Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, 32, a
Muslim convert. Nation loses innocence, pages 36-37

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police provide cover in the centre of Ottawa yesterday for politicians
and officials to move to safety. A soldier was killed at the city's war memorial
and shots were fired in the parliamentary chamberASHLEY FRASER / POSTMEDIA /
BARCROFT MEDIA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Canada's PM condemns brutal' terror attack

LENGTH: 1015  words


CANADA'S prime minister has said the shooting of a soldier guarding the National
War Memorial in Ottawa is a reminder the country is "not immune" to terrorist
attacks.

Ottawa police said the member of the Canadian Forces "succumbed to injuries"
following a series of shooting incidents in the city yesterday morning.

The soldier was named locally as Corporal Nathan Cirillo, with his name trending
on Twitter and thousands praising him on other social media.

Canadian officials identified the gunman who killed him as Michael Zehaf-Bibeau,
who government sources said was a recent convert to Islam. He was shot dead,
reportedly by parliament's sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers.

In his first address to the nation since the attack, prime minister Stephen
Harper condemned it as a " brutal attack" and said the country would continue to
work with allies in the fight against extremist organisations.

"For the second time this week, there has been a brutal and violent act on our
soil," Mr Harper, who was evacuated from the parliament building at the time of
the shooting, said.

"In the days to come we will learn more about the terrorist and any accomplices
he may have had. This week's events are a grim reminder that Canada is not
immune to the types of terrorist attacks we have seen elsewhere around the
world.

"But let there be no misunderstanding, we will not be intimidated. Canada will
never be intimidated.

"In fact this will lead us to strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts to
take all necessary steps to identify and counter threats and keep Canada safe
here at home. Just as it will strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts to
work with our allies around the world and fight against the terrorist
organisations who brutalise those in other countries with the hope of bringing
their savagery to our shores.

"They will have no safe haven."

He added that a suspect in an earlier attack on Monday, when a man allegedly
rammed his car into two Canadian soldiers, killing one and injuring the other,
was and "Isil (Islamic State)-inspired terrorist".

David Cameron responded last night to the events on Twitter.

"I'm appalled by today's attack in Ottawa. I offer my full support to @pmharper
and the Canadian people as they deal with this incident," the Prime Minister
wrote.

MP Craig Scott wrote on Twitter: "MPs and Hill staff owe their safety, even
lives, to sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers who shot attacker just outside the MPs'
caucus rooms."

It was unclear whether other gunmen remained at large, with police describing
the incident as an "ongoing" operation with no-one currently in custody.

Police received a number of calls at 9.52am local time after the soldier was
shot, with further gunfire then taking place inside Parliament Hill.

Officers said that, contrary to reports, no third incident occurred at the
Rideau Centre shopping mall.

The force said in a statement yesterday: "The Ottawa Police Service and Royal
Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) responded to reports of shooting incidents this
morning in the downtown area.

"Police can now confirm that incidents occurred at the National War Memorial and
on Parliament Hill.

"One shooting victim succumbed to injuries. He was a member of the Canadian
Forces. Our thoughts and prayers are with him and his loved ones."

Police said in the initial hours that as many as two other gunmen may have taken
part in the attacks. But by late in the evening, the cordon around parliament
was lifted and police said there was no longer any threat to the public in the
area.

A Facebook page was set up named Rest In Peace Cpl Nathan Cirillo, which has
already been looked at by thousands.

One message, from Bob Rodkin, read: "RIP Nathan. Thank you for your service and
the ultimate sacrifice. So tragic, so unnecessary. My prayers go out for you and
to your family, friends and colleagues."

Another message, from Olivia Marie, said: "RIP Nathan! Thank you for defending
our country, your son is so proud of you. I miss you."

Cabinet minister Tony Clement tweeted that at least 30 shots were fired while a
meeting was taking place between Mr Harper and other MPs.

"I feared this day would come, and my prayers are with the fallen soldier," he
added.

Video filmed from inside the parliament building shows officers rushing down a
large marble hallway with weapons drawn in front of them, before the sound of
gunfire and shouting rings out.

The footage becomes shaky as the cameraman, believed to be a local reporter,
rushes for cover behind a pillar.

People inside the parliament building scrambled down scaffolding to escape,
witnesses said.

A photograph of chairs piled up against a door as a barricade was being heavily
circulated on Twitter, apparently taken inside the meeting room in the
parliament building where MPs earlier held their talks.

Ottawa mayor Jim Watson said he was "shocked and saddened" by the events.

"Ottawa police services are engaged with other law enforcement agencies at this
time in pursuit of the criminal or criminals who have carried out this vicious
and unwarranted attack," he said in a statement.

Alain Merizier, a waiter in the parliament dining room, said he was on his way
to work when he saw a gunman run from a car towards the parliament.

"I saw a car suddenly stop," he told the BBC. "There was only one man in the
car. He went out of the left side.

"He had a long gun and he ran away to the front and went inside the parliament.
I heard one shot. I saw an officer running after him."

Mr Merizier said the man had long dark hair and a small beard.

Vancouver South MP Wai Young said it had been "a difficult day".

She said: "I am absolutely stunned because here in Canada we pride ourselves on
being open, democratic and welcoming. To have this type of random terrorist
attack happen in one of the safest places in Canada is quite shocking."

The shootings came two days after a recent convert to Islam killed one Canadian
soldier and injured another in a hit-and-run incident before being gunned down
by police.

The Ottawa Hospital said all three patients admitted after being involved in the
shooting had been discharged.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                      October 24, 2014 Friday 05:24 AM GMT

Harper Says Deadly Attacks In Canada Were Acts Of Terrorism

LENGTH: 627 words


Ottawa (Alliance News) - Prime Minister Stephen Harper declared Thursday that
the two deadly attacks this week in Canada were acts of terrorism carried out by
Canadian citizens.

Harper said Canada's security laws needed to be strengthened, and that work on
revisions was "already under way and will be expedited."

Royal Canadian Mounted Police Commissioner Bob Paulson said the suspect in
Wednesday's Parliament shooting in Ottawa, Michael Zehef-Bibeau, had planned to
go to Syria.

Zehef-Bibeau, who had been known to Canadian security forces as a "high-risk
traveller," arrived in early October in Ottawa to deal with a passport issue
that he was not able to resolve, Paulson said.

The commissioner said investigators had found no link between Zehef-Bibeau, 32,
and a hit-and-run Monday in Quebec.

The suspect in the vehicular attack, Martin Couture-Rouleau, had been
red-flagged in June as a suspected Islamist extremist and was arrested when he
tried to leave in July for Turkey, which has been a common transit point for
people joining jihadist groups in Syria.

In both attacks, the suspect killed a member of the Canadian armed forces before
being shot dead.

In Monday's attack, which occurred in a Quebec town about 40 kilometres
south-east of Montreal, Couture-Rouleau fled after driving over two Canadian
soldiers and was shot and killed by police following a high-speed chase. One of
the soldiers he struck later died.

Zehef-Bibeau shot dead Corporal Nathan Cirillo, a reservist performing honour
guard duty at the National War Memorial before driving to Parliament Hill, a
complex of buildings in the heart of Ottawa.

He was shot dead inside the Canadian Parliament by Sergeant-at-Arms Kevin
Vickers, outside the chambers where legislators were meeting.

Vickers, a former officer in the RCMP who is responsible for security in the
Parliament, was hailed as a national hero for his decisive action.

Parliament members gave him an extended standing ovation Thursday morning, as
Vickers, clad in a black robe and carrying a ceremonial mace and sword, made his
daily parade down the centre aisle of the House of Commons, a ritual that opens
every session in the chamber.

Paulson played several minutes of surveillance video, showing the gunman on
Wednesday driving a short distance to the Parliament complex, after shooting
Cirillo at the war memorial.

Stunned passers-by are shown running for cover as the armed suspect gets out of
a car, which Paulson said Zehef-Bibeau purchased on Tuesday, and runs along the
side of a building. There he commandeers a government vehicle, driving to the
front of the Parliament building with police officers in pursuit.

The son of a Libyan immigrant and a French-Canadian, Zehef-Bibeau had long
criminal record, most recently a drug conviction in Montreal, court records
show. He was charged with robbery in Vancouver but was convicted only of making
threats.

Harper told the House of Commons that both attacks were carried out by "young
men born and raised in this peaceful country."

He said the objective of the attacks was to instill fear, but Canada would not
be intimidated: "We will be vigilant but we will not run scared. We will be
prudent, but we will not panic."

A memorial to Cirillo, 24, has been set up near a lamppost on the street that
leads to the war memorial. People left flowers and candles at the site.

A local imam, Sikandr Hashmi, who visited the site to lay a bouquet, told dpa he
was very concerned about what happened. Hashmi, who was born in Montreal and is
an imam at Kanata Muslim Association, said the Muslim community did not support
the kind of violence that occurred Wednesday.

Hashmi told dpa he hoped the deadly incident would unite people instead of
divide them further along religious lines.

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2014 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 24, 2014 Friday

Israeli foreign minister accuses Hamas leader of supporting "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 148 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 23 October

[Unattributed report: "Liberman: Next time Haniyeh's daughter needs treatment,
we'll remind him of his support for terror"]

Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman blasted Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh on
Thursday for his support over Wednesday's terrorist attack in Jerusalem, which
killed a three-month-old baby.

Liberman wrote on his Facebook page: "Next time they ask us to treat the
daughter of Ismail Haniyeh in an Israeli hospital -in response we'll send his
announcement blessing the murder of the baby Chaya Zissel Braun."

Representatives from Ichilov Hospital in Tel Aviv confirmed on Sunday evening
that it treated Haniyeh's daughter for emergency medical treatment after she
suffered complications from a routine procedure.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 23 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 24, 2014 Friday

Some 26 killed, 28 injured in Egypt's Sinai "terrorist" attacks - news agency

LENGTH: 99 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Al-Arish, 24 October: As many as 26 servicemen were killed and 28 others were
wounded in Friday's [24 October] terrorist attack that targeted a checkpoint in
al-Shaykh Zuwayid district in North Sinai, a security source said.

Military helicopters moved the injured soldiers to hospitals in Cairo for
treatment, the source added.

Meanwhile, the Armed Forces are combing the stricken area amid anticipation of a
wide-scale military operation against the terrorist hotbeds, witnesses said.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1807gmt 24 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                October 24, 2014
                                 First Edition

Same forces behind highly symbolic terror attacks;
Analysis

BYLINE: Steve Hewitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 180 words


Nothing about the attack in Canada this week is unique. It is neither original
among other Western nations that have experienced terrorism recently, nor within
Canada's own historical experience of terrorism, which has included a bombing of
an airliner, the hijacking of a bus on Parliament Hill in Ottawa and even the
explosion of a bomb and the death of the bomber in the same parliament buildings
in 1966.

The attack focused specifically on highly symbolic targets: a soldier guarding
Canada's National War Memorial and Canada's centre of government, its parliament
buildings.

The shooting of the soldier coupled with an attack in Quebec on Monday in which
a driver mowed down two soldiers, killing one of them, clearly parallel the 2013
murder in Woolwich of the British soldier Lee Rigby.

In all of these attacks, military personnel were deliberately targeted by
perpetrators who had converted to Islam and embraced extremism.

The attacks in Canada this week show that it is being buffeted by the same
forces as in nations such as the United States, the United Kingdom, and France.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2014 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 24, 2014 Friday 2:15 PM GMT

Get ready for G20 with this Australian rap - with a cameo from an actual
politician;
Video: Australian politician Scott Ludlam uses the power of music to attack
anti-terrorism laws

BYLINE: Kiran Moodley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 425 words


A vocal opponent of Australia's recent anti-terrorism laws, Greens Senator Scott
Ludlam has appeared in a rap video ahead of the G20 summit and described Prime
Minister Tony Abbott's policies as "a fascist f***fest of Orwellian
proportions".

In the video by Juice Rap News (full video here), a rap written by Giordano
Nanni & Hugo Farrant takes aim at Abbott and introduces Senator Ludlam as a
"hippy, Greenie senator".

Ludlam's bone of contention with Abbott is the proposed data-retention laws
which are set to come before the Australian parliament later this year and will
compel telephone and internet companies to store customer data for security
agencies to access.

Before Ludlam makes his entrance, Nanni and Farrant's lyrics mock the record of
Abott, who became prime minister in September 2013.

Asking a parody Abbott - complete with an overly-large forehead - about his
record in his first year in office, the fake prime minister responds, "My first
triumph as leader was to abolish the climate, slash Medicare, subsidise mining
and end the age of entitlement for students...except my kids. I've stopped the
boats and the tide of Muslim immigrants."

The rap also describes the G20 - which will take place in Brisbane in November -
as "shady deals, trade pacts, and any protests that happen are greeted with tear
gas, and baton bashings".

Full video here

When Ludlam enters, he doesn't do too bad a job at rapping, launching into a
rallying cry against Abbott's proposed data-retention laws.

He declares: "Australia is about to become the first great nation to pass laws
for mandatory data retention indiscriminately storing our private metadata,
treating us all as suspects, and thus finally ensuring a fascist f***-fest of
Orwellian proportions."

When asked by one of the other rappers what he proposes to do, Ludlam says,
"I'll go full Gandalf on this Government's arse, smack down their laws with a
dose of: You Shall Not Pass!"

Ludlam also references a speech he gave eight months to an empty Senate chamber
which became a viral sensation after he invited Abott to rethink his stereotypes
about the state of Western Australia, which Ludlam represents.

Commenting on Ludlam's first foray into the world of rap, Australian hip-hop
artist Nick Lupi told The Sydney Morning Herald,"I thought his rap performance
was respectable without being dazzling, but it's not an easy craft to pick up.
All in all I think it was a pretty stellar effort."

Video courtesy of Juice Rap News (full video here)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 24, 2014 Friday 11:37 PM GMT

Russell Brand sparks backlash after admitting he is open minded about conspiracy
theories surrounding 9/11 terror attacks and asks 'Do you trust the American
Government?'

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1435 words



     ·    Comedian was asked about 9/11 because he said it was 'controlled' in
          book
     ·    He told BBC Newsnight: 'We have to remain open-minded to any kind of
          possibility. Do you trust the American government?'
     ·    He added: 'I do think is very interesting is the relationship that the
          Bush family have had for a long time with the bin Laden family'
     ·    Accused BBC of building 'anti-Islamic narrative' over Ottawa terror
          attack
     ·    Victim's relative says it shocks her that 'he would be that stupid'
     ·    Star was sacked by MTV after he dressed as bin Laden on day after 9/11


     ·    Critics branded him a 'ranting idiot' and told him to 'stick to
          comedy'
     ·    Viewers make complaints to BBC over his 9/11 conspiracy rant
     ·    Corporation defends his appearance and says: Love him or loathe him he
          voices anti politics mood'


Russell Brand caused outrage today after he admitted being 'open-minded' about
whether the United States was behind the 9/11 attacks and asked: 'Do you trust
the American government?'

The comedian, 39, told BBC's Newsnight he believes there is an 'interesting'
relationship between the families of former US president George Bush and Al
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.

He was pressed by presenter Evan Davis on comments in his new book, Revolution,
because in it he describes the 9/11 attacks on the Twin Towers in New York as
'controlled'.

Brand's decision to give credence to a 9/11 conspiracy led to fury online, with
the multi-millionaire, who was married to Katy Perry, branded a 'ranting idiot'
who should 'stick to comedy'.

Responding to criticism that Brand was on Newsnight again the BBC, who had nine
complaints, said: 'Love him or loathe him Russell Brand has been one of the most
eloquent voices articulating the anti-politics mood that all British politicians
are currently struggling to engage with'.

Scroll down for video

Conspiracy theorists have said that rather than being brought down by
terrorists, the United States plotted to demolish them with explosives to help
spark a war in Iraq.

JOIN THE CLUB:OTHERS WHO ESPOUSE A 9/11 CONSPIRACY

Charlie Sheen

Fellow hellraiser Charlie Sheen argues that hijackers could never have carried
out the 9/11 attacks.

He said: 'It seems to me like 19 amateurs with box cutters taking over four
commercial airliners and hitting 75 per cent of their targets, that feels like a
conspiracy theory. It raises a lot of questions.'

David Icke

Icke believes that the world is being run by a race of child-sacrificing,
shape-shifting, reptilian aliens - and thousands of people seem to believe him.

He was forced to flee the spotlight 20 years ago - after he declared on a BBC
chat show that he was the son of God.

The TV star from the 1980s, and his followers that the Babylonian Brotherhood
runs the world and the Queen and George W Bush are among the race of reptiles
and this elite group organised terror attacks like 9/11 and the Oklahoma
bombing.

When asked about a 9/11 conspiracy Brand said: 'We have to remain open-minded to
any kind of possibility.

'Do you trust the American government? Do you trust the British government? What
I do think is very interesting is the relationship that the Bush family have had
for a long time with the bin Laden family.

'What I do think is very interesting is the way that even the BBC report the
events in Ottawa to subtly build an anti-Islamic narrative. I think that's very
interesting.'

He then appeared abruptly to change tack, saying that he did not want to discuss
'daft' conspiracy theories.

Today the sister-in-law of Michael Cunningham, who was 39 when killed in the
terrorist attack, said she was 'shocked' at the comments, given Brand's
controversial history.

Joanne Cunningham said: 'It shocks me that he would be that stupid.

'He's batty, completely batty. But we've heard it all before and it doesn't
change the outcome.

'He knows nothing about 9/11 really, I presume he had no relatives in it, so he
can't comment when he doesn't really know.'

Brand has courted controversy over 9/11 in the past and was sacked by MTV after
turning up for work dressed as Osama bin Laden on the day after the attack that
killed 3,000 people.

In his autobiography he described being around colleagues on September 12 as:
'And there's me standing beside them, still dressed as Osama bin Laden. I
thought: "It don't get any better than this."

FURY AS BBC LETS BRAND SUGGEST 9/11 WAS US PLOT

The BBC came under fire last night for giving Russell Brand a platform on
Newsnight to say the US government may have been behind the 9/11 terror attacks.

Bosses on the show devoted seven more minutes to Brand's bizarre musings than to
the coverage of the deadly spread of Ebola across Western Africa. The interview
- which took up more than a third of the entire programme - lasted as long as a
piece on a key report into the state of the NHS in England.

Last night Tory MP Philip Davies condemned the BBC for giving Brand a platform.

He said: 'I've no idea what the BBC are up to. If they think that the general
public want to see this kind of nonsense on a serious political news programme
they need to get out more.

'It is bewildering why they have given Russell Brand a platform to display such
ignorant views. One might wonder what expertise he brings to this subject. The
answer is none. The BBC have taken leave of their senses.'

A BBC spokesman said: 'Love him or loathe him, Russell Brand has been one of the
most eloquent voices articulating the anti-politics mood politicians are
struggling to engage with.'

Brand will appear on the Jonathan Ross Show tonight to promote his book - six
years after the pair faced a storm of criticism for calling actor Andrew Sachs
so Brand could boast of having had sex with his granddaughter.

Twitter users were left furious by his Newsnight performance, many considering
it insulting to the nearly 3,000 dead, which included 67 Britons.

The devastating attacks on the Twin Towers 13 years ago changed the world.

More than 1,100 people have never been identified, and their remains have been
placed in a tomb under New York's Memorial Museum.

The al Qaeda plot also included the crashing of two more aircraft, one into the
Pentagon, in Washington DC, and the other a field in Pennsylvania.

In the tense interview Brand said the BBC 'shamefully sabotaged' the Scottish
Referendum for the No campaign and Mr Davis he was 'mates with like CEOs and big
businesses' and spent time 'cosying up' to London mayor Boris Johnson.

When Mr Davis pressed him about his views he shouted over the presenter: 'Mate,
I don't want to follow you down blind alleys about silly administrative
quibbles.'

At one point Mr Davis pleaded: 'I'm trying to take you seriously.'

Davis then tried to show the actor a graph showing wage levels in Britain, but
he responded: 'I don't want to look at a graph mate, I haven't got time to look
at a bloody graph.

'It's a lovely graph mate, well done. This is the kind of thing that people like
you use to confuse people like us.'

After the show Twitter users started sending graphs to Brand to lampoon him over
the outburst.

He replied: 'Cheers for the graphs.The 5 richest families in UK have as much
money as the poorest 12 million people. Do us one for that'.

It was Brand's second appearance on Newsnight after a now notorious interview
with Jeremy Paxman, where the comedian said he had never voted because he
regarded politicians as untrustworthy and irrelevant.

The multi-millionaire also said that 'profit is a dirty word', in response the
the Prime Minister who said it wasn't.

He has been a regular on the BBC despite his acrimonious departure in 2008.

Brand and presenter Jonathan Ross left a series of obscene messages on Mr
Sachs's answerphone during Brand's Radio 2 programme.

The incident provoked 42,000 complaints after Brand boasted of sleeping with Mr
Sachs's granddaughter and joked that the 83-year-old former Fawlty Towers star
might hang himself as a result of the phone calls. Brand later resigned while
Ross was suspended.

Brand later claimed many of the 42,000 people who complained to the BBC either
had no real idea of what they were complaining about or were motivated by an
anti-BBC agenda.

He has starred in several high profile Hollywood movies, most notably Forgetting
Sarah Marshall and Get Him to the Greek, and commands a high acting fee.

He is also famous in the UK for his work on television, radio and as a stand up
comedian.

His net worth is believed to be more than £15million, with rumours this doubled
following his divorce from singer Katy Perry.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 24, 2014 Friday 8:17 PM GMT

Russell Brand sparks backlash after admitting he is open minded about conspiracy
theories surrounding 9/11 terror attacks and asks 'Do you trust the American
Government?'

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1194 words



     ·    Comedian was asked about 9/11 because he said it was 'controlled' in
          book
     ·    He told BBC Newsnight: 'We have to remain open-minded to any kind of
          possibility. Do you trust the American government?'
     ·    He added: 'I do think is very interesting is the relationship that the
          Bush family have had for a long time with the bin Laden family'
     ·    Accused BBC of building 'anti-Islamic narrative' over Ottawa terror
          attack
     ·    Victim's relative says it shocks her that 'he would be that stupid'
     ·    Star was sacked by MTV after he dressed as bin Laden on day after 9/11


     ·    Critics branded him a 'ranting idiot' and told him to 'stick to
          comedy'
     ·    Viewers make complaints to BBC over his 9/11 conspiracy rant
     ·    Corporation defends his appearance and says: Love him or loathe him he
          voices anti politics mood'


Russell Brand caused outrage today after he admitted being 'open-minded' about
whether the United States was behind the 9/11 attacks and asked: 'Do you trust
the American government?'

The comedian, 39, told BBC's Newsnight he believes there is an 'interesting'
relationship between the families of former US president George Bush and Al
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.

He was pressed by presenter Evan Davis on comments in his new book, Revolution,
because in it he describes the 9/11 attacks on the Twin Towers in New York as
'controlled'.

Brand's decision to give credence to a 9/11 conspiracy led to fury online, with
the multi-millionaire, who was married to Katy Perry, branded a 'ranting idiot'
who should 'stick to comedy'.

Responding to criticism that Brand was on Newsnight again the BBC, who had nine
complaints, said: 'Love him or loathe him Russell Brand has been one of the most
eloquent voices articulating the anti-politics mood that all British politicians
are currently struggling to engage with'.

Scroll down for video

Conspiracy theorists have said that rather than being brought down by
terrorists, the United States plotted to demolish them with explosives to help
spark a war in Iraq.

JOIN THE CLUB:OTHERS WHO ESPOUSE A 9/11 CONSPIRACY

Charlie Sheen

Fellow hellraiser Charlie Sheen argues that hijackers could never have carried
out the 9/11 attacks.

He said: 'It seems to me like 19 amateurs with box cutters taking over four
commercial airliners and hitting 75 per cent of their targets, that feels like a
conspiracy theory. It raises a lot of questions.'

David Icke

Icke believes that the world is being run by a race of child-sacrificing,
shape-shifting, reptilian aliens - and thousands of people seem to believe him.

He was forced to flee the spotlight 20 years ago - after he declared on a BBC
chat show that he was the son of God.

The TV star from the 1980s, and his followers that the Babylonian Brotherhood
runs the world and the Queen and George W Bush are among the race of reptiles
and this elite group organised terror attacks like 9/11 and the Oklahoma
bombing.

When asked about a 9/11 conspiracy Brand said: 'We have to remain open-minded to
any kind of possibility.

'Do you trust the American government? Do you trust the British government? What
I do think is very interesting is the relationship that the Bush family have had
for a long time with the bin Laden family.

'What I do think is very interesting is the way that even the BBC report the
events in Ottawa to subtly build an anti-Islamic narrative. I think that's very
interesting.'

He then appeared abruptly to change tack, saying that he did not want to discuss
'daft' conspiracy theories.

Today the sister-in-law of Michael Cunningham, who was 39 when killed in the
terrorist attack, said she was 'shocked' at the comments, given Brand's
controversial history.

Joanne Cunningham said: 'It shocks me that he would be that stupid.

'He's batty, completely batty. But we've heard it all before and it doesn't
change the outcome.

'He knows nothing about 9/11 really, I presume he had no relatives in it, so he
can't comment when he doesn't really know.'

Brand has courted controversy over 9/11 in the past and was sacked by MTV after
turning up for work dressed as Osama bin Laden on the day after the attack that
killed 3,000 people.

In his autobiography he described being around colleagues on September 12 as:
'And there's me standing beside them, still dressed as Osama bin Laden. I
thought: "It don't get any better than this."

Twitter users were left furious by his Newsnight performance, many considering
it insulting to the nearly 3,000 dead, which included 67 Britons.

The devastating attacks on the Twin Towers 13 years ago changed the world.

More than 1,100 people have never been identified, and their remains have been
placed in a tomb under New York's Memorial Museum.

The al Qaeda plot also included the crashing of two more aircraft, one into the
Pentagon, in Washington DC, and the other a field in Pennsylvania.

In the tense interview last night Brand said the BBC 'shamefully sabotaged' the
Scottish Referendum for the No campaign and Mr Davis he was 'mates with like
CEOs and big businesses' and spent time 'cosying up' to London mayor Boris
Johnson.

When Mr Davis pressed him about his views he shouted over the presenter: 'Mate,
I don't want to follow you down blind alleys about silly administrative
quibbles.'

At one point Mr Davis pleaded: 'I'm trying to take you seriously.'

Davis then tried to show the actor a graph showing wage levels in Britain, but
he responded: 'I don't want to look at a graph mate, I haven't got time to look
at a bloody graph.

'It's a lovely graph mate, well done. This is the kind of thing that people like
you use to confuse people like us.'

After the show Twitter users started sending graphs to Brand to lampoon him over
the outburst.

He replied: 'Cheers for the graphs.The 5 richest families in UK have as much
money as the poorest 12 million people. Do us one for that'.

It was Brand's second appearance on Newsnight after a now notorious interview
with Jeremy Paxman, where the comedian said he had never voted because he
regarded politicians as untrustworthy and irrelevant.

The multi-millionaire also said that 'profit is a dirty word', in response the
the Prime Minister who said it wasn't.

He has been a regular on the BBC despite his acrimonious departure in 2008.

Brand and presenter Jonathan Ross left a series of obscene messages on Mr
Sachs's answerphone during Brand's Radio 2 programme.

The incident provoked 42,000 complaints after Brand boasted of sleeping with Mr
Sachs's granddaughter and joked that the 83-year-old former Fawlty Towers star
might hang himself as a result of the phone calls. Brand later resigned while
Ross was suspended.

Brand later claimed many of the 42,000 people who complained to the BBC either
had no real idea of what they were complaining about or were motivated by an
anti-BBC agenda.

He has starred in several high profile Hollywood movies, most notably Forgetting
Sarah Marshall and Get Him to the Greek, and commands a high acting fee.

He is also famous in the UK for his work on television, radio and as a stand up
comedian.

His net worth is believed to be more than £15million, with rumours this doubled
following his divorce from singer Katy Perry.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 24, 2014 Friday 6:33 PM GMT

Was it a terror attack? Police probe extremist links as online rants of New York
hatchet attacker emerge after he was shot dead in attack on group of cops in
Queens

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA KLAUSNER FOR MAILONLINE, KIERAN CORCORAN FOR MAILONLINE and
DAVID MARTOKSO, U.S POLITICAL EDITOR, MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1047 words



     ·    Zale Thompson, 32 lunged at police with a hatchet in Queens yesterday
     ·    Online posts have emerged where Thompson advocated 'guerrilla war'
     ·    Authorities are investigating whether Thompson was motivated by
          Islamic terrorists calling for attacks in the U.S.
     ·    An officer was slashed in the head and another one was slashed in the
          arm before one officer was able to fatally shoot the attacker
     ·    Officer struck in head is in critical condition in Jamaica Hospital
     ·    A 29-year-old female bystander was critically injured after being shot
          by an errant police round and is listed in 'grave' condition
     ·    Thomspon's family say they are 'shocked' by the attack


Police in New York are probing the potential terrorist links of a
hatchet-wielding attacker who lashed out at four policemen in Queens yesterday.

Zale Thompson, 32, was caught on surveillance cameras slashing at an officer's
head yesterday afternoon before hitting another in the arm. He was shot dead at
the scene.

And now social media posts made by Thompson have emerged, calling on Muslim
extremists to attack America and wage jihad.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Commenting on a video supporting the rise of an Islamic caliphate - such as ISIS
claim to have established in Iraq and Syria - Thompson asked: 'Which is better,
to sit around and do nothing, or to Jihad fisabeelallah [for the cause of
Allah]!'

Comments from Thompson's Facebook account were also reported on Fox News, who
said he posted: 'The solution is to fight. Armed struggle. Simple.'

He then reportedly advocated an armed revolution, saying: 'America's military is
strong abroad, but they have never faced an internal mass revolt. ... They are
weaker at home. We are scattered and decentralized, we can use this as an
advantage.

It continued: 'They will not be able to defeat our people if we use guerilla
warfare. Attack their weak flanks... If you get wounded who cares. If you die
who cares. Eventually they will surrender and then the war will be over.'

He also spoke of a global conspiracy by 'Zionists and Christians' to suppress
Islam. He wrote: 'If the Zionists and the Crusaders had never invaded and
colonized the Islamic lands after WW1, then there would be no need for Jihad!'

Posting elsewhere under a music video called 'No white God', he seemed to call
for extremists to overthrew European governments and enslave their people.

He wrote: 'They call black people racist for rejecting the oppression they
suffered from whites. Listen, when black people have colonized the entire
continent of Europe, enslaved its people, and sold them into bondage to foreign
lands, then you can call them racist.'

ISIS has continually urged its supporters to launch 'lone wolf' attacks in the
West.

Thompson's family, meanwhile, say they are 'shocked' by news of the attack,
while neighbors say they would never have connected him with radical Islam.

Speaking to ABC7, his grandfather, Ralph Thompson, said only: 'Very shocked, his
father not well.'

Igeoma Simon, who lives nearby in Queens, said the Thompson he knew was a 'great
guy'.

He said: 'He was very positive. He helped me stay physically active at the
park...I don't really know what would drive him to that.'

Police say they are investigating whether Thompson's attack on the cops was
linked to Islamic terrorism. ISIS has urged fighters to launch lone wolf attacks
in the United States.

Thompson's Facebook page features a photograph of a man dressed in Middle
Eastern garb and a cover photo displaying Arabic writing.

Two attacks in Canada this week  by radicalized converts to Islam have killed
two Canadian soldiers.

In one, a man ran down two soldiers in his car in Quebec, killing one, before
being shot dead.

On Wednesday a convicted felon ambushed a soldier outside Canadian Parliament,
fatally wounding him, before running the Parliament building and opening fire.

DNA Info reports that on Thursday afternoon a freelance photographer approached
the group of rookie cops and asked to take their photograph.

As the officers were posing for the camera, Thompson charged towards them
swinging an 18.5 inch hatchet without uttering a single word.

One 24-year-old officer was slashed in the arm.

Another 25-year-old officer was slashed in the back of head and taken to Jamaica
Hospital where he is being treated in critical condition, reports  CBS.

A 29-year-old female bystander half a block away from the attack was also
critically injured after being shot by an errant police round. She is currently
recovering from surgery at Jamaica Hospital and is listed in 'grave' condition.

The two remaining police shot at Thompson who dropped his hatchet then died at
the scene.

Police Commissioner Bill Bratton said he's not ruling out terrorism especially
in the wake of recent terror attacks in Canada, reports  CNN.

'There is nothing we know as of this time that would indicate that were the
case. I think certainly the heightened concern is relative to that type of
assault based on what just happened in Canada,' said Bratton.

CNN reports that Thompson has a criminal record in California and that he was
discharged from the U.S. Navy for misconduct. Details of his criminal record and
his misconduct are not known at this time.

His Facebook page says that Thompson graduated from Columbia Teacher's College
and that he resides in Queens.

CNN reports that New York police were alerted to be on the lookout for random
attacks following Thursday's incident.

DNA Info spoke with witnesses on the scene.

'We heard pop, pop, pop, pop,' said Rafael, 44, who works at Overseas Travel
nearby where the incident occurred.

'She was screaming,"'Help me." She couldn't get up,' said Ericka Babb, a medical
assistant at Priority Medical Center in Queens.

'We were way too scared,' said Rafael.

Officers say they shot the hatchet-yielding suspect but it's not clear how many
rounds were fired.

'It was a completely unprovoked attack,' said NYPD Chief Kim Royster, a
department spokeswoman.

Police Commissioner Bill Bratton said during a news conference that all of the
police involved are recent graduates of this summer's Police Academy class.

'Three rookie cops, absolutely modest about what happened today and what they
did,' de Blasio said.

During the conference Bill De Blasio lauded the officers' training and their
fast response to the unprovoked attack.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 24, 2014 Friday 5:42 PM GMT

Russell Brand sparks backlash after admitting he is open minded about conspiracy
theories surrounding 9/11 terror attacks and asks 'Do you trust the American
Government?'

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1045 words



     ·    Comedian was asked about 9/11 because he said it was 'controlled' in
          book
     ·    He told BBC Newsnight: 'We have to remain open-minded to any kind of
          possibility. Do you trust the American government?'
     ·    He added: 'I do think is very interesting is the relationship that the
          Bush family have had for a long time with the bin Laden family'
     ·    Accused BBC of building 'anti-Islamic narrative' over Ottawa terror
          attack
     ·    Star was sacked by MTV after he dressed as bin Laden on day after 9/11


     ·    Critics branded him a 'ranting idiot' and told him to 'stick to
          comedy'
     ·    Viewers make complaints to BBC over his 9/11 conspiracy rant
     ·    Corporation defends his appearance and says: Love him or loate him he
          voices anti politics mood'


Russell Brand caused outrage today after he admitted being 'open-minded' about
whether the United States was behind the 9/11 attacks and asked: 'Do you trust
the American government?'

The comedian, 39, told BBC's Newsnight he believes there is an 'interesting'
relationship between the families of former US president George Bush and Al
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.

He was pressed by presenter Evan Davis on comments in his new book, Revolution,
because in it he describes the 9/11 attacks on the Twin Towers in New York as
'controlled'.

Brand's decision to give credence to a 9/11 conspiracy led to fury online, with
the multi-millionaire, who was married to Katy Perry, branded a 'ranting idiot'
who should 'stick to comedy'.

Responding to criticism that Brand was on Newsnight again the BBC, who had nine
complaints, said: 'Love him or loathe him Russell Brand has been one of the most
eloquent voices articulating the anti-politics mood that all British politicians
are currently struggling to engage with'.

Scroll down for video

Conspiracy theorists have said that rather than being brought down by
terrorists, the United States plotted to demolish them with explosives to help
spark a war in Iraq.

JOIN THE CLUB:OTHERS WHO ESPOUSE A 9/11 CONSPIRACY

Charlie Sheen

Fellow hellraiser Charlie Sheen argues that hijackers could never have carried
out the 9/11 attacks.

He said: 'It seems to me like 19 amateurs with box cutters taking over four
commercial airliners and hitting 75 per cent of their targets, that feels like a
conspiracy theory. It raises a lot of questions.'

David Icke

Icke believes that the world is being run by a race of child-sacrificing,
shape-shifting, reptilian aliens - and thousands of people seem to believe him.

He was forced to flee the spotlight 20 years ago - after he declared on a BBC
chat show that he was the son of God.

The TV star from the 1980s, and his followers that the Babylonian Brotherhood
runs the world and the Queen and George W Bush are among the race of reptiles
and this elite group organised terror attacks like 9/11 and the Oklahoma
bombing.

When asked about a 9/11 conspiracy Brand said: 'We have to remain open-minded to
any kind of possibility.

'Do you trust the American government? Do you trust the British government? What
I do think is very interesting is the relationship that the Bush family have had
for a long time with the bin Laden family.

'What I do think is very interesting is the way that even the BBC report the
events in Ottawa to subtly build an anti-Islamic narrative. I think that's very
interesting.'

He then appeared abruptly to change tack, saying that he did not want to discuss
'daft' conspiracy theories.

Brand has courted controversy over 9/11 in the past and was sacked by MTV after
turning up for work dressed as Osama bin Laden on the day after the attack that
killed 3,000 people.

In his autobiography he described being around colleagues on September 12 as:
'And there's me standing beside them, still dressed as Osama bin Laden. I
thought: "It don't get any better than this."

Twitter users were left furious by his Newsnight performance, many considering
it insulting to the nearly 3,000 dead, which included 67 Britons.

The devastating attacks on the Twin Towers 13 years ago changed the world.

More than 1,100 people have never been identified, and their remains have been
placed in a tomb under New York's Memorial Museum.

The al Qaeda plot also included the crashing of two more aircraft, one into the
Pentagon, in Washington DC, and the other a field in Pennsylvania.

In the tense interview last night Brand said the BBC 'shamefully sabotaged' the
Scottish Referendum for the No campaign and Mr Davis he was 'mates with like
CEOs and big businesses' and spent time 'cosying up' to London mayor Boris
Johnson.

When Mr Davis pressed him about his views he shouted over the presenter: 'Mate,
I don't want to follow you down blind alleys about silly administrative
quibbles.'

At one point Mr Davis pleaded: 'I'm trying to take you seriously.'

Davis then tried to show the actor a graph showing wage levels in Britain, but
he responded: 'I don't want to look at a graph mate, I haven't got time to look
at a bloody graph.

'It's a lovely graph mate, well done. This is the kind of thing that people like
you use to confuse people like us.'

After the show Twitter users started sending graphs to Brand to lampoon him over
the outburst.

He replied: 'Cheers for the graphs.The 5 richest families in UK have as much
money as the poorest 12 million people. Do us one for that'.

It was Brand's second appearance on Newsnight after a now notorious interview
with Jeremy Paxman, where the comedian said he had never voted because he
regarded politicians as untrustworthy and irrelevant.

The multi-millionaire also said that 'profit is a dirty word', in response the
the Prime Minister who said it wasn't.

He has been a regular on the BBC despite his acrimonious departure in 2008.

Brand and presenter Jonathan Ross left a series of obscene messages on Mr
Sachs's answerphone during Brand's Radio 2 programme.

The incident provoked 42,000 complaints after Brand boasted of sleeping with Mr
Sachs's granddaughter and joked that the 83-year-old former Fawlty Towers star
might hang himself as a result of the phone calls. Brand later resigned while
Ross was suspended.

Brand later claimed many of the 42,000 people who complained to the BBC either
had no real idea of what they were complaining about or were motivated by an
anti-BBC agenda.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 24, 2014 Friday 2:43 PM GMT

Russell Brand sparks backlash after admitting he is open minded about conspiracy
theories surrounding 9/11 terror attacks and asks 'Do you trust the American
Government?'

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 491 words



     ·    Comedian was asked about 9/11 because he said it was 'controlled' in
          book
     ·    He told BBC Newsnight: 'We have to remain open-minded to any kind of
          possibility. Do you trust the American government?'
     ·    He added: 'I do think is very interesting is the relationship that the
          Bush family have had for a long time with the bin Laden family'
     ·    Twitter users tell him to 'stick to comedy' and called argument 'paper
          thin'
     ·    Brand was sacked by MTV after he dressed as bin Laden on day after
          9/11


Russell Brand faced a backlash today after he admitted being 'open-minded' about
whether the United States was behind the 9/11 attacks.

The comedian, 39, told BBC's Newsnight he believes there is an 'interesting'
relationship between the families of former US president George Bush and Al
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.

He was pressed by presenter Evan Davis on comments in his new book, Revolution,
because in it he describes the 9/11 attacks on the Twin Towers in New York as
'controlled'.

Scroll down for video

He said: 'We have to remain open-minded to any kind of possibility.

'Do you trust the American government? Do you trust the British government? What
I do think is very interesting is the relationship that the Bush family have had
for a long time with the bin Laden family.

'What I do think is very interesting is the way that even the BBC report the
events in Ottawa to subtly build an anti-Islamic narrative. I think that's very
interesting.'

He then appeared abruptly to change tack, saying that he did not want to discuss
'daft' conspiracy theories.

Twitter users were a mix of bemused and upset over his comments.

Brand has courted controversy over 9/11 in the past and was sacked by MTV after
turning up for work dressed as Osama bin Laden on the day after the attack that
killed 3,000 people.

In his autobiography he described being around colleagues on September 12 as:
'And there's me standing beside them, still dressed as Osama bin Laden. I
thought: "It don't get any better than this."

In the tense interview last night Brand said the BBC 'shamefully sabotaged' the
Scottish Referendum for the No campaign and Mr Davis he was 'mates with like
CEOs and big businesses' and spent time 'cosying up' to London mayor Boris
Johnson.

When Mr Evans pressed him about his views he shouted over the presented: 'Mate,
I don't want to follow you down blind alleys about silly administrative
quibbles.'

At one point Mr Davis pleaded: 'I'm trying to take you seriously.'

Davis then tried to show the actor a graph showin wage levels in Britain, but he
responded: 'I don't want to look at a graph mate, I haven't got time to look at
a bloody graph.'

It was Brand's second appearance on Newsnight after a now notorious interview
with Jeremy Paxman, where the comedian said he had never voted because he
regarded politicians as untrustworthy and irrelevant.

The multi-millionaire also said that 'profit is a dirty word', in response the
the Prime Minister who said it wasn't.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 24, 2014 Friday 11:55 AM GMT

Terror experts warn 'It's a question of when not if': Fears grow of lone wolf
attacks and Isis terror cells that will target British troops in barracks

BYLINE: HARRIET ARKELL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 691 words



     ·    Threat specialist says extremist attack on soldiers in Britain is
          'highly likely'
     ·    He says reports of three such plots by terrorists are 'probably
          conservative'
     ·    And he warns that another threat is lone wolf attacks by individuals
          or pairs
     ·    Says 'under the radar, visceral' attacks by lone wolves are 'of great
          concern'
     ·    British security agencies working all hours after recent attacks in
          Canada
     ·    David Cameron asks MI5 and Scotland Yard to review security at
          landmarks


An Islamic State terror attack on soldiers in their barracks in Britain is
believed to be so likely, 'It's not a question of if, but when', a security
specialist warned today.

Threat expert Will Geddes said that reports of up to three Isis terror cells
planning attacks on troops were 'highly likely', adding: 'I think three is
probably a conservative figure'.

And he said that a second threat was the high likelihood of a 'lone wolf' terror
attack here, similar to those that killed two soldiers in Canada this week.

'Unlike the Al Qaeda-style "big spectaculars" such as 9/11, 7/7, and the Madrid
bombings, the threat from Isis is a much more low-level, under the radar,
visceral type of terrorism, often involving just one or two lone wolves
operating alone,' he told MailOnline.

Mr Geddes, of security and counter terrorism firm International Corporate
Protection, spoke after Whitehall sources reportedly said they had discovered
Isis terror cells carrying out surveillance on four barracks across the country.

The worrying intelligence suggested an attack on British troops and their
families - similar to the murder of soldier Lee Rigby in May last year - might
be imminent.

Mr Geddes said: 'Sadly it's not a question of if, but when.  I certainly think
we will see something.'

His warning coincided with recent arrests of terror suspects.  Last week four
British men were charged with terror offences after allegedly carrying out
'hostile reconnaissance' of Shepherd's Bush Police Station and White City
Territorial Army Barracks in west London using Google street view.

As well as the threat from terror cells involving several terrorists working
together, British security agencies are concerned about the increasing risk from
radicalised individuals

Mr Geddes said such attacks might be planned by two types of Islamic extremists
- those who wanted to join Isis in Syria but were unable to, like Ottawa gunman
Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, 26, whose passport had been confiscated by authorities,
and those who had been over there but had returned to home turf with the desire
to carry out an attack there.

The security expert said:'The lone wolf attack by just one or two people is the
biggest concern to British security agencies, particularly the spontaneity of
such attacks.

'You can go into Argos, buy knives, and be out on Oxford Street attacking people
within an hour, which makes such attacks very difficult to predict.

'The degree of violence that is potentially being deployed by these extremists
is of especial concern - they are wanting to execute someone - behead them - in
the street, and the fact that these days people tend to whip out their phones
and record things means the impact of such an attack would be huge.'

He said the best weapon against such an attack was the vigilance of members of
the public, and urged people to report any suspicious behaviour immediately.

Security agencies are said to be 'working all hours' fighting the terror threat
on home soil, witnessed by the high rise in the number of recent terror arrests.

Military personnel and police officers, particularly those who wear uniform in
the street, have been warned to be alert to the dangers, and Prime Minister
David Cameron has spoken to the heads of MI5 and Scotland Yard to review
security at landmark buidings in Britain.

His talks with MI5 boss Andrew Parker and Met police chief Sir Bernard
Hogan-Howe came in the wake of Wednesday's fatal attack by Muslim convert
Zehaf-Bibeau on Corporal Nathan Cirillo, 24, as he guarded the National War
Memorial in central Ottawa.  The gunman then stormed the parliament building
before being shot dead by former Mountie, sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers, 58.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            October 24, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Canada to toughen terror laws after attacks on soldiers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 108 words


CANADA is to strengthen its terror laws after a gunman rampaged through
parliament.

Prime Minister Stephen Harper said plans would be expedited to give more powers
to surveillance and security agencies.

On Wednesday, a reported Muslim convert shot a soldier at an Ottawa war memorial
before attacking parliament.

He was killed by Sergeant-at-Arms Kevin Vickers, who was greeted to a standing
ovation by MPs yesterday for his efforts.

It was the second attack on Canada's military in three days. On Monday a man
described as an 'Isilinspired terrorist' ran over two soldiers in a car park in
Quebec, killing one and injuring another, before being shot dead.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            October 24, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Baby mown down 'in terrorist attack';
world

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 53 words


ISRAEL: A three-month-old American baby girl was killed and eight people injured
when a Palestinian drove into a packed railway station. The driver got out of
his car and tried to flee the scene but was shot by police in east Jerusalem on
Wednesday. 'We look at this incident as a terrorist attack,' said mayor Nir
Barkat.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTRscot


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                      October 24, 2014 Friday 06:52 AM GMT

Ottawa Residents On Edge After Terror Attack

BYLINE: Greg Milam, US Correspondent

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 432 words



HIGHLIGHT: You don't have to walk far to find signs of normality returning to
Ottawa.


  The lunchtime queues at the food truck, just a block from the scene of
Wednesday's terrorist rampage, were like those on any other day.

"We had to come back, everyone had to come back," the driver told me.

As the carpet of flowers, tributes and patriotic messages grows at the war
memorial where Corporal Nathan Cirillo died, it was business as usual in offices
in the downtown streets nearby.

"Today we wake up, it is a new day and we don't want to let them win," said a
man taking a cigarette break outside the Parliament Pub.

"We're going to go on and keep our freedom. This is what we're about."

A passing restaurant worker, who said he was an immigrant, added: "We thought
that today we'd have no customers, but it was so busy and I was shocked that we
had so many customers.

"Everyone was okay about it, they were not nervous. Maybe it has something to do
with the character of the people here because this is how they are - they can
forgive things."

And Justin Trudeau, son of Canada's longest serving prime minister and himself
now a Liberal Party MP, stopped to tell Sky News that the country's traditions
of peace and freedom would prevail.

The only physical impact for many residents of Canada's capital was a backlog on
the buses as they tried to negotiate a city with many roads closed.

At the city centre bus stops, they scroll through news updates on their phones.

But beneath the surface the spirit of "Keep Calm and Carry On" hides more that a
little edginess.

It was a telling moment of the tension in this city that, even as roads around
parliament were opened up by police, a significant presence of officers moved in
to maintain security.

Privately, some people do admit that they feel uncertain, that they wonder what
is around the corner after two terrorist attacks in three days left two soldiers
dead.

Nobody mentions Canada losing its innocence. Some do openly recognise that the
country's decision to enter the fight against Islamic State has changed the game
at home.

In shops and on building sites, overheard conversations on the streets of Ottawa
reveal that this week's events are all anyone is talking about.

"Things will change," they say. But nobody is quite sure how.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

VIDEO:

Ottawa Returns To An Uneasy Normal After Attacks

In the days following the terror attacks on Ottawa's parliament and war
memorial, the city's residents have vowed to continue life as normal. Meanwhile,
experts say that terror attacks had been predicted in Canada for years and
warnings should have been heeded, Sky's Greg Milam reports.

Link to Video

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2014 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                      October 24, 2014 Friday 06:13 AM GMT

Canada Terror Attack Gunman's Criminal Past

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 493 words



HIGHLIGHT: The suspect in the killing of a Canadian soldier at an Ottawa war
memorial had a criminal record for violent and drug-related offences and wanted
to travel to Syria, police say.


  Michael Zehaf-Bibeau has been identified as the lone gunman in Wednesday's
terror attack at the National War Memorial and inside Canada's parliament
building.

Police say the 32-year-old Muslim convert was seeking to travel to Syria and had
a passport application delayed over concerns about extremism.

CCTV footage of the moments leading up to the attack shows people fleeing the
suspect as he ran into the parliament complex.

After entering the building, the suspect opened fire before being shot dead by
Sergeant-at-Arms Kevin Vickers, who has been hailed as a hero.

Moments earlier Zehaf-Bibeau shot and killed 24-year-old Canadian soldier Nathan
Cirillo at the National War Memorial.

Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) Commissioner Bob Paulson said Zehaf-Bibeau
had a "very developed criminality".

"He is an interesting individual in the sense he had a very developed
criminality," he said.

Commissioner Paulson added that the suspect also had a history of "violence and
of drugs and of mental instability".

He said the delay over Zehaf-Bibeau's passport application may have contributed
to his motive for carrying out the attack.

"I think the passport figured prominently in his motives and his - you know I'm
not inside his head - but I think it was central to what was driving him."

An email from Zehaf-Bibeau was found on the hard drive of someone who has been
charged with a terrorism-related offence in Canada, the RCMP said.

Authorities say the suspect acted alone and police have not linked his attack
with the killing of another soldier in Quebec on Monday.

The suspect's mother Susan Bibeau said she is crying for the victims of the
shooting, not for her son.

"We have no explanation to offer. I am mad at our son, I don't understand and
part of me wants to hate him at this time."

She added that her son was a social misfit who was "lost".

"(He) was lost and did not fit in," the woman said in a statement given to
Associated Press.

"I, his mother, spoke with him last week over lunch, I had not seen him for over
five years before that."

Zehaf-Bibeau was not among 93 high-risk travellers being monitored by
authorities, but was seeking a passport.

Police were asked to carry out background checks when Zehaf-Bibeau applied for
the passport, but he had not been placed under surveillance.

A former friend who once lived with Zehaf-Bibeau at a Vancouver homeless shelter
said the suspect had once tried unsuccessfully to get off drugs.

"We referred to him as Muslim Mike. He didn't seem like a bad guy," said Steve
Sikich told the Reuters news agency.

Mr Sikich said he last saw Zehaf-Bibeau "a month of two ago", adding that the
suspect was rambling about wanting to travel to Libya and join Islamic State.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

VIDEO:

CCTV Shows Ottawa Suspect Running Into Parliament

Michael Zehaf-Bibeau jumped out of a car near the parliament building and shot a
soldier before running into the building.

Link to Video

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2014 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 24, 2014 Friday 3:12 PM GMT

Iran shells Pakistan border town in retaliation for militant strikes;
Iranian and Pakistani troops traded artillery fire over their border today amid
growing tensions over Islamabad's failure to stop terrorist attacks by Sunni
militants.

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson South Asia Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 376 words


Iran fired mortar shells at a small Pakistani border town to register its
growing anger at Islamabad's failure to curb terrorist attacks in its restive
Sistan Baluchestan province.

Its border troops fired six shells at Mashkail, causing widespread panic before
Pakistani reinforcements returned fire.

The clash comes a week after Iranian forces were reported to have killed a
Pakistan Frontier Corps guard in Mand district and seized Nokundai, another
Pakistan border town.

Analysts said the surge in cross-border violence highlights Tehran's concern at
Islamabad's failure to stop terrorist attacks on its soil and sectarian killings
of Pakistan's minority Shia Muslims.

Eight members of Pakistan's Shia Hazara minority were killed on Thursday when
two gunmen boarded their bus and opened fire.

Last year Tehran executed 16 alleged members of the Sunni militant Jundallah
group, which has been waging an insurgency from Sistan Baluchestan for several
decades, after the group killed 14 Iranian border guards in gun battles in the
Saravan region.

A Pakistan military delegation met their Iranian counterparts in Tehran on
Wednesday and agreed to increase intelligence and police co-operation to curb
future attacks. Pakistan had earlier protested against Iran's incursions across
its border.

Lieutenant-General Talat Masood, a leading strategic analyst, said the Pakistan
Army was already stretched on its borders with India and Afghanistan and could
not afford further conflict on its long Balochistan border with Iran.

While Jundallah is believed to have only a few hundred fighters, he said,
Pakistan had not taken the group sufficiently seriously and had "looked the
other way".

Although it is now "fully co-operating", he said, this had fuelled suspicion in
Tehran over Pakistan prime minister Nawaz Sharif's close ties with Saudi Arabia,
Iran's regional enemy. There are concerns that Jundallah's recent attacks are
part of a proxy war between the two rivals.

The retired General added that Pakistan must increase protection for its Shia
minority and improve security on its border to reassure Iran.

"It is not as difficult a problem as the Indian and Afghan borders but it
doesn't give a good impression to have [conflict] on all three borders", he
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      October 24, 2014 Friday 12:01 AM GMT

Seizing passports 'will provoke more terror attacks'

BYLINE: Gabriella Swerling, Sean O'Neill and John Simpson

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 513 words


Confiscating extremists' passports to stop them travelling to Syria risks
creating frustrated jihadists more willing to carry out Ottawa-style attacks in
Britain, security experts have warned.

Theresa May, the home secretary, used the royal prerogative 23 times in the 12
months to August to withhold passports from suspected jihadists. Before that,
the power had been used for counterterrorism reasons on only four occasions.

Concern over the approach is growing after this week's attacks in Canada by two
men reported to have had their passports revoked to stop them travelling to
Syria. Martin Couture-Rouleau, 25, was shot after running down and killing a
soldier with his car, and Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, 32, was shot dead on after he
killed a soldier and ran into the Canadian parliament with a rifle.

David Cameron said that security at Westminster and at London landmarks was
being reviewed after the shooting in Canada. The prime minister, who was at a
meeting with the Metropolitan police commissioner and head of MI5 when the news
from Ottawa broke, said: "They immediately reassured me that they had been
looking at the security of institutions in central London but they would look
again, obviously, to see if there is anything more that can be done."

The police and security agencies are on a high state of alert, especially in the
capital, amid fears of a terrorist attack after Islamic State urged its
followers to carry out attacks in the West.

There are at least 68 ceremonial guardsmen working on any given day in Britain
but next month, on Remembrance Sunday, thousands of soldiers will turn out to
honour the fallen.

Figures obtained by The Times after a Freedom of Information request reveal
that, since January 2005, 27 British citizens had been prevented from travelling
abroad by having their passports revoked under the royal prerogative. Four
confiscations in 2005 related to men freed from Guantanamo Bay, but the rest
concern people suspected of trying to travel to Syria.

Professor Anthony Glees of the University of Buckingham said: "Seizing passports
doesn't make much sense because the those who want to go out to fight for the
murderous[Islamic State] are, by definition, already jihadists. Stopping them
from fighting isn't going to change what they've already decided they want to do
and may, indeed, increase the fanaticism to which they have already succumbed."

An ex-counterterrorism officer said: "Let them go, monitor their travel and
intervene when they try to return - that would be better than caging them up
here and maybe provoking them into lashing out."

Raffaello Pantucci, of the Royal United Services Institute, said a bigger
problem was that the conflict in Syria and Iraq and revived the concept that the
West was at war with Islam, and that could be manipulated by terrorists.

The government plans to strengthen passport seizure powers and create a power to
exclude Britons from returning to the UK. The Home Office said: "We will only
ever remove a British citizen's passport on national security grounds where
there is a compelling case."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                     October 24, 2014 Friday 11:26 AM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN JERUSALEM

LENGTH: 146 words


LONDON, Oct. 24 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

Foreign Secretary offers condolences to victims of terrorist attack in Jerusalem
and calls for calm.

Speaking about the terrorist attack in Jerusalem the Foreign Secretary Philip
Hammond said:

I offer my condolences for Wednesday's terrorist incident in the Ammunition Hill
area of Jerusalem, when a car was driven into passengers waiting for a tram,
killing a baby and hospitalising seven innocent bystanders. I condemn this
senseless attack. I am concerned about the recent fatalities and rising tensions
in the West Bank and Jerusalem. Every Israeli and every Palestinian deserves to
live in peace and security. We call on all those who seek peace to ensure calm."
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2014 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                     October 24, 2014 Friday 11:24 AM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN NORTH SINAI

LENGTH: 147 words


LONDON, Oct. 24 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

Foreign Secretary condemns the terrorist attack against the Egyptian Armed
Forces in the North Sinai.

Speaking after the attack the Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said:

I strongly condemn today's terrorist attack in North Sinai, which has led to
such a tragic loss of life. My thoughts are with the victims and their families
at this difficult time. We stand with the Egyptian government in their fight
against terrorism. There can never be a justification for such actions.

I will be offering my personal condolences to Foreign Minister Sameh Shukri when
we meet on Monday in London and look forward to discussing practical cooperation
to tackle terrorism during our talks. For any query with respect to this article
or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2014 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 25, 2014 Saturday

Analyst highlights reasons behind increasing terrorist attacks in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 522 words


Text of report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 24 October

[Presenter] The Taleban have carried out at least one major attack in 41
districts across Afghanistan. Reports show that these districts belong to 13
provinces, but the Interior Ministry confirmed that the Taleban have succeeded
in stepping up activities only in six provinces. Qeyam Nuri has more details.

[Correspondent] The Afghan forces are leaving behind tough days. They began to
face unprecedented threats after the signing of the security pacts with the USA
and NATO. The Washington Post writes that the Taleban could carry out at least
one major attack in 41 districts of 13 provinces between April and October this
year. The report added that more than 800 national army soldiers and 1,523
police have been killed over this period. However, the Interior Ministry does
not agree with these figures, saying the enemy has stepped up activities only in
six provinces.

[Najibollah Danesh, deputy spokesman for the Interior Ministry, captioned,
speaking over the phone] Taleban attacks have not been carried out across
Afghanistan, meaning not in all those districts mentioned [in the report]. In
general, this year the enemy has stepped up activities in six provinces of
Afghanistan, including Sangin District [of southern Helmand Province], Hesarak
District of Nangarhar Province, Doab District of Nurestan and three districts of
Konduz Province. This means, it is not like what the Washington Post writes.

[Correspondent] The government has some programmes to contain security threats
across the country.

[Danesh] The new government focuses on ensuring security and, God willing, the
security situation will soon improve in some vulnerable provinces.

[Correspondent] The Afghan forces also grapple with some other difficulties as
well such as the lack of organized air support, low and delayed salaries and
obsolete equipment. These issues badly affect the country's military.

[Jawed Kohestani, military analyst, captioned, talking to camera] The Afghan
forces have been affected by the prolonged electoral process, the setting of
deadline for the withdrawal of the international forces from Afghanistan in
2014, the transfer of security responsibility to the Afghan side and the
operation [by Pakistani forces] in Waziristan which forced some insurgents to
escape to Afghanistan. Also, our neighbours, particularly Pakistan, are not
happy with the signing of the security pacts [with the USA and NATO]. They have
pressured and expanded insurgent attacks in Afghanistan to strengthen the
Taleban and give them a new identity.

[Correspondent] At least five suicide attacks and three deadly explosions have
taken place in Kabul over the past one month alone. The attacks primarily
focused on the security forces. Also, the Taleban have launched group attacks in
some provinces, such as Helmand, while they were not able to do this one year
ago.

[Video shows the deputy spokesman speaking over the phone; interview with an
analyst; archive footage of Afghan forces fighting, sites of terrorist attacks]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1315 gmt 24 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 25, 2014 Saturday

Morocco condemns "terrorist" attack in northern Sinai in Egypt

LENGTH: 220 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, Oct 25, 2014 (MAP) - Morocco flatly condemned the terrorist attack
perpetrated on Friday [24 October] in northern Sinai in Egypt and which claimed
the lives of many innocent victims, voicing its solidarity with the Arab
Republic of Egypt.

"Morocco flatly condemns this despicable attack which runs counter Islam's
tolerant teachings and constitutes a blatant violation of universal human and
moral values which defend the right to life," said the ministry of foreign
affairs in a statement on Saturday.

The Kingdom of Morocco extends its sincere condolences and compassion to the
Egyptian government and people, as well as to the victims' families, and wishes
swift recovery to the wounded.

Morocco, which expresses its solidarity with the Arab Republic of Egypt and its
condemnation of any terrorist act which threatens it, denounces all terrorist
acts and reiterates its refusal of all forms of violence and terrorism.

Morocco underlines the importance of multiplying international efforts to combat
the horrible plague of terrorism and working with determination to face this
dangerous phenomenon which threatens world's peace and security, it said.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 1344 gmt 25 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 25, 2014 Saturday

France to enhance presence in northern Mali following recent terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 395 words


Text of report by French state-funded public broadcaster Radio France
Internationale on 24 October

[Presenter] The French defence minister arrived in Mali after he had made a
stopover in [the Senegalese capital] Dakar. Jean-Yves Le Drian hopes to respond
to the attacks carried out by jihadists in the Sahel over the last few days.
Correspondent Christophe Boisbouvier, you are on the spot for RFI. The minister
of defence confirmed that France was going to enhance its military arrangements
in the northern part of the country.

[Boisbouvier] Yes, Jean-Yves Le Drian does not want to hide the facts. He
acknowledged that there has been an increase in terrorism in northern Mali for
some time now. This is due to the determination of the terrorist groups to go
back on their defeat in 2013. We should not allow this evil to return. That is
the reason why we started reinforcing or efforts in northern Mali.

This declaration by the French defence minister is not an accident. The
jihadists in the north of Mali have been increasing their attacks for some time
now. They are emboldened so far as to bomb the camp of the UN peacekeepers in
[the north-eastern Malian town of] Kidal. The casualty figure is getting heavy
among these African soldiers of the UN Stabilization Mission in Mali (Minusma).
Eleven Chadian, nine Niger and one Senegalese soldiers were killed in the last
two months.

In short, since the time the Malian army was driven out of Kidal in May this
year and since a section of the French Serval security arrangement was
redeployed to Niger and Chad under the name of Operation Barkhane, there is, in
effect, a vacuum [security] in northern Mali. This is the reason why France is
now sending reinforcements to this area with elite troops in helicopters and
reinforcements with Chadians in Tessalit and Aguelhoc. That is why the Minusma
is going to establish a regional HQ in Kidal where the Senegalese feel alone.

The Jean-Yves Le Drian's message in Dakar on Friday [24 October] is that France
is not only enhancing its presence in northern Mali but also not downgrading
security arrangements just deployed in northern Niger and Chad. It can therefore
be imagined that reinforcements will come from Abidjan.

[Presenter] That was our correspondent Christopher Boisbouvier reporting from
Dakar.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 1230 gmt 24 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 25, 2014 Saturday 10:16 PM GMT

Extremists join House of Commons tour groups to plot terror attacks on MPs:
Cenotaph security crackdown as Canada killing sparks fears of outrage on
Remembrance Day

BYLINE: GLEN OWEN, MAIL ON SUNDAY POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 702 words



     ·    Islamic extremists have gone on tour groups of the House of Commons
     ·    Led to calls by MPs for Speaker John Bercow to reduce number of
          visitors
     ·    Security is also being tightened for next month's Remembrance Day
          service
     ·    UK on heightened state of alert after Muslim covert Michael
          Zehaf-Bibeau went on a rampage in central Ottawa


Islamic extremists have joined tour groups of Parliament to 'scope out' the
building for a potential terrorist attack, intelligence sources have told The
Mail on Sunday.

The disclosure, in the wake of last week's gun attack on the Canadian
Parliament, last night led to demands by MPs for Speaker John Bercow to restrict
the number of visitors to the Commons.

One MP said it was a 'wake-up call' which proved plots to blow up Big Ben do
'not just belong to the realms of Doctor Who'. An aide to Mr Bercow hit back,
saying: 'We must not hand a propaganda victory to the terrorists by shutting out
the public.'

This newspaper has learned security is also being tightened for next month's
Remembrance Day service, attended by the Queen and senior politicians, after
fears were raised at the highest level about the public's proximity to the
dignitaries at the Cenotaph.

Up to three Islamic terror cells in the UK, thought to be plotting attacks on
soldiers in the UK, have been tracked as they carried out surveillance on army
barracks.

The UK is on a heightened state of alert after Muslim convert Michael
Zehaf-Bibeau went on a rampage in central Ottawa, killing a soldier guarding the
National War Memorial before storming the parliament building. The gunman was
shot dead by the Canadian sergeant-at-arms, Kevin Vickers, as he headed towards
the chamber in which MPs were barricaded.

After the attack, Prime Minister David Cameron spoke to MI5 boss Andrew Parker
and Scotland Yard chief Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe about security at landmark
buildings, including the Commons.

According to one intelligence briefing, individuals linked to terror groups have
joined 'history tours' around Parliament.

Although visitors are banned from taking photographs inside the Palace, the
tours allow them to study the layout of the building. More than a million
members of the public enter the Palace of Westminster every year, and 3,500
closely vetted passholders work there.

The number is expected to rise as Mr Bercow has pledged to boost revenues by
'selling' access to business people, film crews and students.

Last night Labour MP Barry Sheerman said: 'What has happened in Canada is a
wake-up call to us all. Opening up Parliament to tours is fine in principle, but
it does carry big risks. The traffic through the Commons now is enormous.

'When I raised this danger earlier this year I had my knuckles rapped. The
former Commons Clerk Sir Robert Rogers accused me of being a scaremonger. But it
does not just belong to the realms of Doctor Who for people to blow up Big Ben.'

However, one of Mr Bercow's aides insisted the Commons would remain open to the
public. 'The Commons is much more secure than our Canadian counterpart, which
was only on a medium level of alert,' the aide said, speaking on condition of
anonymity. 'We have been at, or close to, the highest level of alert pretty much
since the IRA threat in the 1970s. A gunman could not get anything like as close
as that to our Chamber. We have procedures. And there are frequent exercises to
deal with that scenario.

'The day people would rather click on the internet to read about politics than
come to Parliament to see it in action would be a dark day for democracy. We
must not hand that propaganda victory to the terrorists.'

Four years ago foreign nationals were banned from tours of Big Ben after the
uncovering of a plot to blow up the Stock Exchange, the US Embassy and the
Houses of Parliament. In America, the White House has suspended access for
foreign nationals wanting to take tours.

Fears have also been raised in Whitehall about Remembrance Day at the Cenotaph
in a fortnight - honouring not just those from two World Wars but from the more
divisive recent conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Security advisers are concerned the soldiers who flank the Royal Family and
politicians stand backs to the public, which they worry is 'too exposed'.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 25, 2014 Saturday 7:14 AM GMT

Armed and radicalized: Ranting 'self-proclaimed convert' New York hatchet
attacker was a 'terrorist', say police

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA KLAUSNER FOR MAILONLINE, KIERAN CORCORAN FOR MAILONLINE, DAVID
MARTOKSO, U.S POLITICAL EDITOR, MAILONLINE and SOPHIE JANE EVANS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1461 words



     ·    Zale Thompson, 32 lunged at police with a hatchet in Queens yesterday
     ·    Online posts have emerged where Thompson advocated 'guerrilla war'
     ·    Police searched turned up another dangerous axe - and huge hunting
          knife
     ·    Family members interviewed by police admitted Thompson was 'a recluse'
     ·    Police say he converted two years ago and was a 'self-radicalized'
          fanatic
     ·    An officer was slashed in the head and another one was slashed in the
          arm before one officer was able to fatally shoot the attacker
     ·    Officer struck in head is in critical condition in Jamaica Hospital
     ·    Police Commissioner William Bratton has branded attack a 'terrorist'
          act
     ·    But said Thompson  had no clear ties to international extremist groups
     ·    A 29-year-old female bystander was critically injured after being shot
          by an errant police round and is listed in 'grave' condition


The Muslim convert who attacked four police officers with a hatchet yesterday
afternoon was a 'recluse' who kept two sharp axes and a hunting knife at home.

Zale Thompson, 32, was shot dead yesterday after charging at the officers in
Queens with a hatchet in his hands. He slashed at one policeman's head,
seriously wounding him, and hurt another.

And it has now emerged that Thompson kept even more dangerous weapons at home,
converted to radical Islam two years ago, and that even his own family describe
him as a 'recluse'.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Police searches on Thompson's home in Queens turned up another 'weaponized'
hatchet, and a long, wide-bladed hunting knife.

It comes as Police Commissioner William Bratton has branded the attack a
'terrorist act', but said that Thompson did not, in fact, have any clear ties to
international extremists.

Following computer examinations for clues about a motive for the assault, police
discovered Thompson's browsing history included organized terror groups,
beheadings and the shooting in Canada earlier this week that officials there
have called a terrorist attack.

However, the suspect was not on any watch lists, and officials found no
indication he sought any training or affiliation to any groups, Mr Bratton said.

Still, the commissioner said he was comfortable calling the incident a terrorist
attack, saying: 'This was a terrorist attack, certainly.'

But he stopped short of including the attack in the list of terror plots against
the city since September 11, 2001, adding that the investigation was continuing.

According to officers, Thompson was a 'recluse' who spent most of his time in
his bedroom. He was described as a 'self-radicalized' Muslim who converted about
two years ago.

He had once served in the U.S. Navy and had a history of run-ins with the law
over domestic violence in California in 2003 and 2004, police said.

Investigators believe Thompson was a loner and carried out yesterday's attack
without any help - though they are probing potential links to other extremists.

Robert Boyce, the NYPD's Chief of Detectives, outlined the new findings at a
conference today.

It was also revealed that Thompson has a history of six arrests - in California
from 2003-2004, though he has no criminal history in New York.

In the conference today, Boyce also praised the 'exceptional performance of
heroic duty' by the officers who took down Thompson.

The entire incident lasted just seven seconds, he said. Surveillance footage
showed Thompson charging at officers, swinging his blue-handled hatchet. He was
still clinging to the weapon when he was shot dead.

Earlier today social media posts made by Thompson cane to light, in which he
called on Muslim extremists to attack America and wage jihad.

Commenting on a video supporting the rise of an Islamic caliphate - such as ISIS
claim to have established in Iraq and Syria - Thompson asked: 'Which is better,
to sit around and do nothing, or to Jihad fisabeelallah [for the cause of
Allah]!'

Comments from Thompson's Facebook account were also reported on Fox News, who
said he posted: 'The solution is to fight. Armed struggle. Simple.'

He then reportedly advocated an armed revolution, saying: 'America's military is
strong abroad, but they have never faced an internal mass revolt. ... They are
weaker at home. We are scattered and decentralized, we can use this as an
advantage.

It continued: 'They will not be able to defeat our people if we use guerilla
warfare. Attack their weak flanks... If you get wounded who cares. If you die
who cares. Eventually they will surrender and then the war will be over.'

He also spoke of a global conspiracy by 'Zionists and Christians' to suppress
Islam. He wrote: 'If the Zionists and the Crusaders had never invaded and
colonized the Islamic lands after WW1, then there would be no need for Jihad!'

Posting elsewhere under a music video called 'No white God', he seemed to call
for extremists to overthrew European governments and enslave their people.

He wrote: 'They call black people racist for rejecting the oppression they
suffered from whites. Listen, when black people have colonized the entire
continent of Europe, enslaved its people, and sold them into bondage to foreign
lands, then you can call them racist.'

ISIS has continually urged its supporters to launch 'lone wolf' attacks in the
West.

Thompson's family, meanwhile, say they are 'shocked' by news of the attack,
while neighbors say they would never have connected him with radical Islam.

Speaking to ABC7, his grandfather, Ralph Thompson, said only: 'Very shocked, his
father not well.'

Igeoma Simon, who lives nearby in Queens, said the Thompson he knew was a 'great
guy'.

He said: 'He was very positive. He helped me stay physically active at the
park...I don't really know what would drive him to that.'

Police say they are investigating whether Thompson's attack on the cops was
linked to Islamic terrorism. ISIS has urged fighters to launch lone wolf attacks
in the United States.

Thompson's Facebook page features a photograph of a man dressed in Middle
Eastern garb and a cover photo displaying Arabic writing.

Two attacks in Canada this week  by radicalized converts to Islam have killed
two Canadian soldiers.

In one, a man ran down two soldiers in his car in Quebec, killing one, before
being shot dead.

On Wednesday a convicted felon ambushed a soldier outside Canadian Parliament,
fatally wounding him, before running the Parliament building and opening fire.

DNA Info reports that on Thursday afternoon a freelance photographer approached
the group of rookie cops and asked to take their photograph.

As the officers were posing for the camera, Thompson charged towards them
swinging an 18.5 inch hatchet without uttering a single word.

One 24-year-old officer was slashed in the arm.

Another 25-year-old officer, Kenneth Healey, was slashed in the back of head and
taken to Jamaica Hospital where he remains in a critical but stabled condition.

A 29-year-old female bystander half a block away from the attack was also
critically injured after being shot by an errant police round. She is currently
recovering from surgery at Jamaica Hospital and is listed in 'grave' condition.

The two remaining police shot at Thompson who dropped his hatchet then died at
the scene.

Police Commissioner Bill Bratton said he's not ruling out terrorism especially
in the wake of recent terror attacks in Canada, reports  CNN.

'There is nothing we know as of this time that would indicate that were the
case. I think certainly the heightened concern is relative to that type of
assault based on what just happened in Canada,' said Bratton.

CNN reports that Thompson has a criminal record in California and that he was
discharged from the U.S. Navy for misconduct. Details of his criminal record and
his misconduct are not known at this time.

His Facebook page says that Thompson graduated from Columbia Teacher's College
and that he resides in Queens.

CNN reports that New York police were alerted to be on the lookout for random
attacks following Thursday's incident.

DNA Info spoke with witnesses on the scene.

'We heard pop, pop, pop, pop,' said Rafael, 44, who works at Overseas Travel
nearby where the incident occurred.

'She was screaming,"'Help me." She couldn't get up,' said Ericka Babb, a medical
assistant at Priority Medical Center in Queens.

'We were way too scared,' said Rafael.

Officers say they shot the hatchet-yielding suspect but it's not clear how many
rounds were fired.

'It was a completely unprovoked attack,' said NYPD Chief Kim Royster, a
department spokeswoman.

Police Commissioner Bill Bratton said during a news conference that all of the
police involved are recent graduates of this summer's Police Academy class.

'Three rookie cops, absolutely modest about what happened today and what they
did,' de Blasio said.

During the conference Bill De Blasio lauded the officers' training and their
fast response to the unprovoked attack.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 25, 2014 Saturday 12:53 AM GMT

Armed and radicalized: Ranting 'self-proclaimed convert' New York hatchet
attacker was a 'terrorist' say police

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA KLAUSNER FOR MAILONLINE, KIERAN CORCORAN FOR MAILONLINE and
DAVID MARTOKSO, U.S POLITICAL EDITOR, MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1281 words



     ·    Zale Thompson, 32 lunged at police with a hatchet in Queens yesterday
     ·    Online posts have emerged where Thompson advocated 'guerrilla war'
     ·    Police searched turned up another dangerous axe - and huge hunting
          knife
     ·    Family members interviewed by police admitted Thompson was 'a recluse'
     ·    Police say he converted two years ago and was a 'self-radicalized'
          fanatic
     ·    An officer was slashed in the head and another one was slashed in the
          arm before one officer was able to fatally shoot the attacker
     ·    Officer struck in head is in critical condition in Jamaica Hospital
     ·    A 29-year-old female bystander was critically injured after being shot
          by an errant police round and is listed in 'grave' condition


The Muslim convert who attacked four police officers with a hatchet yesterday
afternoon was a 'recluse' who kept two sharp axes and a hunting knife at home.

Zale Thompson, 32, was shot dead yesterday after charging at the officers in
Queens with a hatchet in his hands. He slashed at one policeman's head,
seriously wounding him, and hurt another.

And it has now emerged that Thompson kept even more dangerous weapons at home,
converted to radical Islam two years ago, and that even his own family describe
him as a 'recluse'.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Police searches on Thompson's home in Queens turned up another 'weaponized'
hatchet, and a long, wide-bladed hunting knife. Officers seized Thompson's
computers and are analyzing them for links to extremist organizations.

According to officers, Thompson was a 'recluse' who spent most of his time in
his bedroom. He was described as a 'self-radicalized' Muslim who converted about
two years ago.

Investigators believe Thompson was a loner and carried out yesterday's attack
without any help - though they are probing potential links to other extremists.

Robert Boyce, the NYPD's Chief of Detectives, outlined the new findings at a
conference today.

It was also revealed that Thompson has a history of six arrests - in California
from 2003-2004, though he has no criminal history in New York.

In the conference today, Boyce also praised the 'exceptional performance of
heroic duty' by the officers who took down Thompson.

The entire incident lasted just seven seconds, he said. Surveillance footage
showed Thompson charging at officers, swinging his blue-handled hatchet. He was
still clinging to the weapon when he was shot dead.

Earlier today social media posts made by Thompson cane to light, in which he
called on Muslim extremists to attack America and wage jihad.

Commenting on a video supporting the rise of an Islamic caliphate - such as ISIS
claim to have established in Iraq and Syria - Thompson asked: 'Which is better,
to sit around and do nothing, or to Jihad fisabeelallah [for the cause of
Allah]!'

Comments from Thompson's Facebook account were also reported on Fox News, who
said he posted: 'The solution is to fight. Armed struggle. Simple.'

He then reportedly advocated an armed revolution, saying: 'America's military is
strong abroad, but they have never faced an internal mass revolt. ... They are
weaker at home. We are scattered and decentralized, we can use this as an
advantage.

It continued: 'They will not be able to defeat our people if we use guerilla
warfare. Attack their weak flanks... If you get wounded who cares. If you die
who cares. Eventually they will surrender and then the war will be over.'

He also spoke of a global conspiracy by 'Zionists and Christians' to suppress
Islam. He wrote: 'If the Zionists and the Crusaders had never invaded and
colonized the Islamic lands after WW1, then there would be no need for Jihad!'

Posting elsewhere under a music video called 'No white God', he seemed to call
for extremists to overthrew European governments and enslave their people.

He wrote: 'They call black people racist for rejecting the oppression they
suffered from whites. Listen, when black people have colonized the entire
continent of Europe, enslaved its people, and sold them into bondage to foreign
lands, then you can call them racist.'

ISIS has continually urged its supporters to launch 'lone wolf' attacks in the
West.

Thompson's family, meanwhile, say they are 'shocked' by news of the attack,
while neighbors say they would never have connected him with radical Islam.

Speaking to ABC7, his grandfather, Ralph Thompson, said only: 'Very shocked, his
father not well.'

Igeoma Simon, who lives nearby in Queens, said the Thompson he knew was a 'great
guy'.

He said: 'He was very positive. He helped me stay physically active at the
park...I don't really know what would drive him to that.'

Police say they are investigating whether Thompson's attack on the cops was
linked to Islamic terrorism. ISIS has urged fighters to launch lone wolf attacks
in the United States.

Thompson's Facebook page features a photograph of a man dressed in Middle
Eastern garb and a cover photo displaying Arabic writing.

Two attacks in Canada this week  by radicalized converts to Islam have killed
two Canadian soldiers.

In one, a man ran down two soldiers in his car in Quebec, killing one, before
being shot dead.

On Wednesday a convicted felon ambushed a soldier outside Canadian Parliament,
fatally wounding him, before running the Parliament building and opening fire.

DNA Info reports that on Thursday afternoon a freelance photographer approached
the group of rookie cops and asked to take their photograph.

As the officers were posing for the camera, Thompson charged towards them
swinging an 18.5 inch hatchet without uttering a single word.

One 24-year-old officer was slashed in the arm.

Another 25-year-old officer, Kenneth Healey, was slashed in the back of head and
taken to Jamaica Hospital where he remains in a critical but stabled condition.

A 29-year-old female bystander half a block away from the attack was also
critically injured after being shot by an errant police round. She is currently
recovering from surgery at Jamaica Hospital and is listed in 'grave' condition.

The two remaining police shot at Thompson who dropped his hatchet then died at
the scene.

Police Commissioner Bill Bratton said he's not ruling out terrorism especially
in the wake of recent terror attacks in Canada, reports  CNN.

'There is nothing we know as of this time that would indicate that were the
case. I think certainly the heightened concern is relative to that type of
assault based on what just happened in Canada,' said Bratton.

CNN reports that Thompson has a criminal record in California and that he was
discharged from the U.S. Navy for misconduct. Details of his criminal record and
his misconduct are not known at this time.

His Facebook page says that Thompson graduated from Columbia Teacher's College
and that he resides in Queens.

CNN reports that New York police were alerted to be on the lookout for random
attacks following Thursday's incident.

DNA Info spoke with witnesses on the scene.

'We heard pop, pop, pop, pop,' said Rafael, 44, who works at Overseas Travel
nearby where the incident occurred.

'She was screaming,"'Help me." She couldn't get up,' said Ericka Babb, a medical
assistant at Priority Medical Center in Queens.

'We were way too scared,' said Rafael.

Officers say they shot the hatchet-yielding suspect but it's not clear how many
rounds were fired.

'It was a completely unprovoked attack,' said NYPD Chief Kim Royster, a
department spokeswoman.

Police Commissioner Bill Bratton said during a news conference that all of the
police involved are recent graduates of this summer's Police Academy class.

'Three rookie cops, absolutely modest about what happened today and what they
did,' de Blasio said.

During the conference Bill De Blasio lauded the officers' training and their
fast response to the unprovoked attack.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 25, 2014 Saturday 2:39 PM GMT

Egypt declares state of emergency after terror attack

BYLINE: David Rankin

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 474 words


Islamic extremists killed more than 30 soldiers in the single deadliest attack
to hit the Egyptian military in decade, leading to a state of emergency being
imposed.

The attack began with a car bomb that may have been set off by a suicide bomber,
followed by a barrage of rocket-propelled grenades that struck a tank carrying
ammunition, igniting a secondary explosion. Roadside bombs targeting rescuers
struck two army vehicles, seriously wounding a senior officer.

The army has been struggling to stem the tide of extremism since overthrowing
Islamist president Mohammed Morsi and the latest attack, about 9 miles (15km)
from the northern Sinai city of el-Arish, was further proof.

Nobody has yet claimed responsibility for the attack, but officials said the
assault looked to be the work of the country's most active militant group, Ansar
Beit al-Maqdis, of Champions of Jerusalem.

Speaking in front of crowds ahead of the soldiers' funeral today, Egyptian
president Abdel Fattah al-Sisi blamed foreign powers who want to "break the back
of Egypt". He vowed to take drastic measures to uproot militants and warned of
an "extensive war" that would last a long time.

"There is a big conspiracy against us," he said while standing with army
commanders.

Egypt's National Defence Council declared a three-month state of emergency in
areas bordering the Gaza Strip and Israel, in the northern part of the Sinai
Peninsula, and ordered a three-hour curfew starting today.

The Rafah crossing, Gaza's only non-Israeli passage to the outside world, was
also closed, as the council promised to have "revenge for the shedding of dear
blood".

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "I strongly condemn [Friday's] terrorist
attack in North Sinai, which has led to such a tragic loss of life.

"We stand with the Egyptian government in their fight against terrorism. There
can never be a justification for such actions.

"I will be offering my personal condolences to foreign minister Sameh Shukri
when we meet on Monday in London and look forward to discussing practical
cooperation to tackle terrorism during our talks."

The UN security council also criticised the attack, and said in a statement:
"The members of the security council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organisers, financiers and sponsors of this terrorist attack to justice."

President al-Sisi declared a three-day period of national mourning for the
soldiers and an official said the government was considering the eviction of
people living in small northern Sinai villages considered the "most dangerous"
military bastions. Certain areas will also be declared closed military zones,
the spokesman said.

Egypt's top Islamic authority, Grand Mufti Shawki Allam, condemned the attacks
and said those who carry out acts of terrorism "deserve God's wrath on Earth and
at the end of days".

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 25, 2014 Saturday 10:34 AM GMT

Egypt declares state of emergency after terror attack

BYLINE: David Rankin

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 416 words


Islamic extremists killed more than 30 soldiers in the single deadliest attack
to hit the Egyptian military in decade, leading to a state of emergency being
imposed.

The attack began with a car bomb that may have been set off by a suicide bomber,
followed by a barrage of rocket-propelled grenades that struck a tank carrying
ammunition, igniting a secondary explosion. Roadside bombs targeting rescuers
struck two army vehicles, seriously wounding a senior officer.

The army has been struggling to stem the tide of extremism since overthrowing
Islamist president Mohammed Morsi and the latest attack, about 9 miles (15km)
from the northern Sinai city of el-Arish, was further proof.

Nobody has yet to claim responsibility for the attack, but officials said the
assault looked to be the work of the country's most active militant group, Ansar
Beit al-Maqdis, of Champions of Jerusalem.

Egypt's National Defence Council declared a three-month state of emergency in
areas bordering the Gaza Strip and Israel, in the northern part of the Sinai
Peninsula, and ordered a three-hour curfew starting today.

The Rafah crossing, Gaza's only non-Israeli passage to the outside world, was
also closed, as the council promised to have "revenge for the shedding of dear
blood".

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: "I strongly condemn [Friday's] terrorist
attack in North Sinai, which has led to such a tragic loss of life.

"We stand with the Egyptian government in their fight against terrorism. There
can never be a justification for such actions.

"I will be offering my personal condolences to Foreign Minister Sameh Shukri
when we meet on Monday in London and look forward to discussing practical
cooperation to tackle terrorism during our talks."

The UN security council also criticised the attack, and said in a statement:
"The members of the security council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organisers, financiers and sponsors of this terrorist attack to justice."

Egyptian president Abdel Fattah al-Sisi declared a three-day period of national
mourning for the soldiers and an official said the government was considering
the eviction of people living in small northern Sinai villages considered the
"most dangerous" military bastions. Certain areas will also be declared closed
military zones, the spokesman said.

Egypt's top Islamic authority, Grand Mufti Shawki Allam, condemned the attacks
and said those who carry out acts of terrorism "deserve God's wrath on Earth and
at the end of days".

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 25, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Terrorist axe attack leaves US POLICEMAN fighting for life;
United States

BYLINE: David Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42,43

LENGTH: 554 words


Fears of lone wolf terrorists spreading across the West grew after a Muslim
convert attacked four New York police officers with an axe.

One officer, who was struck in the head, remained in a critical condition.
Another was being treated for an injury to his arm after the attack on a
shopping street in Queens.

Footage showed that the bearded assailant, who has been named as Zale Thompson,
ran towards the police as they were having their picture taken. He came at them
with the weapon in both hands. He was shot dead by the uninjured officers.

Yesterday's incident happened the day after a gunman attacked the Canadian
parliament in Ottawa, but it is not clear what motivated the New York attack.

Islamic State (Isis) extremists have called on sympathisers to target uniformed
officers and civilians in countries that have signed up to the US-led coalition,
in retaliation for the campaign of airstrikes in Syria and Iraq.

Thompson, 32, an American who was discharged from the US Navy for misconduct,
appears to have been radicalised, according to a trail of evidence he left on
social media.

His Facebook page has a picture of an armed, masked warrior and a quote from the
Koran that has been translated as "judging those who wandered astray". SITE, a
group that monitors Muslims, said that the postings "hint at his extremist
leaning".

It said that in a comment posted on a pro-Isis video on September 13, he
described "jihad as a justifiable response to the oppression of the 'Zionists
and the Crusaders'".

He also commented: "Which is better, to sit around and do nothing, or to Jihad?"

A senior police source told CNN that there was no indication that Thompson had
ties to any radical Islamist groups, which did not rule out the idea that he
became radicalised and acted alone.

Bill Bratton, the New York police commissioner, said he could not rule out
terrorism, and he cited the Canadian attack as reason for concern.

Thompson appeared to have stalked the officers. Moments before the attack, he
was seen on a street corner crouching down to pull the hatchet out of a backpack
before he ran at the officers, who were all new recruits.

One blocked the blow with his arm and another was hit in the back of the head
and fell.

As Thompson raised the hatchet again, the two other officers drew their weapons
and fired several rounds at him, police said. A female bystander was also
injured.

The FBI had put all its officers on to a higher threat alert after the Ottawa
attack and security has been increased at military monuments in the US,
including Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia, across the river from
Washington DC. Peter King, a New York Reradical publican congressman and member
of the House homeland security committee, said the attacker had been "discharged
from the navy for drug use".

Asked about the attacker's motive, Mr King said: "There are going to be
coordinated attacks and there are going to be active conspiracy attacks.

"This one appears to be a person who is deranged but inspired by what he hears."

He said police had increased manpower on the streets. "We have to... Isis does
want to attack us, there's no doubt about it.

"Random attacks serve their purpose. They want to show they do not want to be
intimidated and they do want to attack us. This is a real threat to the US and
we have to be on our guard."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Zale Thompson, left, charges at four newly qualified police officers
being photographed in New York. Moments later, he hit one of them in the head
with his axe and another in the arm. The other officers then opened fire on him,
leaving him dead in the street, above, as they helped their injured colleagues.
The attack came after calls for such violence by Isis left police on high alert,
belowNEW YORK POLICE DEPARTMENT / AP; RUDY ESCAMILLA, SHANNON STAPLETON /
REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 26, 2014 Sunday

"Terrorist cell" planning attacks in Lebanon on 27 October - reports

LENGTH: 441 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese news website Naharnet on 25 October

Militant Ahmed Salim Miqati, who was arrested during an army raid in the town of
Asoun in the northern district of Dinniyeh, and 12 members of his terrorist
cell, had plans to execute violent attacks on the 27th of Oct against Ashura
gatherings in several Shiite Lebanese areas, media reports said.

The cell that includes Miqati, 5 Lebanese and 7 Syrian nationals had plans to
move from Tripoli to Beirut. Another terrorist cell was meant to join them from
the Burj al-Barajneh and the Ain el-Hilweh Palestinian refugee camp to help
execute suicidal terrorist attacks against Shiite gatherings in the southern
suburb of Beirut, Nabatieh and Lassa in Jbeil.

Led by Miqati, the network had further plans to assassinate Lebanese political
figures including Speaker Nabih Berri and al-Mustaqbal MP Ahmad Fatfat, in an
evil bid to trigger a Shiite-Sunni strife, information said.

The Lebanese Army had warned Fatfat lately asking him to take precautions and
limit his movement.

Fatfat confirmed the report, saying: "Two weeks ago I was asked to limit my
movements because of security threats in the region, and that I should stay in
Beirut."

"The whole problem lies in the chaos in tackling the issue of Syrian refugees
and the failure to control and organize it years ago," he lamented.

He praised the Lebanese army's efforts to combat the terrorists, noting that
"the army performed a good military operation in Dinniyeh and the tactics it
used were positive."

Army intelligence agents on Thursday raided an apartment in the town of Asoun,
which was inhabited by a "group of terrorists," killing three gunmen and
apprehending Miqati.

Miqati recently pledged allegiance to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
(ISIL) and established cells linked to the group in the region.

He was planning to carry out a huge terrorist act along with his son Omar, who
is fighting alongside ISIL in Arsal, according to a military communique.

Miqati is also the relative of Bilal Omar Miqati who is accused of beheading
Lebanese soldiers on the outskirts of Arsal.

Furthermore, data collected from Miqati's cellular phone showed that he had been
contacting al-Mustaqbal bloc MP Khaled al-Daher via the WhatsApp mobile
messaging application.

The militant sent to Daher "videos of defections of Lebanese army troops" while
the MP used to send him "messages of motivation and encouragement," al-Jadeed
said.

The Lebanese army executed precautionary measures and arrested several
terrorists after raiding a number of locations in Tripoli's Bab al-Tabbaneh.

Source: Naharnet, Beirut, in English 2025 gmt 25 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 26, 2014 Sunday

Algerian army head attacks Algeria's enemies as "terrorism" supporters

LENGTH: 496 words


Text of report by Moncef Wafi: "Describing them as 'supporters of terrorism':
Gaid Salah cites the enemies of Algeria," published by privately-owned Algerian
regional newspaper Le Quotidien d'Oran website on 23 October

Army Commander General Ahmed Gaid Salah, deputy minister of national defence and
chief of staff of the People's National Army (ANP), yesterday [22 October] once
again spoke of the "determination" of the ANP in the fight against terrorism.

In a presentation at a history colloquium on the topic: "The National Liberation
Army: weapon of information and diplomacy" held at the National Circle of the
Army, the chief of staff reiterated the army's firm determination to make "every
effort" to defend the country's borders and "eradicate" the last pockets of
terrorism in Algeria. In his opening speech, he explicitly denounced the enemies
of the country and the military institution, comparing their actions to "those
of the colonialism of yesterday" through "virulent" campaigns that "damage our
national history." He described these enemies as "supporters of terrorism in
Algeria, and particularly in the Arab-African region," also denouncing "their
criminal accomplices."

This fight against terrorism emphasized by the deputy National Defence minister
is consistent with the last editorial of the journal El Djeich [The Army] in its
edition 615, which recalls the country's determination to put an end to
terrorism that is "international" and has ramifications with cross-border
organized crime. The editorial addresses the fight against terrorism by Algeria,
at that time isolated, until the events 11 September 2001.

The monthly journal also highlighted the geostrategic situation in the region
and the world and the efforts made by the ANP in protecting the land borders
against infiltration attempts by terrorist groups, arms trafficking, and
everything related to terrorism. In this regard, the editorial recalled that the
armed forces have managed to intercept criminals and smugglers and recover large
quantities of various products, which is one of its main missions, due to the
interconnections existing between terrorism, smuggling, and organized crime.

It also noted that the country's security entails protecting its borders and its
economy. The journal also emphasized the experience gained by Algeria in the
fight against terrorism and organized crime that makes it a force for offering
proposals and an indispensable partner in the fight against international
terrorism. The editorial also addressed the role of Algerian diplomacy in
resolving regional and world conflicts.

As a reminder, the colloquium opened by Army General Ahmed Gaid Salah is part of
the programme of activities commemorating the 60th anniversary of the start of
the War of National Liberation. It has been attended by historical figures and
senior ANP officers, as well as several mujahedin and university researchers.

Source: Le Quotidien d'Oran website, Oran, in French 23 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 26, 2014 Sunday 3:54 PM GMT

Australians warned to brace themselves for a 'wave' of homegrown terrorist
attacks as Islamic State continues to radicalise young fighters such as the
'Ginger Jihadist'

BYLINE: CINDY TRAN, AMY ZINIAK, FRANK COLETTA, DANIEL PIOTROWSKI and SARAH DEAN
FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1587 words



     ·    Rohan Gunaratna said authorities should act now on the likelihood of
          further planned attacks on Australian
     ·    Gunaratna's warning comes just days after a Muslim convert shot dead a
          soldier when he opened fire at Canada's Parliament
     ·    In a video tirade this week, a rescue mission to save ginger jihadist
          Abdullah Elmir was aborted a day before they were due to fly out
     ·    A team set to be assembled to find the teen, had concerns they could
          be charged under federal law for assisting him
     ·    Elmir, 17, could face 25 years in jail if he ever sets foot on
          Australian soil again
     ·    Meanwhile, the 17-year-old, known as 'Fayez' who accompanied Elmir to
          the Middle East has returned to Sydney to sit his HSC exams


Australians should brace themselves for the possibility for a 'wave' of
terrorist attacks because it could well occur, a terrorism expert has warned.

Following the anti-terrorism raids, Rohan Gunaratna, a leading analyst on
Islamic radical movement, told  The Australian  that authorities should act now
to ensure the public would respond appropriately and react normally on the
likelihood of homegrown attacks.

'Australia should prepare for not only the continual flow of fighters to Syria
and Iraq but also a wave of terrorist attacks on Australian soil,' he told The
Australian.

'It is very likely that there will be low and medium-level ­attacks that will
create a very significant impact and will impact the migrant and diaspora
communities.'

Scroll down for video

Gunaratna's warning comes just days after a Muslim convert, who shot dead a
soldier when he opened fire at Canada's Parliament on Wednesday morning.

Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, 32, shot himself dead after he gunned down Coporal Nathan
Cirillo, 24, who was keeping guard at the War Memorial.

In a video tirade this week, a rescue mission to save ginger jihadist, Abdullah
Elmir, 17, had to be aborted at the last minute, with fears those involved could
be charged for assisting the teen, if he was found.

The Sydney teenager gained notoriety, when he ran away from his Bankstown home
with friend 'Fayez' in June, and declared that ISIS will not stop their
murderous campaign 'until the black flag is flying high in every single land' in
a Youtube video.

According to the  H  erald Sun, relatives in Sydney and Elmir's father in
Lebanon tried to assemble a team, including a Sydney man who believed he could
get in contact with the teenager, to find him.

Channel seven's Sunday Night program was also expected to travel with the group.

But major concerns surrounded whether the team, if they found Elmir and gave him
assistance, could be charged under the federal government's foreign incursion
laws.

The 17 year old could face 25 years in jail if he ever sets foot on Australian
soil again.

The Australian Federal Police have confirmed the evidence is being prepared for
the Director of Public Prosecutions following his ISIS video rant against
western society.

AFP counterterrorism head Neil Gaughan told the Herald Sun that Elmir, who now
goes by the moniker Abu Khaled, has 'basically admitted he is a member of a
proscribed terrorist organisation'.

'The fact that he is admitting that he is a member of ISIS, which he does in the
video, straight away says that he has committed an offence under the criminal
code. That's up to 25 years imprisonment,' he said.

Mark Llewellyn, executive producer of Sunday Night told the Sun Herald they had
been approached by people who had concerns for Elmir.

'It was felt that at this early stage before he had been radicalised, it might
be possible for members of his Sydney Muslim community to negotiate his exit
from IS, especially given his young age,' he said.

Despite claims there was mounting pressure from federal agencies not to
communicate with the media, Mr Llewellyn said the Australian Federal Police
denied they 'place contact restrictions on members of the public'.

'We were informed these warnings also included the Muslim representatives who
eventually pulled out of the plan.'

'For the record, we did not offer or attempt to negotiate any story fee.'

Meanwhile, the father of the 16-year-old, known as 'Fayez', who accompanied
Elmir to the Middle East said his son is 'back on the right path' and has
returned to school in Sydney to sit his HSC exams, according to Herald Sun.

While Elmir's friends have admitted that Elmir, who this week appeared in a
YouTube video rant, was 'expected' to run away to the Middle East.

'Some expected it, like he used to talk about it a bit,' a friend told Daily
Mail Australia.

Distraught classmates from Condell Park High School, in Sydney's south-west,
painted a picture of a complex young man on Thursday, describing him as both
'very quiet' and someone who 'enjoyed politicking'.

Australian security agencies are analysing the vision to determine whether a
bearded man to Elmir's right is Mohamed Elomar, (one of the country's most
wanted) the ISIS recruit believed responsible for radicalising and luring dozens
of Australians to take up arms in the Middle East.

While most of his best mates either closed ranks behind him or were too upset to
speak, one of his childhood friends admitted to being in a state of shock.

'Yeah man, he's my friend and I don't want to talk about him,' he told Daily
Mail Australia.

'He was my mate but I don't talk about him'.

But the teenage terrorist was described by another classmate as being 'very
quiet, he was a good kid, we used to pray together at our mosque'.

'He did a little bit of debating here, he liked knowing politics and did some
politicking but he was mostly very quiet and never, ever got into trouble,' he
said.

'Abdullah was in theatre groups at school and he liked playing basketball a
lot.'

When asked if he was one of those who thought Abdullah was capable of running
away, he added 'no, no I didn't expect that but I know a few of his other
friends say they heard him mention it'.

Professor Greg Barton, from Monash University's Global Terrorism Research
Centre, said Elmir was recruited by another wanted terrorist, Mohammad Ali
Baryalei, an Australian based in Syria.

He said terror recruiters lured targets by making friends through social media,
like many sexual predators.

He said the boy appeared as a 'pawn in the machine' in the chilling video.

'He thinks he's the star... but the reality is, his new friends have got him a
one-way ticket,' Professor Barton said.

'He's not in charge of his own destiny at all, he's being used.'

Professor Barton added that young people were the easiest to radicalise.

'Teenagers, 20-somethings, particularly young men more than young women, are
vulnerable to making rash judgments,' he said.

'They tend to be more rebellious toward [older] generations and sceptical of
establishment figures.'

It is believed former Kings Cross bouncer Baryalei, 33, recruited Elmir through
western Sydney street preaching group Parramatta Street Dawah.

'He's said to have recruited 30 plus young people - mostly in western Sydney
through Street Dawah,' Prof Barton said.

Before Elmir joined ISIS, the ginger jihad was employed as a butcher in a shop
in Bankstown, The Daily Telegraph.

'He made his own bed now he has to lie in it,' his former boss said. 'He was a
good kid. The best kid.'

Elmir's boss was furious when the 17-year-old called in sick, the same day Elmir
reportedly told his mother that he was 'going fishing' and disappeared from his
Bankstown home in Sydney's south-west, in June.

Elmir and his friend Feiz are believed to have made their way to Syria and Iraq
after crossing the border from Turkey, where they were last known to have
contacted family members. They travelled via Perth, with stops in Malaysia and
Thailand.

Elmir begins the video by saying 'this message I deliver to you the people of
America, this message I deliver to you the people of Britain and this message I
deliver especially to you the people of Australia'.

Titled 'Message Of The Mujahid 4', the video which is 1.43 minutes long is full
of heavily worded threats and taunts the US-led coalition that recently began
air strikes on ISIS targets in Syria and Iraq.

'I say this about your coalition: you threaten us with your countries, bring
every nation that you wish to us, bring every nation that you want to come and
fight us. Whether it's 50 nations or 50 thousand nations it means nothing to
us,' Elmir says.

Reading from a script, a black and white scarf wrapped around his head and a
huge rifle in his hand, he warns: 'Bring your planes bring everything you want
to use because it will not harm us because we have Allah which is something you
do not have.'

A spokesman for Prime Minister Tony Abbott said: 'This video again highlights
the threat posed by ISIL.'

'As the Prime Minister has said on many occasions, ISIL is a threat that reaches
out to Australia and our allies and partners.'

Elmir's family told the Sydney Morning Herald in June they were devastated their
son had been 'brainwashed'.

His family's lawyer Zali Burrows told the Australian Associated Press: 'The
family went to the media today as a plea to the government to bring their boy
back.

'We know they have the intelligence to pinpoint him.

'The concern is that he's being used as a tracking device to gather further
intelligence, to see where he's actually going to go.'

Ms Burrows questioned how Elmir was not stopped by Federal Police, who were
thought to be monitoring him.

On Sunday, Foreign Minister Julie Bishop announced Australia will send its
special forces into Iraq to fight against Islamic State.

Elmir's video was published one day after the announcement.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            October 27, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Terror gang 'used Google to plot attacks on the police'

BYLINE: Paul Cheston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 169 words


FOUR terror suspects accused of plotting to kill police officers or soldiers on
the streets of London after swearing allegiance to extremist group Islamic State
are to stand trial next June.

They are alleged to have sourced a Baikal handgun with a silencer and ammunition
and stored Instagram images of two Metropolitan Police officers and two Police
Community Support Officers.

The gang is also said to have carried out "hostile reconnaissance" on Shepherd's
Bush police station and White City Territorial Army Barracks using Google Street
View.

Tarik Hassane, 21, Suhaib Majeed, 20, Nyall Hamlett, 24, and Momen Motasim, 21,
are charged with engaging in conduct in preparation for committing acts of
terrorism between July 8 and October 7 this year. A fifth man, Nathan Cuffy, 25,
is charged with firearms offences.

All five appeared at the Old Bailey today for a preliminary hearing.

Mr Justice Sweeney ordered them to stand trial on June 3. They will appear again
for a plea and case management hearing on January 30.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            October 27, 2014 Monday

U.S. Condemns Terrorist Attack in Sinai

LENGTH: 107 words


October 24, 2014

Jen Psaki

Department Spokesperson Washington, DC

The United States strongly condemns the terrorist attack that targeted a
military checkpoint in the Sinai near al-Arish, and killed tens of Egyptian
soldiers and injured dozens. We extend our condolences to the families of the
victims, and hope for the quick and full recovery of the wounded. A prosperous
and dynamic Egypt requires an environment of security and stability, and the
United States continues to support the Egyptian government's efforts to counter
the threat of terrorism in Egypt as part of our commitment to the strategic
partnership between our two countries.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            October 27, 2014 Monday

Egypt: Ban, Security Council condemn deadly terrorist attacks in Sinai

LENGTH: 210 words


October 25, 2014

Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and the United Nations Security Council have
strongly condemned two terrorist attacks that targeted military checkpoints in
the Sinai Peninsula.



The attacks took place yesterday in Sheikh Zuweid and al-Arish in North Sinai,
killing at least 31 members of the Egyptian security forces and injuring dozens
more, noted a statement issued by Mr. Ban's spokesperson.

"The Secretary-General extends his deep condolences to the families of the
victims and the Government of Egypt, and hopes for the quick and full recovery
of the wounded," it stated.

The 15-member Security Council issued a statement to the press, in which it
condemned the attacks "in the strongest terms" and extended its condolences.

"The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms
and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable regardless of their motivation, wherever and whenever and by
whomsoever committed," said the statement.

According to media reports, a three-month state of emergency has been declared
in parts of the Sinai Peninsula and Egypt's Rafah crossing into the Gaza Strip
has been closed.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 28, 2014 Tuesday

Sri Lanka condemns terror attack in Egypt - report

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report published by Sri Lankan newspaper Daily Mirror website on 28
October

Sri Lanka today strongly condemned the terrorist attack on Egyptian security and
military personnel in North Sinai last week that claimed the lives of 31
soldiers and injured several others.

"The people of Sri Lanka, who had suffered immensely under the yoke of terrorism
for almost three decades, share the pain and anguish of the Egyptian people over
this brazen act of terrorism," the External Affairs Ministry said in a
statement.

It also said that, this incident is a stark reminder of the danger that
terrorism poses to all humanity, and highlights the urgent need for decisive and
concerted action by the international community to eradicate this menace in all
its forms and manifestations.

The Government and the people of Sri Lanka offer their deepest condolences to
the Government and the people of Egypt, and while sharing the pain of the
bereaved families, wish those injured a speedy recovery, it added.

Source: Daily Mirror website, Colombo, in English 28 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            October 28, 2014 Tuesday

John Kerry visits Canada to convey condolences following terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Politics; US Government Federal - Cabinet

LENGTH: 97 words


U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry visits Ottawa, Canada, for a series of
bilateral meetings and to convey condolences to senior Canadian officials
following last week's terrorist attacks, in which one soldier was killed by
being run over in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu before another was shot dead in
Ottawa two days later. Kerry also expresses 'America's solidarity with the
Canadian people', along with a commitment to continued close cooperation in a
shared approach to countering violent extremism

Event Start Date: 2014-10-28

Event End Date: 2014-10-28

Event URL: http://www.state.gov

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2014 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 28, 2014 Tuesday 9:26 PM GMT

Son of Canadian soldier killed in Ottawa terror attack attends hero father's
funeral;
Marcus Cirillo, five, was among thousands who paid tribute to Cpl Nathan
Cirillo, 24, in Hamilton, Ontario

BYLINE: By Christopher Bucktin

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 243 words


The son of the Canadian soldier killed by a terrorist attended his dad's funeral
on Tuesday.

Marcus Cirillo, five, was among thousands who paid tribute to Cpl Nathan
Cirillo, 24.

Cpl Cirillo, a reservist and member of the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders,
was shot guarding the National War Memorial in Ottawa last Wednesday.

A crowd of 5,000 people lined the funeral route in Hamilton, Ontario.

Prime Minister Stephen Harper said Cpl Cirillo died "protecting and preserving"
the memorial to fallen soldiers.

He said: "Freedom is never free, it has been earned by the soldier then donated
to all of us.

"Our hearts are broken at his loss, but our spirits are grateful for his
memory."

Cpl. Nathan Cirillo casket

He was killed by a single gunman, 32-year-old Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, who opened
fire before storming onto Parliament Hill where he was fatally wounded in an
attack that rocked Canada.

Police are continuing to analyse a video Zehaf-Bibeau made prior to the killing,
as well as investigate several individuals in contact with the gunman before the
incident in the nation's capital.

CCTV of Canadian shooter running in to parliament

Cirillo's funeral was the first of two soldiers killed on Canadian soil last
week.

On Saturday in Longueuil, Quebec, Patrice Vincent, who was killed on October 20
near Montreal, will be laid to rest.

The 53-year-old warrant officer was fatally wounded when a man ran over him and
a fellow soldier with his car.

Shooting in Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 28, 2014 Tuesday 6:02 PM GMT

Armed soldiers pictured guarding major London tourist attraction over fears of
Ottawa-style terror attack;
Soldiers armed with rifles have been deployed at Horse Guards Parade as security
officials fear terrorists could target ceremonial guards

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 363 words


Armed soldiers have been placed outside a major tourist attraction in central
London over fears terrorists will launch an Ottawa-style attack.

This picture shows a soldier armed with a rifle in Horse Guards Parade today,
which is visited by thousands of tourists every day.

The dramatic step-up in security comes as officials fear a similar attack to the
one in Ottawa last week, when a soldier was shot and killed close to the
Canadian Parliament.

The armed soldiers have been placed in key points in Whitehall over fears the
ceremonial guards could be targeted.

As reported by the the Telegraph, the soldiers have been placed at the entrance
to Horse Guards Parade, where the Changing of the Guard takes place in front of
tourists each day. It is also part of the Buckingham Palace estate.

A Ministry of Defence spokesman told the newspaper: "The MoD routinely reviews
the security arrangements at all of its establishments. Clearly we do not
comment publicly on the substance of these."

Last Wednesday, Michael Zehaf-Bibeau shot dead Cpl Nathan Cirillo, 24, as he
stood guard National War Memorial in Ottawa before spraying around 30 bullets
inside Canada's parliament building.

CCTV of shooter in Ottawa

He was shot dead by the Parliament's head of security and sergeant-at-arms,
Kevin Vickers, 58.

Zehaf-Bibeau's mother Susan Bibeau claimed that her son was not driven by
ideology but it was the 'last desperate act' and 'he was made and felt trapped
so the only way out was death.'

She claimed he attempted to travel to Saudi Arabia, rather than Syria as police
claimed, so he could study the Koran.

The gunman's mother condemned her son's actions as 'wrong and despicable."

Royal Canadian Mounted police commissioner Bob Paulson said the video was
"persuasive evidence that Michael Zehaf-Bibeau's attack was driven by
ideological and political motives".

He added that Zehaf-Bibeau had worked in the oil fields in Alberta, saved money
and had access to a considerable amount of funds.

The attack in Ottawa came two days after a man described as an "IS-inspired
terrorist" ran over two soldiers in a car park in Quebec, killing one and
injuring the other before being shot dead by police.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 28, 2014 Tuesday 7:54 PM GMT

Armed soldiers outside Horse Guards Parade amid terror attack fears;
Soldiers pictured with rifles for first time outside Horse Guards Parade as
Westminster put on high alert in wake of Ottawa shooting

BYLINE: By Steven Swinford Senior Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 533 words


Armed soldiers have been stationed in Whitehall amid fears that terrorists will
try to attack ceremonial guards in the wake of shootings in Canada.

The soldiers, who are armed with rifles, have been deployed at the entrance to
Horse Guards Parade where thousands of tourists gather every day to witness the
Changing of the Guard.

Sources said the decision was made following a review by local commanders after
a Canadian soldier on ceremonial guard duty at the national war memorial was
shot dead in a terrorist attack.

The entrance to Horse Guards Parade is part of the Buckingham Palace estate, and
is usually guarded by two ceremonial guards on horseback and two on foot.

However, since Monday soldiers in combat fatigues have been stationed at the
entrance as part of a more "overt" presence.

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said: "The MoD routinely reviews the security
arrangements at all of its establishments. Clearly we do not comment publicly on
the substance of these."

Cpl Nathan Cirillo, 24, of the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders was shot dead
last Wednesday while on unarmed guard duty at the National War Memorial, close
to the parliament building in Canada's capital.

Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, the gunman, was later shot and killed by Kevin Vickers,
58, the sergeant-at arms of Canada's House of Commons.

Zehaf-Bibeau had already been hit as he ran down the hallway in parliament,
firing a shot into the door of the room where Prime Minster Stephen Harper was
hiding in a small cupboard after addressing MPs.

In Britain, MPs are being advised to barricade themselves in their offices if
Parliament comes under attack from a terrorist gunman.

Plans are in place for armed police to take control of the Palace or Westminster
if one or more gunmen break through security and open fire inside.

MPs are also being advised to consider fitting their constituency offices with
panic buttons and designating a "safe room" in their homes where they can hide
from intruders.

All MPs are being briefed on the security plans amid fears that the House of
Commons could be the target of a "copycat" shooting inspired by the "lone wolf"
raid on the Canadian Parliament last week.

There are already fears that British jihadists returning from Syria and Iraq may
try to emulate Isil's brutal beheadings on home soil. A "marauding gun attack",
like the Nairobi shopping mall atrocity in 2013, is regarded as a major threat
by security analysts in Britain.

In a new security protocol issued last week, the Parliamentary authorities urged
MPs and staff to "be vigilant", wear their passes prominently and cooperate
fully with security officers.

"In the event of an incident involving firearms or other weapons, the police
will take operational control. Firearms officers are deployed on the
parliamentary estate and will respond to such incidents," the advice says.

"If you hear gunfire, move away; but consider barricading yourself and others in
a room if danger is close. Police instructions should be complied with
immediately and you should listen out for tannoy announcements."

The attack on Cpl Cirillo follows the murder in Britain of Drummer Lee Rigby by
Islamist extremists in Woolwich in May 2013.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Al-Arab (English)

                                October 29, 2014

Egypt response to terror attacks: Buffer zone along border with Gaza

LENGTH: 318  words


Buffer zone will prevent militant infiltration and arms smuggling following wave
of deadly attacks in Sinai Peninsula.


Buffer zone is vital for national
security


CAIRO - Egypt began setting up a buffer zone along its border with Gaza
Wednesday to prevent militant infiltration and arms smuggling following a wave
of deadly attacks.

The move, which is set to result in the demolition of hundreds of homes, comes
after a suicide bombing in the Sinai Peninsula killed at least 30 soldiers on
Friday.

A senior official in northern Sinai said the creation of the buffer with the
Palestinian territory was "vital for national security and stability".

The authorities want to establish a 500-metre wide buffer along about 10
kilometres (6.2 miles) of the border with Gaza, according to officials.

They said about 800 homes would be demolished.

Witnesses in the border town of Rafah reported seeing dozens of families leaving
along with trucks loaded with furniture.

Bulldozers were reported to have begun destroying several long-abandoned houses
along the frontier.

Egypt suspects Palestinian militants of aiding jihadist attacks that have
increased since the army ousted Islamist president Mohamed Morsi last year.

The military has also stepped up the destruction of tunnels with Gaza that it
says are used to smuggle arms.

Following Friday's bombing, Egypt imposed a three-month state of emergency in
parts of northern Sinai and closed the Rafah crossing into Gaza -- the only
entry to the Palestinian territory not controlled by Israel.

President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has said the attack was carried out with
"external support", ordering heightened security measures.

Nobody has claimed responsibility for the bombing.

Jihadists in the peninsula have killed scores of policemen and soldiers since
Morsi's overthrow, vowing revenge against a police crackdown on his supporters
that has left more than 1,400 dead.

Alarab Online.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 172


                         Copyright 2014 Alarab Online.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      The Argus (Newsquest Regional Press)

                           October 29, 2014 Wednesday

Armed police swoop on Halloween event in suspected terrorist attack

BYLINE: Flora Thompson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 702 words


ARMED police swooped on a suspected terrorist attack - only to discover it was
an organised Halloween event.

A team of Sussex Police officers descended on the South Downs after a worried
member of the public reported seeing men dressed in black, wearing balaclavas
and carrying guns in Hurstpierpoint on Sunday at 8.45pm.

It is thought more than ten people were detained, with handguns and rifles
seized before organisers could reassure police it was all part of horror
experience Outbreak Brighton. No-one was arrested or charged and the imitation
firearms were discovered to be BB guns.

Partcipant Elouisa Crowther, 25, of Hove, was detained as part of the raid and
said it "killed the buzz of the event."

She said: "We were kept there for more than half an hour, frisked and had our
details taken before being allowed to carry on with the event.

"I was the only girl detained and it was quite scary. No-one really knew how to
respond and it seemed a little heavy handed. Apart from that it was a great
event."

More than 1,000 participants took part over four days of Outbreak events.

Organisers said 14 people were so frightened that they could not finish the
course and there was five minor injuries dealt with by paramedics on site.

David Parker, of Outbreak, said the 60 cast and crew members went to a lot of
effort to make the first year of the event very realistic.

He said: "This was a genuine case of crossed wires - the event was operated on
private land and the local authority was informed.

"But we accept the police had to respond to reports of armed men on the loose."

Sussex Police superintendent Rex Matthews urged people not to carry imitation
firearms in a public place.

He said: "The threat level from international terrorism in Britain is currently
assessed as severe and there have been a number of terrorist plots thwarted.

"Incidents such as this are clearly going to worry people who were unaware of
the intentions of the event organisers.

"We would ask anyone organising such events to be mindful of how their actions
could be perceived by others and are likely to attract the attention of the
police - inadvertently placing those involved at significant risk."

He said police did not intend to halt any Halloween celebrations but reminded
people to use "common sense" when getting involved in activities.

He reminded people to continue reporting anything suspicious to police.



REVIEW: What reporter Flora Thompson thought of Outbreak

ARE you afraid of the dark?

If not, you will be after taking part in the latest spooky experience to hit
Sussex.

A nervously chatty crowd gathered under the arches of Brighton Station on
Saturday night to take part in Outbreak.

Everyone was full of anticipation about the evening ahead.

There were strict orders to wear waterproof clothing or gym gear. Most followed
the rules - just as well as everyone was muddy and wet after - while others
dressed in military costume.

What followed was completely unpredictable and unprecedented.

A bus abandoned us in the darkest depths of the South Downs - where the
experience plays out across deserted fields and forests, marshalled by 'armed'
guards.

Anyone who sniggered was punished.

The trail is part assault course, part mock 'medical experiment', part spooky
show.

There were periods of running, climbing, crawling, challenging your endurance.

But the real test was seeing who could keep their nerve.

Especially as you worked your way through the course, not knowing what challenge
or danger would be waiting for you next.

Moments when you were left to navigate through unknown parts of a forest or walk
through tunnels in the pitch black - unsure of what could be around the corner -
were the most eerie.

You were at times stopped in your tracks by an infected creature, zombie or
ghoul, and at points chased by them.

The event is described as an extreme immersive physical horror experience and it
definitely lives up to its name.

But seasoned horror thrill seekers should not liken it to the famed London
zombie runs or another intense blood- curling scream inducing event, as this may
not have the same effect.

Nevertheless it was fun, packed with spooky moments, completely unlike any other
entertainment and a brilliant experience.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 29, 2014 Wednesday

US embassy in Egypt has no information about warning against terrorist attack

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 29 October: The US embassy here on Wednesday [29 October] asserted that
it has no information about a warning to US residents in Egypt about a terrorist
attack against foreign schools in Al-Ma'adi district.

The diplomatic reporter of MENA contacted the US embassy about an internet
warning that was supposed to be issued by the US embassy. The embassy has
completely denied it had any information on this score.

An aide to the interior minister made on Wednesday a surprise visit to Al-Ma'adi
district, southern Cairo, to check on the preparedness of the security forces.

Maj Gen Ali al-Dimirdash inspected the rapid deployment forces and police
checkpoints in the densely-populated district.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1417gmt 29 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 29, 2014 Wednesday

Ukrainian law enforcers arrest man suspected of plotting terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 106 words


The Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) has arrested a suspected leader of a
saboteur group which is said to have plotted terrorist attacks in Mariupol
(Donetsk Region), the UNIAN news agency reported on 29 October.

The agency said, quoting the SBU press service, that the law enforcers arrested
the man, nicknamed Schumacher, on 25 October.

It has been established that the suspects coordinated their activities with the
Vostok armed group and planned to carry out explosions near administrative
buildings in Mariupol.

Numerous arms were seized from the suspects, UNIAN added.

Source: UNIAN news agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1509 gmt 29 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                           October 29, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Guards guarded;
Armed soldiers patrol London attraction amid terror attack fears

BYLINE: JULIA GREGORY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 180 words


ARMED soldiers have been stationed at the entrance to Horse Guards Parade in
Whitehall amid fears that terrorists will launch an Ottawa-style attack.

Troops dressed in combat uniform and armed with rifles have been deployed
outside the London tourist attraction where thousands gather every day to
witness the Changing of the Guard.

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said: 'We routinely review security arrangements
at all of our establishments. Clearly we would not comment publicly on the
substance of this.' The tightening of security comes amid fears of an attack
like the one in Canada last week. Lone gunman Michael Zehaf-Bibeau shot dead
unarmed soldier Cpl Nathan Cirillo, 24, at the National War Memorial before
attempting to storm the Canadian parliament building.

The MOD said the events in Canada highlight the need to remain vigilant.

Britain's security alert remains set at severe - meaning a terrorist attack is
highly likely. On Monday, a security review was ordered after jogger Dean
Farley, 28, ran into the prime minister, David Cameron, in Leeds.

Cirillo funeral - Page 25

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Threat: Security has been boosted after attack in CanadaAlert: A
soldier patrols Horse Guards Parade PICTURES: STEVE BACKTough: Ex-Royal Marine
during run

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                           October 29, 2014 Wednesday

MAST calls for increased maritime security amid likely terrorist attack

SECTION: PIRACY AND SECURITY; Industry news

LENGTH: 246 words



HIGHLIGHT: Maritime security firm MAST has warned the shipping industry to
enhance security levels to counter the threat of an increasingly likely
terrorist attack.


Maritime security firm MAST has warned the shipping industry to enhance security
levels to counter the threat of an increasingly likely terrorist attack.

The company released the warning particularly to oil tankers, as terrorist group
Al-Qaeda hinted that it is planning to execute strategic attacks on choke points
of oil shipments.

The terrorist group insinuated this in its first issue of Resurgence, an English
digital propaganda magazine posted to the terrorist group's online forum
Shamikh1.info.

MAST COO Gerry Northwood OBE said: "They have potential to do real harm to
maritime activity in the Mediterranean, the Indian Ocean and particularly in the
key strategic choke points, namely the Straits of Gibraltar, the Straits of
Hormuz, the Suez Canal or the Bab El Mendeb Strait.

"It is vital to have well worked-up security procedures in place and to maintain
heightened levels of alertness at all times."

According to MAST, choke points, harbours and constrained areas are the most
vulnerable places where terrorists have a good chance of accurately targeting a
vessel.

In the wake of this, crew training and awareness along with citadel drills will
help to handle the situations.

In addition, the presence of armed guards or unarmed security advisors will
provide a greater level of security onboard.

In September, Al-Qaeda had tried to hijack a Pakistan Navy frigate, NS Zulfiqar,
and aimed to target US Navy vessels on anti-terrorism patrol in the
north-western Indian Ocean.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 29, 2014 Wednesday 2:36 PM GMT

Armed soldiers outside Horse Guards Parade amid terror attack fears;
Soldiers pictured with rifles for first time outside Horse Guards Parade as
Westminster put on high alert in wake of Ottawa shooting

BYLINE: By Steven Swinford Senior Political Correspondent Matthew Holehouse and
Claire Duffin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 713 words


Armed soldiers have been stationed in Whitehall amid fears that terrorists will
try to attack ceremonial guards in the wake of a shooting in Canada.

The soldiers, who are carrying assault rifles, have been deployed at the
entrance to Horse Guards Parade, where thousands of tourists gather each day to
witness the Changing of the Guard.

The decision follows a review after a soldier on ceremonial duty in Canada was
shot dead last week in a suspected terrorist attack.

There are growing concerns that British jihadists fighting in Syria and Iraq
will return to this country and carry out acts of terrorism .

Senior police officers and MPs said there was likely to be a significant rise in
the number of armed police at the Remembrance Sunday and Armistice Day
commemorations next month.

One senior counter-terrorism police officer told The Telegraph that there would
also be a large number of officers operating undercover at the events, carrying
Heckler and Koch sidearms.

Lord Dannatt, the former head of the Armed Forces, said: "It is a sad sign of
the times but discreetly guarding soldiers on ceremonial guard is a far better
option that withdrawing them from duty and sight.

"I certainly hope [there will be more armed officers on duty at the remembrance
events]. These events must continue and if necessary security must be increased.
Terrorists, whoever they are, will not change our way of life or traditions."

Earlier this year, David Cameron said more armed police would patrol the streets
to counter the risk posed by jihadists returning from Iraq and Syria.

In the wake of the shooting in Canada, Mr Cameron disclosed that the heads of
MI5 and Scotland Yard had held emergency talks over the terror threat to
Parliament and other major landmarks in central London.

The presence of soldiers on Horse Guards Parade marks one of the most visible
signs of the raised levels of security in London.

The entrance is part of the Buckingham Palace estate and is usually guarded by
two ceremonial guards on horseback and two on foot.

Since Monday, soldiers in combat fatigues have been stationed at the entrance as
part of a more "overt" presence.

Military sources said the soldiers are there to "protect our boys" on ceremonial
duties after the shooting of Cpl Nathan Cirillo in Ottawa last week.

Cpl Cirillo was shot dead in a suspected terrorist attack as he stood guard at
Canada's national war memorial. He was killed by Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, a Muslim
convert who attacked Canada's parliament before he was shot by the
sergeant-at-arms of the country's House of Commons.

One senior counterterrorism officer said that the shooting would have
significant ramifications for next month's commemoration events.

This year's Armistice Day on Nov 11 will be used to mark the centenary of the
start of the First World War and the end of the war in Afghanistan.

The officer said: "We will undoubtedly see a much more overt and covert presence
of armed police officers. Any threat assessment at the moment would have to
include the possibility of the kind of lone attack that we saw in Canada. The
remembrance events are an obvious target."

James Gray, a Conservative member of the defence select committee, said: "If a
mad person wants to do something appalling at the Cenotaph or one of a thousand
events taking place across the land, they are going to do so. We should take due
precautions but not worry unduly: we are British."

Vernon Coaker, Labour's shadow defence secretary, said: "During The Troubles our
Armed Forces were frequently targeted by the IRA as they carried out ceremonial
duties. It is right that as we remember the sacrifice of previous generations,
we do everything we can to keep serving members of our Armed Forces safe today."

On Remembrance Sunday in 1987, 11 people were killed and 68 wounded after the
IRA bombed the cenotaph in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland.

Rory Stewart, chairman of the defence select committee, said the public should
not be frightened of attending parades. "I'd hate to live in a country that
became so worried about these risks that we cancelled things," he said.

MPs are being briefed on security plans amid fears that the House of Commons
could be the target of a shooting inspired by the "lone wolf" attack on the
Canadian parliament.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Chester Chronicle

                                October 30, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Horror as cousin badly hurt in NY terrorist axe attack

BYLINE: RACHEL FLINT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 383 words


THE Chester relative of a New York City police officer brutally struck in the
head with an axe in an alleged terrorist attack has spoken of his shock and said
his cousin's life was saved by his helmet.

Kenneth Healey, 25, had only been serving in the force for three months when he
was attacked by 32-year-old Zale Thompson, wielding an 18.5in hatchet.

Mr Healey was left fighting for his life following the horrifying incident,
which ended in the shooting of Thompson in Queens on Thursday, October 28.

Footage of Thompson, charging at four officers, slashing one in the arm and Mr
Healey in the head, has since been broadcast across the globe.

But hours before the national news reported the story, Chester resident John
Murray received a Facebook message from a relative in the United States telling
him that his second cousin had been attacked while on duty.

"It was a real shock, absolutely shocking," said Mr Murray, who lives in Queen's
Park and had been due to visit the States to see his extended family and meet Mr
Healey for the first time next year.

"I rang up [my cousin] Chrissy straight away, just to find out what happened.
They said on Friday that he was in a bad way.

"Luckily his helmet did stop some of it, he said he would have been killed if he
hadn't had that hat.

"He was in the wrong time, wrong place."

Mr Healey - who had been posing for a photograph as Thompson struck - underwent
extensive surgery on Friday and will eventually need a metal plate inserted into
his skull.

But Mr Murray said he was now sitting up in bed and had even been visited by the
officers who shot dead his attacker.

"He is in a lot of pain, he was quite traumatised, but his colleagues from
police college have been in to see him," said Mr Murray, who said the family had
received messages of support from all over the world.

"He has got brain injuries. We do not know what the long-term prognosis is, he
is quite young so hopefully he can recover - he has got age on his side."

Kenny joined the family tradition when he joined up to the NYPD, as his Great
Uncle Tommy is a retired cop and was one of the officers on the ground during
the 9/11 attacks in New York City.

John and his wife Anne say they are now hoping to move their trip to the USA
forwards so that they can visit the family in the next few months.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kenneth Healey whose skull was shattered by .axe-wielding Zale
ThompsonCCTV footage shows Zale Thompson about to .attack NYPD officer Kenneth
Healey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CHC


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Wiltshire Gazette and Herald

                           October 30, 2014 Thursday

Couple tell of terror as arson attack threatens home

BYLINE: Anna Mauremootoo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 502 words


MUM Sarah Weller has told how her family was forced to flee their home in the
early hours after an arson attack destroyed their caravan, shed and two cars.

Mrs Weller, of Park Close, Ogbourne St George, was woken by a car alarm and her
dogs barking at 1.45am on Sunday and looked out of the window to see her shed on
fire.

The 41-year-old, her husband Peter, 51, and their teenagers Harriet, 17, and
Sam, 15, who go to St John's Academy, had to be evacuated from their house,
along with their neighbours, because it was feared gas canisters attached to the
caravan might explode.

Mrs Weller, a carer, said: "I think we're still in shock, all of us. My daughter
is quite frightened of the whole thing. She's had to go and stay with my best
friend for a few days.

"At first I thought it was the moon and then I thought 'the moon isn't orange,
this is a funny colour' so I got up and saw the shed was in flames.

"Straight away I shouted 'fire' and my husband and son woke up and rang the fire
brigade straight away.

"My neighbour was in her garden shouting 'get out everything is going to blow'.

"By the time we got out two of the cars were on fire and the wind was blowing so
it took everything."

A fire crew from Marlborough and two from Swindon spent around two hours
tackling the blaze which has caused more than £37,000 worth of damage.

Mrs Weller said: "The caravan was our home from home. We had everything in there
that we'd need just to get up and go if we had a free weekend.

"We've been sat here trying to write everything down and you keep thinking of
little things.

"We've lost some really nice sentimental things that we could never get back."

The fire, which destroyed a Peugeot RCZ and a Land Rover, is believed to have
been started deliberately and is now being investigated by Wiltshire Police.

Mrs Weller said: "Why would anyone do anything like this? It's so nasty.

"We just keep thinking perhaps they were trying to steal the RCZ, perhaps they
were just trying to get into the shed, we just don't know.

"We feel very edgy, it's just weird being here now. You don't think it could
happen in a small village like this."

The family have lived in Park Close for seven years and have never had any
problems before.

Mr Weller, a transport manager, said: "To my knowledge nothing has ever gone
astray, there's been nothing untoward at all.

"Before the development started next door there were farm buildings all around
there so we were very secluded and private but since the farm buildings have
gone we've become very open.

"We used to get only visitors for the three bungalows, now all of a sudden it's
a viewing platform and we constantly get people coming up the driveway."

Sergeant Claire Wallace, of the Marlborough Neighbourhood Police Team, said the
two officers who cover the Ogbourne area, PC David Tippetts and PCSO Polly
Richards, have stepped up patrols to reassure villagers.

She said: "It appears to be an isolated incident."

Anyone with information can contact police on 101 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555
111.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 31, 2014 Friday

Nigerian terror group attacks military unit, traditional leader's palace

LENGTH: 272 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper The Sun website on 30 October

[Report by David Molomo: "Boko Haram Attacks Emir's Palace, Creates Panic"]

Pandemonium yesterday enveloped Mubi, the commercial nerve centre of Adamawa
State, as Boko Haram attacked a military unit, police station, the emir's palace
and prison in the city.

Daily Sun gathered that the insurgents, in a swift attack, moved from Michika to
Uba and finally Mubi where they wreaked devastating havoc.

In the attack, the Mubi Divisional Police Station, palace of the Emir of Mubi,
Alhaji Isah Ahmadu, a military unit in the city and the prisons were hit. No
fewer than 45 inmates of the prison were said to have escaped.

All efforts to get the army public relations officer of the 23rd Armoured
Brigade, Yola, Captain Jaafaru Nuhu, failed, as his phones were not reachable,
as at the time of filing this report.

It was, however, gathered that the military engaged the insurgents in a gun duel
to prevent them from attacking the country home of the Chief of Defence Staff,
Alex Badeh.

As at time of filing these reports, the number of casualties on both sides could
not be ascertained.

Meanwhile, Mubi residents are leaving the city in droves. Confirming this, a
prominent figure of Mubi Emirate Council, who pleaded anonymity, told Daily Sun
on phone that residents had been escaping to Cameroun through the mountains as
well as other routes.

In a related developemt, anxiety has enveloped residents of Yola metropolis,
with parents whose wards are in the three tertiary institutions in Mubi,
expressing fears over their safety.

Source: The Sun website, Lagos, in English 30 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 31, 2014 Friday

Scandinavia at risk of smaller-scale terrorist attacks - radio

LENGTH: 663 words


Text of report by Norwegian radio on 28 October

[Report by Kristine Hirsti, Eirin Aardal: "Scandinavia is More at Risk of
Terrorist Attack Than Ever Before"]

In Europe, only the United Kingdom is currently more at risk of terrorist attack
than Scandinavia. And the terrorists of the future will attack to a large degree
on their own initiative, using knives or firearms, according to Norwegian
Defence Research Establishment (FFI).

Since 2006, Scandinavia has been a region at greater risk of terrorist attack.
In recent years, since 2008, the most terrorist attacks or planned attacks have
been seen in the United Kingdom, followed by Scandinavia and France.

This was stated in an article published by FFI today. The article is the result
of many years of research by terrorism experts Petter Nesser and Anne Stenersen
of FFI.

"Caricatures Affair Cause of Increase"

They have studied terrorism and terrorist attacks from 1994 to today.

"Approximately 20 per cent of all the terrorist plans made and the attacks
carried out in all of Western Europe since 2008 have taken place or were planned
in Scandinavia," Stenersen said.

She is surprised that Scandinavia was in second place on the list of areas at
risk of terrorism.

"France is in third place. That is slightly odd, because France has
traditionally been at risk of jihadist terrorism in Europe.

The reason for the increase in Scandinavia is primarily the caricatures affair
in Denmark. That led to many terrorist plans being directed at Jyllands-Posten
or against those who drew the caricatures," she said.

Spread Message via Social Media

Social media like YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter have become more important for
jihadists in spreading their message, according to the researchers.

"You used to have to enter special websites or forums in order to be exposed to
jihadist propaganda, but since 2008, you can get this automatically, for example
if you are friends with someone on Facebook who holds those kinds of views. We
believe the message reaches many more people today than it used to," Stenersen
said.

Stenersen said it was disturbing that a large number of Europeans had gone to
Syria and Iraq to join groups that called themselves the Islamic State (ISIL
-Islamic State in Syria and the Levant) and other groups.

"Some of those who have gone will return home, and we believe that some of them
will be motivated to carry out terrorist acts when they return. Since such a
large number has gone, we believe there will be an increase in the number of
terrorist plans, and in the worst case scenario, also an increase in the number
of attacks carried out in the future," she said.

More Knives and Firearms

[Hirsti] What type of attacks will we see more of?

"We expect more smaller attacks using knives and firearms that are directed at
specific groups in society. Also, the attacks will probably often be carried out
by an individual who has been under the radar."

[Hirsti] If we look at Scandinavia, what is typical for these attacks?

"In Scandinavia, the attacks are directed at individuals who, someone believes,
have insulted Islam, as in the case of the caricatures in Denmark. This is
different from the attacks in other countries, where there is a large variation
in the choice of target. There the attacks might be directed at the country's
authorities, against American targets, or against more specific groups, such as
soldiers and Jews."

Unpredictable Threat Scenario

The threat scenario has become more unpredictable due to there being more
players and more tactics directed against more different kinds of targets,
terrorism expert Petter Nesser said.

"For Europe and Norway, this means that more planned attacks might remain under
the security services' radar and be more difficult to prevent. This is due
mainly to individual terrorism become more common. At the same time, this means
that the attacks that do succeed will often cause a limited number of deaths,"
Nesser said.

Source: NRK P1 radio, Oslo, in Norwegian 28 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            October 31, 2014 Friday

Death sentences upheld in Kunming terror attack case

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 62 words


KUNMING - A Chinese court on Friday upheld the death sentences given to three
men for their involvement in a terrorist attack in which 31 were killed at a
railway station in Kunming earlier this year.

The Higher People's Court of Yunnan Province rejected Hasayn Muhammad's appeal
and upheld the penalty meted out by the Kunming Municipal Intermediate People's
Court last month.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            October 31, 2014 Friday

Francois Hollande visits Canada following parliament terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 136 words


French President Francois Hollande begins a three-day state visit to Canada,
during which he is to meet Prime Minister Stephen Harper and address parliament
following last month's terrorist attacks in which one soldier was killed by
being run over in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu before another was shot dead in
Ottawa two days later. In the latter incident the gunman, Michael Zehaf-Bibeau -
a homeless and drug addicted Canadian of Libyan descent who had been prevented
from travelling to the Middle East - went on to open fire in the Canadian
parliament before being shot dead by security personnel.
 France colonised parts of what is now Canada in the 16th century, and French
remains the mother tongue of approx 10 million Canadians

Event Start Date: 2014-11-02

Event End Date: 2014-11-04

Event URL: http://www.elysee.fr/

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2014 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 31, 2014 Friday 9:42 PM GMT

Ax-wielding attacker on loose after assault on Washington, D.C., cop as NYPD is
put on high alert following 'terrorist attack' in Queens last week

BYLINE: WILLS ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE and ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 449 words



     ·    Suspect smashed the window of a marked police car at 3.20am on Friday
     ·    Officer then chased the man and tackled him - but suspect escaped
     ·    NYPD released a memo telling their officers to 'remain vigilant'
     ·    Follows attack by Muslim convert Zale Thompson in Queens last week
     ·    Uniformed cops have been prohibited from patrolling alone in the city


An ax-wielding man is on the loose following an unprovoked attack on a
Washington, D.C. cop just days after a rookie NYPD officer was hacked by a
radical Muslim convert while on patrol.

The officer was sitting in a marked police car when the suspect shattered the
driver's side window at 3.20am on Friday morning.

Following the ambush, the officer chased the subject and tackled him to the
floor, but the suspect was able to escape.

Officials in the District of Colombia stressed there was no evidence linking the
two attacks, but contacted the New York City police's counter terrorism unit,
who have now put their officers on high alert.

The department released an advisory saying uniformed officers saying they should
'remain vigilant' and approach all situations 'tactically'.

According to the New York Daily News they will not be allowed to patrol alone,
with officials fearing they could be targeted by terrorists in random attacks.

Last Thursday, Zale Thompson targeted a group of four rookie officers while they
were out on patrol in Jamaica, Queens.

Photographer Dominick Williams spotted the officers and asked them to stand for
a picture. Seconds later, Zale Thompson ran up to the cops - who where standing
against a wall in Jamaica, Queens - and started swinging a sharp hand ax.

Officer Kenneth Healey, 25, was taken to the hospital in critical condition, but
is expected to survive the injury.

Washington, D.C, Police Chief Cathy Lanier said: 'A lot of these radical
organizations, terrorist organizations are very vocal about targeting first
responders. It's no secret. It's not new. But it certainly has ramped up,'
Lanier said. 'We're on extremely high alert.'

Lanier said she spoke with John Miller, New York City's top counterterrorism
official, to go over any investigative details that might be helpful.

The officer spotted the man briefly before the attack and believed he was
carrying a baseball bat, Lanier said.

The officer drove into an alley in an attempt to follow him but did not see the
man again until the ax hit the car, Lanier said.

The officer chased the man and tackled him and was injured in the struggle,
police said.

Police don't have a good description of the man, and Lanier said investigators
were pursuing 30 to 40 leads, including some generated by tips from the public.

The FBI offered help with the investigation if needed.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      October 31, 2014 Friday 2:56 PM GMT

ISIS plotting Ebola terror attack to kill westerners with infected syringes
warns security chief;
Francisco Martinez, Spain's state secretary for security, told parliament the
terror group wants its enemies killed by any means possible - including using
the virus

BYLINE: By Ian Hughes

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 419 words


Islamic State is urging supporters to use Ebola as a chemical weapon to kill
western civilians, according to a Spanish politician.

Francisco Martinez Vazquez, Spain's state secretary for security, claims the
terror group will use any means possible to kill its enemies - including
stabbing people with needles poisoned with the deadly virus.

He told Spanish parliament that would-be militants are using chat rooms to
discuss terror attacks - including so-called 'lone wolf' attacks.

Martinez Vazquez said conversations he had witnessed identified 'many examples'
of threats to use Ebola as a chemical weapon, and he is taking the threats
seriously.

Fighting continues in Kobane

One conversation he referred to discussed the 'use of Ebola as a poisonous
weapon against the United States', and in another, militants worked out the best
way to use 'deadly chemical products' stolen from laboratories.

Here is where one of 'many' examples where the possibility of using 'poisonous
injections' was allegedly suggested.

Mr Martinez then listed six benefits of a strong online presence, as identified
by Islamic State:Threatening enemies through propagandaPreparing
operationsExchanging informationIdeological trainingRecruiting new
membersAcquiring finance

Earlier this month, US Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said there was
"no credible evidence" Islamic State using the Ebola virus to attack the US.

But around the same time experts also warned against the use of Ebola as a
biological weapon in the UK - stating the terror group  could send infected
militants, sparking widespread outbreaks.

Capt Al Shimkus, of the US Naval War College, said: "Individuals exposed to the
virus become carriers.

"It doesn't take much sophistication to go to the next step and use terrorists
as carriers."

Massive destruction in Kobani after IS suicide attack - amvid 15th October

Professor Anthony Glees, of Buckingham University's Centre for Security and
Intelligence Studies, said: "IS fighters believe in suicide and this is a
potential job for a suicide mission.

"They are sufficiently murderous and well-informed to consider it."

The World Health Organisation has branded the outbreak the "most severe acute
health emergency in modern times".

West Africa is the worst affected area. In Liberia, over 2,300 people have died,
while in Sierra Leone and Guinea the death toll stands at nearly 1,000 each.

The deadly virus has also reached Nigeria, Senegal, Spain and the US but
outbreaks have been contained so far.

Ebola Fact File Video

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 1, 2014 Saturday

"Terrorist attack" injures 13 near Syria's capital

LENGTH: 108 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus Countryside, SANA -A mortar shell fired by terrorists on Jaramana city
in Damascus Countryside on Saturday left 13 civilians wounded, including
children and women, according to a Police Command source.

SANA reporter quoted the source as saying that the shell landed near al-Radi
Hospital in al-Janayen neighbourhood in Jaramana, injuring 13 citizens.

Two children and two women were among the injured, the source noted, adding that
the attack also caused material damage to a number of shops and cars.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1200 gmt 1 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 1, 2014 Saturday

Niger military begins hunt for unidentified gunmen in suspected terrorist attack

LENGTH: 294 words


Text of report by French state-funded public broadcaster Radio France
Internationale on 31 October

[Announcer] Nine security officers were killed in Niger during several attacks
on three villages west of the country near the border with Mali. The army is
looking for unidentified armed men, who, according to information from the Niger
Interior and Defence Ministries classify them are terrorists. Mousa Kaka reports

[Kaka] The three simultaneous attacks targeted soldiers of the Niger Armed
Forces in Oualam, near the border with Mali. No death was recorded in Oualam
prison, where 58 prisoners including a large number of members of the Movement
for Oneness and Jihad in West Africa (MUJAO) escaped. However in Mangezi refugee
camp, the case was different.

Tillaberi governor, Youssouf Maiga arrived on the scene.

[Maiga] They attacked several areas including Mangezi and also in Oualam Prison.
Unfortunately, there were nine deaths.

[Kaka] The Deputy Administrator of Mangezi Camp came to offer moral support to
the refugees. These attacks didn't target the administrators. Iddi Daouda
Abdirahman had this to say.

[Abdirahman] The attack was against FDS (Security and Defence Forces) who are
present in the camp. The refugees weren't the main targets. But all the same,
they really panicked.

[Kaka] Full of panic, the 9,000 refugees present in the camp were powerless
against the armed men. Some of them fled to the neighbouring forest.

[Unidentified Refugee] We heard gunshots and then we saw dead bodies. Three
people died here where we're standing. We then fled to the forest. The forest is
full of people.

[Kaka] According to a government report, operations are ongoing to flush out the
assailants.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 0430 gmt 31 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     November 1, 2014 Saturday 11:47 AM GMT

Iraqi Kurdish Peshmerga 'enter Kobani' to join battle against Isis militants;
Forces join fight as Government warns Brits against possible terror attacks

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 377 words


Iraqi Kurdish Peshmerga forces have crossed the border in Turkey and began
entering Syria to support fighters defending the town of Kobani from Isis
militants.

Peshmerga fighters in more than a dozen trucks and jeeps set off with armoured
vehicles from a holding point around 8 km (5 miles) from the border towards
Kobani.

The border town has been at the heart of the struggle between Isis fighters and
Kurdish defenders, who have been battling to stop the region from falling into
the hands of militants for over a month.

More than 200,000 people have been forced to flee Kobani and the surrounding
areas. Activists say over 800 have been died.

The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and Kobani-based activist
Mustafa Bali said 10 vehicles carrying Iraqi peshmerga fighters and their
weapons have entered the town.

The Observatory and Bali said it was not immediately clear how many peshmerga
fighters of the force of 150 have entered Kobani.

Isis fighters in Kobani: Civilians flee as militants enter Syria-Turkey border

Witnesses said the fighters left in a convoy Friday night while waving Kurdish
flags and giving the victory sign. Their entrance comes after Turkey authorised
Iraqi Kurds to cross the border to reinforce the Syrian Kurds defending it.

Read more: Kobani devastation revealed in before and after imagesIsis now
targeting women

Anwar Muslim, a Syrian Kurdish official in Kobani, told the Associated Press the
peshmerga fighters are bringing with them heavy machineguns and anti-tank
missiles, equipment they believe is needed to fend off Isis' advance.

The US-led coalition has been supporting Kurdish forces on the ground with air
strikes. US Central Command said American warplanes conducted four air strikes
near Kobani on Friday, damaging four positions and one building occupied by
Isis.

It comes as the Foreign Office urged Britons travelling abroad to be "vigilant"
because of a "heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK
interests and British nationals".

Capturing Kobani, also known under its Arabic name of Ayn Arab, would give Isis
a direct link between its positions in the Syrian province of Aleppo and its
stronghold of Raqqa, to the east.

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Reactions

                                 November 2014

Global terror attacks up in 2013

SECTION: LLOYD'S & LONDON MARKET,EUROPE,NORTH AMERICA,MIDDLE EAST &
AFRICA,REINSURANCE ,INSURANCE,PROPERTY-CATASTROPHE,SPECIALTY & OTHER
LINES,EMERGING RISKS

LENGTH: 317  words



HIGHLIGHT: The number of terrorist attacks around the globe increased by 44% in
2013, according to the 2014 Global Terrorism Index published by the Institute
for Economics and Peace.


There was a 44% increase in global terrorist attacks in 2013 according to the
2014 Global Terrorism Index (GTI), just published by the Institute for Economics
and Peace (IEP).

First launched by the Institute for Economics & Peace (IEP) in 2012, the GTI
ranks countries by the impact of terrorist activities as well as analysing the
economic and social dimensions associated with terrorism.

The index scores 162 countries, covering 99.6% of the world's population, and
examines trends from 2000 to 2013. The indicators used include the number of
terrorist incidents, fatalities, injuries and property damage.

According to the 2014 GTI, the number of lives lost also increased by 61%,
rising from 11,133 in 2012 to 17,958 in 2013.

Over 80% of the deaths from terrorist attacks in 2013 were in just five
countries: Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nigeria and Syria, said the report.

The GTI notes that Iraq continues to be the country most impacted by terrorism
with 2,492 attacks killing 6,362 people, which represents a 164% increase from
2012.

ISIL was responsible for most of the deaths in the country, said the report.

"Terrorism doesn't arise on its own; by identifying the factors associated with
it, policies can be implemented to improve the underlying environment that
nurtures terrorism," said Steve Killelea, executive chairman of IEP. "The most
significant actions that can be taken are to reduce state-sponsored violence
such as extra-judicial killings, reduce group grievances and hostilities, and
improve effective and community-supported policing."

With global terrorism on the rise, pressure is mounting in the US on Congress to
find a solution to the problem of renewing the Terrorism Risk insurance Act
(Tria).

The programme, which provides a federal backstop that guarantees that insurers
will not be hit by limitless losses in the event of a major terrorist attack,
expires at the end of the year.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: REACT


              Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                                November 2, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

For years I wanted closure - but now I don't see myself as a victim anymore;
Survivor of the horrific terror attack that tore through two Brum pubs in 1974
tells MIKE LOCKLEY she believes justice is no longer possible ; PUB BOMBINGS 40
YEARS ON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1322 words


MAUREEN Mitchell, so badly mutilated by the searing hot shrapnel that spewed
from an IRA bomb planted in Birmingham's Mulberry Bush pub that she was given
the last rites, believes the monsters responsible will never be caught.

It is a belief formed free of bitterness.

Maureen, who still carries the scars from the barbarity of that night in
November, 1974, wants the world to know she is no longer a victim of mainland
Britain's worst massacre.

It has taken years, but she has scrubbed the blood from her skin.

If she hadn't, the IRA would truly have won the day, the Birmingham City Council
assistant director insists.

"I may be looked on as a victim," the 61-year-old shrugged during a meeting at
her Acocks Green home, "but I don't want to be a victim.

"I am a survivor, there's a big difference."

In Maureen, the burning desire for answers and justice dimmed long ago.

She supports and applauds the "Justice For The 21" pressure group, spearheaded
by Julie and Brian Hambleton, whose teenage sister died in a bloodstained night
that remains Birmingham's darkest hour.

Even Hitler's Heinkels could not match the psychotic disregard for human life
displayed by IRA lackeys who placed bombs in The Mulberry Bush and the Tavern in
the Town, in News Street, on November 21, 40 years ago.

But her path is not the same one trodden by the Hambletons, whose firebrand
campaign for answers has ruffled feathers in corridors of power.

Twenty-one people - local people - died that cold evening, including Maxine
Hambleton - 182 were injured. The salt-water tracks of tears on the faces of
Julie and Brian etch deeper with each unanswered year.

With the bombings' 40th anniversary only days away, Maureen underlined her
belief there will be no conclusive, final chapter in the many chronicles of an
evening stained crimson by ordinary men turned butchers by The Troubles.

Six men were convicted of the mass killings but were cleared many years later,
having been declared innocent of the crime and named as victims of a miscarriage
of justice.

For Maureen, there is a realisation that no one will be brought to account for
the pub bombings.

She did, however, ask to speak to the Mercury so her own son, 32-year-old Ian,
can gain greater clarity over the terrible chain of events that led to the
tragic loss of so many lives.

It's easy to warm to Maureen, now a grandmother.

She speaks with an honesty and clarity about the events of that terrible night,
about the molten shards of metal that drove through her flesh and the flesh of
her fiancé Ian Lord.

Free from bile, she speaks with an almost chilling detachment.

"I've said it so many times," she smiled, referring to the press when me it felt
whole was out posse that pounce on any fresh turn in the macabre tale, any
murderous milestone. For Maureen - then Maureen Carlin - the Mulberry Bush was a
regular haunt, a place where she and Ian chatted about wedding plans.

But on November 21 they exchanged small talk in the bustling bar at the foot of
the 25-storey Rotunda, oblivious that the Birmingham Post had received a
chilling call.

Two bombs had been secreted in the city centre.

The impact was too sudden and violent to hear a blast.

they lifted like my stomach to fall Maureen, then living in Bartley Green, only
remembers a sensation of floating. Mangled metal had been driven into her bowel
and legs and the deep tissue of her arm was badly burned.

Shrapnel had pierced Ian's face like hot javelins, yet his life had been saved
by a sheepskin coat that had been a source of consternation for the couple.

"We were saving for a wedding and he'd bought the coat. We had words," tutted
Maureen.

"He always wore it and on that night it took all the impact. It did save his
life.

"I remember Ian was trying to get me out. He was throwing the stuff off.

"A security man carried me out and I can remember the sound of the ambulances
coming.

"It seemed like forever. I had a nail in my leg and when they lifted me it felt
like my whole stomach was going to fall out.

"I was saying, 'just give me something for the pain.' .

"I had a cut on my head and until they knew the extent of it they wouldn't give
me anything."

Maureen recalls coming round at the old General Hospital with her parents
gathered at bedside. It was the start of five agonising days in intensive care.

"I remember the priest being there and Prince Charles coming," she said.

"I remember time didn't mean anything. I remember asking for more morphine. I
remember when you slipped down the bed, pulling you back up felt as if you were
being pulled apart.

"Because we had our wedding booked, it gave us the determination to get up and
get on."

They did just that. Maureen returned to her job at an advertising agency in
February 1975. The couple married at St Mary's Church, in Harborne, on June 21,
1975, and stayed together for 18 years.

They remain good friends, both forever tainted and bonded by the carnage and
cruelty of the Mulberry Bush.

"Ian is still very bitter, but he doesn't come across as angry any more,"
admitted Maureen, who jettisoned feelings of revenge long ago.

"It wasn't going to hurt them, it was going to hurt me," she reasoned.

"When I spoke to a psychiatrist, he said because I was so badly injured I had a
lot of attention. With others, it took two years to come out."

News that the Birmingham Six - Hugh Callaghan, Patrick Joseph Hill, Gerard
Hunter, Richard McIlkenny, William Power and John Walker - were wrongly
convicted of the crime was a hammerblow, however.

"That devastated me," she admitted. "I always felt someone was paying. When they
were released, it was like kicking a propshaft away."

There has been false hope piled upon false hope.

MP and author Chris Mullins insisted he knew the names of the real bombers,
eliciting a swift response from Maureen.

"I wrote to him," she said, "and he said, 'I am not going to correspond with
you'.

"Looking back, it was 13 years ago, he has got to protect his source. We have
had so many years. If Chris Mullins did meet the real bombers, they are probably
long gone.

"I did hope something would come out because I want closure, but they are not
going to open up something all these years later."

In a quest for inner peace, Maureen attended the Glencree Centre for Peace and
Reconciliation 14 years ago.

The centre gave her access to fellow victims and former terrorists released as
part of the Peace Process.

They told her Birmingham was a "mistake" - a half-hearted apology so glib it
sickened her.

"I don't think we ever had remorse," she said.

Maureen discovered, however, that many men she faced across a table were more
misguided than monsters.

"I focused on one person and we went for a walk. It was pitchblack and we were
walking through the mountains. He was a normal person, he said he had just grown
up with it. There for the grace of God..."

She has but one regret. Not finding out what her own father, Irishman James,
went through during the backlash that followed the bombings.

"My dad was a Catholic from Northern Ireland when it all started in 1969,"
Maureen said.

"I never asked my dad how he felt as an Irishman and how he was treated."

But she, supported by Andrew, her husband of 12 years, has managed to claw some
positives from the cruel chaos of November 21, 1974.

"I have made so many friends - friendship that have survived the years," she
added, "I have made a speech in the House of Commons, I have met (US President)
Bill Clinton. I like to think some good comes out of bad."

Brave Maureen Mitchell, her belief in mankind unshaken by assassins prepared to
squander human-life in the quest for political points, is an inspirational
figure. She embodies the "we're going to get through this" spirit that has
shaped this country.

What's more, she represents everything we are - kindness, acceptance and
old-fashioned morality, that terrorists are not.

And because of people like Maureen, they can never win.

when they lifted me it felt like my whole stomach was going to fall out

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Maureen with her first husband Ian Lord, a few months after the bombThe
shattered remains of the Mulberry Bush pub, which was located at the foot of the
Rotunda in the centre of BirminghamBirmingham pub bombings survivor Maureen
Mitchell, from Acocks Green

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMY


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            November 3, 2014 Monday

Francois Hollande continues Canada visit following parliament terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 136 words


French President Francois Hollande continues a three-day state visit to Canada,
during which he is to meet Prime Minister Stephen Harper and address parliament
following last month's terrorist attacks in which one soldier was killed by
being run over in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu before another was shot dead in
Ottawa two days later. In the latter incident the gunman, Michael Zehaf-Bibeau -
a homeless and drug addicted Canadian of Libyan descent who had been prevented
from travelling to the Middle East - went on to open fire in the Canadian
parliament before being shot dead by security personnel.
 France colonised parts of what is now Canada in the 16th century, and French
remains the mother tongue of approx 10 million Canadians

Event Start Date: 2014-11-03

Event End Date: 2014-11-04

Event URL: http://www.elysee.fr/

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2014 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      November 3, 2014 Monday 11:30 AM GMT

Pakistan suspends military parade after dozens killed in suicide bomb attack;
India agrees to call off daily ritual held at Wagah border crossing near Lahore
after one of Paklistan's worst terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Jon Boone in Islamabad

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 442 words


Pakistan has called off a military parade on the country's land crossing with
India following the deadly suicide bombing on Sunday that killed 55 people.

India agreed to a request to suspend the daily ritual held at the Wagah border
crossing near Lahore to honour the people killed in one of the worst terrorist
attacks in Pakistan for months.

In the elaborately choreographed flag-lowering ceremony, troops from both sides
march around a special parade ground between the two countries before the gates
on the only land-crossing point on the recognised border separating Pakistan and
India are slammed shut.

On Sunday, a suicide bomber targeted the huge crowds of people as they were
leaving the venue.

Police said the device used appeared to be a bomb belt studded with shrapnel,
which injured more than 120 others.

Among those killed were three members of the paramilitary Rangers, who are in
charge of securing the area and had received intelligence tipoffs in recent days
about a possible attack.

Officials said the security cordon and body searches set up to screen people
entering the parade ground forced the bomber to detonate the bomb near the car
park as people began leaving at the end of the ceremony.

Although Pakistan has frequently been hit by devastating terrorist attacks on
markets and places of worship that have killed large numbers of civilians,
violence had fallen sharply in 2014 in the wake of infighting within the
Pakistani Taliban following the killing of its former leader Hakimullah Mehsud
and the launch in June of a major army operation against militant safe havens in
North Waziristan.

Sunday's attack was also unusual for being inside Punjab, the rich, populous
province that dominates Pakistan politically, rather than the north-western
tribal belt.

Wagah is just 15 miles from Lahore, the home town of the prime minister, Nawaz
Sharif, which has not experienced an attack on such a scale for several years.

Three separate groups claimed responsibility for the attack, including Jamaat ul
Ahrar, one of the most formidable new groups to split away from the Pakistani
Taliban this year.

In an emailed statement, the group's spokesman promised further attacks. He said
the Wagah bombing was to avenge the "killing of those innocent people who have
been killed by Pakistan army, particularly of those who have been killed in
North Waziristan."

Officials said it was the first time the flag-lowering ceremony had been
cancelled since Pakistan fought its third war with India in 1971.

The boisterous display of nationalism continued even during the limited war
fought in Kargil in 1999 over the disputed Himalayan territory of Kashmir.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      November 3, 2014 Monday 7:11 PM GMT

Terror suspect friends with Abu Hamza's sons;
Law student Erol Incedal claims he was plotting a robbery and not terror attack

BYLINE: Paul Peachey

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 167 words


A man accused of plotting a Mumbai-style terrorist attack in Britain had planned
an armed robbery with the three sons of the radical cleric Abu Hamza, his
partially-secret trial heard.

Erol Incedal sketched out ideas for a planned heist during university lectures
which he proposed to raise with the three brothers who had a history of carrying
out post office robberies and fraud, the Old Bailey heard.

Mr Incedal, who is accused of planning an act of terrorism, with Tony Blair a
potential target, gave evidence at his trial but only part of it was heard in
public.

The plan for the robbery was hatched while the law student had money problems
and struggled to provide for his wife and their two children, the court was
told.

He began to consider an armed robbery and scribbled down notes during his
lectures at South Bank University which were later found at his home, the judge
said.

Mr Incedal denies planning an act of terrorism and of possessing a bomb-making
manual on a memory card. The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      November 3, 2014 Monday 10:34 PM GMT

Back on top: World Trade Center reopens for business 13 years after 9/11
terrorist attack as first employees move in

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1173 words



     ·    Publishing giant Conde Nast moved in Monday at One World Trade Center,
          a 104-story, $3.9 billion skyscraper in lower Manhattan
     ·    The building is 60 per cent leased with advertising firm Kids
          Creative, and Legends Hospitality also moving in
     ·    Port Authority director said: 'The New York City skyline is whole
          again, as One World Trade Center takes its place in Lower Manhattan'
     ·    City officials have called it 'the most secure office building in
          America'
     ·    A date for an opening ceremony for America's tallest building has yet
          to be decided


Thirteen years after the 9/11 terrorist attack, the resurrected World Trade
Center is again opening for business - marking an emotional milestone for both
New Yorkers and the nation.

Publishing giant Conde Nast will start moving on Monday into One World Trade
Center, a 104-story, $3.9 billion skyscraper that dominates the Manhattan
skyline. It is America's tallest building.

It's the centerpiece of the 16-acre site where the decimated twin towers once
stood and where more than 2,700 people died on September 11, 2001, buried under
smoking mounds of fiery debris.

Scroll down for videos

New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said in a statement today: 'One World Trade
Center serves as a symbol of the resilience of the people of New York.

'Today, as we open its doors for the first time, we remember that strength and
courage will always conquer weakness and cowardice, and that the American
spirit, defended by proud New Yorkers, will not be defeated.

'That lesson and that example live on today as powerful as they were 13 years
ago. This is a tremendous day for all New Yorkers, proving once again that the
spirit of resurgence and community lives on stronger than ever before.'

One World Trade Center serves as a symbol of the resilience of the people of New
York. Today, as we open its doors for the first time, we remember that strength
and courage will always conquer weakness and cowardice, and that the American
spirit, defended by proud New Yorkers, will not be defeated New York Governor
Andrew Cuomo

A date for an opening ceremony for America's tallest building has yet to be
decided, The Wall Street Journal reported today.

'The New York City skyline is whole again, as One World Trade Center takes its
place in Lower Manhattan,' said Patrick Foye, executive director of the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey that owns both the building and the World
Trade Center site.

He said One World Trade Center 'sets new standards of design, construction,
prestige and sustainability; the opening of this iconic building is a major
milestone in the transformation of Lower Manhattan into a thriving 24/7
neighborhood.'

With construction fences gone and boxes of office equipment in place, Conde Nast
CEO Chuck Townsend planned to walk on Monday into what Foye calls 'the most
secure office building in America'.

Only about 170 of his company's 3,400 employees are moving in now, filling five
floors of the tower, said Patricia Rockenwagner, a Conde Nast vice president and
spokeswoman. About 3,000 more will arrive by early 2015.

Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue, will move to the 25th floor along with her
staff, while Graydon Carter, Vanity Fair editor, will take the 41st floor.

ROCKY START: SNL ON NEW WTC

Comic Chris Rock didn't pull any punches on Saturday Night Live this weekend as
he made a joke about the new World Trade Center.

He said: ''They should change it from the Freedom Tower to the Never Going In
There Tower.'

He continued: 'What do they have? Does this building duck? What were they
thinking? Who's the corporate sponsor - Target?

He insisted: 'I don't care if Scarlett Johansson is buck naked on the 89th floor
in a plate of ribs - I'm not going in there.'

The building is 60 percent leased, with another 80,000 square feet going to the
advertising firm Kids Creative, the stadium operator Legends Hospitality, the
BMB Group investment adviser, and Servcorp, a provider of executive offices.

The government's General Services Administration signed up for 275,000 square
feet, and the China Center, a trade and cultural facility, will cover 191,000
square feet.

From the northeast corner of the site, the tower overlooks the National
September 11 Memorial & Museum built in the footprints of the twin towers.

Its stated aim is to honor those who perished on that sunny September morning.

For years, the grisly pit where workers found mostly body parts was dubbed the
'ground zero' of the aerial terror attack.

Now, the illuminated spire of One World Trade Center serves as a beacon to
planes that fly over the city, seemingly at eye level with the high rise's open
rooftop.

The view stretches from Manhattan to the Statue of Liberty into New Jersey and
Connecticut and all the way to the Atlantic Ocean.

At night, the incandescent steel-and-glass behemoth can be seen from vessels in
New York Harbor approaching Manhattan.

'DOZENS OF UNREPORTED INJURIES DURING BUILDING OF WTC'

There have been dozens of unreported injuries during the construction of One
World Trade Center, a new investigation has found.

There were 34 serious injuries among workers over the decade it took to rebuild
- but were not reported to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration,
the  Daily News found.

Among the incidents, was one work struck in the head with 60lb of steel and
another who fell 20 feet from collapsing scaffolding. One apprentice ironworker
Ethan Villalona, 23, still feels the effects of injuries sustained at One World
Trade two years ago. He walks with a cane after having his legs crushed and
pelvis fractured by a falling steel beam.

MailOnline was awaiting a comment from both Port Authority and the Department of
Labor.

An observation deck eventually will be open to the public.

The eight-year construction of the 1,776-foot high skyscraper came after years
of political, financial and legal infighting that threatened to derail the
project.

The bickering slowly died down as two other towers started going up on the
southeast end of the site.

The now completed 4 World Trade Center whose anchor tenant is the Port
Authority, and 3 World Trade Center that's slowly rising.

The spirit of renewal did not quash memories of the horrific act of terror, but
the area has prospered in recent years beyond anyone's imagination.

About 60,000 more residents now live there - three times more than before 9/11 -
keeping streets, restaurants and shops alive even after Wall Street and other
offices close for the day.

Still, it's a bittersweet victory, one achieved with the past in mind as the
architects created One World Trade Center.

T.J. Gottesdiener of the Skidmore, Owings & Merrill firm that produced the final
design said the high-rise was built with steel-reinforced concrete that makes it
as terror attack-proof as possible.

He said the firm went beyond the city's existing building codes to achieve that.

'We did it, we finally did it,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      November 3, 2014 Monday 6:40 PM GMT

World Trade Center reopens for business 13 years after 9/11 terrorist attack as
first employees move in

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1143 words



     ·    Publishing giant Conde Nast moved in Monday at One World Trade Center,
          a 104-story, $3.9 billion skyscraper in lower Manhattan
     ·    The building is 60 per cent leased with advertising firm Kids
          Creative, and Legends Hospitality also moving in
     ·    Port Authority director said: 'The New York City skyline is whole
          again, as One World Trade Center takes its place in Lower Manhattan'
     ·    City officials have called it 'the most secure office building in
          America'


Thirteen years after the 9/11 terrorist attack, the resurrected World Trade
Center is again opening for business - marking an emotional milestone for both
New Yorkers and the nation.

Publishing giant Conde Nast will start moving on Monday into One World Trade
Center, a 104-story, $3.9 billion skyscraper that dominates the Manhattan
skyline. It is America's tallest building.

It's the centerpiece of the 16-acre site where the decimated twin towers once
stood and where more than 2,700 people died on September 11, 2001, buried under
smoking mounds of fiery debris.

Scroll down for video

New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said in a statement today: 'One World Trade
Center serves as a symbol of the resilience of the people of New York.

'Today, as we open its doors for the first time, we remember that strength and
courage will always conquer weakness and cowardice, and that the American
spirit, defended by proud New Yorkers, will not be defeated.

'That lesson and that example live on today as powerful as they were 13 years
ago. This is a tremendous day for all New Yorkers, proving once again that the
spirit of resurgence and community lives on stronger than ever before.'

'The New York City skyline is whole again, as One World Trade Center takes its
place in Lower Manhattan,' said Patrick Foye, executive director of the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey that owns both the building and the World
Trade Center site.

One World Trade Center serves as a symbol of the resilience of the people of New
York. Today, as we open its doors for the first time, we remember that strength
and courage will always conquer weakness and cowardice, and that the American
spirit, defended by proud New Yorkers, will not be defeated New York Governor
Andrew Cuomo

He said One World Trade Center 'sets new standards of design, construction,
prestige and sustainability; the opening of this iconic building is a major
milestone in the transformation of Lower Manhattan into a thriving 24/7
neighborhood.'

With construction fences gone and boxes of office equipment in place, Conde Nast
CEO Chuck Townsend planned to walk on Monday into what Foye calls 'the most
secure office building in America'.

Only about 170 of his company's 3,400 employees are moving in now, filling five
floors of the tower, said Patricia Rockenwagner, a Conde Nast vice president and
spokeswoman. About 3,000 more will arrive by early 2015.

Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue, will move to the 25th floor along with her
staff, while Graydon Carter, Vanity Fair editor, will take the 41st floor.

The building is 60 percent leased, with another 80,000 square feet going to the
advertising firm Kids Creative, the stadium operator Legends Hospitality, the
BMB Group investment adviser, and Servcorp, a provider of executive offices.

The government's General Services Administration signed up for 275,000 square
feet, and the China Center, a trade and cultural facility, will cover 191,000
square feet.

From the northeast corner of the site, the tower overlooks the National
September 11 Memorial & Museum built in the footprints of the twin towers.

'DOZENS' OF UNREPORTED INJURIES DURING BUILDING OF FREEDOM TOWER, REPORT CLAIMS

There have been dozens of unreported injuries during the construction of One
World Trade Center, a new investigation has found.

There were 34 serious injuries among workers on the Manhattan site over the
decade it took to rebuild - but were not reported to the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration, the  Daily News found.

Among the unreported incidents, was one work struck in the head with 60lb of
steel and another who fell 20 feet from collapsing scaffolding.

Other suffered broken bones while one construction worker was impaled with a
metal rod and two lived after major electrical shocks.

One apprentice ironworker Ethan Villalona, 23, still feels the effects of
injuries sustained at One World Trade two years ago.

He walks with a cane after having his legs crushed and pelvis fractured by a
falling steel beam.

Over the ten years of construction, there were two deaths - both of which were
reported.

Painter Hugo Martinez, 36, was crushed when an aerial lift slammed into him on
June 24, 2003. L&L Painting of Long Island was fined $10,000 and paid a $5,000
settlement.

In September 2004, a carpenter, 28, fell to his death through an unsecured floor
hole cover. Prince Carpentery was fined $26,500 and settled $21,000.

MailOnline was awaiting a comment today from both Port Authority and the
Department of Labor.

Its stated aim is to honor those who perished on that sunny September morning.

For years, the grisly pit where workers found mostly body parts was dubbed the
'ground zero' of the aerial terror attack.

Now, the illuminated spire of One World Trade Center serves as a beacon to
planes that fly over the city, seemingly at eye level with the high rise's open
rooftop.

The view stretches from Manhattan to the Statue of Liberty into New Jersey and
Connecticut and all the way to the Atlantic Ocean.

At night, the incandescent steel-and-glass behemoth can be seen from vessels in
New York Harbor approaching Manhattan.

An observation deck eventually will be open to the public.

The eight-year construction of the 1,776-foot high skyscraper came after years
of political, financial and legal infighting that threatened to derail the
project.

The bickering slowly died down as two other towers started going up on the
southeast end of the site: the now completed 4 World Trade Center whose anchor
tenant is the Port Authority, and 3 World Trade Center that's slowly rising.

The spirit of renewal did not quash memories of the horrific act of terror, but
the area has prospered in recent years beyond anyone's imagination.

About 60,000 more residents now live there - three times more than before 9/11 -
keeping streets, restaurants and shops alive even after Wall Street and other
offices close for the day.

Still, it's a bittersweet victory, one achieved with the past in mind as the
architects created One World Trade Center.

T.J. Gottesdiener of the Skidmore, Owings & Merrill firm that produced the final
design said the high-rise was built with steel-reinforced concrete that makes it
as terror attack-proof as possible.

He said the firm went beyond the city's existing building codes to achieve that.

'We did it, we finally did it,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      November 3, 2014 Monday 6:18 PM GMT

British man accused of plotting a Mumbai-style terror attack 'also wanted to
join forces with Abu Hamza's sons to commit robbery'

BYLINE: CLAIRE CARTER FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 694 words



     ·    Erol Incedal, a law student, is charged with planning an act of
          terrorism
     ·    Old Bailey told he wanted to commit armed robbery with Abu Hamza's
          sons
     ·    Mr Justice Nicol said Incedal sketched out ideas for the armed heist
     ·    But Incedal, 26, never committed robbery or shared ideas with the
          brothers
     ·    Incedal denies charges and trial is being part heard in private for
          security


A law student accused of planning a terrorist plot also wanted to join forces
with the sons of radical cleric Abu Hamza to commit an armed robbery, a court
heard.

Erol Incedal, 26, is on trial charged with planning an act of terrorism, either
on individuals or a wide-ranging Mumbai-style attack. He is also charged with
possessing a bomb-making manual on a memory card.

Mr Justice Nicol told jurors at the Old Bailey that sketches and notes found at
his family home related to plans for an armed robbery and used code words such
as 'tennis rackets' for guns.

'He was friends with three sons of the radical cleric Abu Hamza - Hamza, Sufyan
and Yaasir - who used to carry out frauds and armed robberies on post offices,'
said Mr Justice Nicol.

'The defendant sketched out some ideas for armed an robbery he would propose to
the Hamza brothers.'

The sketches had a number of coded words including a hand-written diagram around
the word Jamal which was also to do with the robbery plan, according to the
defendant, the court heard.

Incedal attributed some notes interspersed with course work to his idea to set
up a butcher's shop in London like a successful store his uncle had in Spain.
But his uncle refused to help fund the plans.

The judge told the jury: 'The defendant told you he wrote these notes during the
course of his lectures and seminars and that's why they appear in his course
notes. They were written in the latter part of 2011.

'He did not share the ideas with the Hamza brothers or anyone else. He did not
commit a robbery or make a positive decision to do so. He last saw these notes
in the early part of 2012. The prosecution do not accept his explanation for
these notes.'

As well as the proposed heist, the Turkish-born defendant also had money woes
and had been caught cheating with the wife of a violent brother-in-law, the
court heard.

At the time, the South Bank university law and accountancy student had trouble
providing for his wife, whom he married at the age of 17, and their two
children, the judge said.

Incedal previously told the jury that had affairs with a number of women,
despite his marriage to Kadeejah Baluch who he shared a home with in Unity
Court, south east London.

The judge said: 'He had affairs with a number of women. One was the wife of his
brother-in-law. Her husband discovered what was going on and he was very angry.
He (Incedal) was frightened of what his brother-in-law might do.

'He had a violent reputation and allegedly killed one man already. He was in
prison in Oman awaiting trial for credit card fraud.'

The defendant was also asked about his political beliefs. Incedal believed
resistance to foreign intervention in Iraq and Afghanistan was 'justified' and
supported rebels against the Assad regime in Syria.

However, Incedal said he believed terrorism in the UK was 'illegal, immoral and
contrary to Islam' and could lead to Muslims being harmed, the court heard.

The judge, who was summing up Incedal's evidence, also reminded the jury of his
troubled childhood. He was born in 1988 in Turkey where his father had been a
member of the Turkish communist party and died when he was very young.

His sister was a member of the PKK and was killed in fighting too, the court
heard.

His mother, who was from the Syria/Iraq region, brought Incedal and his siblings
to the UK when he was just one year old.

His brother had been detained in a mental hospital and Incedal was excluded from
primary school and almost excluded from secondary school, the judge said.

At the age of 12 he was convicted of attempted theft but a year later he became
interested in Islam and joined the Tableeghi Jamaat religious movement,
travelling with them to Greece, New York and Bangladesh.

The trial, which is being partly heard behind closed doors, continued in a
private session.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      November 3, 2014 Monday 4:02 PM GMT

World Trade Center reopens for businesses 13 years after 9/11 terrorist attack
as first employees move in

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 939 words



     ·    More than 2,700 people died on September 11, 2001 in the attack on the
          Twin Towers
     ·    Publishing giant Conde Nast will start moving on Monday into One World
          Trade Center, a 104-story, $3.9 billion skyscraper
     ·    Port Authority director said: 'The New York City skyline is whole
          again, as One World Trade Center takes its place in Lower Manhattan'
     ·    City officials have called it 'the most secure office building in
          America'


Thirteen years after the 9/11 terrorist attack, the resurrected World Trade
Center is again opening for business - marking an emotional milestone for both
New Yorkers and the nation.

Publishing giant Conde Nast will start moving on Monday into One World Trade
Center, a 104-story, $3.9 billion skyscraper that dominates the Manhattan
skyline. It is America's tallest building.

It's the centerpiece of the 16-acre site where the decimated twin towers once
stood and where more than 2,700 people died on September 11, 2001, buried under
smoking mounds of fiery debris.

'The New York City skyline is whole again, as One World Trade Center takes its
place in Lower Manhattan,' said Patrick Foye, executive director of the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey that owns both the building and the World
Trade Center site.

He said One World Trade Center 'sets new standards of design, construction,
prestige and sustainability; the opening of this iconic building is a major
milestone in the transformation of Lower Manhattan into a thriving 24/7
neighborhood.'

With construction fences gone and boxes of office equipment in place, Conde Nast
CEO Chuck Townsend planned to walk on Monday into what Foye calls 'the most
secure office building in America.'

Only about 170 of his company's 3,400 employees are moving in now, filling five
floors of the tower, said Patricia Rockenwagner, a Conde Nast vice president and
spokeswoman. About 3,000 more will arrive by early 2015.

The building is 60 percent leased, with another 80,000 square feet going to the
advertising firm Kids Creative, the stadium operator Legends Hospitality, the
BMB Group investment adviser, and Servcorp, a provider of executive offices.

The government's General Services Administration signed up for 275,000 square
feet, and the China Center, a trade and cultural facility, will cover 191,000
square feet.

From the northeast corner of the site, the tower overlooks the National
September 11 Memorial & Museum built in the footprints of the twin towers.

Its stated aim is to honor those who perished on that sunny September morning.

For years, the grisly pit where workers found mostly body parts was dubbed the
'ground zero' of the aerial terror attack.

'DOZENS' OF UNREPORTED INJURIES DURING BUILDING OF FREEDOM TOWER, REPORT CLAIMS

There have been dozens of unreported injuries during the construction of One
World Trade Center, a new investigation has found.

There were 34 serious injuries among workers on the Manhattan site over the
decade it took to rebuild - but were not reported to the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration, the  Daily News found.

Among the unreported incidents, was one work struck in the head with 60lb of
steel and another who fell 20 feet from collapsing scaffolding.

Other suffered broken bones while one construction worker was impaled with a
metal rod and two lived after major electrical shocks.

One apprentice ironworker Ethan Villalona, 23, still feels the effects of
injuries sustained at One World Trade two years ago.

He walks with a cane after having his legs crushed and pelvis fractured by a
falling steel beam.

Over the ten years of construction, there were two deaths - both of which were
reported.

Painter Hugo Martinez, 36, was crushed when an aerial lift slammed into him on
June 24, 2003. L&L Painting of Long Island was fined $10,000 and paid a $5,000
settlement.

In September 2004, a carpenter, 28, fell to his death through an unsecured floor
hole cover. Prince Carpentery was fined $26,500 and settled $21,000.

Now, the illuminated spire of One World Trade Center serves as a beacon to
planes that fly over the city, seemingly at eye level with the high rise's open
rooftop.

The view stretches from Manhattan to the Statue of Liberty into New Jersey and
Connecticut and all the way to the Atlantic Ocean.

At night, the incandescent steel-and-glass behemoth can be seen from vessels in
New York Harbor approaching Manhattan.

An observation deck eventually will be open to the public.

The eight-year construction of the 1,776-foot high skyscraper came after years
of political, financial and legal infighting that threatened to derail the
project.

The bickering slowly died down as two other towers started going up on the
southeast end of the site: the now completed 4 World Trade Center whose anchor
tenant is the Port Authority, and 3 World Trade Center that's slowly rising.

The spirit of renewal did not quash memories of the horrific act of terror, but
the area has prospered in recent years beyond anyone's imagination.

About 60,000 more residents now live there - three times more than before 9/11 -
keeping streets, restaurants and shops alive even after Wall Street and other
offices close for the day.

Still, it's a bittersweet victory, one achieved with the past in mind as the
architects created One World Trade Center.

T.J. Gottesdiener of the Skidmore, Owings & Merrill firm that produced the final
design said the high-rise was built with steel-reinforced concrete that makes it
as terror attack-proof as possible.

He said the firm went beyond the city's existing building codes to achieve that.

'We did it, we finally did it,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      November 3, 2014 Monday 2:51 PM GMT

World Trade Center reopens for businesses 13 years after 9/11 terrorist attack
as first employees move in

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 874 words



     ·    More than 2,700 people died on September 11, 2001 in the attack on the
          Twin Towers
     ·    Publishing giant Conde Nast will start moving on Monday into One World
          Trade Center, a 104-story, $3.9 billion skyscraper
     ·    Port Authority director Patrick Foye said: 'The New York City skyline
          is whole again, as One World Trade Center takes its place in Lower
          Manhattan'


Thirteen years after the 9/11 terrorist attack, the resurrected World Trade
Center is again opening for business - marking an emotional milestone for both
New Yorkers and the nation.

Publishing giant Conde Nast will start moving on Monday into One World Trade
Center, a 104-story, $3.9 billion skyscraper that dominates the Manhattan
skyline. It is America's tallest building.

It's the centerpiece of the 16-acre site where the decimated twin towers once
stood and where more than 2,700 people died on September 11, 2001, buried under
smoking mounds of fiery debris.

'The New York City skyline is whole again, as One World Trade Center takes its
place in Lower Manhattan,' said Patrick Foye, executive director of the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey that owns both the building and the World
Trade Center site.

He said One World Trade Center 'sets new standards of design, construction,
prestige and sustainability; the opening of this iconic building is a major
milestone in the transformation of Lower Manhattan into a thriving 24/7
neighborhood.'

With construction fences gone and boxes of office equipment in place, Conde Nast
CEO Chuck Townsend planned to walk Monday into what Foye calls 'the most secure
office building in America.'

Only about 170 of his company's 3,400 employees are moving in now, filling five
floors of the tower, said Patricia Rockenwagner, a Conde Nast vice president and
spokeswoman. About 3,000 more will arrive by early 2015.

The building is 60 percent leased, with another 80,000 square feet going to the
advertising firm Kids Creative, the stadium operator Legends Hospitality, the
BMB Group investment adviser, and Servcorp, a provider of executive offices.

The government's General Services Administration signed up for 275,000 square
feet, and the China Center, a trade and cultural facility, will cover 191,000
square feet.

From the northeast corner of the site, the tower overlooks the National
September 11 Memorial & Museum built in the footprints of the twin towers. Its
stated aim is to honor those who perished on that sunny September morning.

For years, the grisly pit where workers found mostly body parts was dubbed the
'ground zero' of the aerial terror attack.

'DOZENS' OF UNREPORTED INJURIES DURING BUILDING OF FREEDOM TOWER, REPORT CLAIMS

There have been dozens of unreported injuries during the construction of One
World Trade Center, a new investigation has found.

There were 34 serious injuries among workers on the Manhattan site over the
decade it took to rebuild - but were not reported to the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration, the Daily News found.

Among the unreported incidents, was one work struck in the head with 60lb of
steel and another who fell 20 feet from collapsing scaffolding.

Over the ten years of construction, there were two deaths - both of which were
reported.

Painter Hugo Martinez, 36, was crushed when an aerial lift slammed into him on
June 24, 2003. L&L Painting of Long Island was fined $10,000 and paid a $5,000
settlement.

In September 2004, a carpenter, 28, fell to his death through an unsecured floor
hole cover. Prince Carpentery was fined $26,500 and settled $21,000.

Now, the illuminated spire of One World Trade Center serves as a beacon to
planes that fly over the city, seemingly at eye level with the high rise's open
rooftop. The view stretches from Manhattan to the Statue of Liberty into New
Jersey and Connecticut and all the way to the Atlantic Ocean.

At night, the incandescent steel-and-glass behemoth can be seen from vessels in
New York Harbor approaching Manhattan.

An observation deck eventually will be open to the public.

The eight-year construction of the 1,776-foot high skyscraper came after years
of political, financial and legal infighting that threatened to derail the
project.

The bickering slowly died down as two other towers started going up on the
southeast end of the site: the now completed 4 World Trade Center whose anchor
tenant is the Port Authority, and 3 World Trade Center that's slowly rising.

The spirit of renewal did not quash memories of the horrific act of terror, but
the area has prospered in recent years beyond anyone's imagination. About 60,000
more residents now live there - three times more than before 9/11 - keeping
streets, restaurants and shops alive even after Wall Street and other offices
close for the day.

Still, it's a bittersweet victory, one achieved with the past in mind as the
architects created One World Trade Center.

T.J. Gottesdiener of the Skidmore, Owings & Merrill firm that produced the final
design told The Associated Press that the high-rise was built with
steel-reinforced concrete that makes it as terror attack-proof as possible.

He said the firm went beyond the city's existing building codes to achieve that.

'We did it, we finally did it,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      November 3, 2014 Monday 4:40 PM GMT

World Trade Center opens for business 13 years after horrific 9/11 terrorist
attacks;
Magazine publishers Conde Nast are the first business to move in to the
104-storey building that replaces the famous Twin Towers

BYLINE: By Christopher Bucktin

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 243 words


Thirteen years after the 9/11 terrorist attack in which more than 2,700 people
died, the World Trade Center reopened for business today.

Magazine publishers Conde Nast were the first to start moving in to the
104-storey, £2.5billion skyscraper that now dominates the Manhattan skyline.

The building is the centre piece of the 16-acre site where the Twin Towers once
stood and where two hijacked planes hit the identical buildings on September 11,
2001 .

"The New York City skyline is whole again, as One World Trade Centre takes its
place in Lower Manhattan," said Patrick Foye, executive director of the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey that owns both the building and the World
Trade Centre site.

First Day of One World Trade Centre

Mr Foye added One World Trade Centre "sets new standards of design,
construction, prestige and sustainability. The opening of this iconic building
is a major milestone in the transformation of Lower Manhattan into a thriving
24/7 neighbourhood."

The tallest building in the Western Hemisphere, it was originally scheduled to
open in 2006, but cost overruns and political infighting caused several delays.

So far developers have leased 60 per cent of the building with advertising
companies and investment groups among others to have signed up.

In Spring the observation, located on the 102nd floor, will be open to the
public.

One World Trade Centre overlooks the National September 11 Memorial and Museum.

World Trade Centre

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 3, 2014 Monday 4:16 PM GMT

The new World Trade Center quietly opens its doors to tenants;
Condé Nast staff move into the tallest building in the western hemisphere,
thirteen years after original towers were destroyed by the 9/11 terrorist
attacks

BYLINE: By Ben Wright

SECTION: FINANCE

LENGTH: 174 words


Thirteen years after the original buildings were destroyed by terrorists and
nine years after ground was broken on the new development, the new World Trade
Center will quietly opens its doors to tenants today.

First into the building will be Condé Nast, publisher of the New Yorker, Vanity
Fair and Vogue.

The opening of the building, officially the largest in the western hemisphere,
will not be accompanied by any fanfare, according to The Wall Street Journal .

The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which jointed owns the buildings
along with developer Douglas Durst, is reportedly planning an opening ceremony
later this month.

The governors of the two states - New York's Andrew Cuomo and New Jersey's Chris
Christie - were apparently unable to agree a date before Condé Nast were due to
move in.

One World Trade Center has leased 58pc of its 3m square feet of space, according
to The New York Times .

More pictures from inside One World Trade Center

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 4, 2014 Tuesday

Pakistan counter terrorism body warns of more attacks in Karachi, Lahore

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report published by Pakistan newspaper The News website on 4 November

Lahore: The National Counter Terrorism Authority issued two threat alerts on
Monday [3 November] evening that the TTP groups (Jandullah and Jamaat-ul-Ahrar)
were planning to carry out terrorist attacks on Muharram 10 processions in
Karachi, Bannu and DI Khan as well as the shrine of Bibi Pak Daman and the
railway station in Lahore.

According to the information, there would be a series of attacks on the lines of
Wagah border attack to avenge the killing of Abdullah Bahar - a deputy of
Hakimullah Mehsud) - who was killed in a drone attack in Hangu.

The letter further reads: "It has been learnt that two suicide bombers have been
dispatched from Miranshah to DI Khan and Kotla Jam, District Bhakkar. Both
suicide bombers are from (the) Wazir tribe and aged between 18-20 years.

The information has been forwarded to home secretaries, IGs and DG Rangers of
all provinces for extreme vigilance and heightened security."

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 04 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 4, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Terror gangs use Twitter to plot attacks'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 120 words


ISLAMIC State terrorists are using social media to control their deadly
operations, new GCHQ boss Robert Hanning warned last night.

And he accused internet giants such as Facebook, Whatsapp and Twitter of
ignoring the situation.

The spy chief said: "GCHQ cannot tackle these challenges without greater support
from the private sector, including the largest US technology firms which
dominate the web.

"However much they may dislike it, they have become the command and control
networks of choice for terrorists and criminals."

Mr Hanning urged internet firms to work with intelligence services in a bid to
crack down on terrorism and organised crime.

He added: "It can seem that some companies are in denial about its misuse."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING Mr Hanning

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            November 4, 2014 Tuesday

Ban strongly condemns terrorist attack at India-Pakistan border

LENGTH: 143 words


November 4, 2014

Strongly condemning the terrorist attack that took place yesterday on the
Pakistani side of the Wagah border with India, United Nations Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon Today urged the authorities in Pakistan to bring those responsible
to justice.



In a statement issued by his spokesperson in New York, Mr. Ban condemned "in the
strongest terms" the terrorist attack, which, according to news reports, killed
more than 50 people and wounded perhaps 100 others.

Through the statement, the Secretary-General expressed his condolences to the
families of those killed in the attack and to the people and Government of
Pakistan, and wished those wounded a quick recovery.

"Such terrorist acts are not justifiable under any circumstances," he declared
through the statement, urging the Pakistani authorities to bring those
responsible to justice.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      November 4, 2014 Tuesday 7:13 PM GMT

Police swoop on Cornish curry house and arrest man on suspicion of plotting
terrorist attack;
The 26-year-old was today being quizzed by cops following the raid on the Indian
and Bangladesh eatery in Hayle, near Penzance

BYLINE: By Richard Smith

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 708 words


Police swooped on a Cornish curry house and arrested a man on suspicion of
plotting a terrorist attack linked to Syria.

The 26-year-old was held in the raid on the Balti King restaurant and takeaway
which was today under police guard.

He was today being quizzed by cops.

Eight officers were seen entering and leaving the curry house, which has been
serving Indian and Bangladeshi cuisine in Hayle, near Penzance in Cornwall, for
more than a decade.

The restaurant's windows were covered over with brown paper to prevent onlookers
from peering inside as forensics experts searched the building for clues.

Police toured the area to reassure frightened residents after the estuary town
suddenly became the centre of the latest investigation involving counter
terrorism officers.

Locals were left shocked by Monday night's police operation just five miles from
popular seaside resort St Ives.

Thousands of trippers visit Hayle - which has a population of just 8,300 - every
year to stay in holiday homes and campsites near a three-mile stretch of golden
sands.

Bini Barnes, 43, who manages a shop next to the Balti King, said yesterday:
"Thankfully the police told me it wasn't about bomb-making or anything like
that.

"They said it related to the internet somehow.

"I'm completely gobsmacked, it seems unreal.

"Living in Hayle, you don't expect this sort of thing to happen on your
doorstep.

"I don't know how many police were here overnight, but there have been loads
more this morning.

"It's good to know the police are taking this seriously.

"They've told us not to worry - but it's easy for them to say that.

"I am absolutely terrified."

Taniele Schultz, 22, salon manager at Helios Tan and Spa Studio next to the
Balti King, said: "I live in Hayle so am understandably scared.

"Everyone knows everyone round here which makes it more surprising that someone
would choose here to plot for a terrorist act.

"We have been told not to worry, but I thought 'are you joking?'.

"I work here on my own until eight at night and I see everyone who works there
walk past.

"I must have seen who it was hundreds of times.

"I'm really worried, it's just so shocking.

"I think I'm still in shock from it all."

The suspect - not believed to be a British national - was held on suspicion of
preparing for an act of terrorism under Section 5 of the Terrorism Act which
carries a maximum life penalty.

A source said: "It would appear he may have expressed sympathies to people in
Syria.

"His arrest follows information that has been communicated rather than someone
plotting a bomb or gun attack on UK forces or citizens here."

A Devon and Cornwall Police spokesman said: "Officers from the South East
Counter Terrorism Unit (SECTU) working alongside officers from the Devon and
Cornwall Police conducted a warrant in Hayle, Cornwall, on Monday.

"This arrest relates to an investigation by the SECTU and officers would like to
reassure residents that the police activity is in relation to conflicts overseas
and is not linked to any immediate threat to local communities or anywhere else
in the UK."

A spokeswoman for SECTU, based out of Thames Valley Police, confirmed the arrest
was related to the conflict in Syria but would not say whether it was linked to
a wider operation.

She said: "We can confirm that it is related to conflicts overseas and we can
confirm it is related to Syria."

Local police commander Supt Jim Pearce said: "I would like to reassure the
community that this investigation should have very little impact on local
residents.

"The arrest was pre-planned and was not made in response to any immediate threat
to public safety in Hayle."

British counter-terrorism police have made a number of arrests linked to the
bloodshed in Syria in recent weeks.

A 21-year-old man was detained in Hackney, north east London, last Wednesday,
while a 25-year-old woman in Bedfordshire and a 32-year-old man in London were
questioned on October 22.

Three men and three women were also arrested in Portsmouth and Farnborough in
Hampshire and Greenwich, south east London, on October 14.

The Balti King's website says: "The Balti King Indian restaurant has been
established for over 10 years in Hayle.

"We serve the best quality Indian and Bangladeshi food, in a contemporary
atmosphere."

Balti King

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 4, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

'I was plotting robbery, not terror attack'

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 185 words


A law student accused of plotting a terrorist gun attack claimed that he was
planning to carry out armed robberies with three sons of Abu Hamza al-Masri, the
extremist cleric, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.

Erol Incedal, 26, is accused of possessing documents on bomb making and
preparing terror attacks, including a possible assassination attempt on Tony
Blair, the former prime minister.

Mr Justice Nicol said in his summing up that Mr Incedal's defence included a
claim that he was interested in armed robbery rather than terrorism. Notes that
the Crown alleged were for a terror plot were, Mr Incedal said, for a robbery.

The judge added: "Among his friends were three sons of the radical cleric -
Hamza, Yaasir and Sufyan - who carried out frauds and armed robberies on Post
Offices. He sketched out some ideas for armed robberies which he would propose
to the brothers."

The judge said that Mr Incedal had not put any of his plans to the brothers.

The major part of the trial has been heard in secrecy. Mr Incedal denies two
terrorism charges. The jury is expected to retire to consider its verdicts
today.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 4, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

I was plotting robbery not terror attack, says suspect

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 313 words


A law student accused of plotting a terrorist gun attack claimed that he was
planning to carry out armed robberies with three sons of the extremist cleric
Abu Hamza al-Masri, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.

Erol Incedal, 26, is accused of possessing documents on bomb making and
preparing terror attacks, including a possible assassination attempt on Tony
Blair, the former prime minister.

Mr Justice Nicol said in his summing up that Mr Incedal's defence included a
claim that he was interested in armed robbery rather than terrorism. "He was
perennially short of money and had difficulty supporting his wife and three
young children," the judge told the jury.

Notes which the Crown alleged were for a terror plot were, Mr Incedal said,
ideas for a robbery. The judge added: "Among his friends were three sons of the
radical cleric - Hamza, Yaasir and Sufyan - who carried out frauds and armed
robberies on Post Offices. He sketched out some ideas for armed robberies which
he would propose to the Hamza brothers."

The judge said that Mr Incedal had not put any of his plans to the brothers.

Mr Incedal, who was born in Turkey but moved to Britain with his mother when he
was a baby, believed that resistance to foreign intervention in Iraq and
Afghanistan was justified. However he had told the court that terrorism in the
UK was "illegal and immoral and contrary to Islam".

The prosecution alleges that Mr Incedal's plans were not finalised when he was
arrested in October last year, but included a possible attack on Mr Blair or a
Mumbai-style gun attack. However, the trial was told that Mr Incedal had found
the address for Mr Blair's property on a BBC News website.

The major part of the trial has been heard in partial or complete secrecy for
"national security" reasons. Mr Incedal denies two terrorism charges. The jury
is expected to retire to consider its verdicts today.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 5, 2014 Wednesday

Saudi Arabia arrests six over Al-Ahsa terror attack

LENGTH: 387 words


Text of report in English by Qatari government-funded aljazeera.net website on 4
November

(Al Jazeera online) -4 November 2014 - Saudi security forces have arrested six
people following a shooting in the country's east that killed five people and
injured nine others, the state news agency has said.

Tuesday's arrests came hours after the SPA news agency reported that three
gunmen launched a "terrorist" attack on a group of people in the town of
al-Dawla in city of al-Ahsa late on Monday.

An interior ministry spokesman said security forces raided several places in the
cities of Riyadh, al-Ahsa, al-Khobar, and throughout the Eastern Province, and
apprehended those suspected of being involved in the shooting.

"As a group of citizens was leaving a building ... three masked men opened fire
at them with machine guns and pistols," Major General Mansour Al-Turki was cited
as saying by SPA.

The official did not provide further details. Activists on social media said the
shooting targeted Shia Muslim worshippers as they were leaving a shrine.

The attack came coincided with the annual commemoration of Ashoura, the most
revered religious day in the Shia calendar.

Footage posted online showed corpses lying in pools of blood after the attack in
the oil-rich eastern region, where most of Saudi Arabia's two million Shias
live.

Bloodstains were seen purportedly on the carpet of the hall where the
commemorations were being held.

The Ashoura commemorations mark the killing of Imam Hussein, the grandson of the
Prophet Mohammed, by the army of the Caliph Yazid in 680 AD -an event that lies
at the heart of Islam's sectarian divide into Shia and Sunni sects.

Saudi Arabia's supreme council of Sunni clerics condemned Monday's attack as
"criminal," urging Saudis to "close ranks in standing up against the treacherous
criminals".

"The enemies of our religion and our homeland aim to attack our unity and
stability," the council said in a statement.

Protests and sporadic attacks on security forces have wracked Shia areas of the
Eastern Province, where the minority community complains of marginalisation.

Tensions escalated last month after a Saudi court handed down a death sentence
against leading Shia cleric Nimr al-Nimr, a driving force behind the
demonstrations.

Source: Aljazeera.net website, Doha, in English 1709 gmt 4 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 5, 2014 Wednesday

Kuwait strongly condemns "terrorist" attack in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 235 words


Text of report in English by Kuwaiti government-owned news agency Kuna website

Kuwait, 4 November - Kuwait on Tuesday [4 November] strongly condemned the
"terrorist" shooting attack that took place in the Saudi Ahsa governorate
killing and wounding a number of people.

"This cowardly terrorist act is in complete violation of values and heavely
faiths, aims at destabilizing security in the brotherly Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
as well as terrorizing civilians," First Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign
Minister Sheikh Sabah Khalid Al-Hamad Al-Sabah said in a statement to KUNA.

He said he was confident the Saudi authorities would abort any attempt aimed at
undermining security and stability.

Sheikh Sabah Al-Khalid reiterated rejection to all forms of terrorism, and
underlined Kuwait's firm support to Saudi Arabia. The security of the two
countries is integrated, he added.

"I renew my call for the importance of doubling international efforts to
confront this dangerous phenonemon," said the senior Kuwaiti official.

Sheikh Sabah Al-Khalid expressed condolences for families of the victims, and
wished speedy recovery for the injured.

At least five people were killed and nine injured in a shooting incident in
Al-Dalwah village, Ahsa, late Monday.

Gunmen opened fire at citizens as they were leaving a building in the area,
using machine guns and pistols.

Source: Kuna news agency website, Kuwait, in English 4 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 5, 2014 Wednesday

Bahrain condemns terror attack in Saudi's Al-Ahsa province

LENGTH: 201 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Bahrain News Agency

Manama, 4 November - The kingdom of Bahrain has strongly condemned the heinous
cowardly terrorist attack which took place in Al-Ahsa Province, Saudi Arabia,
and claimed lives of five individuals, at the hands of some outlaws who have no
respect for systems and laws.

In a statement issued today, the kingdom stressed that such a despicable act is
alien to all human values and is in contradiction with all divine laws and
regulations, which call for the protection of humans' safety and lives.

Bahrain asserted its unwavering stand by the side of the Saudi Kingdom in all
the measures it takes to deter the outlaws and preserve stability and security
on its territories.

It also renewed its condemnation of terrorist operations of all sorts, forms and
origins, and the rejection of acts of violence and chaos, urging collective
action in confronting such cruel and inhumane acts to eliminate and get rid of
them with all possible strength and resolve.

The Kingdom also extended sincere condolences and consolation to the relatives
of the victims, and wished the injured speedy recovery.

Source: Bahrain News Agency, Manama, in English 1635 gmt 4 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 5, 2014 Wednesday

Several hurt in Jerusalem in suspected terror attack - Israel media

LENGTH: 84 words


Commercial Channel 2 Television in Hebrew reports at 1030 gmt that a vehicle
driven by a suspected terrorist ran over pedestrians "at two difference scenes"
in East Jerusalem. The head of the Magen David Adom ambulance service, Eli Bin,
said that "three people sustained serious wounds" in the attack, while others
suffered moderate and light wounds.

According to the report, the driver of the vehicle that hit the pedestrians has
been shot to death.

Source: Channel 2 TV, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1030 gmt 5 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 5, 2014 Wednesday

Death toll in Al-Asha terror attack rises to seven - Saudi report

LENGTH: 436 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Arab News website on 5 November

[Report by Muhammad al-Sulami: "Death toll in Al-Ahsa terror attack rises to
seven"]

Eleven people, including two terrorists and two security officers, died in
terror-related attacks on Tuesday [4 November] in Al-Ahsa in the Eastern
Province and Al-Shaqra in Qassim Province.

"Seven men were killed and seven injured when three masked men opened fire at a
group of citizens in Dalwah town in Al-Ahsa governorate," said Interior Ministry
spokesman Maj-Gen Mansour Al-Turki.

"Fifteen men involved in the terror act were caught in simultaneous police
operations in six cities, including Shaqra in Qassim province, and Al-Ahsa and
Alkhobar in the Eastern Province," Al-Turki said.

In the operations in Shaqra, two security officers and two wanted terror
suspects died. The slain security officers were identified as Capt Mohammed
Al-Enezi and Corp. Turki Al-Rasheed.

Al-Rasheed was transferred to Qassim recently, and his wife gave birth to a
daughter two months ago.

The Council of Senior Scholars condemned the attack. "This dastardly attack is a
horrendous crime that should result in the harshest form of punishment under
Islamic law because it ... took the lives of innocent people and disrupted the
country's security, stability and peaceful life of citizens," Shaykh Fahd
Al-Majed, secretary general of the council, said in a statement.

The sheikh also called on citizens to unite against attempts by criminals to
destabilize the country and play into the hands of the enemies of Islam.

A source at Al-Jeffer hospital released the names of the deceased. They are
Muhammad Al-Mushrif bin Husain Saleh Al-Mushrif, Hadi Khalifa Al-Motawieh,
Muhammad Husain Al-Basrawi, Ibn Salman Al-Basheer and Zuhair Habib Al-Motawieh.

According to eyewitnesses, several unidentified gunmen shot at a group of
mourners. There were contradictory reports about the type of car used by the
perpetrators.

Another eyewitness said the police chased after the shooters in the direction of
Al-Jeffer, Taraf and Jesha villages.

Earlier, a spokesman of the Eastern Province police said three masked gunmen got
out of a car parked in front of a house in Dalwah and opened fire at a group of
people leaving a building.

They opened fire with machine guns and pistols. The injured are being treated at
a local hospital.

Al-Ahsa Gov. Prince Badr bin Jelawi visited the injured at the hospital. "It is
a criminal and terrorist act that harms society. Such acts are unacceptable," he
told reporters.

Most of the injured are under 18.

Source: Arab News website, Jedda, in English 5 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 5, 2014 Wednesday

Russia condemns terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 225 words


Text of "Comment by the Information and Press Department on the terrorist act in
Saudi Arabia" published in English on the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs
website on 5 November

On the night of 4 November, unidentified persons attacked a group of civilians
in the Al-Ahsa province in the east of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia with the use
of firearms, killing seven and injuring as many. During an operation by Saudi
Arabian law enforcement services following the incident, two Saudi police
officers were killed and two were injured. Six people were arrested on suspicion
of involvement in this crime in a search operation, the Saudi Interior Ministry
said.

Moscow strongly condemns the atrocious act perpetrated by these terrorists, as a
result of which innocent civilians, as well as Saudi law enforcement officers
were killed or injured. We express our sincere condolences to the families of
those killed and wish a speedy recovery to those injured.

We reiterate the need to put a reliable barrier in the way of destructive forces
trying to sow the seeds of inter-religious and interethnic discord among the
people of various states in the Middle East, including Iraq, Syria, Lebanon,
Yemen, and Saudi Arabia, thus further aggravating the situation in the region.

5 November 2014

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Moscow, in English 5 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    November 5, 2014 Wednesday 11:26 AM GMT

Driver 'rams car into pedestrians in Jerusalem in suspected terrorist attack';
The driver of the car was shot dead by police on Wednesday. Picture: Israel
Police

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 350 words


A driver rammed a car into pedestrians in Jerusalem this morning in a suspected
terror attack, police have said.

Officers shot the suspect dead after the incident, officials said, which
appeared to target people waiting at a Light Rail stop in East Jerusalem.

A spokesperson for Israel Police said an unconfirmed number of injured people
were taken to hospital and the area has been closed off.

In a similar incident last month, a three-month-old baby girl was killed and
seven people wounded when another man drove a car into a crowded station near
Ammunition Hill in Jerusalem.

The suspect, Abdel Rahman Al-Shaludi, was also shot dead by security officials.

Jerusalem has seen weeks of angry protests after Rabbi Yehuda Glick was shot at
the prominent religious site known as Temple Mount by Jews and the Holy
Sanctuary or al-Haram al-Sharif by Muslims.

The site, which contains the al-Aqsa Mosque and Dome of the Rock, saw renewed
clashes today after the attack on Rabbi Glick and subsequent police shooting of
a suspect sparked demonstrations.

Read more: Closure of holy site called 'declaration of war'Benjamin Netanyahu
rejects 'coward' remarks by US officialBaby killed in attack on Jerusalem train
station

The Palestinian President, Mahmoud Abbas, called the closure of the holy site a
"declaration of war", while Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called the
shooting of Mr Glick an "act of terrorism".

The Noble Sanctuary/Temple Mount is open to Jews and followers of other
religions as visitors but only Muslims are allowed to pray at the site.

It lies in East Jerusalem, which was captured by Israel in the Six-Day War of
1967 and remains a focal point for the Arab-Israeli conflict as the Palestinian
Authority continues to claim sovereignty.

It is a flashpoint for violence when tensions rise in Israel and the Occupied
Palestinian Territories and has seen angry protests over the summer.

As well as tensions following the 50-day war in Gaza earlier this year, there is
anger over Israel's plans to press forward with the construction of Jewish
settlements in the largely Muslim East Jerusalem.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 5, 2014 Wednesday 6:21 PM GMT

One person killed in terror attack after car ploughs into crowds in Jerusalem
before driver attacks pedestrians with a metal bar before being shot dead

BYLINE: SAM WEBB FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 857 words



     ·    The Palestinian man ploughed into commuters onto a crowded platform
     ·    He then attacked people with an iron bar before police gunned him down
     ·    Police identified the attacker as Ibrahim al-Akri, 38
     ·    Tensions between Arabs and Jews in Jerusalem are high amid clashes


A Palestinian man rammed a minivan into a crowded train platform in east
Jerusalem on Wednesday and then attacked people with an iron bar after leaving
the vehicle, killing one person and injuring 13 in what authorities called a
terror attack before he was shot dead by police.

The militant Hamas group took responsibility for the attack, the second such
assault in east Jerusalem in the past two weeks. Neighboring Jordan called back
the kingdom's ambassador to Israel for consultations in a gesture of protest
over the violence in east Jerusalem.

The attack deepened already heightened tensions between Arabs and Jews in the
city. Earlier Wednesday, Israeli police had dispersed dozens of masked
Palestinians who threw rocks and firecrackers near a contested holy site in
Jerusalem's Old City.

Scroll down for video

Police said the motorist slammed his car - a white minivan - into the train
platform in east Jerusalem first, backed out and proceeded to drive away,
hitting several cars along the way.

He then got out of the car and attacked a group of civilians and police officers
on the side of the road with a metal bar before he was shot and killed. Security
camera footage appeared to show him darting about a crowded intersection before
he was shot.

Israeli police said 'one person was killed and about a dozen people were injured
in the terror attack.'

Police identified the attacker as Ibrahim al-Akri, a 38 year old Palestinian,
and said he had recently been released from prison after serving time for
security offenses.

Hamas, which controls the Gaza Strip, said al-Akri was a member of the group and
that his brother was in exile in Turkey after being released in a 2011 prisoner
swap. Hamas' West Bank commander, Saleh Arouri, is based in Turkey.

It said in a statement that al-Akri, 'whose blood watered the land of the
occupied holy city of Jerusalem, preferred but to retaliate for the blood of his
people and the sacredness of the Al-Aqsa Mosque and Jerusalem.'

Hamas official Fawzi Barhoum praised the 'glorious operation' and called for
more such attacks.

Israel and Hamas are bitter enemies, and fought a bruising 50-day war over the
summer. Israel had no immediate response to the Hamas claim.

Israel's Minister of Public Security Yitzhak Ahronovich said civilians and
police officers were among the victims. He praised the police officer who killed
al-Akri, saying that "a terrorist who attacks civilians deserves to be killed."

The attack was almost identical to one two weeks ago, also committed by a
Palestinian from east Jerusalem who rammed his car into a crowded train station,
killing a 3-month-old Israeli-American girl and a woman from Ecuador - not far
from the scene of Wednesday's attack.

East Jerusalem has experienced unrest since the summer, with Palestinian youths
throwing stones and firebombs at motorists and clashing frequently with Israeli
police.

Israel captured east Jerusalem - with its sites sacred to Jews, Muslims and
Christians - from Jordan in the 1967 war. Palestinians demand the territory for
their future capital. The fate of the area is an emotional issue for Jews and
Muslims and its future lies at the heart of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

Much of the recent unrest has focused around a sacred compound revered by both
Jews and Muslims. It's the holiest site for Jews, who call it the Temple Mount
because of the revered Jewish Temples that stood there in biblical times.
Muslims refer to it as the Noble Sanctuary, and it is their third holiest site,
after Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia.

Wednesday's car attack came shortly after clashes in the Old City, where
Palestinians threw rocks and firecrackers at police to protest a planned visit
to a key holy site by Israeli supporters of a rabbi who was shot by a
Palestinian gunman last week.

The Israelis had planned on commemorating a week since the attack on
American-Israeli activist Yehuda Glick, who has campaigned for more Jewish
access to the location, which is revered by Jews as the Temple Mount and by
Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary. Palestinians view such visits as a provocation
and often respond violently. Glick remains in serious condition.

Several police officers were hurt in Wednesday's clashes, said police spokesman
Micky Rosenfeld, adding that the police used stun grenades to disperse the
Palestinians. Quiet was soon restored, he said.

Muslim worshippers view Jewish prayer at the site as a provocation, and Israeli
authorities place tough restrictions on it. Everyone visiting the area from the
Israeli side has to be screened by police.

In the Jordanian capital of Amman, the government instructed the foreign
ministry to call in the kingdom's ambassador to Israel for consultation in a
gesture meant to protest the violence in east Jerusalem. Under a longstanding
arrangement with Israel, Jordan retains custodial rights over Muslim holy sites
in the Old City.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 5, 2014 Wednesday 1:11 PM GMT

Inside the reopened World Trade Center: Stunning interior revealed as building
opens for business 13 years after 9/11 terrorist attack

BYLINE: ANNABEL GROSSMAN FOR MAILONLINE and ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1374 words



     ·    Publishing giant Conde Nast moved in Monday at One World Trade Center,
          a 104-story, $3.9 billion skyscraper
     ·    The building is 60 per cent leased with advertising firm Kids
          Creative, and Legends Hospitality also moving in
     ·    Port Authority director said New York City skyline is 'whole again',
          as One World Trade Center takes its place
     ·    City officials have called One World Trade Center in lower Manhattan
          'the most secure office building in America'
     ·    The building, which is America's tallest, is open to tenants but a
          date for opening ceremony has yet to be decided


Thirteen years after the 9/11 terrorist attack, the resurrected World Trade
Center is again opening for business - marking an emotional milestone for both
New Yorkers and the nation.

Publishing giant Conde Nast have already started moving into One World Trade
Center, a 104-story, $3.9 billion skyscraper that dominates the Manhattan
skyline. It is America's tallest building.

It's the centerpiece of the 16-acre site where the decimated twin towers once
stood and where more than 2,700 people died on September 11, 2001, buried under
smoking mounds of fiery debris.

Pictures released today showed areas of the building open to the public,
including the lobby, reception and pristine hallways leading to trains and the
street.

Scroll down for videos

New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said in a statement Monday: 'One World Trade
Center serves as a symbol of the resilience of the people of New York.

'Today, as we open its doors for the first time, we remember that strength and
courage will always conquer weakness and cowardice, and that the American
spirit, defended by proud New Yorkers, will not be defeated.

'That lesson and that example live on today as powerful as they were 13 years
ago. This is a tremendous day for all New Yorkers, proving once again that the
spirit of resurgence and community lives on stronger than ever before.'

A date for an opening ceremony for America's tallest building has yet to be
decided, The Wall Street Journal reported today.

One World Trade Center serves as a symbol of the resilience of the people of New
York. Today, as we open its doors for the first time, we remember that strength
and courage will always conquer weakness and cowardice, and that the American
spirit, defended by proud New Yorkers, will not be defeated New York Governor
Andrew Cuomo

'The New York City skyline is whole again, as One World Trade Center takes its
place in Lower Manhattan,' said Patrick Foye, executive director of the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey that owns both the building and the World
Trade Center site.

He said One World Trade Center 'sets new standards of design, construction,
prestige and sustainability; the opening of this iconic building is a major
milestone in the transformation of Lower Manhattan into a thriving 24/7
neighborhood.'

With construction fences gone and boxes of office equipment in place, Conde Nast
CEO Chuck Townsend planned to walk on Monday into what Mr Foye calls 'the most
secure office building in America'.

Only about 170 of his company's 3,400 employees are moving in now, filling five
floors of the tower, said Patricia Rockenwagner, a Conde Nast vice president and
spokeswoman. About 3,000 more will arrive by early 2015.

Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue, will move to the 25th floor along with her
staff, while Graydon Carter, Vanity Fair editor, will take the 41st floor.

Chris Mitchell, publisher of Vanity Fair, has yet to move into the building but
he arrived at One World Trade Center on Monday for an early morning meeting.

'To me, it's really coming full circle,' he told the Wall Street Journal. 'That
was such a tragic day and this is such a day of promise.'

Jessica Lappin, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, added that the
building's opening showed that 'our way of life, our determination to carry on,
to write, create and speak our minds, would not be cowed by the evil that
visited us that dark day 13 years ago'.

ROCKY START: SNL ON NEW WTC

Comic Chris Rock didn't pull any punches on Saturday Night Live this weekend as
he made a joke about the new World Trade Center.

He said: ''They should change it from the Freedom Tower to the Never Going In
There Tower.'

He continued: 'What do they have? Does this building duck? What were they
thinking? Who's the corporate sponsor - Target?

He insisted: 'I don't care if Scarlett Johansson is buck naked on the 89th floor
in a plate of ribs - I'm not going in there.'

The building is 60 per cent leased, with another 80,000 square feet going to the
advertising firm Kids Creative, the stadium operator Legends Hospitality, the
BMB Group investment adviser, and Servcorp, a provider of executive offices.

The government's General Services Administration signed up for 275,000 square
feet, and the China Center, a trade and cultural facility, will cover 191,000
square feet.

From the northeast corner of the site, the tower overlooks the National
September 11 Memorial & Museum built in the footprints of the twin towers.

Its stated aim is to honor those who perished on that sunny September morning.

For years, the grisly pit where workers found mostly body parts was dubbed the
'ground zero' of the aerial terror attack.

Now, the illuminated spire of One World Trade Center serves as a beacon to
planes that fly over the city, seemingly at eye level with the high rise's open
rooftop.

The view stretches from Manhattan to the Statue of Liberty into New Jersey and
Connecticut and all the way to the Atlantic Ocean.

At night, the incandescent steel-and-glass behemoth can be seen from vessels in
New York Harbor approaching Manhattan.

'DOZENS OF UNREPORTED INJURIES DURING BUILDING OF WTC'

There have been dozens of unreported injuries during the construction of One
World Trade Center, a new investigation has found.

There were 34 serious injuries among workers over the decade it took to rebuild
- but were not reported to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration,
the  Daily News found.

Among the incidents, was one work struck in the head with 60lb of steel and
another who fell 20 feet from collapsing scaffolding. One apprentice ironworker
Ethan Villalona, 23, still feels the effects of injuries sustained at One World
Trade two years ago. He walks with a cane after having his legs crushed and
pelvis fractured by a falling steel beam.

MailOnline was awaiting a comment from both Port Authority and the Department of
Labor.

An observation deck eventually will be open to the public.

'There's so many people who have done so much to bring it where it is,' said
Dave Checketts, the CEO of Legends, the company operating the observatory on
floors 100-102, told ABC News.

'I give them all a lot of credit for staying with the fight because the finished
product is going to be something inspirational to people and comforting.'

'It's a brute fact. We did come back,' he added. 'We brought it back; we built
it even higher than it was before.'

The eight-year construction of the 1,776-foot high skyscraper came after years
of political, financial and legal infighting that threatened to derail the
project.

The bickering slowly died down as two other towers started going up on the
southeast end of the site.

The now completed 4 World Trade Center whose anchor tenant is the Port
Authority, and 3 World Trade Center that's slowly rising.

The spirit of renewal did not quash memories of the horrific act of terror, but
the area has prospered in recent years beyond anyone's imagination.

About 60,000 more residents now live there - three times more than before 9/11 -
keeping streets, restaurants and shops alive even after Wall Street and other
offices close for the day.

Still, it's a bittersweet victory, one achieved with the past in mind as the
architects created One World Trade Center.

T.J. Gottesdiener of the Skidmore, Owings & Merrill firm that produced the final
design said the high-rise was built with steel-reinforced concrete that makes it
as terror attack-proof as possible.

He said the firm went beyond the city's existing building codes to achieve that.

'We did it, we finally did it,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 5, 2014 Wednesday 12:09 AM GMT

Theresa May turns her fire on the Culture Secretary;
The Home Secretary warns one of her long-term rivals for the Tory leadership
that one of his key polices could leave Britain open to terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Keith Perry and Stephen Swinford

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 730 words


Theresa May, the Home Secretary, has risked a fresh cabinet row after reportedly
warning the Culture Secretary that one of his key policies could leave Britain
open to terrorist attacks.

As Sajid Javid announced government plans to eliminate mobile signal blackspots
across Britain, a leaked memo revealed that the Home Secretary was calling for
further studies to show that the plans do not prevent police accessing
"information that is crucial to keeping us safe".

In a letter to the Prime Minister and other senior cabinet members seen by the
Times, she warned that the plans, which include forcing mobile phone operators
to allow their customers switch to rivals' signals if their own is not
available, could have a detrimental impact on law enforcement, security and
intelligence agency access to communications data and lawful intercept".

The culture secretary made improving phone coverage, which is poorest in rural
areas, his priority after his promotion to the cabinet in the summer.
Conservative strategists believe that action to close the gaps, estimated to
cover a fifth of Britain, is a way of winning back support in former countryside
heartlands being targeted by Ukip.

David Cameron, a strong supporter of action on "not-spots", has complained about
the poor reception in Cornwall, where he takes family holidays, and in other
rural areas.

Mr Javid confirmed last month that his favoured option was to make companies
allow customers to swap between networks to bring about "national roaming". He
has said it is not fair that visitors from the Continent are instantly switched
to a rival provider when they lose signal - a requirement of EU law - while the
service is unavailable to domestic customers.

However, Mrs May, who was criticised this week by Norman Baker on his
resignation as a home office minister for being "uncollegiate", has warned the
prime minister and other senior cabinet members that the change risked
undermining national security.

Her letter said that two of the proposed options, including national roaming,
"could have a detrimental impact on law enforcement, security and intelligence
agency access to communications data and lawful intercept". She also raises
objections to another option, allowing companies such as Tesco to offer
customers packages that use all four of the main networks.

Mrs May calls for further studies to make sure that the changes do not stop
police from accessing "information that is crucial to keeping us safe". She
argues that their ability to listen to calls and read emails is "vital to
protecting the public from crime and terrorism".

It has been estimated that a million people, spread across a fifth of the
country, suffer from unreliable network coverage.

Mr Javid's threat to introduce new legislation comes after leading mobile phone
companies refused to co-operate. Other proposals in the consultation will force
mobile phone operators to share phone masts in rural areas.

Mr Javid said: "I'm determined to ensure the UK has world-class mobile phone
coverage as investment in infrastructure will help drive this government's
long-term economic plan.

"It can't be right that in a fifth of the UK, people cannot use their phones to
make a call. The government isn't prepared to let this situation continue.

"Businesses have been clear about the importance of mobile phones and improved
coverage will help deliver jobs and economic security."

The Government is launched a consultation on the reforms this week after the
failure of the "big four" phone operators - Vodafone, O2, EE and Three - to
reach a voluntary agreement with ministers on improving coverage in areas where
reception is patchy.

In these so-called "partial not-spots", signal is limited to one or two mobile
networks. Customers who have contracts with networks that do not cover these
zones cannot make calls or send text messages, even though other networks may be
available.

Ministers have separately promised to provide £150 million to fund "hundreds" of
new mobile phone masts providing coverage to the most rural areas.

The DCMS cited research by the Federation of Small Businesses which found that
71 per cent of companies rated mobile phones as crucial or very important to
their business, but that 51 per cent had problems with coverage "very or quite
often".

A Home Office spokesman said: "We wouldn't comment on a leaked document."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 6, 2014 Thursday

Saudi grand mufti, Gulf bloc chief say recent terror attack bid to destabilize

LENGTH: 566 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Arab News website on 6 November

[Report by MD al-Sulami: "Terrorist Attempt To 'Destabilize, Divide' the Kingdom
Denounced"]

Saudi Grand Mufti Sheikh Abdul Aziz Al-Asheikh has slammed the terrorists who
gunned down seven people this week, for trying to destabilize and divide the
country.

"What happened in Al-Ahsa is an example of brutal aggression and a great
injustice. This is carried out by sick minds seeking to incite fitna between
people, God forbid," he said.

He said these acts were being carried out by those who want "to open the door to
sectarian conflict so that we kill and destroy each other," he warned in a
televised speech on Tuesday.

"We live in one state, secure and stable under a single government that brings
us together," the grand mufti said. He called on the government to punish those
responsible in the harshest possible manner.

GCC Secretary-General Dr Abdullatif bin Rashid Al-Zayani said: "The attack
violates the basic principles of Islam. It was aimed at causing division and
sedition. However, the terrorists will not succeed in achieving their nefarious
objectives."

Police found the body of one of the attackers in Buraidah on Wednesday. It was
not clear who killed him. This means that three terrorists have lost their
lives. The other two were killed in a shootout in Shaqra on Tuesday.

Meanwhile, thousands of people attended the funeral prayers Wednesday of two
security officers killed in the shootout with the terrorists.

Prayers for Capt. Muhammad Al-Enezi and Cpl. Turki Al-Rasheed were held in Hail
and in Buraidah. They were slain during a raid on a terrorist hideout in Mahlmin
district in north Hail on Tuesday.

The two officers were members of the Qassim Emergency Force that conducted the
raid in connection with Monday's shootout in Al-Ahsa, which saw masked gunmen
kill seven people.

Interior Minister Prince Mohammed bin Naif called on the family of Al-Rasheed in
Hail and conveyed the condolences of Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King
Abdullah and Crown Prince Salman. He later visited Buraidah and offered
condolences to the family of Al-Enezi.

Hail Gov. Prince Saud bin Abdul Muhsin joined the funeral prayers for Al-Rasheed
on Wednesday afternoon. Prince Saud offered his condolences to the bereaved
family and said that citizens should be proud of their loyal service to their
country. Undersecretary at the prince's office, Saad Al-Bogami, also attended
the prayers.

Meanwhile, security sources said that investigators had arrested 20 people in
connection with the Al-Ahsa attacks. One person was freed after being arrested
on 12 counts of terror-related charges.

According to the sources, members of the public had helped the security agencies
arrest the suspects. Some have been released on bail.

Eyewitnesses said police conducted a raid in the Rawabi district in Riyadh, in
connection with the Al-Ahsa attack. After police cordoned off and secured roads
in the district, they heard gunshots. It was not clear whether it was warning
shots or an exchange of fire.

A high-level security source, quoted by Asharq Al-Awsat, a sister publication of
Arab News, on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to brief the
media, said that some members of this "terrorist cell" had previously been
arrested or convicted on terror-related charges.

Source: Arab News website, Jedda, in English 6 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 6, 2014 Thursday

Saudi personalities, diplomats, civil society condemn "cowardly" terror attack

LENGTH: 628 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Arab News website on 6 November

[Report by Ghazanfar Ali Khan: "Terror Strike Shocks Nation"]

A cross-section of people including Shoura members, human rights activists and
diplomats expressed their profound shock and dismay on Wednesday at the terror
attack in Al-Ahsa and Al-Shaqra resulting in the death of citizens and security
officials. Hoda Abdulrahman Al-Helaissi, a member of the Shoura Council,
condemned, in the strongest terms possible, the cowardly terrorist attacks.

She offered her heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families, while wishing
speedy recovery to those wounded in the attacks. She called for "continued and
coordinated efforts to prevent and combat the scourge of terrorism." "These
kinds of incidents are alien to the Saudi society, which has been exceptionally
peaceful," she added.

The attack happened late Monday evening in the village of Al-Dalwah, which is
located in the country's eastern Al-Ahsa region, and is a major oil-producing
area that is also one of the main centres of the Shi'i community. The attackers
shot the victims with pistols and machine guns, according to officials.
Authorities blamed the deadly attack on Al-Qaeda.

Hours after the attack, two Saudi policemen and two suspects linked to the
incident died in a shootout in the Qassim region. Saudi officers have rounded up
up to 20 suspects across several cities after the initial shooting in the
Eastern Province. "They are followers of the deviant ideology," Interior
Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Mansour Al-Turki said.

Referring to the cowardly act of terrorism, Ibrahim Al-Qayid, a member of the
National Society for Human Rights (NSHR), said that "such a tragic incident had
never been seen before in Saudi society, which is known for its tolerance,
coexistence and peace that bring together different groups of people."

"I appreciate the condemnation and call made by the grand mufti to the
government and to the people to act against the menace of terrorism and to show
solidarity."

Former Shoura member and prominent businessman Saleh M. Alshuaibi said that
"such a despicable act is alien to all human values and is in contradiction with
all Islamic laws, which call for the protection of human lives."

"This kind of unruly behaviour is not acceptable," he warned. "If someone has
some differences, there are ways to solve them by talking and holding dialogue
... but holding guns and killing innocent people are condemnable and
disgusting," said Alshuaibi.

"The Saudi society asserts its unwavering support to the Saudi government to
take all necessary measures to deter the outlaws and preserve stability and
security on its territories," said Ahmed Al-Hassan, another businessman. On the
shooting that has heightened concerns among the citizens and residents, Saudi
academic Abdulaziz Al-Fadel said that it has been widely condemned by people
from all walks of life.

"This is evident from the floods of opinion and comments being shared by people
on social media networks since last night," said Al-Fadel. In fact, Saudis sent
more than 250,000 tweets discussing the incident. Local diplomats also condemned
the shooting in strong terms. Palestinian Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Basem A.
Alagha expressed his sympathy for the families of the victims and said that "the
incident was an act of terrorism meant to destabilize the Kingdom."

Another diplomat from an Asian country, who preferred to remain anonymous,
condemned the bloodshed and urged "collective action in confronting such cruel
and inhumane acts." He said: "The terror outfits operating in the Middle East as
well as divisive forces are jealous of the Kingdom because of the safe and
secure environment."

Source: Arab News website, Jedda, in English 6 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 6, 2014 Thursday

Israel's envoy to UN slams Security Council silence in wake of "terror attacks"

LENGTH: 564 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 6 November

[Unattributed report: "Israel's UN Envoy Lashes Out at Security Council for
Silence in Wake of Deadly Terror Attacks"]

Israel's ambassador to the UN, Ron Prosor, lashed out at the UN Security
Council's silence in the wake of of two terror attacks and violent riots at the
Temple Mount on Wednesday.

"If recent events offer any indication, the Security Council will once again
remain silent as Israel buries yet another victim of Palestinian terrorism,"
Prosor wrote in his official letter to the council.

He further criticized the council's lack of action as terror attacks were
glorified, referring to Palestinian [National] Authority president Mahmud Abbas'
letter of condolence to the family of the shooter who tried to kill activist
Rabbi Yehuda Glick on October 29.

The UN Security Council recently met on October 29 for an "emergency" meeting
regarding new Israeli building plans in Jerusalem and over the Green Line.

Below is the full text of Prosor's letter:

"Excellency,

"If recent events offer any indication, the Security Council will once again
remain silent as Israel buries yet another victim of Palestinian terrorism.
Earlier today, a terrorist rammed his vehicle onto two crowded Jerusalem train
platforms, killing Jedan Assad and injuring 14 others. Shortly after the attack
HAMAS claimed responsibility, calling the perpetrator a 'martyr' and describing
the attack as 'a heroic operation.'

"This is the most recent example of the violence that has come in the wake of
inflammatory remarks made by the Palestinian leadership. Two weeks ago,
Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas called on Palestinians to prevent Jews from
visiting the Temple Mount using 'all means' necessary. In response to this
blatantly dangerous provocation, the Security Council did not utter a word.

"Following Abbas's incitement, hundreds of Arabs rioted in Jerusalem, on 23
October a terrorist deliberately drove full speed onto a Jerusalem train
platform killing two people, and days later, Palestinian terrorist, Moataz
Hijazi, shot Rabbi Yehuda Glick. The Security Council continued to remain
silent.

"As Rabbi Yehuda Glick lay in a coma, fighting for his life, President Abbas saw
fit to write a condolence letter to the family of the would-be murderer. In the
letter he describes Israeli security forces as 'terrorists' and glorified Hijazi
as a 'martyr.' President Abbas is sanctioning and celebrating murder and
Israelis are paying with their lives. Still nothing from the Security Council.

"I write to you today with the full expectation that the Council will continue
adhering to its vow of silence. Should the Council revise its policy and deem it
appropriate to condemn the Palestinians leadership's incitement and the violence
that follows, I will be the first to commend the Council for embracing sound
judgment and upholding international peace and security.

"I should be grateful if you would have this letter distributed as an official
document of the Security Council. I wish to inform you that an identical letter
has been sent to H.E. Mr Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Please accept, Excellency, the assurance of my highest consideration.

"Yours truly,

"Ron Prosor

"Ambassador

"Permanent Representative"

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 6 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 6, 2014 Thursday

Al-Alam TV's "With the Event" on "terrorist" attack in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 94 words


Iranian Arabic-language Al-Alam TV's "With the Event" programme on 5 November
discussed a "terrorist" attack in eastern Saudi Arabia during the Shi'i Muslim
ceremony of Ashura.

The episode, entitled: "Saudi Arabia and return of Takfiri terrorism in
country", was presented by Fu'ad al-Kharsah.

It hosted in studio Muslim cleric Shaykh Abd-al-Nasir Jabri; via phone from
Riyadh, Sa'd Bin-Umar, head of Horn of Arabia Studies Centre; from London via
Skype, Hamza al-Hasan, Saudi writer.

No further processing planned.

Source: Al-Alam TV, Tehran, in Arabic 1805 gmt 5 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           November 6, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Three-quarters of City workers are fearful of a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Justin Davenport

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 254 words


NEARLY three-quarters of the people who live and work in the City of London are
concerned about a terrorist attack, a survey has shown.

A poll by the City police force shows more people in the Square Mile are worried
about terrorism, 73 per cent, than Londoners as a whole, at 68 per cent.

Women are also more concerned about the risk of an attack than men, the survey
says.

City police carried out their poll of more than 2,000 people in October, two
months after the UK's threat level was raised from "substantial" to "severe",
meaning a terrorist incident was highly likely.

There are fears that British jihadi fighters returning from Iraq and Syria or
"lone wolf" fanatics will stage an atrocity in London or elsewhere in the
country.

The poll shows that 87 per cent of Londoners as a whole think the public are
important in fighting terrorism, with 73 per cent saying they are likely to
report suspicious behaviour to the police.

City Police Commissioner Adrian Leppard said his officers were trying to be less
predictable in antiterror patrols in the Square Mile. He revealed that a new
operation which involves officers trained in spotting suspicious behaviour had
led to nearly 100 arrests since it was launched in February, and added: "The
public should be vigilant to the threat posed by terrorism and this survey shows
they are willing to work with the police to prevent such attacks.

"The people of London are resilient and knowledgeable about the risk from
terrorism and know they are key to helping fight the threat."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           November 6, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Three-quarters of City workers fear terror attack

BYLINE: Justin Davenport

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 110 words


NEARLY three-quarters of the people who live and work in the City of London are
concerned about a terrorist attack, a survey has shown.

A poll by the City police force shows more people in the Square Mile are worried
about terrorism, 73 per cent, than Londoners as a whole, at 68 per cent. It says
that women are also more concerned about the risk of an attack than men.

City police carried out their poll of more than 2,000 people in October, two
months after the UK's terrorist threat level was raised from "substantial" to
"severe" amid fears that British jihadi fighters returning from Iraq and Syria
or "lone wolf" fanatics could stage an atrocity in London.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           November 6, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack »at station;
BRIEFLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 51 words


A PALESTINIAN man rammed his car into a crowded train platform in east Jerusalem
yesterday.

The man then attacked people with an iron bar and injured at least six in what
authorities called a terror attack before he was shot dead by police. Militant
group Hamas praised the attack and called for more violence.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                           November 6, 2014 Thursday

Folk singer Sam Baker on surviving a terrorist attack and how it changed his
life

BYLINE: Tony Dewhurst

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 440 words


THE young German boy and his parents had been sitting on facing seats and the
bomb that killed them was in the luggage rack above their heads, placed in the
train by terrorists.

The man in the fourth seat was Sam Baker.

"Their young son spoke pretty good English, so we talked a bit," recalled Baker.

"The next thing I know they were all dead.

"It is a miracle I'm here.

"I should have died on that journey."

Baker was travelling around Peru with friends in 1986 when they boarded the
carriage of a train bound for Machu Picchu - a train on which the Shining Path
Maoist group had, just minutes before, planted a red rucksack full of
explosives.

That he survived at all is remarkable: The explosion severed the main artery and
vein in his left thigh and he almost bled to death.

He suffered brain damage, kidney failure, gangrene, a badly-mangled hand,
hearing loss, and endured years of surgery.

Perhaps the most extraordinary part of Baker's story, though, is that he is now
making a name for himself as one of the most respected singer song-writers in
contemporary folk music, using his live performances as a method of coming to
terms with that life-changing moment in South America.

"After the bombing, for many years, there was a sense of isolation for me, like
I was in some kind of fog," said Baker. "For a long time I wanted to understand
what had happened and what had happened to those I was sitting around and be
able to write that in a way that made sense to me, so I could clear up that
moment of chaos and fear.

"I went through a lot of bitterness and there was a lot of anger in me.

"I drank to forget and I fell into a horrible world of black thoughts.

"But those things are toxic and they can destroy you.

"But life is a great gift and I'd never have known the goodness of the world if
that bomb hadn't gone off.

"Before, I was a completely self-absorbed person, but now I see so many ordinary
people who give so much in life through their acts of bravery."

Although the Texas-based artist has written directly about his experiences, most
of his new songs are about other lives. When I sing about someone else's world,
I think that probably came from those days of not being able to move because of
my injuries.

"If you're lying in intensive care, there is so much profound drama, it's life
and death.

"While I was in that place I think I absorbed a lot more than I can articulate."

Baker added: "Everybody has been knocked back, and for the most part, you know
what people do?

"They keep going, and the majority do it with grace, humour and a spirit of
generosity."

Sam Baker, Bury Met, November 16.

Call 0161 761 2216. (£16) or www.themet.biz

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 7, 2014 Friday

Morocco flatly denounces "terrorist" attacks on vehicles transporting soldiers

LENGTH: 205 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, Nov 07, 2014 (MAP) - Morocco flatly denounced the terrorist attack that
targeted a vehicle transporting soldiers and their families, on Wednesday [5
November] in the Kef province in Tunisia.

The Kingdom of Morocco, while expressing its strong condemnation of this
criminal act which claimed many innocent lives and undermined the right to life
and all the lofty human values, extends its heartfelt condolences to the
brotherly Tunisian people and to the families of the victims, as well as its
wishes of speedy recovery to the wounded, said on Friday a statement by the
ministry of foreign affairs.

While reiterating its condemnation of terrorism in all its forms, Morocco
reaffirms its solidarity with the Tunisian Republic in all its efforts to fight
this dangerous plague which targets the security and stability not only of
Tunisia, but also the whole region, it said.

Morocco calls, on this occasion, for the intensification of regional and
international efforts to face this phenomenon which threatens peace and security
worldwide, the statement concluded.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 2018 gmt 7 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 7, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

India on alert for terrorist attacks;
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 51 words


Decrypted communications between the Indian Mujahideen group and al-Qaeda have
triggered alarm that India may be a target for terrorist attacks.

Officials told the Reuters news agency they had uncovered plots to kidnap
foreigners and turn India into a "Syria and Iraq where violence is continuously
happening".

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 7, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

IRA 'is only to blame for terror attack'

BYLINE: JILLY BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 120 words


PSNI chief George Hamilton yesterday said only the IRA would be responsible if
people were killed or injured as a result of its attacks.

He hit out at the group's statements threatening to murder anyone who works in
partnership with officers.

The IRA confirmed on Wednesday it was behind the mortar bomb attack on a PSNI
vehicle in Creggan, Derry, on Sunday night.

The organisation claimed police would prefer to see a civilian fatally wounded
instead of an officer.

Speaking to the Policing Board, Mr Hamilton said: "The people responsible for
these acts have said it would be the PSNI's fault if a community member is
killed or injured.

"It is not worth responding to the perverted logic that they use to justify
their actions."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANGER George Hamilton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      November 7, 2014 Friday 4:35 PM GMT

Four men arrested over alleged plot for Islamist terror attack 'on British soil'

BYLINE: Sarah Ann Harris

LENGTH: 274 words


FOUR men have today been arrested in connection with an alleged Islamist terror
plot today.

GETTY

Police detained four men in the arrests

The men, who are aged between 19 and 27, were detained at locations across west
London and Thames Valley, Scotland Yard said.

The force said that although armed officers assisted at two premises, no shots
were fired.

The men remain in custody at police stations in central London.

It is understood the men were believed to be plotting an attack on British soil.

A number of residential addresses and vehicles are now being searched.

The Metropolitan Police said that the arrests and searches are part of an
"ongoing investigation into Islamist related terrorism".

Three of the men - aged 22, 19 and 25 - were arrested at addresses in west
London and High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, while a 27-year-old man was detained
in the street in west London by armed officers.

Several people were arrested last month by counter-terrorism detectives of a
potential plot to attack Britain.

The current terror threat level to the UK is severe, meaning that a terrorist
attack is highly likely.

M15 says that the threat comes principally from al-Qaeda and its related
networks, as well as the so-called Islamic State militant group.

Related articles Fourth Islamic State jihadist from Portsmouth killed in Syria
Tools of Terror: Facebook and Twitter are 'command and control centre' of
Islamic State Man, 26, arrested in Cornwall on suspicion of preparing for an act
of terrorism Company defends use of 'quite hairy' 9/11 mastermind in hair
removal advert Teenager arrested in London charged with preparing to commit acts
of terrorism

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      November 7, 2014 Friday 4:41 PM GMT

Were Islamic terrorists plotting Remembrance Day attacks? Armed police arrest
four men at addresses across London and Home Counties

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 663 words



     ·    One of the suspects, a 27-year-old, arrested by armed police in the
          street
     ·    Remaining three men, aged 22, 19, and 25, were held at different
          addresses
     ·    Scotland Yard says the arrests are linked to 'Islamist related
          terrorism'
     ·    Raids were in High Wycombe, Bucks, and Hounslow, West London
     ·    Timing raises chance attack could've been planned for Remembrance
          Sunday


Counter-terrorism officers working with MI5 have arrested four young Muslim men,
prompting speculation they may have stopped an attack planned for Remembrance
Day.

Scotland Yard has said officers from its SO15 terrorism command held the
suspects in west London and in High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, overnight.

Police would not speculate on the alleged plot but it is reportedly linked to an
Islamist terror plot aimed at UK targets.

With Remembrance Sunday two days away, the arrests will raise fears of an attack
on servicemen or people remembering Britain's war dead.

According to reports detectives are investigating whether the alleged attack
would have involved a gun rather than a bomb.

One 27-year-old man was arrested by armed officers in the street, but no shots
were fired, the Met said.

The remaining three men are aged 22, 19, and 25, and were held at a number of
different addresses in Hounslow, London and in the Home Counties.

The suspects were all arrested on suspicion of being concerned in the
commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism.

It was reported the allegations are linked to a UK plot - not travelling to
Syria to join ISIS.

A Met spokesman: 'They have all been taken to police stations in central London
and remain in custody.

'A number of residential addresses and vehicles are being searched by specialist
officers in west London and Thames Valley as part of the investigation.

'These arrests and searches are part of an ongoing investigation into Islamist
related terrorism'.

The arrest made in the Thames Valley area was made in High Wycombe, in
Buckinghamshire, it is understood.

Today two police officers wearing high visibility jackets were posted outside
the brown wooden front door of the brick terraced house in Desborough Avenue,
near the town centre, where it was understood one of the terror suspects was
arrested overnight.

A cordon of police tape was placed around the brick driveway to the home, on
which a police patrol car was also parked.

A neighbour said today that he had had 'several run-ins' with a young man living
at the house, who he believed to be about 18 years.

He said the youngster, who he described as 'angry', had once flown into rage
over some music he was playing at his home, threatening to beat him up unless he
turned it off.

When he asked the teenager's mother about it, she told him: 'I'm sorry, it's my
son. He's young and he's just discovered his faith.'

The neighbour had noticed that the teenager had begun to grow a beard and wear
traditional muslim dress, including a white cap and robes.

All the curtains were closed at the terraced house where police forensic staff
were combing the home and garden for clues while neighbours stood in the street
and watched.

The neighbour said that he saw a woman, the teenager, a man aged in his 20s
along with two small children regularly coming and going from the address.

He said that he had been out when the raid took place early this morning and
that he arrived back at his home to find officers removing items from the
family's shed.

Today's terror raid in Desborough Avenue was not the first the road has seen.

In October 2008, a then 22-year-old man was questioned by police after being
arrested under the Terrorism Act.

The man was one of two from High Wycombe arrested after properties in the town
were raided in the early hours.

A Thames Valley Police spokesman said at the time: 'The arrests were made
following a routine search for an unrelated crime. Items were found which led to
their arrest under the Terrorism Act.'

Officers were not armed during the 2008 searches, which were described as 'large
scale'.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      November 7, 2014 Friday 4:33 AM GMT

Intelligence officials warn of future attacks in India as terror groups use IS
name to gather recruits

BYLINE: ABHISHEK BHALLA

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 977 words


Terror groups are invoking the name of the Islamic State (IS) as a tool to
recruit youths in India.

These youths can be trained in the lawless areas along the Pakistan-Afghanistan
border for carrying out terror strikes in India, officials in the security
establishment said.

Intelligence agencies have been on the trail of the IS, and recent inputs
indicate that the group does not have a presence in India.

But, its name is being used as a "proxy" by groups like the Indian Mujahideen
(IM) to attract youths who want to be part of the global jihad, the officials
told Mail Today.

Officials said this trend is being closely watched as it could be a new ploy
adopted by Pakistan-based terror groups that handle organisations like IM.

"Groups like IM and Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) are using the name
of IS to attract youths.

"There are inputs that they then want to take them to the area along the
Pakistan-Afghanistan border, and after training, send them back into India to
spread terror," said a top official in the security establishment who did not
want to be named.

Incidents of some youths in different parts of the country supporting the IS was
a "worrying sign", officials said.

"After a series of arrests of IM members, including its top commander in India
Yasin Bhatkal, the group took a beating and now they could be using the IS as a
platform in a bid to revive the organisation," a security official said.

The Intelligence Bureau, in a report sent to the Home Ministry, cited the
example of two men who were arrested by Tamil Nadu Police for openly supporting
the group.

The two men, Abdul Rehman and Rilvan, were accused of abetting criminal activity
as they distributed t-shirts with an IS logo to garner support for the group.

There have also been incidents of youths in Jammu and Kashmir waving IS flags
during protests. The Home Ministry has sought a report from the state government
on these incidents.

Four students from Hyderabad, who were recently nabbed by security agencies in
Kolkata, claimed they had planned to travel to Bangladesh, from where they were
to be sent to Iraq.

The students were not arrested, but a subsequent probe revealed that they were
recruited through the use of propaganda material that featured the IS.

Sources said such propaganda materials are being distributed by terror groups on
social media to enlist youths.

Intelligence agencies have been tracking social media platforms to keep a check
on this trend.

The Sunni militant group, which earlier called itself the Islamic State in Iraq
and Syria and is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, is responsible for a reign of
terror in the two countries.

Indian intelligence agencies have been following the activities of the IS after
reports of Indians joining them emerged.

The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has written to the Home Ministry to seek
permission to register an FIR against the group.

It was felt that an open case under different provisions of the Unlawful
Activities Prevention Act and United Nations Conventions could be filed for
brainwashing youths for terror activities.

However, the ministry is not in favour of a case being registered as there is a
view that the IS is not active in India and any action could lead to a backlash
against Indians in Iraq and Syria.

Some 40 Indians are still being held hostage by the IS in Iraq.

Central intelligence agencies have sought details from the states from which
young men are believed to have gone to Iraq.

"We are trying to identify families who have young men in Iraq. If we get
details and suspect that they could be fighting for IS, we will inform the Iraqi
authorities," said an official.

Wagah attackers vanish from Twitter

Two days after Mail Today reported how the terror group that claimed
responsibility for Sunday's blast at Attari-Wagah border was using Twitter to
issue warnings of a similar strike against India, the account disappeared from
the website.

Ehsanullah Ehsan, the self-styled spokesperson of Jamaat ul-Ahrar, a breakaway
Tehreek-e-Taliban faction, had also tweeted threats against Prime Minister
Narendra Modi.

His account, with the handle @EhsanTTPJA, could not be found on Twitter on
Thursday.

It is suspected that a possible intervention by central security agencies could
be the reason that it was taken off.

Official sources said Twitter was approached by central security agencies for
information about the account.

After collecting all cyber evidence, Twitter is understood to have decided to
shut down Ehsan's account.

When contacted, Twitter spokesperson Raheel Khursheed declined to comment.

"Twitter does not comment on any individual accounts," he said.

A search on the micro-blogging site showed another account in the name of
Ehsanullah Ehsan with @ehsanullah_ttp as a Twitter handle.

However, it was created in February this year and operated till April with only
26 tweets.

Sikh militant arrested

By Manjeet Sehgal

The Punjab Police have arrested a top Khalistan Tiger Force militant, Ramandeep
Singh alias Goldy, after a search operation spanning three nations.

The arrest was made at the Chennai airport late on Wednesday night after police
personnel brought Goldy back to India following his apprehension in Malaysia.

Earlier this year, Goldy was traced to Thailand, after which the police sent a
two-member team to the country.

Police sources said Rajpura DSP Rajinder Singh Sohal and Counter Intelligence
Inspector Mandeep Singh camped in Thailand for three weeks in September-October.



Goldy, however, managed to slip away to Malaysia, where he was finally caught
with the help of co-ordination between central agencies and Malaysian
authorities.

"The conspiracy to assassinate Rulda Singh, head of the RSS wing Rashtriya Sikh
Sangat, was executed by Ramandeep Singh. Rulda was shot dead on July 28, 2009,"
a Punjab Police spokesperson said.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                            November 7, 2014 Friday

Delhi airport told to close one runway in fear of terrorist attack

SECTION: ASIA AND AUSTRALASIA; Government and Public Interest

LENGTH: 293 words



HIGHLIGHT: One of the three runways at the Indira Gandhi International Airport
in New Delhi, India, could be closed due to fears of a terrorist attack on prime
locations in the capital city.


One of the three runways at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New
Delhi, India, could be closed due to fears of a terrorist attack on prime
locations in the capital city.

Since runway 27's approach path is the closest to central Delhi, the defence and
security establishment wants only military and VVIP planes to use it, reported
the Times of India (TOI).

However, the move is being opposed by civil authorities who feel that it will
hamper the airport from becoming a big aviation hub.

Currently, the airport operates three near-parallel runways; runway 11/29, with
CAT IIIB instrument landing system (ILS) on both sides, runway 10/28, and an
auxiliary runway 09/27.

The shortest of the three, the 9,229ft-long runway 27 is most commonly used for
arrivals. The combined capacity of the three runways is 75 aircraft an hour and
the airport handles an average of 950 flights daily. It handled 24,518 aircraft
movements in September.

Before the airport built its third runway in 2008, the airport used to face
massive congestions and planes would need to hover in the air for a long time to
land.

Due to this, airlines used to add an extra congestion charge in their fares when
they had to burn a lot of fuel due to hovering.

The TOI quoted an unidentified source as saying: "Most of the times, runway 27
is used for arrivals.

"Runway 28 is used for departures as it is equidistant from both terminal 1B
used by low cost carriers for domestic operations and terminal 3. Runway 29 is
used for both arrivals and departures.

"Shutting down runway 27 will straightaway mean a one-third reduction in
aircraft handling capacity."

Image: The Indira Gandhi Airport might have to shut down one of its three
runways due to terror threats. Photo: courtesy of IGI Airport.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 7, 2014 Friday 7:49 PM GMT

Armed police arrest four men amid fears of Islamist Remembrance Day terror plot;

Armed police swoop on addresses in West London and Thames Valley just days
before Remembrance Sunday, arresting four men over plans to mount an Islamist
terror attack

BYLINE: By Patrick Sawer and Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 897 words


Four suspected Islamist terrorists have been arrested by armed police on
suspicion of plotting attacks in the UK - amid fears of a Remembrance Sunday
plot.

Those arrested included a 19-year-old High Wycombe man who neighbours said had
returned from a trip to Pakistan earlier this year and was described as having
been recently radicalised.

Police would not discuss whether the men had a specific target in mind but the
timing of the raids raises the prospect that they may have been planning an
incident on Remembrance Sunday.

It is understood there is no direct link to Syria or the terror group Isil but
one line of police inquiry is likely to examine whether the men were planning a
gun attack.

The men, aged 19 to 27, were held overnight at locations across west London and
High Wycombe in the Thames Valley area, Scotland Yard said.

One of the men, a 27-year-old, was arrested in a west London street after being
surrounded by armed police from Metropolitan Police's Counter Terrorism Command.

Three other men, aged 19, 22 and 25, were held at addresses in Hounslow, west
London, and High Wycombe, Bucks, on Thursday night.

The 19-year-old - who was named locally as Yousaf Syed and was held following a
raid by 30 police officers on a house in Desborough Road, High Wycombe at around
7.30pm on Thursday - was described by neighbours as having become religious in
recent months.

His home is understood to have been raided by police earlier this year after he
returned home from a trip to Pakistan.

Syed moved to High Wycome from Harrow three years ago with his mother after her
marriage collapsed. He attends a local college where he was said to be studying
business management.

A neighbour, who did not want to be named, said: "There was a pre-emptive raid
back in April on the same house. We don't want trouble like this with
Remembrance Sunday."

Another resident said Syed had recently been "radicalised" and had confronted
him over the "western hip-hop" music he was playing.

John Trantham, 25, who works as a carer and has lived next door to the property
since February, said: "His mother said he has just found his faith. I have had a
number of run ins with him. He kept wanting me to turn my music down or not play
music at all, saying he didn't approve of western hip hop. He has threatened me
and I was having to complain to my landlord about it. I thought it was a
domestic thing and I'm so shocked it is terror related. It's really surprised
everyone."

The police also carried out a raid at an address in nearby Deeds Grove, High
Wycombe - home to relatives of the 19-year-old - where a "substantial find" was
made, according to one community leader.

Another High Wycombe man, 27-year-old Omar Hussain, a former Morrisons
supermarket worker, travelled to Syria to join Islamic State extremists in
January this year.

A third High Wycombe man, Shabazz Suleman, 18, who attended the town's Royal
Grammar School, disappeared during study leave for his A-levels in May and is
thought to have fled the country in order to fight alongside jihadis in the
Islamist terror group.

The arrests came just three days before Remembrance Sunday, amid fears of a
possible attack on servicemen and civilians gathering to pay tribute to those
who fell during Britain's armed conflicts.

Security has been stepped up in the run up to Sunday's commemorative events.

All four men were taken to police stations in central London and remain in
custody, while a number of residential addresses and vehicles, in Greenford,
Hounslow, Brentford and Walthamstow, were searched.

The arrests and searches are part of an "ongoing investigation into Islamist
related terrorism", the Metropolitan Police said.

It is understood that the men were thought to have been plotting a possible gun
attack rather a bombing.

Although there is no suspected link with the conflict in Syria, there have been
fears that extremists in this country would try to copy the beheadings carried
out by Islamic State.

The men were held on suspicion of being concerned in the commission, preparation
or instigation of acts of terrorism, contrary to the Terrorism Act 2000.

The arrests come a few months after the national terror threat level in the UK
was raised from substantial to severe, meaning a terrorist attack is "highly
likely". This assessment is separate from the evaluation concerning police
officers.

The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre raised the level against a backdrop of
increasing concerns over hundreds of aspiring British jihadis travelling to Iraq
and Syria to learn terrorist "tradecraft" and fight alongside terror groups such
as Islamic State.

Fears heightened after IS posted a series of videos online showing the separate
murders of US journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff and two British aid
workers, David Haines and most recently Salford aid worker Alan Henning.

Footage claiming to show Mr Henning's murder appeared on the Internet in
October, just days after the UK joined US-led air strikes against the terrorists
in Iraq.

An apparent IS fighter with a British accent appeared unmasked in another film
encouraging "brothers" in Western countries to "rise up" and commit acts of
terror in their home countries.

IS, led by fanatic Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, has taken over large swathes of Iraq
and Syria and attracted thousands of foreign jihadists to its cause, including
more than 500 Britons.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 7, 2014 Friday 2:32 PM GMT

Armed police arrest four men over 'Islamist Remembrance Day terror plot';
Armed police swoop on addresses in West London and Thames Valley just days
before Remembrance Sunday, arresting four men over plans to mount an Islamist
terror attack

BYLINE: By Patrick Sawer and Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 672 words


Four suspected Islamist terrorists have been arrested on suspicion of plotting
attacks in the UK - amid fears of a Remembrance Sunday plot.

Armed police joined the counter-terrorism raids and arrested one man in the
street, fuelling fears detectives believed the men may have been armed.

Police would not discuss whether the men had a specific target in mind or when
but the timing of the raids raises the prospect that they may have been planning
an incident on Remembrance Sunday.

It is understood there is no direct link to Syria or the terror group Isil but
one line of police inquiry is likely to examine whether the men were planning a
gun attack.

The men, aged 19 to 27, were held overnight at locations across west London and
High Wycombe in the Thames Valley area, Scotland Yard said.

One of the men, a 27-year-old, was arrested in a west London street after being
surrounded by armed police.

Three other men, aged 19, 22 and 25, were held at addresses in west London -
thought to be in Hounslow - and another in High Wycombe, Bucks, on Thursday
night.

There were reports that one of the arrests took placein the Desborough Hill area
of High Wycombe, with residents reporting that police cordons had been mounted
across at least one street.

Armed officers Metropolitan Police's Counter Terrorism Command took part in the
operation at both premises, although no shots were fired.

The arrests came just three days before Remembrance Sunday, amid fears of a
possible attack on servicemen and civilians gathering to pay tribute to those
who fell during Britain's armed conflicts.

Security has been stepped up in the run up to Sunday's commemorative events.

All four men were taken to police stations in central London and remain in
custody, while a number of residential addresses and vehicles were continuing to
be searched.

The arrests and searches are part of an "ongoing investigation into Islamist
related terrorism", the Metropolitan Police said.

It is understood that the men were thought to have been plotting a possible gun
attack rather a bombing outrage.

Although there is no suspected link with the conflict in Syria, there have been
fears in recent months that extremists in this country would try to copy the
beheadings carried out by the so-called Islamic State group on their prisoners,
including Salford aid worker Alan Hemming.

The men were held on suspicion of being concerned in the commission, preparation
or instigation of acts of terrorism, contrary to the Terrorism Act 2000.

Scotland Yard said officers from the Metropolitan Police's Counter Terrorism
Command (SO15) are working closely with their colleagues in SE Counter Terrorism
Unit and MI5.

No further details of the operation were released, for what the Met described as
"operational reasons".

The arrests come a few months after the national terror threat level in the UK
was raised from substantial to severe, meaning a terrorist attack is "highly
likely". This assessment is separate from the evaluation concerning police
officers.

The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC) raised the level against a backdrop
of increasing concerns over hundreds of aspiring British jihadis travelling to
Iraq and Syria to learn terrorist "tradecraft" and fight alongside terror groups
such as Islamic State.

Fears heightened after IS posted a series of videos online showing the separate
murders of US journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff and two British aid
workers, David Haines and most recently Mr Henning.

Footage claiming to show Mr Henning's murder appeared on the Internet in
October, just days after the UK joined US-led air strikes against the terrorists
in Iraq.

In addition, an apparent IS fighter with a British accent appeared unmasked in
another film encouraging "brothers" in Western countries to "rise up" and commit
acts of terror in their home countries.

IS, led by fanatic Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, has taken over large swathes of Iraq
and Syria and attracted thousands of foreign jihadists to its cause, including
more than 500 Britons.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 8, 2014 Saturday

Saudi authorities continue to hunt down terrorist cell behind village attack

LENGTH: 1151 words


Text of report by Saudi-owned leading pan-Arab daily Al-Sharq al-Awsat website
on 7 November

[Report by Nasir al-Haqabani, from Riyadh: "Saudi Arabia: Hunting down those
involved in Al-Ahsa incident continues, and the Nuber Rises to 26"]

The Saudi security authorities continue to hunt down the terrorist cell, three
of whose members assaulted citizens in Al-Dalwah Village in Al-Ahsa Governorate
(east of the Kingdom) last Monday. Three more persons were arrested yesterday at
dawn in Riyadh Region, in addition to 23 others, who were arrested in six cities
in the Kingdom. Meanwhile, a security source has confirmed to Al-Sharq al-Awsat:
"The families of most of those arrested, and also of those killed, have signed
pledges to the authorities concerned to report to the security authorities or to
Muhammad Bin-Nayif Centre for Counseling and Care if there are any indications
of extremist misguided thinking appearing in their released sons."

In a telephone interview, the source confirms that the security authorities
"still continue their security operations of arresting those involved in the
case of assaulting [killing] eight innocent citizens when they were leaving a
Husayniyah [place of gathering to celebrate the anniversary of the martyrdom of
Imam Husayn] in (Al-Dalwah) village, and injuring another eight. The authorities
have arrested three suspects of being involved in the incident. The culprits
chose the remote village in order to sow sedition, but the entire spectrum of
the society confronted it immediately, and the Sunni and Shi'i ulema in Saudi
Arabia signed statements in which they stressed that this crime had nothing to
do with religion or the country." The source adds: "Yesterday at dawn three
individuals were arrested in Riyadh region after their names were mentioned
during the preliminary interrogation of those arrested."

The source says: "Yesterday in the evening, the Special Emergency Forces carried
out a security siege in Al-Midhnab Governorate in Al-Qasim Region, as there was
one of the individuals linked to the case." The source points out: "The number
of those arrested might rise to more than 26 persons if this person is found."

The source points out: "The preliminary interrogations of the arrested, whose
number during the first hours after the incident was nine, has led to finding
out another 18, and the brain of the terrorist cell, who schemed the incident,
was caught."

The source adds: "There are some of those arrested, who have direct links to the
criminal incident, others participated in confronting the security men with
weapons, and others who provided shelter to the terrorist cell for the planning
of this operation, and perhaps other terrorist operation, or covered up for
them. This is despite the fact that this group intended to carry out sabotage
acts in the Kingdom."

The source says: "Anyone, who provided weapons and money to this cell illegally,
knew that they intended to undertake terrorist action, especially as most of
them participated in fighting at the fighting regions abroad, or were linked to
terrorist actions at home. They still are on trial, while some have been
released from the sharia court after their sharia sentences have been
confirmed."

Yesterday, Al-Sharq al-Awsat identified two of those who were killed in the
confrontation between the wanted men and the Special Emergency Forces at a
complex of rest houses in Al-Mu'allimin District in Buraydah Governorate; they
are: Abdallah Farhan al-Anzi, whose corpse was found behind the second rest
house, and he was one of those wanted by the Saudi security authorities after it
was ascertained that he was linked to the cells of the misguided group; and the
second dead man is Sami Shabib Awwad al-Mutayri, who started firing at the
security men, and did not respond to the security warning addressed by the
security men through loudspeakers during their siege of the rest house.
Al-Mutayri was wanted by security, but he disappeared for some time when he
learned that the security authorities were looking for him."

The source emphasizes that the families of those arrested "have been complacent
in protecting their sons, especially as they knew the previous courses followed
by their sons, and were aware of their terrorist actions at home and abroad. The
families were not apprehensive about that, despite the fact that the arrested
men participated in fighting for a period of time, and when they were arrested
they were detained for another period of time."

The source says: "Some of the families of those arrested, who have been released
on bail, have not been committed to the protection of their sons, standing by
them on the correct path, and reintegrating them in society so that they become
good citizens, serve their country and families, and pursue the construction of
their future and the future of their families and children. This is because none
of the families have reported to the security authorities or the Muhammad
Bin-Nayif Centre for Counseling and Care about their sons when indications of
extremism appeared in their released sons so that the events can be pre-empted,
and their thinking could be revised before they become involved in any criminal
act."

The source explains: "The pledges signed by the beneficiaries, who graduate from
the Muhammad Bin-Nayif Centre for Counseling and Care, show that they not only
bind the beneficiary, but they also bind the family or the guardians. It has
been noticed during the recent period that some of those released have gone to
Yemen and Syria, but the families have not reported them, especially as some
conditions of the pledges stipulate the need for reporting if the telephone
contacts with their sons stop, with the sons disappearing from the homes for a
short period of time."

The source points out that that the families can observe the indications
appearing in their released sons through talking to them about what currently is
taking place, and what is happening in the fighting regions in Yemen, Syria,
Iraq, Afghanistan, and others, as the tendencies of the sons will emerge during
their presence within their families at home.

It is worth noting that the rest house, which was stormed by the security men
during the hunting down of the source of the incident, belongs to two brothers,
who have been arrested, and they had rented it and put it as a shelter for the
rest of the members of the misguided group in order to prepare for terrorist
operations; "the other individuals in the rest house were relatives of the two
brothers, who rented the place, and they have criminal records. The two martyrs,
Turki al-Rashid and Muhammad al-Anzi, called on the wanted men to surrender and
not to resist, but they fired at the two martyrs. The wanted men were dealt with
by the members of the Special Emergency Forces firing back at them."

Source: Al-Sharq al-Awsat website, London, in Arabic 0000 gmt 7 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           November 8, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

FOUR HELD OVER POPPY DAY 'PLOT';
As millions prepare to remember ourfallen heroes, cops swoop to make
arrestsFears of terrorist attack on Queen

BYLINE: ROSS KANIUK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 302 words


FOUR Islamist terror suspects were being held by police last night amid fears of
a Remembrance Sunday weekend attack.

There were concerns the apparent plot involved a bid to kill the Queen, who is
due to attend the Royal British Legion Festival Of Remembrance at the Royal
Albert Hall tonight.

Her Majesty, 88, is also planning to lead the nation's tribute to the country's
war dead at the Cenotaph in Whitehall, central London, tomorrow morning.

Prime Minister David Cameron, Cabinet members and Opposition leaders are also
scheduled to be at tomorrow's event amid intense security.

TARGET: The four terror suspects, aged 19 to 27, were arrested by armed cops in
separate raids in West London and Buckinghamshire.

A 27-year-old was the first to be seized on Thursday night when the Met's SCO19
firearms unit swooped on his car in Southall, west London.

Fourteen minutes later a 22-yearold was held at gunpoint at an address in nearby
Hounslow. At precisely the same time, armed colleagues burst into a house 30
miles away in High Wycombe, Bucks, and arrested a 19-year-old at the home he
shares with his mum.

And yesterday another man aged 25 was held in Uxbridge, west London.

The men were being quizzed on suspicion of being concerned in the "commission,
preparation or instigation" of terrorism under the Terrorism Act 2000.

They were taken to police stations in central London.

One neighbour of the teenager said the youngster had just found his Muslim faith
and had grown a beard and started to wear traditional slamic dress.

Cenotaph Two further properties in High Wycombe were also searched.

Anti-terror officers also raided a semi-detached house and a flat in the town.

Police had already stepped up security after a terrorist shot a soldier guarding
a war memorial at Canada's parliament.

ross.kaniuk@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: Cenotaph¦ TRIBUTE: The Queen, seen at last year's ceremony, is
due to lay a wreath at the Cenotaph on Sunday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 8, 2014 Saturday 6:01 PM GMT

'Why did you let me die in that fire?': Mother claims her child is being HAUNTED
by ghost of marine killed in terror attack and keeps re-living details of his
death

BYLINE: WILLS ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 268 words



     ·    Michelle Lucas from Virginia Beach is concerned for four-year-old
          Andrew
     ·    Claims he talks about the life of Sergeant Val Lewis who was killed in
          1983
     ·    Was one of 241 U.S servicemen who died during bomb attack in Beirut
     ·    The youngster recalls details of the incident and tells his mother:
          'Why did you let me die in that fire?'


A terrified mother believes the ghost of a dead marine could be haunting her
four-year-old son.

Michelle Lucas from Virginia Beach claims four-year-old Andrew talks about the
life of Sergeant Val S Lewis who was killed during a terrorist bomb attack in
Beirut, Lebanon, in 1983.

She told News Channel 3 : 'He just starts crying hysterically and I say, "What's
wrong Andrew,' and he says "Why did you let me die in that fire".'

'Scared me, scared me- I didn't know if there was a spirit coming out of him. I
didn't know if there was a spirit coming out of him.'

The soldier, who was on a peacekeeping mission at the time of his death, is
buried in the Marietta National Cemetery in Georgia.

He was one of 241 U.S. service personnel, 220 Marines and 21 other service
personnel, the were killed when a truck bomb drove into a Marine compound.

300 service members had been living at the four-story building at the airport in
Beirut. There were 1,800 Marines stationed in Beirut at the time.

A multi-national force with units from France, Italy and the United Kingdom is
also on peacekeeping duty in Lebanon at the same time.

At the same time the Marine barracks was hit, a suicide bomber drove a pickup
truck full of explosives and crashes into a building housing French
paratroopers, killing 58.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           November 8, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

THE RAPIST COP;
SERGEANT'S REIGN OF TERROR ; Violent attacks on 3 women and tot

BYLINE: DAVE FINLAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 377 words


A MONSTROUS cop who sexually assaulted two women is facing jail.

Brute Kevin Storey, 48, also attacked a third female victim and two-year-old boy
during a campaign of violence.

And yesterday the disgraced sergeant was convicted at the High Court in
Edinburgh of eight charges, including rape and indecent assault.

One victim told the jury how she was subjected to "disgusting" attacks but
feared he was "untouchable".

Another relived her ordeal at the hands of the beast, saying: "I would shout at
him. I would say 'What are you doing, you dirty b******'."

Storey, of Melrose, Selkirkshire, attacked his first victim in 1989 at a house
in nearby Galashiels.

The court heard he grabbed her by the body and pushed out the house before
seizing her neck.

A second woman, now aged 46, was assaulted at addresses in the town during the
1990s by Storey, who tried to rape her.

The victim said he was physically abusive and would seize her by the neck and
push her on the body.

He would say things like "you f****** slapper".

Kicked She told the court: "I wasn't feeling very good about myself. I really
stopped enjoying my life."

A third woman, now aged 41, was raped and indecently assaulted during a
catalogue of abuse which began in the 1990s.

The court heard he would throw coins at one victim and flick his boots at her.

During one attack, Storey rained blows on her as she was trapped against a
cooker.

Advocate depute Paul Kearney told jurors: "She told you she started to think he
was not going to stop this time, but he did."

The woman was also hit on the foot with a belt and thrown on to a bed and
punched and kicked.

Storey was further found guilty of assaulting a boy of two by shouting and
grabbing him by his clothes. The twisted fiend continued to protest his
innocence after his arrest.

But Judge Paul Arthurson QC yesterday warned Storey he faces a substantial jail
term and said: "These are extremely serious offences."

Sentence was deferred as Storey was placed in custody.

He was also put on the sex offenders' register.

Superintendent Gill Imery said: "It is a matter of deep regret to me when a
police officer - whose work is to keep people safe - has been shown to have
failed the very high standards of professional behaviour we expect."
scottish-sun@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mugshot ... Storey & at court, top

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 8, 2014 Saturday 3:02 PM GMT

Armed police arrest four men amid fears of Islamist Remembrance Day terror plot;

Armed police swoop on addresses in West London and Thames Valley just days
before Remembrance Sunday, arresting four men over plans to mount an Islamist
terror attack

BYLINE: By Patrick Sawer Nicola Harley and Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 897 words


Four suspected Islamist terrorists have been arrested by armed police on
suspicion of plotting attacks in the UK - amid fears of a Remembrance Sunday
plot.

Those arrested included a 19-year-old High Wycombe man who neighbours said had
returned from a trip to Pakistan earlier this year and was described as having
been recently radicalised.

Police would not discuss whether the men had a specific target in mind but the
timing of the raids raises the prospect that they may have been planning an
incident on Remembrance Sunday.

It is understood there is no direct link to Syria or the terror group Isil but
one line of police inquiry is likely to examine whether the men were planning a
gun attack.

The men, aged 19 to 27, were held overnight at locations across west London and
High Wycombe in the Thames Valley area, Scotland Yard said.

One of the men, a 27-year-old, was arrested in a west London street after being
surrounded by armed police from Metropolitan Police's Counter Terrorism Command.

Three other men, aged 19, 22 and 25, were held at addresses in Hounslow, west
London, and High Wycombe, Bucks, on Thursday night.

The 19-year-old - who was named locally as Yousaf Syed and was held following a
raid by 30 police officers on a house in Desborough Road, High Wycombe at around
7.30pm on Thursday - was described by neighbours as having become religious in
recent months.

His home is understood to have been raided by police earlier this year after he
returned home from a trip to Pakistan.

Syed moved to High Wycome from Harrow three years ago with his mother after her
marriage collapsed. He attends a local college where he was said to be studying
business management.

A neighbour, who did not want to be named, said: "There was a pre-emptive raid
back in April on the same house. We don't want trouble like this with
Remembrance Sunday."

Another resident said Syed had recently been "radicalised" and had confronted
him over the "western hip-hop" music he was playing.

John Trantham, 25, who works as a carer and has lived next door to the property
since February, said: "His mother said he has just found his faith. I have had a
number of run ins with him. He kept wanting me to turn my music down or not play
music at all, saying he didn't approve of western hip hop. He has threatened me
and I was having to complain to my landlord about it. I thought it was a
domestic thing and I'm so shocked it is terror related. It's really surprised
everyone."

The police also carried out a raid at an address in nearby Deeds Grove, High
Wycombe - home to relatives of the 19-year-old - where a "substantial find" was
made, according to one community leader.

Another High Wycombe man, 27-year-old Omar Hussain, a former Morrisons
supermarket worker, travelled to Syria to join Islamic State extremists in
January this year.

A third High Wycombe man, Shabazz Suleman, 18, who attended the town's Royal
Grammar School, disappeared during study leave for his A-levels in May and is
thought to have fled the country in order to fight alongside jihadis in the
Islamist terror group.

The arrests came just three days before Remembrance Sunday, amid fears of a
possible attack on servicemen and civilians gathering to pay tribute to those
who fell during Britain's armed conflicts.

Security has been stepped up in the run up to Sunday's commemorative events.

All four men were taken to police stations in central London and remain in
custody, while a number of residential addresses and vehicles, in Greenford,
Hounslow, Brentford and Walthamstow, were searched.

The arrests and searches are part of an "ongoing investigation into Islamist
related terrorism", the Metropolitan Police said.

It is understood that the men were thought to have been plotting a possible gun
attack rather a bombing.

Although there is no suspected link with the conflict in Syria, there have been
fears that extremists in this country would try to copy the beheadings carried
out by Islamic State.

The men were held on suspicion of being concerned in the commission, preparation
or instigation of acts of terrorism, contrary to the Terrorism Act 2000.

The arrests come a few months after the national terror threat level in the UK
was raised from substantial to severe, meaning a terrorist attack is "highly
likely". This assessment is separate from the evaluation concerning police
officers.

The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre raised the level against a backdrop of
increasing concerns over hundreds of aspiring British jihadis travelling to Iraq
and Syria to learn terrorist "tradecraft" and fight alongside terror groups such
as Islamic State.

Fears heightened after IS posted a series of videos online showing the separate
murders of US journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff and two British aid
workers, David Haines and most recently Salford aid worker Alan Henning.

Footage claiming to show Mr Henning's murder appeared on the Internet in
October, just days after the UK joined US-led air strikes against the terrorists
in Iraq.

An apparent IS fighter with a British accent appeared unmasked in another film
encouraging "brothers" in Western countries to "rise up" and commit acts of
terror in their home countries.

IS, led by fanatic Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, has taken over large swathes of Iraq
and Syria and attracted thousands of foreign jihadists to its cause, including
more than 500 Britons.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 8, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Student dies after being run over in terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 63 words


Jerusalem A second person, believed to have been a 17-year-old student, has died
after being run over by a Palestinian from Shuafat refugee camp on Wednesday. A
border police officer was killed in the attack, which has been described as an
act of terrorism, and several people were injured. The driver of the car, which
rammed into two groups of pedestrians, was shot dead by police.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      November 9, 2014 Sunday 6:56 AM GMT

'Terror Briton' dies in Iraq attack

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 165 words


The Foreign Office is looking into reports of the death of a Briton in a suicide
bombing in northern Iraq.

The man, named in reports as Kabir Ahmed, from Derby, is believed to have been
involved in an attack in the town of Beiji, north of the capital Baghdad.

An FCO spokesman said: "We are aware of reports of the death of a British
national in Iraq and are looking into them."

The Beiji attack happened late on Friday when a truck laden with explosives was
driven by a bomber into the convoy of a top Iraqi police officer, killing eight
people including the ranking official, authorities said.

The blast killed Lt Gen Faisal Malik Zamel, who was inspecting forces in the
town, and seven other police officers, while wounding 15 people, hospital staff
and police officers.

It comes as the US confirmed it conducted a series of air strikes targeting
Islamic State (IS) leaders in the north of the country, although it was not
known whether IS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was among those targeted.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            November 9, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WE SHALL REMEMBER;
Leaders will attend Cenotaph service after police arrest four men over plot
QUEEN DEFIES TERROR ATTACK THREAT

BYLINE: Nick Dorman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 565 words


The Queen and political leaders will defy the latest terrorist threats to honour
the fallen today.

Remembrance Sunday services will go ahead at the Cenotaph in London and across
the country despite a heightened threat of attacks by extremists.

Security was stepped up in major cities as the terror alert in the UK was raised
to "severe" - meaning an attack is "highly likely".

Fears were raised after police smashed a plot by Islamist fanatics to carry out
an attack at the Cenotaph.

Four men, aged 19 to 27, were still in custody last night under the Terrorism
Act 2000 after raids in High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, and west London early on
Friday.

It is claimed they planned to target the Queen as she honours the nation's war
dead at the Cenotaph in Whitehall this morning.

But the 88-year-old monarch defied the threats, attending the Royal British
Legion Festival of Remembrance at the Royal Albert Hall last night.

She also made it clear she would lay the first wreath at today's ceremony,
marking the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of World War I. A Buckingham
Palace source said: "Her Majesty would not miss the Remembrance Day ceremony
whatever the threat. It is a question of duty."

The Queen will be joined at the Cenotaph by Prime Minister David Cameron, who
yesterday viewed the sea of poppies at the Tower of London, Labour leader Ed
Miliband and other leading political figures.

The annual remembrance ceremony is a logistical nightmare for the police with so
many high-profile figures in the same place at the same time.

Officers armed with Heckler and Koch rifles, Glock pistols and Tasers patrolled
the capital's streets and stood guard outside public buildings yesterday.

Meanwhile, anti-terror squads continued to carry out searches at addresses of
other suspects linked to the west London gang.

Armed police were also on duty at mainline stations and specialist search teams
were sweeping Tube stations for suspect devices.

The Metropolitan Police said: "We are unable to comment on matters of security
other than to say an appropriate and proportionate police presence is in place."

Security expert Dr Sally Leivesley claimed last night that the UK leads the
world in countering terror threats. Australian Dr Leivesley, who served on the
Met's Counter Terrorism Advisory Panel, insisted: "We are not seeing anything we
wouldn't expect to see before any big occasion.

"What we are seeing has been a response by by counter-terrorist officers to
intelligence of intended attacks.

"It is a very effective mopping-up of known suspects. However, despite the
arrest of suspects, there is, at this stage, no evidence of any materials or
weapons being seized." She added: "We are not yet seeing the raw capabilities of
ISIS. We are merely seeing the 'expendables' - the new converts - being caught.

"It is the 'unexpendables' who pose the real threat. These are the people with
the means and expertise to carry out a very real terror attack."

Dr Leivesley said the biggest problem faced by security officers was tracking
down so-called "lone wolves" planning random attacks.

Veteran Labour politician Kim Howells praised the security service for doing "a
brilliant job" in preventing an "obvious credible threat".

He said: "It is clear there was a plot afoot and there was clear indication
these suspects were going to turn it into a reality."

Kitbag of memories Pages 10&11

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POIGNANT Crowds flock to see the sea of poppies at the Tower of London
yesterdayDEFIANT The Queen will lead the nation's tributes. Right, the PM and
wife Sam at the Tower of London yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


             Copyright 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 10, 2014 Monday

Ukrainian prosecutors classify Kharkiv pub blast as terrorist attack

LENGTH: 150 words


Text of report by private Ukrainian news agency UNIAN

Kharkiv, 10 November: Law enforcers have classified the explosion in Kharkiv's
pub Stina [Wall] as a terrorist attack.

The press service of the Kharkiv Region prosecutor's office told UNIAN that
information about the incident was included in the single register of pre-trial
investigations under Part 2 Article 258 of Ukraine's Criminal Code (terrorist
attack with serious consequences).

The prosecutor's office noted that the number of people wounded as a result of
the explosion totals 11. They were admitted to hospital.

Pub manager Mykhaylo Ozerov linked the explosion to volunteer help which the pub
staff and he personally provided to people displaced from Donbass and to the
fighters taking part in the antiterrorist operation [against pro-Russian
separatists in eastern Ukraine]

Source: UNIAN news agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 0652 gmt 10 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 10, 2014 Monday

German intelligence sees "high-profile terror attack" on Western targets
possible

LENGTH: 238 words


Text of report by independent German news magazine Der Spiegel website on 9
November

[Report by "joes": "BND Warns of ISIL Attack"]

The Federal Intelligence Service [BND] has warned that the Islamic State [ISIL]
could carry out a "major high-profile terror attack in the West." An internal
BND analysis on the Islamists' "media strategy" says that such an attack could
be an effort to force the international coalition to send ground troops into
Syria and Iraq. The propaganda spread by ISIL on the Internet has been aiming to
"ring in the supposed final battle between the 'purest and best mujahidin of
ISIL' and the 'army of the crusaders'." From the point of view of ISIL, that was
part of the "apocalyptic prophecy," Germany's foreign intelligence service
concluded.

That is the reason why ISIL has been urging Muslims since September to carry out
attacks against all nations participating in the coalition against the
Islamists. In the October edition of Dabiq, a professionally produced Internet
magazine, ISIL named Germany as a target.

Shortly afterwards, two presumed lone wolves carried out attacks in Canada. In
the view of the BND, "the level of such attacks is not sufficient to achieve the
hoped-for political effect." Preparing an attack in the West or against Western
targets having momentous consequences would, therefore, be "the next logical
step."

Source: Der Spiegel website, Hamburg, in German 9 Nov 14 p 16

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                            November 10, 2014 Monday

'Neo-Nazi' denies cyanide terror attack plot

BYLINE: Joe Curtis

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 136 words


AN alleged British neo-Nazi from Southampton has denied plotting to kill
non-Aryans in a cyanide attack.

Mark Colborne, 36, today pleaded not guilty to preparing a terrorist act and
will face trial on December 4.

Colborne, of Butts Road, Sholing, Southampton, appeared via videolink at at the
Old Bailey in London to deny the charge of engaging in the preparation of
terrorism acts on or before 2 July.

He was arrested in June when counter-terrorism police raided his home which he
shares with his mother.

Colborne is also alleged to have possessed ingredients and equipment to create
cyanide including charcoal, iron oxide, sodium carbonate, weighing scales and
latex gloves.

He also allegedly had handwritten notes copied from The Terrorist Handbook
online and books including Silent Death and The Poor Man's James Bond.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 10, 2014 Monday 12:07 PM GMT

Terror attack is 'almost inevitable' warn security chiefs as police and MI5
reveal they've foiled three plots in recent months

BYLINE: DAMIEN GAYLE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 738 words



     ·    Security officials say there is a 'step change' in threat posed by
          terrorists
     ·    Lee Rigby murder taught extremists 'all they need is phone and kitchen
          knife
     ·    Armed Forces chief urges Britons not to let fears 'stop the British
          way of life'


A terrorist attack in the UK linked to Islamic extremism is 'almost inevitable'
in coming months, security chiefs have warned.

Ministers are reportedly being briefed daily by security officials who have
warned of a 'step change' in the threat posed by terrorism since the rise of the
so-called Islamic State insurgency.

Scotland Yard and MI5 believe they have foiled three plots in London in the past
few months, two of which were said to have been urgent interventions to stop
terrorists ready to strike.

Scroll down for video

An unnamed source told The Times the killing of Fusilier Lee Rigby last year had
taught extremists 'they only need a kitchen knife and a mobile phone to carry
out a high-impact attack.'

The warnings come after tight security at Remembrance Sunday, with the Queen
appearing at the Cenotaph in Whitehall after it was locked down by dozens of
visible armed police.

A judge yesterday extended the detention of four suspects arrested in connection
with an Islamist terror plot just two days earlier.

Counter-terror police seized the men, aged 19 to 27, on Thursday night at
locations across west London and High Wycombe in the Thames Valley area,
Scotland Yard said.

It is understood the men were plotting an attack on British soil. The timing of
the arrests raised fears that Remembrance Sunday events in London were alleged
targets, but sources told The Times the Queen was not a target.

Tensions have been raised by a slew of terror arrests amid fears British
intervention against the Islamic State insurgency in Iraq could motivate a
string of new radicals in the UK.

Last month a 21-year-old man, a 32-year-old man and a 25-year-old woman were
arrested by anti-terror police in three separate probes all linked to Syria.

Officers searched two properties in Bedfordshire, two in west London and one in
Hackney, north east London after raids over the last three weeks.

Four terror suspects were also charged with plotting to kill policemen and
soldiers in London drive-by shootings earlier last month.

Tarik Hassane, 21, Suhaib Majeed, 20, Nyall Hamlett, 24, and Momen Motasim, 21,
all from London, appeared at Westminster Magistrates Court amid tight security
as they were charged with an Islamic State-inspired gun plot.

It was alleged to have been formulated following a fatwa by a senior ISIS
terrorist.

Despite the chilling warnings and spreading climate of fear, the head of the
UK's armed forces has urged Britons not to let terror fears 'stop the British
way of life'.

General Sir Nicholas Houghton said Britain must not 'succumb to any sense that
there is a terrorist threat' and should carry on as normal.

Speaking ahead of the Remembrance Sunday events, the Chief of the Defence staff
told BBC One's Andrew Marr Show: 'I think the mood is definitely different this
year but the biggest thing that makes the mood different, I think, is the
intensity and the poignancy about it born of the aggregation of the 100 years
commemoration of the First World War, the 70 years of D-Day, I think the end of
combat operations in Afghanistan.

'But, certainly the proximity of the sense of threat for this weekend, which has
intensified the nature of the security that's attendant on it, has sort of
contributed to quite a different feel about this year.'

Earlier this month, senior police officers and MPs said there was likely to be a
significant rise in the number of armed police at the Remembrance Sunday and
Armistice Day commemorations in London due to increased fears of a terror
attack.

The arrests come a few months after the national terror threat level in the UK
was raised from substantial to severe, meaning a terrorist attack is 'highly
likely'.

This assessment is separate from the evaluation concerning police officers.

The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC) raised the level against a backdrop
of increasing concerns over hundreds of aspiring British jihadis travelling to
Iraq and Syria to learn terrorist 'tradecraft' and fight alongside terror groups
such as Islamic State (IS).

Although there is currently no link to Syria or IS, fears were raised when IS
fighters encouraged supporters in Western countries to 'rise up' and commit acts
of terror in their home countries.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                            November 10, 2014 Monday

Mock cyber-terrorist attack targets Central London

SECTION: SECURITY AND PRIVACY; Internet Access

LENGTH: 257 words



HIGHLIGHT: Exercise part of contest to root out next generation of cybersecurity
workers.


Central London will be targeted by a mock cyber-terrorist attack in March, as
part of a campaign to find the next generation of cybersecurity workers.

The exercise will mark the end to a yearlong contest held across the UK,
designed by the GCHQ and the NCA alongside a coalition of networking and defence
firms.

Stephanie Daman, chief executive of Cyber Security Challenge UK, said: "This is
the largest collection of cyber expertise we have ever pulled together to put
our candidates through their paces.

"With an emphasis on realistic operational environments and demands, this year's
finalists will face a master class that will excite and challenge in equal
measure."

Qualifiers for the final are ongoing, with openings still available for
interested parties looking to join the 18,000 who have already signed up to
compete for the 42 places in the last round, where they will be assessed on
technical, interpersonal and decision-making skills.

Winners will receive a mix of university bursaries, accreditation, and
internships, joining the 100 who have already passed through the programme into
employment in the industry.

Mark Hughes, chief executive of BT Security, one of the firms behind the
contest, said: "As the UK faces a worrying shortage of cyber security talent,
every new reported threat raises our susceptibility to being attacked.

"As a result it is a critical matter of national security as well as economic
prosperity that we ensure the right people are found, trained and ready to take
on key roles in the cybersecurity profession."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     November 10, 2014 Monday 10:46 AM GMT

Terror attack is inevitable, say security chiefs as plots escalate

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill, Crime and Security Editor

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 611 words


The scale of terrorist activity is so great that an attack is "almost
inevitable" in the coming months, security chiefs have warned senior ministers.

MI5 and Scotland Yard believe they have stopped three plots in London in the
past four months, two of them after urgent raids as suspects were allegedly
poised to strike. There was intense security for Remembrance Sunday yesterday,
especially at the Cenotaph in Whitehall, London, where a large number of armed
police were deployed.

Four men aged between 19 and 27 were still being questioned by police after
arrests on Thursday and Friday during raids in west London and High Wycombe,
Buckinghamshire.

The arrests came after intelligence was received that a terror attack using
knives or other bladed weapons was in the final stages of planning. Sources
dismissed reports that the Queen was the target for the suspected plot but said
that the proximity to Remembrance events was of immediate concern.

Last month five men were charged in connection with planning a terrorist gun
attack on a Metropolitan police officer and accused of having sworn an oath of
allegiance to the Syrian terror group Islamic State (Isis). In August, a
suspected "lone wolf" attacker was arrested in east London carrying a rucksack
containing a knife and a hammer wrapped in a black Islamist flag.

Ministers are being updated daily about security and have been told by officials
of a "step change" in the terror threat since the rise of Isis and its call for
self-starter attacks in the West after airstrikes in Syria.

There were unconfirmed reports at the weekend that Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, leader
of Isis, was wounded or killed in an air attack on a convoy. US Central Command
said warplanes had targeted a "gathering of Isis leaders".

Security officials are concerned that after several years in which they have had
a stable intelligence picture of Britain's most dangerous extremists, they are
dealing with new, more volatile, groups radicalised by events in Syria.

Of the estimated 600 British jihadists, about half have not been on the
intelligence radar before. Some 300 are thought to have returned from the
conflict zone and security agencies are trying to keep track of them.

One source spoke of an increased threat because the murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby
in Woolwich last year had taught terrorists that instead of elaborate al-Qaeda
bomb plots, "they only need a kitchen knife and a mobile phone to carry out a
high-impact attack".

However, General Sir Nicholas Houghton, head of the armed forces, said despite
the threat Britons should not alter the way they lived their lives. "In an
absolutely unreserved way I would say we have just got to keep continuing our
normal life," he told The Andrew Marr Show on BBC One.

"The last thing that we would want to do is succumb to any sense that there is a
terrorist threat there that is at all going to stop the British way of life."

The threat to Britain from international terrorist groups was an "enduring one",
he said, and the military campaign to degrade Isis could "take a long time".

He said even if Isis had lost its leader, that would neither mean the end of the
group nor the end of the threat to the West. "What I wouldn't want to do is rush
to the sense that the potential death of one of their totemic leaders is going
to create some strategic reverse in Isis. They will regenerate leadership."

On Saturday, a magistrate gave police seven more days to question the four men
taken in last week's raids. They are held at the high-security Southwark police
station in south London in connection with what Scotland Yard said was a
continuing investigation into Islamist-related terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      November 10, 2014 Monday 1:41 AM GMT

Terror attack is inevitable, say police as plots escalate

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill, Crime and Security Editor

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 611 words


The scale of terrorist activity is so great that an attack is "almost
inevitable" in the coming months, security chiefs have warned senior ministers.

MI5 and Scotland Yard believe they have stopped three plots in London in the
past four months, two of them after urgent raids as suspects were allegedly
poised to strike. There was intense security for Remembrance Sunday yesterday,
especially at the Cenotaph in Whitehall, London, where a large number of armed
police were deployed.

Four men aged between 19 and 27 were still being questioned by police after
arrests on Thursday and Friday during raids in west London and High Wycombe,
Buckinghamshire.

The arrests came after intelligence was received that a terror attack using
knives or other bladed weapons was in the final stages of planning. Sources
dismissed reports that the Queen was the target for the suspected plot but said
that the proximity to Remembrance events was of immediate concern.

Last month five men were charged in connection with planning a terrorist gun
attack on a Metropolitan police officer and accused of having sworn an oath of
allegiance to the Syrian terror group Islamic State (Isis). In August, a
suspected "lone wolf" attacker was arrested in east London carrying a rucksack
containing a knife and a hammer wrapped in a black Islamist flag.

Ministers are being updated daily about security and have been told by officials
of a "step change" in the terror threat since the rise of Isis and its call for
self-starter attacks in the West after airstrikes in Syria.

There were unconfirmed reports at the weekend that Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, leader
of Isis, was wounded or killed in an air attack on a convoy. US Central Command
said warplanes had targeted a "gathering of Isis leaders".

Security officials are concerned that after several years in which they have had
a stable intelligence picture of Britain's most dangerous extremists, they are
dealing with new, more volatile, groups radicalised by events in Syria.

Of the estimated 600 British jihadists, about half have not been on the
intelligence radar before. Some 300 are thought to have returned from the
conflict zone and security agencies are trying to keep track of them.

One source spoke of an increased threat because the murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby
in Woolwich last year had taught terrorists that instead of elaborate al-Qaeda
bomb plots, "they only need a kitchen knife and a mobile phone to carry out a
high-impact attack".

However, General Sir Nicholas Houghton, head of the armed forces, said despite
the threat Britons should not alter the way they lived their lives. "In an
absolutely unreserved way I would say we have just got to keep continuing our
normal life," he told The Andrew Marr Show on BBC One.

"The last thing that we would want to do is succumb to any sense that there is a
terrorist threat there that is at all going to stop the British way of life."

The threat to Britain from international terrorist groups was an "enduring one",
he said, and the military campaign to degrade Isis could "take a long time".

He said even if Isis had lost its leader, that would neither mean the end of the
group nor the end of the threat to the West. "What I wouldn't want to do is rush
to the sense that the potential death of one of their totemic leaders is going
to create some strategic reverse in Isis. They will regenerate leadership."

On Saturday, a magistrate gave police seven more days to question the four men
taken in last week's raids. They are held at the high-security Southwark police
station in south London in connection with what Scotland Yard said was a
continuing investigation into Islamist-related terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           November 11, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Widow: Tighten security at Algeria gas plant to stop more terror attacks

BYLINE: Paul Cheston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 404 words


THE widow of a London-based oil executive killed in a terrorist attack on an
Algerian gas plant appealed today for new security measures to stop a further
atrocity.

Claudia Gaviria was speaking after an inquest was adjourned last week for the
Government to consider what new material can be made public at the hearing.
Carlos Estrada Valencia, a senior vice-president at BP, was visiting the plant
when he became one of seven UK residents to die in the al-Qaeda attack in
January last year.

More than 800 hostages were taken and 40 people from 10 different countries were
killed in a four-day siege. The court heard how Mr Valencia, 44, tried to raise
the spirits of his fellow hostages despite having explosives strung around his
neck by his captors. The inquest at the High Court has heard from the families
of the victims, hostages, security and intelligence experts, as well as senior
oil executives from BP and Norway's Statoil, who co-own the In Amenas plant with
Sonatrach, Algeria's largest oil and gas company. Ms Gaviria said: "Not a day
goes by that we don't think of Carlos. We have waited so long for answers about
what he endured over those few days. It has been so hard to listen to the
witnesses and to find out that there were so many concerns with the security at
the site before the attack. We just want to know this is going to change things
and stop anything similar happening again." Mr Valencia, a Colombian national
who had worked for BP for 18 years, was on his first visit to the gas plant.

He had arrived a few days before the attack for a meeting with JGC Corporation,
a Japanese engineering firm. Solicitor Clive Garner, of Irwin Mitchell, who
represent Mr Valencia's family, said serious concerns were raised about security
at the plant at the time of the attack.

"The inquest has provided information about the circumstances leading up to it
and the incident itself as well as the steps taken to avoid an incident of this
kind occurring. While some important questions for the families still remain,
the evidence has shed light on a number of significant matters and answered many
of their questions about how their loved ones died.

"It is hoped that the inquest's lasting legacy will be that those taken hostage
are remembered for their bravery and dignity, and that concerns raised about
security at the plant are not ignored."

The assistant coroner indicated he could deliver a verdict in mid-January.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Inquest: Claudia Gaviria with her husband Carlos Estrada Valencia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     November 11, 2014 Tuesday 11:54 AM GMT

Law student accused of plotting London terror attack faces retrial;
Old Bailey jury discharged in trial of Briton Erol Incedal, who denies preparing
an act of terrorism

BYLINE: Staff and agencies

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 141 words


A British law student accused of plotting a terrorist attack in London is facing
a retrial after the jury was discharged in a trial held partly in secret.

Erol Incedal, 26, was charged with preparing an act of terrorism. He denies the
offence.

The jury has been told that Incedal was preparing to mount an attack that could
have been against a small group of people or a single prominent person.
Alternatively, the prosecution alleged, he may have been planning an
indiscriminate attack on a hotel, like that mounted in Mumbai, India, in 2008.

After three-and-a-half weeks of evidence and five days' deliberations, the seven
women and five men of the Old Bailey jury were discharged on Tuesday morning by
Mr Justice Nicol.

Prosecutor Richard Whittam QC told the court that the crown would seek a retrial
on a date to be fixed, probably in the new year.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 11, 2014 Tuesday 1:33 AM GMT

Safety scare for Delhi Airport: IGI audit finds THREE HUNDRED security slip-ups
that leave it open to terror attacks

BYLINE: ANKUR SHARMA

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 602 words


Tall claims about state-of-the-art security apparatus at the Indira Gandhi
International Airport appear to have fallen flat as an audit by the Bureau of
Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) has found that one of the busiest airports in
Asia has as many as 300 chinks in its security that could make it vulnerable to
terrorist attacks.

"These grey areas are now becoming hotspots for illegal activities as thieves,
human traffickers and officials involved in illegal activities are committing
crimes there. Areas like customs, immigration, check-in, security check areas
and boarding areas are among the grey spots that have no CCTV coverage," a
senior official of the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security told Mail Today.

[IMG 12798847 noborder /]

The security audit of Terminal 3 (T3), touted as a "hyper sensitive" airport,
has nailed more grey areas, including more than 12 poorly-lit spots where CCTV
cameras cannot capture images of any suspicious movement or activity.

Experts have contended that these lapses make the airport as insecure as a
common market. According to the experts, the dozen dark spots are like open
invitations for intruders.

The issue of poorly-lit areas is not new and has been raised in the past by the
CISF.

The report also pointed out that the poor performance of T3's sole anti-intruder
device is a major security threat.

Threats

"During technical audit, which is also a part of security audit, it was noticed
that the antiintruder device is not working properly. The CISF raised a strong
objection on this issue," an official told Mail Today on condition of anonymity.



This year alone, some nine intrusions have been detected by authorities. The
anti-intruder device or perimeter intrusion detection system (PIDS) has even
become a major reason for a tussle between the CISF, the main agency for
guarding the airport, and DIAL, the operator of the airport.

The report also expressed concern at the deployment of private security guard at
vital points.

"The multi-level car parking and cargo terminal are areas which are handled by
private security personnel. Apart from the security audit, the issue was
discussed in a recent meeting and it was suggested that these areas should be
handed to CISF personnel as they are trained to deal with terrorist activities,"
a CISF official said.

The report stressed the need to deploy additional CISF personnel but no action
has been taken so far, a senior airport official said.

Even after several written communications, the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security
has been sitting on the report, officials claimed.

When the Intelligence Bureau recently issued a general alert about terror
attacks at several airports, including the one in Delhi, the spy agency
expressed concern over these grey areas.

Recently, a Punjab-based traveller coming from Dubai lost his valuable items at
T3. He immediately informed CISF officials about the theft and when officials
check the CCTV footage, they found that the spot where he was mugged was a grey
area with no CCTV coverage.

Another concern Later, he filed a complaint with Delhi Police and a case was
registered.

Similarly, during an investigation of human trafficking, the Delhi Police asked
airport officials to hand over CCTV footage.

But it was found that the spot where immigration officials were allegedly
facilitating the traffickers was out of CCTV reach, a Delhi Police official
said.

Another major concern is the baggage handling area, officials said.

This is one of the most crime-prone areas and 90 per cent of thefts reported at
IGI airport have occurred in this area.

[IMG 12798896 noborder /]

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 12, 2014 Wednesday

Seven schoolchildren killed in "terrorist" attack in Syria's Hama - website

LENGTH: 120 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Hama, SANA, Seven school children were killed as terrorists fired on Wednesday
[12 November] two rocket shells on Karnaz Primary School in the countryside of
Mhardeh in Hama province.

A source at the police command told SANA that the terrorists targeted the school
with two rocket shells which resulted in the death of seven children and the
injury of four others, in addition to causing huge material damage to the school
building.

A source at al-Sqeilbiyeh National Hospital stated that the children who have
been killed in the attack and arrived in the hospital are under age 12.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1540 gmt 12 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                    November 12, 2014 Wednesday 9:31 AM GMT

Derry man caught with four mortar bombs for use in terror attack jailed for 12
years

BYLINE: By Ashleigh McDonald

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 284 words


A man caught driving a van loaded with four primed mortar bombs for use in a
terrorist attack on the police has been jailed for 12 years.

Londonderry man Seamus McLaughlin (37) admitted possession of explosives with
intent to endanger life and having articles for use in terrorism.

Sentencing McLaughlin, from Eastway Gardens in Creggan, Judge David McFarland
spoke of "high potential for injuries or death" had the mortar bombs actually
been fired at their intended target.

McLaughlin was in a van stopped by police on the Letterkenny Road on March 3
last year.

He got out of the white Citroen Berlingo with his hands raised.

Belfast Crown Court heard he was wearing a jacket zipped up to his face with the
hood up, a baseball cap, gloves and plastic 'overshoes'.

When he was asked by officers at the scene whether anything was going to explode
in the vehicle, he didn't respond.

Police found an improvised mortar system in the back of the van. It included
four launch tubes, four propelling units and four mortar bombs.

These contained explosives, were secured in a frame and were ready for
deployment.

A timing device was also found in the vehicle, as well as a device designed to
destroy the van.

In addition, a hole had been cut in the roof of the van to enable the mortars to
be fired.

Prosecuting counsel Ciaran Murphy QC also said that while the mortar device may
have been crude, it was functional and ready to be deployed.

He said it was the Crown's view that the mortar bombs would be detonated
"somewhere in the city of Derry" with the intended target likely to be a police
station.

McLaughlin was handed a custodial sentence of 12 years in custody, followed by
an extended period of five years on licence.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                    November 12, 2014 Wednesday 6:32 AM GMT

Navy Seal Rob O'Neill who killed Osama bin Laden claims US had no intention of
capturing terrorist;
O'Neill appeared on US television last night to speak about the mission to
capture the al Qaeda leader responsible for the 9/11 terror attacks in 2003

BYLINE: By Christopher Bucktin

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 992 words


The Navy SEAL who claims he killed Osama bin Laden has spoken for the first time
to reveal the US Government had no intention of capturing the world's most
wanted man alive.

Robert O'Neill appeared on US television last night to speak about the mission
to capture the al Qaeda leader responsible for the 9/11 terror attacks in 2003.

Despite facing a huge backlash from former colleagues for breaking the code of
silence the 38-year-old provided a first hand account of the details leading to
the death of bin Laden in May 2011.

"The more we trained on it the more we realised this is going to be a one-way
mission," O'Neill said as he appeared on 'The Man who killed Osama bin Laden'.

"We're going to go and we're not going to come back,.

"We're going to die when the house blows up, we're going to die when he blows
up, or we're going to be there too long, we get arrested by the Pakistanis, and
we're going to spend the rest of our lives in a Pakistan prison."

O'Neill said CIA agents told the team only bits of information about the raid on
bin Laden's compound in Abbottobad, Pakistan beforehand, including "a few names
that didn't make sense.''

But he said he and his team figured out who the target was before they were
given their final orders.Meet the Navy Seal who 'killed Osama bin Laden':

Meet the previously unnamed Navy SEAL who killed Osama bin Laden

"A few of us were talking a couple days later about this person, this person why
would they be there," he said.

"It's bin Laden. They found him. We're going to go get him."

Despite believing they were certain to die in the mission, O'Neill said it did
not deter them from wanting to go and take out bin Laden.

"This is a good way to go, and it's worth it because we're we're going to kill
him,'' he said.

"We really wanted to do this,'' he said.

"We wanted it. Bad. This is why we're here. We're at war because of this guy,
and now we're going to go get him."

He then wrote a letter to his children giving them advice about how to live
their lives without him before making what he believed would be his final ever
call to his father back home in Butte, Montana.

On the two part programme, shown on Veterans Day in the US, O'Neill tells how he
got the fatal kill shot in first and ended the life of the terror lord.

During last night's first hour-long special much was dedicated to the training
he underwent to become part of the SEAL Team 6, America most elite unit and
taking part in the rescue of Captain Richards Phillips taken hostage by Somali
pirates.

He also said the mission was carried on behalf of the New York Fire Department,
NYPD and all the American people after then President George W Bush said on
just hours of the attacks which killed 2,977 victims, that those responsible
would receive justice.

On tonight's he talks how throughout his military training he had been trained
to fire two shots to the head during missions - known by SEALs as a double tap.

Last week it was revealed he had previously told families of 9/11 victims he had
actually fired a third round in bin Laden's skull saying there "no harm in
putting one more bullet in him."

He was alleged to have made the comments while attending a secret meeting at the
the new memorial museum at the World Trade Centre site in July.

O'Neill told guests he had no idea who 'The Target' was before the mission but
described in detail how once on the ground entered the building, before walking
upstairs and finding the world's most wanted man.

Sources close to the veteran say his decision to go public was prompted after he
lost some of his military benefits by quitting the SEALs four years early than
then the full 20 years of service.

His father Tom responded saying: "What are you supposed to do when you come out
of the military after such service become a greeter at Walmart?"

However after deciding to go public O'Neill is now being shunned by his former
colleagues who have always maintained a strict code of secrecy.Footage of
aftermath of raid on Bin Laden's hideout:

Obama watched bin Laden raid

The head of the SEALs has already hit out saying that any former member of the
elite unit seeking "public notoriety and financial gain" from sharing secret
operations is a betrayal of the unit's values.

Furious Rear Admiral Brian Losey said in an open letter to all SEALs that a
critical part of the their ethos is, "I do not advertise the nature of my work,
nor seek recognition for my actions."

He even threatened to talk legal action against any SEAL who disclosed
classified information and puts families or future operations at risk.

During O'Neill's service he was deployed on more than a dozen tours of duty in
active combat, in four different war zones, including Iraq and Afghanistan.

He undertook more than 400 separate combat missions rising to become one of the
most decorated men in the SEALs history.

In total he was honoured 52 times before leaving as senior chief petty officer.

His decorations include two Silver Stars - the military's third highest honour,
four Bronze Stars with Valour, three Presidential Unit citations, Joint Service
Commendation Medal with Valour, and two Navy/Marine Corps Commendations with
Valour.

He has been portrayed in Hollywood several times after taking part in some of
America's most high profile missions as part of SEAL team six.

The band-of-brothers mission have been made in to films including Lone Survivor,
Captain Phillips and Zero Dark Thirty.

O'Neill was the lead man on the Maersk Alabama, the ship taken over by Somali
pirates, whose rescue turned into the Oscar-winning movie starring Tom Hanks.

He also helped save colleague Marcus Luttrell, the 'Lone Survivor' who lived to
tell of a failed mission in Afghanistan to capture a Taliban leader and what was
later made in to a movie.

The SEALs - which stands for Sea, Air, Land Teams - are the US Navy's principal
special operations force and a part of the Naval Special Warfare Command and
United States Special Operations Command.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 12, 2014 Wednesday 7:00 AM GMT

Letters: Tories scored an own goal with European Arrest Warrant pandemonium;
The collapsing Tory vote; an inspired tribute at the Tower of London; terror
attacks in Nigeria; Britain's longest viaduct

LENGTH: 1636 words


SIR - Just two weeks ago, during Prime Minister's Questions, Ed Miliband asked
David Cameron to explain why he was delaying a vote on the European Arrest
Warrant (EAW). Mr Cameron answered: "We are going to have a vote. We are going
to have it before the Rochester by-election. His questions have just collapsed."

The chicanery used by the Government to deny MPs the promised vote wasn't
clever. Ukip will certainly benefit from this spectacular own goal.

The only thing collapsing will be the Tory vote.

Nigel Draper                      Takeley, Essex

SIR - First there was the sleight-of-hand accounting employed with regard to the
£1.7 billion levy from the EU, which David Cameron must have known would be
halved by the rebate due on it. Then came Monday's debacle in Parliament.

Mr Cameron promised a debate on the adoption of the EAW, but it turned out to be
a debate on all 35 justice measures being opted back into, with the EAW not even
mentioned in the motion.

We are often told by governments that they have "learnt lessons". It seems that
the Prime Minister and his Government have not learnt that these kind of tactics
will not endear them to the electorate.

Daniel Bratchell                      Worcester

SIR - The Speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, criticised the
Government's handling of the EAW matter, saying that failure to hold a vote on
the issue had increased voters' contempt for the parliamentary system.

In fact, among many voters, the repeated failure of Mr Bercow to observe the
time-honoured convention of the Speaker's neutrality is exactly the sort of
thing that aggravates the public.

Bob Timmis                      Warrington, Cheshire

SIR - The EAW is good news for victims and bad news for those dodging
accountability.

John Barstow                      Fittleworth, West Sussex

SIR - Adopting the EAW would place every British subject at the mercy of foreign
courts and legal systems very different to our own. Without the safeguard of an
extradition treaty, foreign judges would have the power to order the arrest of
any British person without substantial evidence of a crime having been
committed.

Derek Bennett                      Walsall, Staffordshire

SIR - Can our legislature not come up with an emergency statute which dovetails
into the EAW to achieve what is needed, without further EU integration, and with
further permanent legislation outside the EAW that particularly suits British
interests?

Quentin Skinner                      Lower Zeals, Wiltshire

Poppies at the Tower of London speak to us all

SIR - Paul Cummins's inspired tribute at the Tower of London has brought us all
together irrespective of colour, class or creed: something that no single
individual has managed to do since, perhaps, the Rev David Railton and his
similarly inspired idea of the Unknown Soldier.

I would like to think that this country might honour Paul Cummins in the New
Year Honours with a knighthood.

Geoffrey Aldridge Wingrave, Buckinghamshire

SIR - The image of the poppies in the Tower of London's moat is very poignant.

My grandfather was in the 3rd Battalion Grenadier Guards from 1908-11. During
that period he was often posted to the Tower, where he used to play football in
the moat with his fellow soldiers.

As a reservist, he was called up at the outbreak of war and posted to the 1st
Battalion Grenadier Guards, with whom he landed at Zeebrugge in early October
1914. He took part in the famous Christmas Day football matches, but spoke very
little of this for many years. It was, of course, a treasonable offence to
fraternise with the enemy.

Later, he was seriously wounded at the 2nd Battle of Ypres in April 1915, and
never returned to the Front. He was one of the lucky ones.

J R Martin Colchester, Essex

SIR - The poppy installation at the Tower is wonderful. My own poppy will be
placed on my father's grave in a small churchyard north of Glasgow.

Born in 1921, he was a soldier in the Second World War, and died last year. He
was well known locally for poppy collections and collected his last can just
before his death.

Every purchased poppy has a story.

Marlyn Watt Alicante, Spain

Nigerian school attack

SIR - In the early Sixties I worked in Northern Nigeria as an education officer,
teaching at the Provincial Girls' School in Bauchi. There were 100 girls in the
school, who came from all parts of the province. Many continued their education
at a secondary school in Kano and, generally, the education of girls was
encouraged.

The school was visited by Sir Ahmadu Bello, the premier of the Northern Nigeria
region while I was teaching there, and he appeared to be very pleased with the
education the girls were receiving. He recommended that the head teacher of the
school, Margaret Shier, should be awarded an MBE for her work over more than
eight years to promote the education of girls in the region.

I am so sad that, 50 years later, so much damage is being done to the education
of both girls and boys in this part of Nigeria. Girls have been targeted in
previous attacks and the horrific killing of so many boys at a school in
Potiskum on Monday, in a suspected Boko Haram suicide bombing, is such a
backward step.

Rosemary Pardey Cuckfield, West Sussex

A fond farewell

SIR - At a time when we hear so many stories about the poor treatment of
vulnerable patients, it was refreshing to read the report about Sheila Marsh,
who was granted a visit from her favourite horse in the grounds of the hospital
where she died a few hours later.

Well done Wigan Royal Infirmary for this outstanding example of listening to the
requests of end-of-life patients, and showing what can be done to allow them to
die peacefully and with dignity.

Margaret Senior Uppingham, Rutland

Absorbing languages

SIR - Catherine Ford believes children as young as three should start acquiring
other languages in order to reap the benefits of bilingualism.

Research published over several decades suggests that older children generally
progress faster in second languages than younger children; language acquisition
is possible at any age; and those who begin as adults can achieve very high
levels of proficiency in second languages.

One of the world's greatest polyglots, Kató Lomb, who mastered 17 languages,
started acquiring other languages in her twenties. When I met her 20 years ago
in Budapest, she was working on number 18 at age 86.

Stephen Krashen Professor Emeritus, University of Southern California Los
Angeles, California

Talk of the town

SIR - The company I worked for transferred me to their Haverfordwest branch.
Colleagues later told me that this posting was known as "Haveagoodrest".

Gordon Doughty Hook, Pembrokeshire

SIR - Reflecting the current woes of the local football team, there are children
growing up in Blackpool who genuinely believe that their home town is called
"Blackpool-Nil".

Bill Honeywell Clitheroe, Lancashire

SIR - Us'ns on the Isle of Woight calls that gurt lump close to us'ns "North
Island".

Bill Miller St Lawrence, Isle of Wight

Stay-at-home mothers

SIR - I hardly think that Karren Brady, newly appointed Baroness Brady of
Knightsbridge, is a role model for mothers who elect not to return to work,
given that she spent only five months at home with her daughter.

When I had my son I gave up a fairly lucrative career as a lawyer to take care
of his needs, and I enjoyed every minute of it.

It is my belief that many of the moral and practical shortcomings of children
today can be laid at the door of parents who put their careers before the needs
of their children. Women are continually being "nudged" by this government to
return to work against their better judgment.

Eileen Godfrey York

SIR - I thought stay-at-home mothers stayed at home - at least until their
youngest child was at school. Five months sounds more like maternity leave.

M E van Rees Lindale, Cumbria

Backing soundtrack

SIR - You refer to a scene in Casablanca in which "Dooley Wilson plays the
film's signature song As Time Goes By" (report, November 10).

Dooley Wilson was a drummer and could not play the piano. The music for that and
other scenes was provided by Elliot Carpenter, who sat at a second piano on the
set, out of sight of the camera. Wilson was thus able to observe and copy his
arm and hand movements.

John Carter Bromley, Kent

Let there be light

SIR - In the northern hemisphere, on any day after the spring equinox and before
the autumn equinox, it is possible for the sun to shine through the left-hand
windows when looking towards the altar in a church with the altar in the east
(Letters, November 6).

Martin Mears East Ord, Northumberland

Bottoms on seats

SIR - Does the cinema that has had to replace its Victorian-sized seats so as to
accommodate modern audiences' bigger bottoms (report, November 10) still sell
popcorn, ice cream, cola and chocolates?

Anne Jappie Cheltenham, Gloucestershire

View from the longest railway viaduct in Britain

SIR - Thank you for the beautiful picture of the steam train crossing the
Harringworth Viaduct (report, November 10). It is not, however, the longest
masonry viaduct in Britain.

The London and Greenwich railway - at around 3.75 miles long and entirely on a
viaduct - is longer. The Harringworth Viaduct is the longest across a valley.

Keith Ferris Maidstone, Kent

SIR - I wonder at what point the longest masonry viaduct across a beautiful
Rutland valley became regarded as "magnificent".

There are lessons for those involved in the construction of HS2 to build with
the style and quality of our Victorian forefathers, ensuring that the
construction projects of today will be viewed as magnificent additions in the
future.

J S Hirst Huddersfield, West Yorkshire

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          November 12, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terrorists exploit privacy law;
Minister attacks European ruling used to keep convictions secret Terrorists hide
their past with EU privacy law

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 660 words


Terrorists and criminals are exploiting a European court ruling to hide internet
records about their pasts, a cabinet minister has warned.

Sajid Javid, the culture secretary, unleashed a fierce rebuke to "unelected
judges" in Luxembourg who passed the "right to be forgotten" law. It grants
anyone the right to demand the removal of damaging or embarrassing information
from search engines, even if it is factually true.

Mr Javid hit out at the ruling as "censorship by the back door". In a speech to
newspaper editors, he said that thousands of requests to remove links to
articles were pouring in to companies such as Google from people who "for one
reason or another, would prefer their pasts to be kept secret".

His intervention is the clearest sign to date of unease within the government
over the law, and comes amid friction between the government and Europe.

This week Google revealed that it has received more than 200,000 requests for
the removal of web links - mostly from Britain, France and Germany - and had
complied with 42 per cent of them since the court ruling in May.

"Criminals are having their convictions airbrushed from history even if they
have since committed other, similar crimes," Mr Javid said.

"Terrorists have ordered Google to cover up stories about their trials. The
search engine's own lawyer has warned of unscrupulous companies abusing the
system so that links to their competitors are hidden. The 'right to be
forgotten' is censorship by the back door."

He added: "Stories are not being deleted from archives because of the ruling,
but if they cannot be found by the search engines they may as well not be there
at all."

Media outlets have already warned that the law is affecting the availability of
important news reports. David Jordan, the BBC's director of policy and
standards, said that BBC content, including trial reports of Real IRA members,
has been affected by the decision to remove search results.

Wikipedia, the online encyclopaedia, has also said that links to its webpage
about Gerry "The Monk" Hutch, an Irish mobster, had been removed from Google.
Jimmy Wales, the founder of Wikipedia, has warned that the ruling could have a
chilling effect on free speech.

Mr Javid did not propose taking any action against the ruling, which he
described as one of the threats facing British journalism. However, the
broadside formed part of a head-on attack on the European Court of Justice that
will delight Tory Eurosceptics.

"Since Luxembourg's unelected judges created the so-called 'right to be
forgotten', Google has been receiving a demand for deletion every 90 seconds,"
he told the Society of Editors conference in Southampton. "Each day, a thousand
requests pour in from people who, for one reason or another, would prefer their
pasts to be kept secret."

Mr Javid also announced that journalists would be handed new protections in a
British Bill of Rights to be drawn up should the Tories win the next election.
He added that laws brought in to fight serious crime should never be used by
police officers to snoop on journalists.

Experts said articles deleted under the "right to be forgotten" could be found
using different search terms. "Just because an article may be removed for a
specific named search, that does not mean that the person requesting removal is
necessary the main subject of the article," said an industry source. "It could
be someone in the comments, someone innocent mentioned in the piece, or the
victim."

A Google spokesman said every request was evaluated "very carefully" under the
European court's criteria.

Journalists must be able to protect their sources, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the
Metropolitan Police Commissioner, told MPs yesterday after The Times reported
that there were 2,000 references to journalists on a secret database held by his
force.

He said that the police did not routinely investigate journalists' sources but
defended his officers' duty to inquire into anyone suspected of crime.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday

Terrorists attack Egyptian Navy vessel in Mediterranean

SECTION: WORLD NAVIES; Government and Public Interest

LENGTH: 210 words



HIGHLIGHT: A terrorist attack on an Egyptian Navy vessel in the Mediterranean
Sea has reportedly injured five servicemen, with eight others missing.


A terrorist attack on an Egyptian Navy vessel in the Mediterranean Sea has
reportedly injured five servicemen, with eight others missing.

During the attack, which comes a day after a car bomb injured ten people in the
Sinai Peninsula, the vessel reportedly came under fire some 70km off the
northern port of Damietta.

According to an Agence France-Presse report, the attackers deployed 'fishing
boats' and did not appear to use any rocket propelled grenades or heavier
weapons.

Egyptian military spokesperson Mohamed Samir was quoted by the local daily Youm
Sabah as saying: "In addition to what has been posted regarding the terror
attack, the five servicemen who were injured during the attack have been
transported to military hospitals for the necessary care."

The Egyptian military destroyed four vessels used by the assailants and arrested
32 people. Reports also revealed that the Egyptian Air Force was used in
response.

The attack follows the remote detonation of a car bomb in the town of El-Arish,
north of the Sinai Peninsula, by the police in a controlled explosion.

However, there were no signs of attacks by Sinai-based militants, who have
stepped up attacks against police and soldiers since Islamist President Mohammed
Morsi was overthrown last year.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 13, 2014 Thursday 5:45 PM GMT

Harry praises RAF regiment for key anti-terror role;
Prince Harry praises No 26 squadron RAF Regiment for its "vital" role in
preparing for terrorist attacks in the UK, as he presented a new standard at RAF
Honington in Bury St Edmunds

BYLINE: By PA and Telegraph Video

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 165 words


Prince Harry has praised an RAF squadron for the vital role it plays in
preparing for terrorist attacks in the UK.

He visited RAF Honington in Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, to present a new standard
- a historic and ceremonial flag - to No 26 Squadron RAF Regiment.

The Prince                      was welcomed with a flyover by a Typhoon jet. He
then inspected the troops ahead of a parade which he later told them was
"fantastic".

In a speech in front of the squadron and their families, he said: "This role is
vital to UK defence and civil response capabilities; is is also highly valued by
Nato.

"Alongside 27 Squadron, it is constantly committed at extremely high readiness
to support the combined emergency service and military response to a CBRN
terrorist incident in the UK.

A standard is presented to RAF Regiment squadrons every quarter of a century and
represents hundreds of years of history of service to the monarch and to the
country.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     November 13, 2014 Thursday 1:04 AM GMT

Terrorists launch attack on Egyptian naval patrol

BYLINE: Foreign Staff

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 227 words


Eight Egyptian soldiers were missing after gunmen in a flotilla of fishing boats
attacked a naval patrol near the Suez Canal last night.

Egyptian officials said that the unprecedented sea battle with suspected
terrorists took place 18 km (11m) north of the port of Damietta and 50 km west
of the city of Port Said.

The Egyptian military said that the naval launch came under fire from several
directions. Reinforcements were sent in by sea and air. In the ensuing battle
four boats used by the attackers were destroyed and 32 of the suspected
militants were arrested.

"Search and rescue operations have evacuated five wounded servicemen to a
military hospital . . . and there are still eight personnel lost and the search
continues," it added.

No one immediately claimed responsibility for the assault in the Mediterranean.
The military has faced attacks from Islamist militants based in the Sinai
peninsula further east, and smugglers also operate in the area.

Two militant attacks in the Sinai last month killed 33 soldiers and police,
prompting the army to declare a three-month state of emergency in the
surrounding areas and clear a security barrier along the border with the Gaza
Strip.

Militant attacks have increased since July 2013 when the army chief Abdel Fattah
al-Sisi overthrew the Islamist president Mohamed Morsi following protests
against his rule.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 14, 2014 Friday

Austrian army, Vienna police hold joint drill simulating terrorist attack

LENGTH: 466 words


Text of report by Austrian newspaper Kurier website on 9 November

[Report by W. Theuretsbacher: "Militia Forces Practice Anti-Terror Operation"]

Vulnerable objects. The Vienna Infantry Battalion, police, and the Municipality
of Vienna stage a joint exercise.

Against the backdrop of the latent threat from jihadist terrorism, the
[Austrian] Federal Armed Forces is holding an exercise next week [10-14
November] for the safeguarding of critical objects .

In case of a terrorist attack, police forces would soon be exhausted. Thus, for
example, a few hours after the Breivik attacks in Oslo, soldiers of the
Norwegian Army had to guard government buildings because no one knew whether
more attacks were planned. In Vienna, this would be the responsibility of the
Guard Battalion. In case of a longer-term threat, militia comrades of the Vienna
Infantry Battalion would have to replace the guard soldiers.

As of Monday [10 November], this battalion and 560 militia soldiers, in
collaboration with police, will practice this important safeguarding duty. They
will be joined by the Municipality of Vienna, the OeBB [Austrian Railway
Company], the Port of Vienna [Danube port company] with icebreaker "MS
Eisvogel," and the Danube Steamship Company with passenger vessel "MS Admiral
Tegetthoff." The militia forces will be strengthened by military police, the
Melk [province of Lower Austria] -based Engineers' Battalion 3 with workboats
and transport vessels, and the Villach [Carinthia] -based Engineer Battalion 1
with explosive ordnance disposal squads and bomb disposal robots.

Supply Crisis

Apart from the Lobau oil storage facility and the Donaustadt and Freudenau power
plants, the Port of Vienna, the Danube port of Lobau, and the Siemens building
were selected as critical objects. These are vulnerable and at the same time
remote objects. Because of the great attention that an exercise around the
Parliament building would draw, officials did not consider that option, sources
from the Austrian Armed Forces reported. Given the current budget and supply
crisis, the exercise is in the focus of all people interested in military
matters. This is because, although, by law, the militia is the backbone of the
Federal Armed Forces, there is a shortage of vehicles and equipment. In
addition, as a result of the fact that mandatory military service was shortened
to six months, there is a lack of young servicemen. Therefore, it was necessary
for this exercise to borrow vehicles and equipment available at other locations
from military units all over Austria. Yet, [Austrian] Defence Minister Gerald
Klug wants to raise funds, within the framework of the drastic economic measures
at present, for the procurement of militia equipment.

Source: Kurier Online website, Vienna, in German 0000 gmt 9 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 15, 2014 Saturday

Saudi security authorities detain 41 in connection with terror attack in north

LENGTH: 758 words


Text of report by Saudi-owned leading pan-Arab daily Al-Sharq al-Awsat website
on 13 November

[Report by Nasir al-Haqbani: "Arrest of a wanted person on the northern border
in connection with the Al-Ahsa incident, and the number of detainees reaches 41;
Maj-Gen Al-Turki to Al-Sharq al-Awsat: The security operation is ongoing"]

The Saudi security authorities succeeded in apprehending six newly wanted
individuals in different cities of the kingdom in connection with the events
that took place in the village of Al-Dalwah in Al-Ahsa Governorate. This raises
the total number of detainees to 41 within 10 days of the incident taking place.
Meanwhile, Maj-Gen Mansur al-Turki, the security spokesman at the Ministry of
Interior, emphasized to Al-Sharq al-Awsat that "the security operation is
ongoing to eradicate the planners, the implementers, and the financers of this
operation, and to undermine their future plans."

In a telephone call, Maj-Gen Al-Turki clarified that "the number of the
detainees in connection with the incident experienced by the village of
Al-Dalwah has reached 41 people, and they were arrested in different cities of
the kingdom." He emphasized that "the investigation will take its course."

The security spokesman at the Ministry of Interior said that "the security
apparatus succeeded yesterday in apprehending one person in the area of the
northern border, without any resistance. Investigations indicate that the
detainee is linked to the incident in the village of Al-Dalwah."

Maj-Gen Al-Turki pointed out that "40 of the detainees are Saudis, and another
one is of an Arab nationality." Meanwhile, a security source indicated to
Al-Sharq al-Awsat that "the work of the terrorist cell that targeted a
Husayniyah [a Shi'i mosque] in the village of Al-Dalwah does not stop at
targeting innocent civilians; it launched the operation with the aim of creating
dissent among the people, particularly since it is planning for terrorist
activities. The security authorities, however, carried out preemptive operations
that have undermined all their plans, and they are now working on eradicating
the roots of dissent."

The source stated that "all those who were detained are Saudi nationals, and
were detained without any clashes with the security personnel. A previous
confrontation had taken place in Buraydah Governorate, resulting in the deaths
of three wanted persons and the martyrdom of two security men, and they were
Capt Muhammad al-Anzi and Cpl Turki al-Rashid." The source emphasized that "some
of those who were arrested had participated in dissent-provoking activities and
fighting outside the kingdom. Others have prior local security cases. Some of
those are being tried for security cases, while others were released after their
sentences were deemed to have been concluded." It is noteworthy that sources
told Al-Sharq al-Awsat earlier that "the Saudi security authorities are
interrogating some wanted Saudis about the source of money that was seized with
them, some of which was in cash and some in the form of foreign transfers that
were deposited a few days before the operation against a Shi'i mosque in the
village of Al-Dalwah last Monday."

The source stated that "the security authorities have not yet completed the
interrogation with the detainees, since they have discovered information about
particular persons, and the sources of support for this cell, inside and outside
the kingdom, and this is due to the security achievement that was recorded by
containing this cell in more than eight cities in the kingdom."

The source emphasized that "the families of the detainees had failed to look
after their children, since they were aware of their past, and had been informed
of their terrorist acts inside and outside, particularly that those detainees
had participated in fighting for some time. The families of some of the
detainees who had been released on bail did not commit to looking after their
children and stand with them on the right path, re-integrating them in society
so that they might become good citizens, serve their country, and strive to
build their future and the future of their children and families. None of the
families informed the security authorities or the Muhammad Bin Nayif Centre for
Rehabilitation and Care if their released children had started to show signs of
extremism. This could have helped preempt events and get them to reconsider
their ideas before becoming involved in any criminal action."

Source: Al-Sharq al-Awsat website, London, in Arabic 0000 gmt 13 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                     November 15, 2014 Saturday 4:08 PM GMT

Birmingham pub bombings: 'Headache saved me from terrorist attack';
Pat Bentley tells of the guilt and bitterness she has endured for 40 years since
terrorist atrocity which claimed lives of her friends

BYLINE: By Mike Lockley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1154 words


It was to be a night of giggles, memories and tall holiday tales. Giddy with
excitement, teenagers Maxine Hambleton, Jane Davis and Pat Farrugia at last had
the photos developed that chronicled their two week adventure, grape-picking in
the Champagne region of France.

In the crowded Tavern in the Town, the trio - all workers at Birmingham's
Lewis's department store - planned to share stories spawned by the snaps.
Magical moments such as washing their hair in bubbly at the Epernay
accommodation.

One act of unspeakable barbarity by monsters masked as freedom fighters forever
shattered the bond between those girls. Maxine, just 18, and 17-year-old Jane
entered the popular pub bathed in the sunshine of youth, buoyed by the
confidence gained during that working holiday. Maxine had also walked into the
bar to hand-out party invitations.

Within seconds they had become another dark statistic of the bloodsoaked
Troubles.

The pair were among the 21 murdered when IRA bombs spewed molten shrapnel
through The Tavern and Mulberry Bush. Jane, a brilliant student who dreamed of
one day becoming a nuclear physicist, was the youngest victim of the mass
murder.

Pat, now Pat Bentley, lived - and there's a reason, but the mother-of-five
refuses to file under "fate". At 6.30, a headache and nagging mother forced her
to pull-out of the arranged meeting. The bomb detonated at 8.27.

On Friday, November 21, it will be 40 years since the atrocity. The years have
not washed away the guilt worn by Pat, who now lives in Dorridge. There's no
logic in the emotion - Pat freely admits that - but it still burns.

Fighting back tears, the 58-year-old said: "I felt I had let Jane down, I felt I
had let Jane down because she had called me, but I could not have saved her. It
was a horrible, horrible feeling. It remains a bitter feeling.

"The guilt has been terrible. Yes, I should've been there, but that would've
done nothing. I've tried to live the best life I can, I've tried to live a good
life. I think that's the reason why."

Pat's memories of her closest friend at Byng Kenrick Grammar School for Girls,
in Tile Cross, will never be tarnished by time. In his darkest hour, Jane's
father Arthur made sure of that.

The ties between both girls were so tight, Pat accompanied Arthur when he faced
the terrible ordeal of identifying his young daughter's body. "She was wearing
the ring she always wore. He gave it to me. It has always been special,"
recalled Pat, adding: "I remember he was a totally broken man."

The ties between both girls were so tight, Pat was present when the dreadful
news was delivered to Arthur and wife Joan at their Sheldon home.

The friendship ran so deep, the pair spent the weeks before the unspeakable
crime decorating the Davis' front room.

"Jane said to her father, 'I want some money because I want to do the front
room, it will be my room'. He gave her the money, bless him. She went to to the
Co-op and bought a settee and carpet and record player because music was so
important to us."

Jane was a one-off, a brilliant scholar whose life flame burned brightly. That
makes her loss more unbearable.

She had the intellect and drive to make a difference.

"She was such a livewire, such a charismatic girl, very bright and intelligent,
brilliant at maths and the sciences." said Pat. "She was always the instigator.
She led, I followed. Jane was full of fun, really happy-go-lucky. When she was
there, it was always going to be fun. Looking back, she was one of those really
special people."

The pair were studying at Byng Kenrick upper-sixth form, and gathering pin-money
through part-time jobs at Lewis's, when they hatched plans for their vineyard
adventure: an October trip taken with Maxine and a male student.

Memories of the break bring a smile to Pat's face. "It was loads of fun. We were
so ill-prepared. We didn't pack Wellingtons, we didn't pack coats, we didn't
pack gardening gloves. Birmingham pub bombings

"We were sodden, but we all mucked-in together. It was such a laugh - I can
remember washing our hair in Champagne for fun."

Jane was tasked with getting the pictures from that coming-of-age holiday
developed. When she collected them, her first call was to Pat. "I'd come home
with a headache and I didn't fancy going out. Jane rang and said, 'what time are
we meeting up?' and I told her I didn't know if I was up to it.

"The phone was on the table in the hall and my mum could hear what was going on.
She shouted, 'your tea's ready'. I think she'd had enough of me being
indecisive."

Hours later, a schoolfriend rang with news of the terrorist attack. "He was one
of the few blokes who had a car," said Pat. "We drove to Jane's house and picked
up her dad and drove into Birmingham. It was impossible to get into the city
centre, so we went to Bradford Street police station. They told us to go home
and wait.

"We didn't know what to do. We parked the car on the Coventry Road, thinking
Jane would have to walk down there."

They ended the fruitless vigil at 3am. "I knew then," Pat confessed, "that
something had happened to her. If she was OK, she would've phoned."

Pat also visited the Quinton home of Maxine's mother in a desperate bid for
news. "What was I thinking about to do that because it was going to cause her so
much concern?" Pat still asks herself. "It was the shock of what was happening,
I've never felt so powerless."

Grief has blurred memories following news Pat's worst fears had been realised:
"I can't even remember going to school."

The Birmingham Six - wrongly jailed for the bombings - were tried over Jane's
murder. We now know they were not responsible. They, too, were victims: victims
of a terrible miscarriage of justice.

Jane, however, is not driven by a desired to see the real butchers brought to
book. "I don't feel angry, I don't feel anything except sadness, incredible
sadness.

"Twenty-one people lost their lives in a sad and terrible way and so needlessly.
There are other ways of backing a political cause than resorting to murder.

"I am a Catholic. Whoever did do it will get their just desserts because they
are not going upstairs where Jane is."

Pat ended our emotional interview with one, simple plea: "Do Jane proud, she
deserves it."

Jane's friends want to ensure her story is told - and they want former
schoolfriends to support this week's tributes to the victims.

Wendy Cope - Wendy McDonough at Byng Kenrick - said: "Because there are so few
of her family around, her story does not surface."

Jane had two elder brothers, one died in an industrial accident in the Middle
East, and Wendy has been unable to trace the other.

Wendy, now living in Evesham, added: "She was brilliant. She was a real tomboy
with a wicked sense of humour. She loved Monty Python."

Wendy and Pat are now calling on anyone who knew their treasured friend to
attend Thursday's memorial concert - "21 Today" - at Birmingham Town Hall and
service at St Philip's Cathedral on the following day.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 15, 2014 Saturday 9:00 PM GMT

David Blunkett attacks funders of terror;
The former home secretary accuses Gulf states of duplicity by failing to crack
down on terror finaciers while also joining coalition forces fighting Islamic
State and al-Qaeda

BYLINE: By Robert Mendick Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 233 words


David Blunkett, the former home secretary, has accused Gulf states of "oiling
the wheels of terror" by allowing jihadi financiers to operate with apparent
impunity.

Writing in the Telegraph                      he also questions why the
Government's own sanctions blacklist has identified fewer financiers of
terrorism than its US equivalent .

Mr Blunkett calls on states such as Qatar and Kuwait to "deal decisively with
those who use vast sums of money to fund terrorism" and effectively accuses them
of duplicity.

He points out that some Gulf states have joined the coalition fighting the
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) and al-Qaeda, but have failed to act
against home-grown terror fund-raisers.

In making his appeal, Mr Blunkett is lending his backing to The Telegraph's Stop
the Funding of Terror campaign.

Mr Blunkett writes: "They [the Gulf states] cannot parade on the international
scene their desire to assist in taking on the global threat from extremism but
then condone, in their own backyard, those providing the means to carry through
that deadly intent."

Mr Blunkett also says: "It is the money made through the sale of oil in what are
substantially oil-rich fiefdoms which is oiling the wheels of terror. It is
being used to purchase the armaments and facilitate the sophisticated
communication of Isil militants and others."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                     November 16, 2014 Sunday 12:15 PM GMT

Hugh Callaghan of Birmingham Six: The terrible toll of my false arrest;
Innocent man who spent 16 years in prison for terror attack backs campaign by
bombing victims' families in fight to see real culprits brought to justice

BYLINE: By birminghammail

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 736 words


On the anniversary of the IRA Birmingham pub bombings, Hugh Callaghan found
himself paying his respects like hundreds of others at Birmingham Cathedral.

Joining mourners outside afterwards he made his way to the stone memorial which
lists the 21 names of the dead.

"A woman came up beside me," Hugh told the Sunday People.

"She said it was such an awful thing, but there weren't just 21 victims, there
were the six who went to prison for something they didn't do.

"I didn't tell her who I was, but it makes me glad people know what happened and
that we were innocent."

Hugh was one of the Birmingham Six - the six Irishmen wrongfully jailed for
murdering 21 people in two pub bombings in 1974.

It's now four decades ago since Hugh was dragged from his family and had a false
confession beaten out of him

He'll never get back the 16 years he spent in jail and although the physical
scars he received from police officers and prison inmates have faded, the
terrifying dreams he has suffered since show no sign of stopping.

Now 84, he explained: "In the nightmares I'm being questioned and whenever I say
something they don't like they kick me hard under the table and tell me what I
am supposed to say. Birmingham Six's Hugh Callaghan on the police brutality that
forced his confession

"Then there are the dogs. The police left my cell door open and kept bringing in
this police dog, an Alsatian and geeing it up to bark at me - I see it in my bad
dreams.

"I also see the faces of the policemen who questioned me. I shout and kick in my
sleep and I wake up covered in sweat. I've fallen out of bed twice because the
dreams are so violent."

After Hugh was finally freed he moved to London. His daughter had grown up and
left home and while he remained in touch with his wife Eileen until she died
recently, he says returning to his old life "was not an option".

Hugh struggled to readjust until he met his partner Adeline, 82, who he credits
with "saving" him. He received almost £1 million compensation, but used most of
it to secure his family's future. Birmingham pub bombings

Hugh explains: "My grandkids were very small when I came out and their mum
hadn't told them anything about what happened.

"It's up to her - she had to live in Birmingham while I was in prison. She lost
all her school friends because they thought her dad was an IRA bomber and I
wanted to see her right."

Listening to Hugh today it is astonishing how he came to end up in jail.

"On the day of the bombing, it was my wife's birthday," he said. "I'd gone
around to see Richard McIlkenny (one of the other Six) to pay back £1 (£10 in
today's money) and he said he was heading to Ireland for the funeral of James
McDade, an IRA bomber who had been killed.

"I'm not a republican, I wasn't interested in politics. But I had nothing else
to do so I went with him to the station to meet the other four who I knew to say
hello.

"If only I had gone home. After they left I went out for a few more drinks and
got home at 11pm.

"The next day when I heard the police had arrested the five I thought they'd
want to talk to me. When I got home the police were waiting and my wife and
daughter were in a right state."

Hugh was taken to a police station and "slapped about a bit".

He said: "They got out a gun and told me to say what happened.

"Every time I said something they didn't like they would pull the trigger and it
would click and I thought I was going to be shot.

"I was terrified and signed what they wanted me to, thinking the solicitor I was
promised would sort it later.

"I got remanded and the prison officers let the inmates beat us up.

"We were sent to the bathroom afterwards to clean ourselves. I was last and by
then the bath was full of blood - it was awful."

His hopes for freedom were dashed when a jury convicted Hugh and the other five
- Patrick Hill, Gerard Hunter, Richard McIlkenny, William Power and John Walker
- of bombing the Mulberry Bush and the Tavern In The Town in Birmingham.

"Even the priest told me to confess and it turned me from God until I came out,"
said Hugh. "But the campaign on the outside and thousands of letters I received
kept me alive.

"I'm not bitter, only with those policemen - it doesn't change anything being
angry."

This week campaigners for the victims were planning an appeal for new inquests
into the deaths - something Hugh supports.

"It could mean the real killers being caught and the last bit of suspicion
gone," he says.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 16, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Blunkett attacks funders of terror

BYLINE: ROBERT MENDICK

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 143 words


DAVID BLUNKETT, the former home secretary, today accuses Gulf states of "oiling
the wheels of terror" by allowing jihadi financiers to operate with apparent
impunity.

Writing in The Sunday Telegraph, he also questions why the Government's own
sanctions blacklist has identified fewer financiers of terrorism than its US
equivalent.

Mr Blunkett calls on states such as Qatar and Kuwait to "deal decisively with
those who use vast sums of money to fund terrorism" and effectively accuses them
of duplicity.

He points out that some Gulf states have joined the coalition fighting the
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) and al-Qaeda, but have failed to act
against home-grown terror fund-raisers.

In making his appeal, Mr Blunkett is lending his backing to The Telegraph's Stop
the Funding of Terror campaign. Terror funding: Pages 16-17 David Blunkett: Page
27

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STLscot


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 17, 2014 Monday

Afghan capital residents complain about escalating terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 523 words


Text of report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 16 November

[Presenter] The residents of the capital are concerned about increasing
terrorist attacks in Kabul city. They slam the security bodies and say that the
Taleban are showing their strength every day while the security forces are
showing weakness. The Interior Ministry says that it is tough to prevent such
incidents without the cooperation of the detective and intelligence bodies.
Soleman Mostamand reports.

[Correspondent] Nowadays, the people see explosions and suicide attacks every
day. Both military personnel and civilians fall victim to these attacks. The
residents of Kabul city say that the security forces are too weak to contain
these attacks. Perhaps, this is the most serious reaction from the Kabul
residents to the security forces.

[Anamollah Fayez, Kabul resident, captioned, young man talking to camera] After
the formation of the new government or national unity government in the country,
the situation is worsening.

[Mostafa, Kabul resident, captioned, young man talking to camera] When we leave
home, we say goodbye to everyone as we are not sure whether we shall  return
home safely. I feel very sorry to be in Afghanistan.

[Abdol Qayum, Kabul resident, captioned, young man talking to camera] I think
that the detective and intelligence bodies do not work nowadays and that they
cannot prevent such attacks.

[Correspondent] Nowadays everyone criticizes the detective and intelligence
bodies. The people say that the government should clarify whether the problem is
that the armed opponents are strong or the security forces are weak.

[Sediq Sediqi, spokesman for Interior Ministry, captioned, speaking at a news
conference] Our detective bodies should fully cooperate with us to beat up small
nests of terrorists and Taleban in the cities. You [journalists] fully realize
the responsibility of the Afghan national policy which includes ensuring of
physical security, implementing the rule of law and taking care of other issues.
But fighting terrorism is a joint responsibility of the police and other
security bodies.

[Correspondent] Some people also are used as a tool. For example, Eqbal has
received terrorist training in North Waziristan for three years. The police have
arrested him in [northern] Konduz Province.

[Eqbal, member of Al-Qa'idah network, captioned, a young man speaking at a
conference while holding by policemen] I am basically ready to fight the USA.
The USA does not have a presence in Konduz Province, but the police and army are
preventing us from fighting the USA. They do not allow us to fight the USA and
block our ways too. The police and army defend the USA.

[Sediqi] He is an active member of the Al-Qa'idah network. He is a citizen of
Tajikistan. He has been transferred by his colleagues to northern parts of
Afghanistan to carry out terrorist activities.

[Correspondent] Apparently, one cannot see a ray of hope for a better future.
The people say that when they think about the future, they can only see darkness
which is deepening with every passing day.

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1315 gmt 16 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 18, 2014 Tuesday

Saudi court sentences three men to death for carrying out terror attacks

LENGTH: 519 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Arab News website on 18 November

[Report by MD Al-Sulami: "Three Sentenced to Death for Riyadh, Al-Khobar Terror
Attacks"]

A special criminal court in Riyadh has sentenced to death three members of a
terror cell for killing 20 people and injuring 35 others at the Oasis
Residential compound in Al-Khobar in the Eastern Province, and the Al-Mohayya
complex in Riyadh in separate attacks. Five were each handed 30-year jail terms.

The victims of the terror attacks included BBC photographer Simon Cumbers. His
colleague Frank Gardner was critically wounded and is now wheelchair-bound.
There were also Saudi civilians and policemen among the victims.

The first defendant, N. Boqami, chief of Cell 86, said Al-Qaeda [Al-Qa'idah] had
assigned him and others to storm the Oasis complex in 2004. They had been told
that US forces had kidnapped and detained several Sunni Iraqi women during the
2003 invasion.

However, he denied all other 27 charges against him, including storming into a
facility of the APICORP and the Oasis compound carrying grenades, assault rifles
and revolvers on May 29 and holding 45 hostages. The state contends that he was
accompanied by Al-Qaeda members Turki Al-Motairi and Abdullah Al-Sobaie during
the operation.

The charge sheet accused them of killing 10 people of various nationalities
including two industrial security officers and a cop. It was also claimed that
they were party to the assault and murder of 12 and injuring 20 security
officers in an encounter at the Waha compound. The state also accused Boqami of
ascribing to the takfiri ideology -to declare other Muslims non-believers
-questioning the Holy Qur'an, Sunnah and the creed of the early Muslim ummah.

The state also contends that he rebelled against the ruler by switching his
allegiance to Abd-al-Aziz al-Muqrin, the chief of Al-Qaeda in the Kingdom, and
taking up membership in an Al-Qaeda subsidiary called "Deterrence and Defence
Cell," which undertook the task of spying on and assassinating civilian
officials.

The court accused him of killing a British man, tying his body to a car and
dragging it along a road. The other charges include shooting and killing three
Indians and a Japanese citizen, and murdering an Italian hostage and breaking
the news to an Arabic television news channel. The court found that he had slit
the throat of a Swedish citizen after shooting and killing him. His other
victims included 12 others, among them Indian, Swedish, Egyptian, South African,
Sri Lankan, and Filipino citizens, the court stated. He was also accused of
leading the terror attack at the Al-Mohayya residential complex in Riyadh in
November 2003. The court found that his gang had accompanied two other Al-Qaeda
members. They had thrown hand-grenades and opened fire at security guards at the
complex to make way for an explosives-laden car. The car was disguised as a
military vehicle and carried 300 kg of powerful explosives. They had detonated
it, killing 17 people and wounding 122 others of various nationalities.

Source: Arab News website, Jedda, in English 18 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 10:56 AM GMT

Jerusalem synagogue attack: 'Terrorists with knives and axes' kill worshippers
at Har Nof temple;
Police say they shot and killed both suspects at the scene

BYLINE: By Heather Saul

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 363 words


Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed to "respond with a heavy
hand" after at least four people were killed and eight injured in what Israeli
police described as a "terrorist" attack on a synagogue in Jerusalem.

Mr Netanyahu condemned Tuesday's violence as a "cruel murder of Jews who came to
pray and were killed by despicable murderers". He blamed the attack on Hamas and
Palestinian Authority chief Mahmoud Abbas.

President Abbas denounced the bloodshed in a statement, saying: "The presidency
condemns the attack on Jewish worshippers in their place of prayer and condemns
the killing of civilians no matter who is doing it."

Writing on Twitter, Israeli police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said officers shot
both suspects dead after they entered the synagogue in the ultra-Orthodox Har
Nof neighbourhood armed with knives and axes and attacked worshippers.Israeli TV
footage showed the synagogue surrounded by police and rescue workers and the
surrounding area cordoned off.

The violence comes amid high tensions in the city, with a wave of attacks
killing at least six people in recent weeks.

Two weeks ago, a Palestinian driver was shot dead by Israeli police after
ramming his car into a crowd at a tram stop in East Jerusalem, killing a border
policeman and wounding 13 others.

A Palestinian bus driver was found hangingin his vehicle in a Jewish part of
Jerusalem late Sunday, which was ruled a suicide by an inquest.

His relatives insisted that Yousef al-Ramouni, 32, was murdered because he was
Arab.

Hamas praised the attack but did not directly claim responsibility for it. In a
statement, it said it was a "response to continued Israeli crimes, the killing,
desecrating al-Aqsa (mosque)".

Source: Independent

Read more:

Sweden recognises Palestinian state

Israel building backers 'extremist'

Palestine vote: British MPs take historic decision to recognise Palestinian
state

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 9:11 AM GMT

4 dead in synagogue 'terror' attack

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 804 words


Four people were killed when two Palestinians stormed a Jerusalem synagogue
today, attacking worshippers praying inside with knives, axes and guns.

The attackers were then killed in a shoot-out with police.

The attack, the deadliest in Jerusalem in years, is bound to ratchet up fears of
sustained violence in the city, already on edge amid soaring tensions over a
contested holy site.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed that Israel would "respond harshly" to
the attack, describing it as a "cruel murder of Jews who came to pray and were
killed by despicable murderers".

US Secretary of State John Kerry said he spoke to Mr Netanyahu after the attack
and denounced it as an "act of pure terror and senseless brutality and
violence".

Israeli police called it a terrorist attack and said the two Palestinian
assailants were cousins from east Jerusalem. It was not immediately known if
they were affiliated with any group. Hamas, the militant Palestinian group which
runs the Gaza Strip, praised the attack but stopped short of claiming
responsibility.

Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said six other people were injured in the
attack, including two police officers. Four of those wounded were reported to be
in a serious condition. He said police were searching the area for other
suspects.

Associated Press footage from the scene showed the synagogue, in Jerusalem's
ultra-Orthodox Har Nof neighbourhood, surrounded by police and rescue workers
following the attack.

Wounded worshippers were being assisted by paramedics and a bloodied butcher's
knife lay near the scene of the attack.

"I tried to escape. The man with the knife approached me. There was a chair and
table between us ... my prayer shawl got caught. I left it there and escaped,"
Yossi, who was praying at the synagogue at the time of the attack, told Israeli
Channel 2 TV. He declined to give his last name.

A photo in Israeli media from inside the synagogue showed what appeared to be a
body on the floor draped in a prayer shawl, with blood spattered nearby.

Police spokeswoman Luba Samri said the attackers were Palestinians from east
Jerusalem, which has been the scene of relentless clashes between Israeli police
and Palestinian protesters in recent months.

Jerusalem itself has seen a spate of attacks by Palestinians against Israelis.
At least six people have been killed in the city, the West Bank and Tel Aviv in
recent weeks, prior to today's casualties.

Jerusalem residents have already been fearful of what appeared to be lone wolf
attacks using cars or knives against pedestrians. But today's synagogue attack
harks back to the gruesome attacks during the Palestinian uprising of the last
decade.

Israel's police chief said today's attack was probably not organised by militant
groups, similar to other recent incidents, making it more difficult for security
forces to prevent the violence.

"These are individuals that decide to do horrible acts. It's very hard to know
ahead of time about every such incident," Yohanan Danino told reporters at the
scene.

Tensions appeared to have been somewhat defused last week following a meeting
between Mr Netanyahu, Mr Kerry and Jordan's King Abdullah II in Amman. The
meeting was an attempt to restore calm after months of violent confrontations
surrounding a sacred shrine holy to both Jews and Muslims.

Israel and the Palestinians said then that they would take steps to reduce
tensions which might lead to an escalation.

In his statement, Mr Netanyahu blamed the violence on incitement by both Hamas
and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and said the international community
ignores the incitement.

Mr Kerry blamed the attack on Palestinian calls for "days of rage", and said
Palestinian leaders must take serious steps to refrain from such incitement. He
also urged Palestinian leaders to condemn the attack "in the most powerful
terms".

Hamas's statement praised the synagogue attack, saying it was a "response to
continued Israeli crimes, the killing, desecrating al-Aqsa (mosque)" - a
reference to a recent incident at the holy site.

Much of the recent violence stems from tensions surrounding the Jerusalem holy
site referred to by Jews as the Temple Mount because of the Jewish temples that
stood there in biblical times. It is the most sacred place in Judaism; Muslims
refer to it as the Noble Sanctuary, and it is their third holiest site, after
Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia.

The site is so holy that Jews have traditionally refrained from going there,
instead praying at the adjacent Western Wall. Israel's chief rabbis have urged
people not to ascend to the area, but in recent years, a small but growing
number of Jews, including ultranationalist politicians, have begun regularly
visiting the site.

Palestinian President Abbas also condemned the attack and called for an end to
Israeli "provocations".

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           November 18, 2014 Tuesday

4 reported dead in terror attack at Jerusalem synagogue

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 101 words


JERUSALEM -- Four people were reported killed in an apparent terror attack at a
synagogue in the Har Nof neighborhood of Jerusalem Tuesday morning, Israeli
media reported.

A Magen David Adom spokesman said that there were at least 13 victims, some of
whom are gravely injured.

"We are viewing this as a terrorist attack," police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld
said.

Two Palestinians, armed with axes and knives, entered the synagogue and began
attacking worshipers. Both attackers were shot and killed, Channel 2 reported.

The ultra-Orthodox Har Nof neighborhood sits at the Western edge of Jerusalem.

Related stories:


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 10:15 AM GMT

SYNAGOGUE SLAUGHTER: British-born rabbi among four killed in Jerusalem terror
attack

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 369 words


AT least four people, including one Brit, were killed when two Palestinian
cousins wielding axes, knives and guns stormed a synagogue in Jerusalem.

Rabbi Abraham Goldberg, a 68-year-old grandfather, originally from Liverpool,
was one of four men killed in the shocking attack.

US rabbis Moshe Twersky, Aryeh Kupinsky and Kalman Zeev Levine were also killed
after terrorists Ghassan Abu Jamil and Oday Abu Jamil struck on Tuesday morning.

Both attackers were shot dead by police at the Kehilot Yaakov synagogue in the
Har Nof neighbourhood.

Six people were also wounded in the attack and four were reported to be in a
"serious" condition.

A Foreign Office spokesperson said: "We are aware of the death of a dual
British-Israeli national in Israel."

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has blamed the killings, which police
are regarding as a terrorist act, on Hamas and Palestinian President Mahmoud
Abbas.

An eyewitness

"We will respond with a heavy hand to the brutal murder of Jews who came to pray
and were killed by lowly murderers," he said.

A witness told Israeli radio around two dozen worshippers were in the synagogue
when the attack took place.

He said: "I saw people lying on the floor, blood everywhere.

"People were trying to fight with but they didn't have much of a chance."

Eyewitness Yossi described the moment the attacks began.

"There were shouts and screams," he said.

"I was towards the rear of the synagogue about 10 metres from the exit and tried
to get out when one of the terrorists appeared opposite me holding a knife.

"He tried to stab me. I saw him starting to move to his right and I moved the
other way and managed to run to the door then as I got outside I found a man on
the ground full of blood."

Israeli intelligence officers are questioning the killer's relatives.

British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has called on Palestine's leaders to
condemn the act of terror.

Speaking in London he added: "Both sides in this conflict need to do everything
possible to de-escalate the situation and reduce the tension we've seen in
Jerusalem over the past few weeks, which is extremely dangerous for both
Palestinian and Jewish communities in that area."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                           November 18, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

ENDA CAR ATTACK TERROR;
WATER DEMO SHOCKER Taoiseach caught up in angry scuffles over the hated charges

BYLINE: SARAH BARDON

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 94 words


FURIOUS protesters jumped on the Taoiseach's car and banged on the bonnet and
roof last night as water charge hatred intensified.

Scuffles broke out between around 400 demonstrators and gardai as Enda Kenny,
left, arrived at a Fine Gael meeting at the Sligo Park Hotel.

Just hours earlier Environment Minister Alan Kelly hit out after a woman rang
his office in Nenagh, Co Tipperary, and made several terrifying bomb threats.

Mr Kelly said the act was "shocking and disgraceful".

Last night it emerged water charges will now be delayed until after Christmas.

SEE PAGES 4&5

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FURY Man approaches Enda Kenny's car in Sligo last nightHELD BACK
Gardai restrain the protester

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           November 18, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

'UK rabbi killed in terror attack'

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 55 words


A BRITISH-BORN grandfather was believed to be among four worshippers murdered
today in a terror attack on a synagogue in Jerusalem.

Rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg, who lived in Golders Green before emigrating to
Israel, was feared to be among those killed by two Palestinians armed with guns,
knives and a meat cleaver.

Full story Page 22

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           November 18, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

London rabbi feared to be among four slaughtered in terror attack on synagogue

BYLINE: Joe Murphy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22,23

LENGTH: 635 words


A BRITISH-born grandfather was thought to be among four worshippers slaughtered
at prayer today in a terrorist attack on a Jerusalaem synagogue. Rabbi Avraham
Shmuel Goldberg, 68, was feared murdered when two Palestinians burst in, armed
with guns knives and a meat cleaver.

Mr Goldberg lived in London's Golders Green before emigrating to Israel. Born in
Liverpool, he worked in publishing. "He was the most wonderful person you could
meet, a pillar of the community," close friend David Osborne told Jewish News.

In one of the most shocking attacks in the ancient city for years, the
terrorists stormed Har Nov synagogue on a killing spree, leaving four dead and
eight injured.

Horrific images of a corpse on the floor of the synagogue and a bloodied meat
cleaver left Israelis in shock. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed Israel
would "respond harshly". One worshipper, called Yossi, said: "I tried to escape.
The man with the knife approached me. There was a chair and table between us ...
my prayer shawl got caught. I left it there and escaped." Witness Yosef
Posternak said: "I saw people lying on the floor, blood everywhere. People were
trying to fight with (the attackers) but they didn't have much of a chance."

The killers, identified by police as two cousins from East Jerusalem, were shot
dead at the scene. The attack came amid an upsurge in violence in the city,
which has been suffering tensions over a contested holy site.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are aware of the death of a dual
British-Israeli national in Israel." The spokesman could not confirm the name of
the victim.

Mr Netanyahu said the attack was "cruel murder of Jews who came to pray and were
killed by despicable murderers".

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas condemned the atrocity - the first time he
has done so since a recent spike in violence against Israelis.

Hamas, the militant Palestinian group that runs the Gaza Strip, praised their
action. The BBC reported that the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades, the military wing of
the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, claimed responsibility.

US Secretary of State John Kerry, who is visiting London, could be seen talking
to Mr Netanyahu on his mobile phone following the attack and sounded deeply
moved afterwards. "Innocent people who had come to worship died in the sanctuary
of a synagogue," he said, his voice quavering.

"They were hatcheted, hacked and murdered in that holy place in an act of pure
terror and senseless brutality and murder."

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond condemned the attack "in the strongest possible
terms". Speaking after he met Mr Kerry, he added: "I call on all world leaders
to step up and condemn this brutality."

Jerusalem residents have been terrorised recently by "lone wolf " assailants
using knives and driving vehicles at random pedestrians.

The synagogue was in the ultra-Orthodox Har Nof neighbourhood. Israel's police
chief said such atrocities were difficult for security forces to prevent. "These
are individuals who decide to do horrible acts. It's very hard to know ahead of
time about every such incident," Yohanan Danino said.

Much of the recent violence stems from tensions surrounding the Jerusalem holy
site referred to by Jews as the Temple Mount and Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary.
It is the most sacred place in Judaism, with temples having stood there in
biblical times, while it is the third holiest site in Islam, after Mecca and
Medina in Saudi Arabia.

The site is so holy that Jews have traditionally refrained from going there,
instead praying at the adjacent Western Wall. Israel's chief rabbis have urged
people not to ascend to the area, but in recent years, a small but growing
number, including ultranationalist lawmakers, have begun regularly visiting the
site, a move seen as a provocation by Muslims.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Respected: Rabbi Avraham Goldberg, who had lived in London and
heldIsraeli nationality. He was described as a "pillar of the
community"Atrocity: emergency workers carry a body from the synagogue in the Har
Nof neighbourhood of Jerusalem and, inset, cleaning the pavement

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 1:34 PM GMT

Jerusalem 'terrorist attack': British-born grandfather and three US citizens
identified as four killed in synagogue;
Rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg lived in London before moving to Israel

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 282 words


A British-Israeli national has been identified as one of four people killed by
knife-wielding attackers in a Jerusalem synagogue today.

Rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg, 68, and three US citizens died when two
assailants, described by Israeli police as 'terrorists' went on a killing spree
armed with a pistol and a meat cleaver in a synagogue in the ultra-Orthodox Har
Nof neighbourhood.

Eight others were injured in the attack.

Rabbi Goldberg lived in Golders Green, London, for a number of years before
moving to Israel, Haaretz reports.

Haaretz identified the other victims as US-born Aryeh Kupinsky, 43, and Kalman
Zeev Levine, 55, both residents of Har Nof, and Mosheh Twersky, 59, the head of
the Yeshiva Toras Moshe in Jerusalem.  A spokesperson for the Foreign Office
said: "We are aware of the death of a dual British-Israeli national in Israel on
18 November 2014. "

Police said the attackers, who were shot dead by police, were Palestinian
cousins from East Jerusalem.

The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a militant group, said the
cousins were its members.

Unrest in Jerusalem

Hamas praised the attack, saying it was a "response to continued Israeli crimes,
the killing, desecrating al-Aqsa (mosque)".

Read more: Israeli PM vows to respond with 'heavy hand'

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu  condemned Tuesday's violence as a
"cruel murder of Jews who came to pray and were killed by despicable murderers
and vowed to "respond with a heavy hand".

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas condemned the attack, the first time he has
done so since a recent spike in deadly violence against Israelis. He also called
for an end to Israeli "provocations" surrounding the sacred site.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 1:30 PM GMT

Jerusalem shootings: Former Liverpool rabbi killed in synagogue terror attack;
Liverpool-born Rabbi Abraham Goldberg was among worshippers killed by
Palestinian militants in Jerusalem

BYLINE: By John Siddle

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 664 words


Israel shooting

Former Liverpool rabbi Abraham Goldberg was among four people killed in a terror
attack on a Jerusalem synagogue, the ECHO understands.

Rabbi Goldberg was among worshippers in prayer when Palestinian militants
stormed the synagogue today, reportedly armed with knives, axes and guns.

Mr Goldberg, who was a 68-year-old grandfather, was born in Liverpool and
formerly lived in Childwall. He moved to Golders Green in London before moving
to Israel.

Rabbi Goldberg

A friend today described him "as the most wonderful person you could meet, a
pillar of the community."

David Osborne, who narrowly missed being caught up in the attack today, told the
Jewish News: "He was very devout in his prayers and an extremely popular member
of the synagogue community. There was no security outside the building as in
Israel synagogues are an open-house. We welcome everyone in. I also knew well
the other three men who were killed. This is a total human tragedy."

A cousin of Mr Goldberg, Michelle Hirschfield from north west London, said he
was a peaceful man with no political involvement.

She said: "My cousin Rabbi Abraham Goldberg [was] born and brought up in
Liverpool and then lived and worked in London before going with his family to
live in Israel.

"He leaves a widow and six children, many grandchildren and great grandchildren.

"I heard the news this morning so texted my cousin to check he was OK. When I
heard nothing back, I called my sister who lives nearby.

"She tried calling him too but when she got no reply she went to the house.
Abraham's son was there - very distressed.

"After a while, my sister called me to say that he had indeed been killed. And
killed in such a brutal and awful way.

"He only wanted peace."

Two Palestinian attackers were killed in a shootout with police, officials said.
The attack, the deadliest in Jerusalem in years, has ratcheted up fears of
sustained violence in the city, already on edge amid soaring tensions over a
contested holy site.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed that Israel will "respond harshly" to
the attack, describing it as a "cruel murder of Jews who came to pray and were
killed by despicable murderers".

Jerusalem synagogue attack: Liverpool man among four dead

Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas condemned the attack, the first time he has
done so since a recent spike in deadly violence against Israelis began. He also
called for an end to Israeli "provocations" surrounding the sacred site.

In a statement, his office said he "condemns the killing of the worshippers in a
synagogue in west Jerusalem". The statement called for an end to the "invasion"
of the mosque at the holy site and a halt to "incitement" by Israeli ministers.

Israeli police called the incident a terrorist attack and said the two
Palestinian assailants were cousins from east Jerusalem. The Popular Front for
the Liberation of Palestine, a militant group, said the cousins were its
members.

Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said six people were also wounded in the
attack, including two police officers.

Footage from the scene showed the synagogue, in Jerusalem's ultra-Orthodox Har
Nof area, surrounded by police and rescue workers following the attack.

Wounded worshippers were being assisted by paramedics and a bloodied butcher's
knife lay near the scene of the attack.

A man named only as Yossi, who was praying at the synagogue at the time of the
attack, told Israeli Channel 2 TV: "I tried to escape. The man with the knife
approached me. There was a chair and table between us ... my prayer shawl got
caught. I left it there and escaped."

Yosef Posternak, who was also at the synagogue, told Israel Radio that about 25
worshippers were inside when the attackers entered.

"I saw people lying on the floor, blood everywhere. People were trying to fight
with (the attackers) but they didn't have much of a chance," he said.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are aware of the death of a dual
British-Israeli national in Israel on November 18 2014."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           November 18, 2014 Tuesday

Global Security Market in Schools 2014-2018: Increased Terrorist Attacks & Need
for Cost-effective Security Systems

LENGTH: 384 words


November 18, 2014

Dublin - Research and Markets
(http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/2vfn4d/global_security) has
announced the addition of the "Global Security Market in Schools 2014-2018"
report to their offering.

The Global Security market in Schools to grow at a CAGR of 14.3 percent over the
period 2013-2018.

One key trend in the market is the need for cost-effective security systems.
Security systems in schools are required to detect weapons, bombs, or any other
machines being carried into the school that are intended to harm an individual
or place. But, as the security equipment is priced very high, educational
institutions refrain from adopting these security solutions, which creates the
need for cost-effective security solutions.

Security solutions in schools comprise of security systems such as video
surveillance and access control. These solutions are adopted by school
authorities to monitor and detect individuals and their belongings to avoid
crimes. As school students are the soft targets for criminals, it is extremely
important to secure educational institutions with proper security measurements.

Some of the past incidences in Nigeria and China have left a long lasting
threats in these population. Terrorist attack in Yobe State, Nigeria, in 2013,
resulted in several deaths and burning and closing down of schools. Whereas, the
recent stabbing in China has resulted in killing and injury to many students as
well as teachers. This has motivated these countries to adopt precautionary
measurements to avoid such incidences in the future.

Therefore, there is huge pressure on the Education sector to provide complete
safety and security to people in schools and educational institutions.

To calculate the market size, the report considers the revenue generated through
the sales of following security systems in educational institutions:

- Video surveillance
- Access control

Key Vendors

- Cisco Systems
- Pelco
- Secom
- Supercircuits

For more information visit
http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/2vfn4d/global_security

CONTACT:
Research and Markets,
Laura Wood,
Senior Manager.
press@researchandmarkets.com
Fax from USA: 646-607-1907
Fax from rest of the world: +353-1-481-1716
Sector: IT Security
(http://www.researchandmarkets.com/categories.asp?cat_id=42&campaign_id=2vfn4d)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 9:52 PM GMT

Government moves to ban IS from recruiting Indian youth for terror attacks

BYLINE: ABHISHEK BHALLA

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 523 words


The Intelligence Bureau (IB) has recommended that the Islamic State (IS) terror
group, active in Iraq and Syria, should be banned as it is making efforts to
recruit youths from India for carrying out attacks across the country.

A home ministry note, accessed by Mail Today, said credible inputs have revealed
that the Islamic State, an international Jehadi group, is also trying to recruit
new cadres in India to use them for carrying out terrorist activities in Syria
and Iraq.

"Once they are indoctrinated and trained, they would deploy them to cause
terrorist attacks in India," the note stated.

Sources said the IB, based on these inputs, suggested that the group be banned
using the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, an anti-terror
law.

The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has been directed to submit a proposal
in this connection to the home ministry. The IB sent its recommendation to the
home ministry after assessing a proposal from the NIA, which sought the home
ministry's approval to register a case for probing the activities of the Islamic
State in India.

Recent intelligence inputs have indicated that banned terror groups like the
Indian Mujahideen and the Student's Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) are
invoking the name of the Islamic State to recruit youths. If the group is
banned, action can be taken against such elements, sources said.

Reports of recruitment drives by the Islamic State in India came after four men
from Maharashtra went to fight for the group in Iraq.

Following these reports, the NIA sought permission for registering a case as it
was felt that an open case could be filed under different provisions of the
Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the United Nations conventions for
brainwashing youths for terror activities.

The home ministry, however, was reluctant to register a case as there was a view
among senior officials that the IS is not active in India and any action could
lead to a backlash against Indians in Iraq and Syria. Some 40 Indians are still
being held captive by the IS in Iraq.

Sources said banning the group will do away with the hurdle of asking a security
agency to file a First Information Report (FIR).

"There will be no need to register a specific case against the IS. Cases can be
registered if there is any input or information of any person having links with
the banned group under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act," a home
ministry official said.

The IB, in a separate report to the home ministry, cited examples of two youths
who were arrested by the Tamil Nadu Police for openly supporting the Islamic
State.

The two men, Abdul Rehman and Rilvan, were accused of abetting criminal activity
as they distributed Tshirts with Islamic State logo printed on them. Since the
group was not banned, the police could not invoke provisions of the Unlawful
Activities (Prevention) Act against them.

The Sunni militant group, which earlier called itself the Islamic State of Iraq
and Syria (ISIS), is led by Abu Bakr al- Baghdadi. It has been running a reign
of terror in Iraq and Syria and has already established a caliphate in some
parts.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 9:16 AM GMT

Four worshippers killed in 'terrorist attack' on Jerusalem synagogue by two men
armed with knives, axes and guns

BYLINE: TED THORNHILL FOR MAILONLINE and PAUL ALSTER IN ISRAEL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1293 words



     ·    Two Palestinians stormed a Jerusalem synagogue, attacking worshippers
     ·    The attackers, armed with knives, axes and guns, were shot dead by
          police
     ·    Six people were wounded in the attack, the deadliest in Jerusalem in
          years
     ·    Attackers were reportedly cousins aged 22 and 27 from East Jerusalem
     ·    They have been named by local media as Uday and Rassan Abu Jamal
     ·    The attack took place in Jerusalem's ultra-Orthodox Har Nof
          neighborhood
     ·    PM Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel will 'respond harshly' to the attack
     ·    Hamas leader Mushir al-Masri described the slaughter as a 'heroic act'




Four worshippers praying inside a Jerusalem synagogue were killed by two
Palestinians who burst into the building armed with knives, axes and guns before
being shot dead by police.

Pictures posted online revealed the horror of the attack, showing a bloodied
meat cleaver at the scene, along with heavily blood-stained floors and bodies
covered in shawls.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel will 'respond harshly' to the
attack, which he described as the 'cruel murder of Jews who came to pray and
were killed by despicable murderers', while Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas
also condemned the attack.

Scroll down for video

The two attackers are cousins Uday and Rassan Abu Jamal, close relatives of a
Hamas terrorist who was released in 2011 as part of the exchange deal for the
captured Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, according to Israeli radio.

They are aged 22 and 27 and from the Jabal Mukaber district of East Jerusalem,
which has been the scene of relentless clashes between Israeli police and
Palestinian protesters in recent months.

They were reportedly inspired by calls from Hamas through Palestinian media and
on social media to attack Israeli targets to 'protect the Al Aqsa mosque'. It is
not known if they were members of any militant groups.

Israel's Shin Bet intelligence service are questioning relatives of the two
killers to determine the extent of the family involvement in the attack.

In a statement, Hamas praised the synagogue attack as a 'heroic act', saying it
was a 'response to continued Israeli crimes, the killing, desecrating al-Aqsa
(mosque),' a reference to a recent incident at the holy site. It also called for
a continuation of 'vendettas'.

Hamas leader Mushir al-Masri said that the slaughter of the worshippers was a
'natural reaction' to the death of 32-year-old Palestinian bus driver Yusuf
Hasan al-Ramuni, who was found hanged in his vehicle on Sunday.

Police said there was no evidence of foul play, blaming his death on suicide,
with their findings backed up by a post-mortem.

But colleagues and family said there were signs of violence on his body,
claiming he was murdered.

And the Palestinian pathologist who attended the post-mortem also ruled out
suicide, suggesting he may have been drugged then strangled, the family's lawyer
said.

Thousands attended his funeral late on Monday, some of them calling for revenge.



The attack was the deadliest in Jerusalem in years and is bound to ratchet up
fears of sustained violence in the city, already on edge amid soaring tensions
over a contested holy site.

Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said six people were also wounded in the
attack, including two police officers. One of them is reportedly in a critical
condition after being shot in the head. He said police were searching the area
for other suspects.

Israeli TV footage showed the synagogue, in Jerusalem's ultra-Orthodox Har Nof
neighborhood, surrounded by police and rescue workers following the attack.

Eye witness Menahem Cohen, who saw the attack happen from his apartment directly
opposite the building, said: 'I saw a man stagger out of the synagogue with two
bullets wounds in his back, blood was running down, and he appeared to be in
complete shock.

'Very quickly the police arrived and took positions at different angles around
the building. Then I saw one of the attackers come out of the building holding a
meat cleaver, and as he came out he was shot from different angles by the police
and he fell to the ground.'

'I tried to escape. The man with the knife approached me. There was a chair and
table between us... my prayer shawl got caught. I left it there and escaped,'
Yossi, who was praying at the synagogue at the time of the attack, told Israeli
Channel 2 TV. He declined to give his last name.

The attack comes amid spiking tensions in Jerusalem, which has seen a spate of
attacks by Palestinians against Israelis. At least six people have been killed
in Jerusalem, the West Bank and Tel Aviv in recent weeks, prior to Tuesday's
casualties.

Jerusalem residents have already been fearful of what appeared to be lone wolf
attacks using cars or knives against pedestrians. But Tuesday's early morning
attack on a synagogue harkens back to the gruesome attacks during the
Palestinian uprising of the last decade.

Tensions appeared to have been somewhat defused last week following a meeting by
Benjamin Netanyahu, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Jordan's King
Abdullah II in Jordan. The meeting was an attempt to restore calm after months
of violent confrontations surrounding a sacred shrine holy to both Jews and
Muslims.

Israel and the Palestinians said then they would take steps to reduce tensions
that might lead to an escalation.

Netanyahu blamed the violence on incitement by the Islamic militant group Hamas
and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas.

Israel's police chief said Tuesday's attack was likely not organized by militant
groups, similar to other recent incidents, making it more difficult from
security forces to prevent the violence.

'These are individuals that decide to do horrible acts. It's very hard to know
ahead of time about every such incident,' Yohanan Danino told reporters at the
scene.

 Israel's Internal Security Minister, Yitzhak Aharonovich, under growing public
pressure as the number of violent incidents continues to rise, speaking from the
scene of this morning's attack said:

'We will be there in Jabel Mukaber. We will be there in all places. The security
services, the police, the local council, we will do everything to provide
security. If we need more manpower, we will bring more manpower. We will return
the yearned for quiet and peace to Jerusalem.'

He insisted that the incitement from the Palestinian side prior to today's
incident, including using the pretext of the confirmed suicide of the Arab bus
driver yesterday, is unacceptable.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has joined US Secretary of State John Kerry in
condemning an attack by Palestinian militants on a synagogue in Jerusalem.

Speaking in London, Mr Kerry and Mr Hammond called on the Palestinian leadership
'at every single level' to condemn the assault.

'To have this kind of act, which is a pure result of incitement, of calls for
days of rage, of irresponsibility is unacceptable,' Mr Kerry told reporters.

'The Palestinian leadership must condemn this and they must begin to take
serious steps to restrain any kind of incitement that comes from their language,
from other people's language, and exhibit the kind of leadership that is
necessary to put this region on a different path.'

Mr Hammond added: 'Both sides in this conflict need to do everything possible to
de escalate the situation and reduce the tension we've seen in Jerusalem over
the past few weeks, which is extremely dangerous for both Palestinian and Jewish
communities in that area.'

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas condemned the attack, the first time he has
directly denounced violence after weeks of deepening unrest.

'The presidency condemns the attack on Jewish worshippers in one of their places
of prayer in West Jerusalem and condemns the killing of civilians no matter who
is doing it,' his office said in a statement to Reuters.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 8:53 AM GMT

Four worshippers killed in 'terrorist attack' on Jerusalem synagogue by two men
armed with knives, axes and guns

BYLINE: TED THORNHILL FOR MAILONLINE and PAUL ALSTER IN ISRAEL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1115 words



     ·    Two Palestinians stormed a Jerusalem synagogue, attacking worshippers
     ·    The attackers, armed with knives, axes and guns, were shot dead by
          police
     ·    Six people were wounded in the attack, the deadliest in Jerusalem in
          years
     ·    Attackers were reportedly cousins aged 22 and 27 from East Jerusalem
     ·    The attack took place in Jerusalem's ultra-Orthodox Har Nof
          neighborhood
     ·    PM Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel will 'respond harshly' to the attack
     ·    Hamas leader Mushir al-Masri described the slaughter as a 'heroic act'




Four worshippers praying inside a Jerusalem synagogue were killed by two
Palestinians who burst into the building armed with knives, axes and guns before
being shot dead by police.

Pictures posted online revealed the horror of the attack, showing a bloodied
meat cleaver at the scene, along with heavily blood-stained floors and bodies
covered in shawls.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel will 'respond harshly' to the
attack, which he described as the 'cruel murder of Jews who came to pray and
were killed by despicable murderers'.

Scroll down for video

In a statement, Hamas praised the synagogue attack as a 'heroic act', saying it
was a 'response to continued Israeli crimes, the killing, desecrating al-Aqsa
(mosque),' a reference to a recent incident at the holy site. It also called for
a continuation of 'vendettas'.

Hamas leader Mushir al-Masri said that the slaughter of the worshippers was a
'natural reaction' to the death of 32-year-old Palestinian bus driver Yusuf
Hasan al-Ramuni, who was found hanged in his vehicle on Sunday.

Police said there was no evidence of foul play, blaming his death on suicide,
with their findings backed up by a post-mortem.

But colleagues and family said there were signs of violence on his body,
claiming he was murdered.

And the Palestinian pathologist who attended the post-mortem also ruled out
suicide, suggesting he may have been drugged then strangled, the family's lawyer
said.

Thousands attended his funeral late on Monday, some of them calling for revenge.



The two terrorists, according to local media reports, are from the Jabal Mukaber
district of East Jerusalem, which has been the scene of relentless clashes
between Israeli police and Palestinian protesters in recent months.

They are cousins aged 22 and 27 from the Abu Jamal family - though their names
are not yet known.

They were reportedly inspired by calls from Hamas through Palestinian media and
on social media to attack Israeli targets to 'protect the Al Aqsa mosque'.

The attack was the deadliest in Jerusalem in years and is bound to ratchet up
fears of sustained violence in the city, already on edge amid soaring tensions
over a contested holy site.

Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said six people were also wounded in the
attack, including two police officers. He said police were searching the area
for other suspects.

Israeli TV footage showed the synagogue, in Jerusalem's ultra-Orthodox Har Nof
neighborhood, surrounded by police and rescue workers following the attack.

Eye witness Menahem Cohen, who saw the attack happen from his apartment directly
opposite the building, said: 'I saw a man stagger out of the synagogue with two
bullets wounds in his back, blood was running down, and he appeared to be in
complete shock.

'Very quickly the police arrived and took positions at different angles around
the building. Then I saw one of the attackers come out of the building holding a
meat cleaver, and as he came out he was shot from different angles by the police
and he fell to the ground.'

'I tried to escape. The man with the knife approached me. There was a chair and
table between us... my prayer shawl got caught. I left it there and escaped,'
Yossi, who was praying at the synagogue at the time of the attack, told Israeli
Channel 2 TV. He declined to give his last name.

The attack comes amid spiking tensions in Jerusalem, which has seen a spate of
attacks by Palestinians against Israelis. At least six people have been killed
in Jerusalem, the West Bank and Tel Aviv in recent weeks, prior to Tuesday's
casualties.

Jerusalem residents have already been fearful of what appeared to be lone wolf
attacks using cars or knives against pedestrians. But Tuesday's early morning
attack on a synagogue harkens back to the gruesome attacks during the
Palestinian uprising of the last decade.

Tensions appeared to have been somewhat defused last week following a meeting by
Benjamin Netanyahu, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Jordan's King
Abdullah II in Jordan. The meeting was an attempt to restore calm after months
of violent confrontations surrounding a sacred shrine holy to both Jews and
Muslims.

Israel and the Palestinians said then they would take steps to reduce tensions
that might lead to an escalation.

Netanyahu blamed the violence on incitement by the Islamic militant group Hamas
and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas.

Israel's police chief said Tuesday's attack was likely not organized by militant
groups, similar to other recent incidents, making it more difficult from
security forces to prevent the violence.

'These are individuals that decide to do horrible acts. It's very hard to know
ahead of time about every such incident,' Yohanan Danino told reporters at the
scene.

 Israel's Internal Security Minister, Yitzhak Aharonovich, under growing public
pressure as the number of violent incidents continues to rise, speaking from the
scene of this morning's attack said:

'We will be there in Jabel Mukaber. We will be there in all places. The security
services, the police, the local council, we will do everything to provide
security. If we need more manpower, we will bring more manpower. We will return
the yearned for quiet and peace to Jerusalem.'

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has joined US Secretary of State John Kerry in
condemning an attack by Palestinian militants on a synagogue in Jerusalem.

Speaking in London, Mr Kerry and Mr Hammond called on the Palestinian leadership
'at every single level' to condemn the assault.

'To have this kind of act, which is a pure result of incitement, of calls for
days of rage, of irresponsibility is unacceptable,' Mr Kerry told reporters.

'The Palestinian leadership must condemn this and they must begin to take
serious steps to restrain any kind of incitement that comes from their language,
from other people's language, and exhibit the kind of leadership that is
necessary to put this region on a different path.'

Mr Hammond added: 'Both sides in this conflict need to do everything possible to
de escalate the situation and reduce the tension we've seen in Jerusalem over
the past few weeks, which is extremely dangerous for both Palestinian and Jewish
communities in that area.'

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 5:17 PM GMT

Liverpool rabbi killed in Jerusalem synagogue terror attack was ''best of
British'';
Avraham Shmuel Goldberg, 68, was killed when two Palestinian men armed with axes
and guns went on a rampage

BYLINE: By Adrian Shaw

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1150 words


A Liverpool-born rabbi among four worshippers who were killed in a massacre at a
synagogue in Jerusalem today was said to be the "Best of British" with "no
political agenda".

Rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg, a married father of six, died when two
Palestinian terrorists chanting "God is great" in Arabic ran amok armed with
guns, knives and meat cleavers.

Mr Goldberg, 68, was born in Liverpool but lived in Golders Green, north London,
for many years before emigrating to Israel with his family about 10 years ago.

The carnage happened as around thirty people attended early morning prayers at
the synagogue in Jerusalem's ultra orthodox Har Nof neighbourhood.

The killers, who were cousins with links to the Arab terror group the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine, were shot dead by police.

SYNAGOGUE SHOOTING: Israeli police and Palestinians exchange fire during deadly
attack

Mr Goldberg's close friend David Osborne, who lived near the synagogue, said:
"He was the most wonderful person you could meet, a pillar of the community,

"I was on my way to the synagogue when I heard screams and shots being fired, I
knew instantly it was bad."

Describing his emotions after hearing his friend had died, he told The Jewish
News: "I went into complete and utter shock. This is a quiet neighbourhood.
Nothing ever happens here, it is just a peaceful area.

"Avraham prayed there most days for the last ten years or so. He was a devout
Jew with no political agenda. All he wanted was to live a peaceful life.

"His family are the nicest people you could meet. They had lots of children and
several grandchildren. Their home was always an open one as they welcomed
everyone in."

He described Mr Goldberg as "the best of British" and added: "He was very devout
in his prayers and an extremely popular member of the synagogue community.

"There was no security outside the building as, in Israel, synagogues are an
open house. We welcome everyone in. This is a total human tragedy."

Attack on West Jerusalem synagogue during worship leaves four dead

A cousin of Mr Goldberg, Michelle Hirschfield from North West London, said: "My
cousin was born and brought up in Liverpool and then lived and worked in London
before going with his family to live in Israel.

"He leaves a widow and six children, many grandchildren and great grandchildren.

"I heard the news this morning so texted my cousin to check he was OK. When I
heard nothing back, I called my sister who lives nearby.

"She tried calling him too but when she got no reply she went to the house.
Avraham's son was there - very distressed.

"After a while, my sister called me to say that he had indeed been killed and
killed in such a brutal and awful way. He only wanted peace."

Another victim, also a rabbi, was Moshe Twersky, 59, who taught at a religious
college in Jerusalem.

The two remaining victims were Aryeh Kupinsky, 43, and Cary Levine, 55, who both
had dual American and Israeli nationality.

Another eight people were injured.

It was the worst terrorist atrocity in Jerusalem since 2008 when a Palestinian
gunman shot dead eight people at a Jewish school.

Worshipper Yaakov Amos said: "The first thing I recall of the incident is seeing
a man close to me bleeding through his prayer shawl.

"Moments later the terrorist moved to within a metre of me then started shooting
in the other direction - one, two, three, bang, bang, bang.

"I immediately hit the ground and tried to protect myself with a prayer stand. I
was completely in shock. It all happened in a matter of moments.

"I didn't see his face but through the gap in the stand I saw him shooting from
almost point blank range. I then stood up and threw the stand in his direction
and simply ran for my life.

"The man was working his way round to me so I just ran. I didn't see the second
attacker but I saw that something was going on at the other side of the
synagogue."

Another witness, Sarah Abrams, 38, said: "One man was lying on the street all
covered in blood. A neighbour told me afterwards that she saw the terrorist go
into the synagogue and on the way he stabbed this man."

Menahem Cohen, who saw the attack from his apartment opposite the synagogue,
said: "I saw a man stagger out of the synagogue with two bullet wounds in his
back, blood was running down and he appeared to be in complete shock.

"Very quickly, the police arrived and took positions at different angles around
the building. Then I saw one of the attackers come out of the building holding a
meat cleaver and, as he came out, he was shot from different angles by the
police and he fell to the ground."

The attackers were named locally as cousins Uday and Rassan Abu Jamal who were
related to a Hamas terrorist released in 2011 as part of an exchange deal to
free a captured Israeli soldier. They were also suspected of being members of
the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.

The PFLP said in a statement: "We declare full responsibility of the PFLP for
the execution of this heroic operation conducted by our heroes this morning in
Jerusalem."

Crowds threw stones at police who gathered outside the Abu Jamal's home and
arrested 14 members of the cousins' family. And in Gaza, residents took to the
streets to celebrate the massacre, waving flags and handing out sweets to
passers-by.

The bloodshed at the synagogue came as tension simmered in the Middle East over
worshipping rights at a site within the Old City.

Muslims call it al-Haram al-Sharif and believe it is where the Prophet Muhammad
ascended into Heaven. It is their third holiest site after Mecca and Medina in
Saudi Arabia.

However, Jews call it the Temple Mount because of the Jewish temples that stood
there in biblical times. It is considered so holy that Jews have traditionally
not gone there and have instead prayed at the nearby Western Wall.

A small group of Jews, including ultra-nationalist politicians, have begun
regularly visiting the site in recent times.

The synagogue attack also came a day after an Arab bus driver, Yusuf Hasan
al-Ramuni, 32, was found hanged in his vehicle.

A post mortem concluded he committed suicide but his family claim he was
murdered and there were calls for revenge at his funeral on Monday evening.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel will "respond harshly" to
the massacre and described it as "the cruel murders of Jews who came to pray and
were killed by despicable murderers."

US Secretary of State John Kerry spoke to Mr Netanyahu after the massacre and
called it "an act of pure terror and senseless brutality and violence."

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas also denounced the attack and said in a
statement: "The presidency condemns the attack on Jewish worshippers in one of
their places of prayer in West Jerusalem and condemns the killing of civilians
no matter who is doing it."

However, the Arab terror group Hamas said it was a "heroic act" and was in
response to "continued Israeli crimes".

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 2:11 PM GMT

Liverpool rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg killed in Jerusalem terror attack caught
on film;
The 68-year-old grandfather was killed when two Palestinian men armed with axes
and guns raided a synagogue

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 423 words


SYNAGOGUE SHOOTING: Israeli police and Palestinians exchange fire during deadly
attack

A rabbi from Liverpool was among four people killed in an attack on a synagogue
in Jerusalem by two Palestinian men wielding axes.

Avraham Shmuel Goldberg died alongside three Americans in the terror raid today.

Mr Goldberg, who was a 68-year-old grandfather, was born in Liverpool and
formerly lived in Childwall.

He moved to Golders Green in London before moving to Israel.

A pair of Palestinian attackers burst into a synagogue during morning prayers
with meat cleavers and a gun, killing four people before they were shot dead by
police.

Police said the victims were all immigrants to Israel and held dual citizenship.

The attack occurred in Jerusalem's Har Nof neighbourhood, an ultra-Orthodox area
with a large number of immigrants from Western countries.

Palestinian radio described the attackers as "martyrs" and the Islamist group
Hamas praised the raid.

Loudspeakers at mosques in Gaza called out congratulations and youngsters handed
out sweets in the streets.

Palestinian media named the attackers as Ghassan and Udai Abu Jamal, cousins
from the Jerusalem district of Jabal Mukaber, where clashes broke out as Israeli
security forces moved in to make arrests.

"Hamas calls for the continuation of revenge operations and stresses that the
Israeli occupation bears responsibility for tension in Jerusalem," Hamas
spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri said.

The synagogue attack came a day after a Palestinian bus driver was found hanged
in his vehicle in Jerusalem.

Israel said he committed suicide, but his family said he was attacked.

Hundreds of mourners at his funeral on Sunday chanted for revenge.

Netanyahu said the synagogue attack was a result of incitement by Hamas and
Abbas.

Violence in Israel and the Palestinian Territories has surged over the past few
weeks.

Five Israelis and a foreign visitor have been deliberately run over and killed
or stabbed to death by Palestinians in the past month.

About a dozen Palestinians have also been killed, including those accused of
carrying out those attacks.

Residents trace the violence in Jerusalem back to July, when a Palestinian
teenager was burned to death by Jewish assailants, an alleged revenge attack for
the abduction and killing of three Jewish teens by Palestinian militants in the
occupied West Bank.

The summer war in Gaza and a row over access to a Jerusalem compound sacred to
Muslims and Jews alike have also been triggers for violence.

Attack on West Jerusalem synagogue during worship leaves four dead

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 6:46 AM GMT

Up to five dead after men armed with axes storm synagogue in Jerusalem;
Two 'Palestinian terrorists' carried out the attack before being shot and killed
by police, Israel says

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 226 words


Two men armed with axes killed up to five people and wounded four after storming
a synagogue in Jerusalem.

The two attackers - said to be Palestinian terrorists by Israel - were then shot
and killed by police.

A spokesman for Israel's ambulance service told Army Radio medics were treating
nine people, five of them critically wounded.

Israel's Zaka emergency response team said there were a number of fatalities at
the scene.

Israeli media said four or five people had been killed.

Jerusalem attack

"We are viewing this as a terrorist attack," police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld
said.

Media reports said one of the attackers was also armed with a gun.

Violence in Israel and the Palestinian Territories has surged over the past few
weeks.

Five Israelis and a foreign visitor have been deliberately run over and killed
or stabbed to death by Palestinians in the past month.

About a dozen Palestinians have also been killed, including those accused of
carrying out those attacks.

Residents trace the violence in Jerusalem back to July, when a Palestinian
teenager was burned to death by Jewish assailants, an alleged revenge attack for
the abduction and killing of three Jewish teens by Palestinian militants in the
occupied West Bank.

The summer war in Gaza and a row over access to a Jerusalem compound sacred to
Muslims and Jews alike have also been triggers for violence.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               PR Newswire Europe

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 11:52 AM EST

Gary Bauer Calls Terrorist Attack on Jerusalem Synagogue "Barbaric, Raw Evil"

LENGTH: 350 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18, 2014


Calling today's terrorist attack of Palestinians against worshipers in a
Jerusalem synagogue "barbaric, raw evil," former presidential candidate Gary
Bauer, well-known for his advocacy of a strong relationship with Israel, the
United States' only reliable, democratic ally in the Middle East, called on the
Obama Administration to stop the flow of U.S. funds to any Palestinian entity as
long as such violence continues.

Bauer, president of American Values, is also on the board of The Emergency
Committee for Israel as well as the executive board of Christians United for
Israel. He made the following statement:

"The murderous attack on a Jerusalem synagogue killing four Israeli worshipers
today was simply barbaric, raw evil.  If history is any guide, the Palestinian
attackers will be hailed as heroes in Gaza and the West Bank.  Three of the dead
were American citizens; one was a British citizen.  But the jihadists weren't
checking passports.  Their goal was to murder Jews.

"I call on Congress and the Obama Administration to immediately take steps to
stop the flow of American taxpayer dollars from funding any Palestinian entity.
Jerusalem is not a settlement.  It is the undivided capital of the nation of
Israel.  The Obama Administration should immediately stop its harassment of the
Israeli government for simply building homes for its citizens in its own
capital.  The constant harangues by Secretary Kerry and the White House helped
to create the atmosphere that made today's disgusting attack possible.

"In addition we should all admit the obvious:  There cannot be a two state
solution as long as the new state would be filled with Jew-haters like those
responsible for the carnage today."

For more on Bauer's work, go tohttp://www.americanvalues.org.  Follow him at
#GaryLBauer

MEDIA ADVISORY FOR TELEVISION/WEB REPORTERS: Broadcast access for Gary Bauer can
be arranged through his VideoLink ReadyCam studio. ReadyCam transmits video and
audio via a fiber optics system to your newsroom. To schedule a live or taped
interview, call 571-244-6324.



CONTACT: Kristi Hamrick, 571-244-6324

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                   Copyright 2014 PR Newswire Europe Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                     November 18, 2014 Tuesday 06:38 AM GMT

Global Surge In Terrorist Attack Deaths

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 254 words



HIGHLIGHT: The number of people who lost their lives in terror attacks worldwide
increased by 61% between 2012 and 2013, a global terrorism study has found.


  According to the latest Global Terrorism Index (GTI) the number of deaths rose
from 11,133 to 17,958 a year later.

The surge can be attributed to a "significant" increase in the number of
terrorist atrocities.

The second annual study found there were almost 10,000 terrorist attacks in
2013, a 44% rise on the year before.

Most were the result of explosive devices, although suicide attacks accounted
for 5%.

Iraq was once again the hardest-hit, with 6,362 terror-related fatalities
recorded in 2013.

That marked a devastating 164% increase on the previous year.

Afghanistan, Pakistan, Syria and Nigeria were among the other worst affected
nations, with terrorist activity found to have been dominated by extremist
groups Islamic State (IS), al Qaeda, the Taliban and Boko Haram.

The GTI index, which ranks 162 countries by the impact of terrorist activities,
is compiled by the Institute for Economics & Peace (IEP) in 2012.

Steve Killelea, Executive Chairman of IEP, said "Since we first launched the GTI
in 2012, we've seen a significant and worrying increase in worldwide incidences
of terrorism.

"Terrorism doesn't arise on its own; by identifying the factors associated with
it, policies can be implemented to improve the underlying environment that
nurtures terrorism.

"The most significant actions that can be taken are to reduce state-sponsored
violence such as extra-judicial killings, reduce group grievances and
hostilities, and improve effective and community-supported policing."

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2014 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 19, 2014 Wednesday

Afghans raise serious concern about rising terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 532 words


Excerpt from report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 18 November

[Presenter] More than 10 terrorist attacks have taken place in Kabul alone since
the national unity government began working, in which 24 people have been killed
and at least 90 others wounded. The people are seriously concerned about an
increase in terrorist attacks particularly in the capital. They lash out at the
government and say that security bodies have failed to ensure security and
prevent such incidents. Meanwhile, a report shows that suicide attacks have
increased by 61 per cent between 2012 and 2013 in the world. Soleman Mostamand
reports.

[Correspondent] Nowadays, Kabul and other provinces have lost calmness. The
residents of the capital begin their day with explosions every day. A suicide
attack took place on the Darolaman road two days ago and today [18 November] a
terrorist attack took place in the Dispatch Area [9th precinct of Kabul city].
The people no longer have any hope to live in the country and say the new
government has failed to fulfil its pledges.

[A young man, Kabul resident] When someone leaves home in the morning, he is not
sure he can make it back home safely. When we saw that a suicide attack took
place inside the police headquarters, we totally lost our hope. What should we
expect from the government?

[Another young man, Kabul resident] I am losing hope as every day I see suicide
attacks and explosions. I do not think that this government can cure the
people's pain and injuries.

[Correspondent] At least 10 suicide attacks and explosions have taken place in
Kabul city alone since the beginning of the national unity government in which
mostly civilians have lost their lives.

[Passage omitted: correspondent about previous suicide attacks and explosions in
Kabul city]

[Correspondent] These suicide attacks and explosions have not been limited to
the capital and most provinces have seen such incidents as well.

[Amrollah Aman, a military analyst, captioned] The national unity government of
Afghanistan should fulfil its promises that it has made during presidential
campaign with the Afghan people. I hope that it will announce its cabinet as
soon as possible so that cabinet members can be held accountable for their
responsibilities as the acting ministers do fulfil their responsibilities. We
will request them [the new Cabinet members] to pay serious attention to security
issues so that our people will no longer begin their day with explosions and
night with burying their martyrs.

[Correspondent] Meanwhile, an international anti-terrorism [Global Terrorism
Database] writes in its recent report that terrorist attacks have increased by
61 per cent in the world between 2012 and 2013. At least 18,000 people have been
killed in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Nigeria in these attacks.

[Passage omitted: part of the GTD report]

[Correspondent] Terrorist attacks have always taken their toll on civilians and
these attacks are believed to have rooted from Pakistan.

[Video shows interviews with an observer, local people; part of GTD report,
archive footage of bodies, sites of terrorist attacks]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1315 gmt 18 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 19, 2014 Wednesday

Iraqi commander: Over 300 "terrorists" killed in attacks on Baiji - Iran agency

LENGTH: 151 words


Excerpt of report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News
Agency website

Tehran, 19 November: Commander of the Security Guards Unit of Iraq's Baiji
Refinery Ali al-Qurayshi announced that his forces have repelled tens of ISIL
[group calling itself Islamic States, also known as IS/ISIS] attacks on the
refinery, and killed hundreds of militants since army and popular forces
regained control over the country's largest refinery. "The refinery's security
guards have pushed back over 50 counterattacks by the ISIL forces and killed
more than 300 of them since gaining control over the facility," Qurayshi told
FNA on Wednesday [19 November].

He said ISIL militants have targeted the Baiji refinery with suicide attacks or
with bomb-laden cars, "but they have failed in all of their attempts".

[Passage omitted: Background]

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1515 gmt 19 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                          November 19, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Police: we're sitting ducks;
Twaddell officers tell of terrorist attack fears

BYLINE: CHRIS KILPATRICK

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 102 words


POLICE officers guarding a notorious interface say they have been left like
"sitting ducks" following a surge in dissident republican attacks, including a
recent rocket attack.

It is claimed the police presence between Ardoyne and Twaddell Avenue in north
Belfast has been scaled back in recent months because of budget pressures on the
PSNI.

One officer said while patrolling the area they feel their every move is being
watched by dissidents and they fear further attempts on their lives.

A senior police officer said the PSNI was making every effort to protect both
its officers and the public.

FULL STORY, PAGE 8

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                          November 19, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

DISSIDENTS HOMEMADE KILLING MACHINE;
ROCKET LAUNCHER USED IN MURDER BID Terrorists issue chilling threat of further
attacks 'at time of our choosing 'Ready to kill in 25 minutes

BYLINE: VICTORIA McMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 523 words


THIS would-be killer holds a homemade rocket launcher before he fires it at a
police Land Rover in a brazen bid to kill.

A group calling itself the IRA claimed it was behind the attack on police
officers in Ardoyne in North Belfast on Sunday.

And they warned their "engineering departments" were improving their arsenal to
attack "at a time of our choosing". In a further worrying development sources
say the time to make the lethal missiles could be as little as 25 minutes with
the proper know-how.

The recent upsurge in the number and sophistication of the attacks is meant to
send a deadly message that the paramilitary group means business.

In a statement to the Mirror the IRA chillingly vowed it is determined to
continue to up the ante.

It warned: "The IRA will continue to increase its military attacks on security
forces.

"Our capabilities to target Crown forces are increasing and developing and as a
result we will continue to target them at a time of our choosing."

Senior PSNI officers admitted the device "pierced" the outer skin of the
targeted vehicle but didn't penetrate the armour, therefore saving the lives of
those inside.

The would-be IRA assassin is thought to have emerged from Brompton Park with the
handheld missile before firing it. But republican sources insisted the
Semtex-filled rocket was fired from a closer range than 60ft.

A republican source claimed: "It did strike the vehicle and it was closer than
60ft."

The IRA statement added: "On Sunday 18th November at approximately 11.20pm an
active service unit of the IRA engaged security forces in the Ardoyne area.

"Volunteers from our Belfast brigade fired a homemade rocket launcher striking
an armed PSNI military vehicle.

Despite being heavily armed the PSNI fled the scene."

Police Federation chairman Terry Spence described it as "utter depravity".

He said: "Once again, our officers escaped death in what was a cowardly attempt
on their lives".

The amalgamated IRA was formed in 2012 from various splinter factions, including
the Real IRA.

It has been claimed the outfit, which was behind the motorway murder of prison
officer David Black in 2012, has "engineering departments" dotted across Ireland
trying to hone their killing skills.

A republican source told us: "Their capability is growing and they aren't afraid
to use it.

"There are several engineering departments throughout the island.

"They are developing new technology that is always being tested and improved
on."

The latest attacks have seen a calibrated pressure plate being used in Derry
earlier this month and a trip wire being used in Strabanew in October. The
source revealed: "Their engineering team is developing, assessing and getting
more sophisticated.

"They're prepared to step out anywhere and at any time of their choosing and hit
at their target."

In another worrying development it's understood the dissident group is actively
recruiting and training members to unleash more attacks.

The source added: "Every day the technology is improving, they're recruiting and
training."

victoria.mcmahon@trinitymirror.com

"The device pierced the skin of the vehicle but not the armour POLICE SOURCE
BELFAST

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POISED TO FIRE Dissident with 'mortar' shortly before Belfast attack on
SundayTARGETED Police in North Belfast on SundayON THE ALERT Officers in Ardoyne
areaPROPAGANDA Dissidents release picture of killer device

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          November 19, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Outrage after FIVE are kIlled In SYNAGOGUE TERROR attack

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE, TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5 words


Israel VOWS REVENGE see page 7

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                          November 19, 2014 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Briton among victims of synagogue terror attack

BYLINE: Maayan Lubell JERUSALEM

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 556 words


TWO Palestinians armed with a meat cleaver and a gun have killed four
worshippers in a Jerusalem synagogue before being shot dead by police, the
deadliest such incident in six years in the holy city amid a surge in religious
conflict.

One of the victims was British-Israeli national Rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg, a
grandfather in his sixties who lived in Golders Green, north London, for many
years before moving to Israel. The three others held dual US-Israeli
citizenship.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pledged to respond with a "heavy hand"
and again accused Western-backed Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas of inciting
violence in Jerusalem.

Mr Abbas condemned the attack, which comes after weeks of unrest fuelled in part
by a dispute over Jerusalem's holiest shrine.

A worshipper at the service in the Kehillat Bnei Torah synagogue in an
ultra-Orthodox neighbourhood of West Jerusalem said about 25 people were praying
when shooting broke out.

Eyewitness Yosef Posternak said: "I looked up and saw someone shooting people at
point-blank range. Then someone came in with what looked like a butcher's knife
and he went wild."

Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said: "We are viewing this as a terrorist
attack."

He confirmed the four dead and said that the two assailants, both from
predominantly Arab East Jerusalem, had been shot dead by police.

Israel's ambulance service said at least eight people were seriously wounded.

The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine said it carried out the
attack, which it called a "heroic operation".

In a statement, Mr Abbas said: "The presidency condemns the attack on Jewish
worshippers in one of their places of prayer in West Jerusalem and condemns the
killing of civilians, no matter who is doing it."

US Secretary of State John Kerry described the attack as an act of "pure
terror".

Israeli Internal Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch said he was seeking a
partial easing of gun controls so military officers and security guards could
carry weapons while off-duty.

Palestinian radio described the attackers as "martyrs" and the Islamist group
Hamas praised the attack. Loudspeakers at mosques in Gaza called out
congratulations and youngsters handed out sweets in the streets.

Palestinian media named the attackers as Ghassan and Udai Abu Jamal, cousins
from the Jerusalem district of Jabal Mukaber, where clashes broke out as Israeli
security forces moved in to make arrests.

Mr Netanyahu said the synagogue attack was a result of incitement by Hamas and
Abbas.

He added: "We will respond with a heavy hand to the brutal murder of Jews who
came to pray and were killed by lowly murderers."

Violence in Jerusalem, areas of Israel and the Israeli-occupied Palestinian
territories has surged in the past month, fuelled in part by a dispute over
Jerusalem's holiest shrine, and Mr Abbas has said Muslims have a right to defend
their sacred places if attacked.

Five Israelis and a foreign visitor were killed in previous Palestinian attacks.
About a dozen Palestinians have also been killed, including those accused of
carrying out the attacks prior to the synagogue assault.

Residents trace the violence in Jerusalem to July, when a Palestinian teenager
was burned to death by Jewish assailants, an alleged revenge attack for the
killing of three Jewish teens by Palestinian militants.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRIME SCENE CLEAN-UP: The Israeli Zaka emergency response team clean
blood from the scene of the synagogue attack. Picture: Ammar Awad/Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2014 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                          November 19, 2014 Wednesday
                                   2 Edition

Briton among victims of synagogue terror attack

BYLINE: Maayan Lubell JERUSALEM

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 545 words


TWO Palestinians armed with a meat cleaver and a gun have killed four
worshippers and a policeman in a Jerusalem synagogue, the deadliest such
incident in six years in the holy city.

The killers were shot dead by police.

One of the victims was British-Israeli national Rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg, a
grandfather in his sixties who lived in Golders Green, north London, for many
years before moving to Israel. The three others held dual US-Israeli
citizenship.

Last night a policeman who was among the injured died in hospital. Zidan Saif,
30, was the father of a young child.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pledged he would win the "battle for
Jerusalem." Mr Netanyahu added he would respond with a "heavy hand" and "settle
the score with every terrorist" saying that those "who want  to uproot us from
our state and capital... will not succeed".

He again accused Western-backed Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas of inciting
violence in Jerusalem.

Mr Abbas condemned the attack, which comes after weeks of unrest fuelled in part
by a dispute over Jerusalem's holiest shrine.

A worshipper at the service in the Kehillat Bnei Torah synagogue in an
ultra-Orthodox neighbourhood of West Jerusalem said about 25 people were praying
when shooting broke out.

Eyewitness Yosef Posternak said: "I looked up and saw someone shooting people at
point-blank range. Then someone came in with what looked like a butcher's knife
and he went wild."

Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said: "We are viewing this as a terrorist
attack."

The two assailantscame from  the predominantly Arab East Jerusalem.

Israel's ambulance service said at least eight people were seriously wounded,
including the officer who later died.

The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine said it carried out the
attack.

In a statement, Mr Abbas said: "The presidency condemns the attack on Jewish
worshippers in one of their places of prayer in West Jerusalem and condemns the
killing of civilians, no matter who is doing it."

US Secretary of State John Kerry described the attack as an act of "pure
terror".

Israeli Internal Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch said he was seeking a
partial easing of gun controls so military officers and security guards could
carry weapons while off-duty.

Palestinian radio described the attackers as "martyrs" and the Islamist group
Hamas praised the attack. Loudspeakers at mosques in Gaza called out
congratulations and youngsters handed out sweets in the streets.

Palestinian media named the attackers as Ghassan and Udai Abu Jamal, cousins
from the Jerusalem district of Jabal Mukaber, where clashes broke out as Israeli
security forces moved in to make arrests.

Mr Netanyahu said the synagogue attack was a result of incitement by Hamas and
Abbas.

He added: "We will respond with a heavy hand to the brutal murder of Jews who
came to pray and were killed by lowly murderers."

Violence in Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories has surged in the
past month, fuelled in part by a dispute over the al-Aqsa mosque compound,
Jerusalem's holiest shrine, and Mr Abbas has said Muslims have a right to defend
their sacred places if attacked.

Five Israelis and a foreign visitor were killed in previous Palestinian attacks.
About a dozen Palestinians have also been killed.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRIME SCENE CLEAN-UP: The Israeli Zaka emergency response team clean
blood from the scene of the synagogue attack. Picture: Ammar Awad/Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2014 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    November 19, 2014 Wednesday 8:58 AM GMT

Synagogue attack: Israeli PM Netanyahu vows to won 'battle for Jerusalem' after
deadly assault;
Netanyahu promised to 'settle the score with every terrorist' after attack

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 575 words


The Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed to win "a battle for
Jerusalem" after four rabbis and a policeman were killed in a frenzied attack on
a synagogue.

The attack during morning prayers in the west Jerusalem neighbourhood of Har Nof
was carried out by two Palestinian cousins wielding meat cleavers and a pistol.
They were shot dead by police at the synagogue.

Three of the fatally wounded were born in the United States and the fourth was a
British-born grandfather. A police man later died of his injuries and at least
seven others were wounded.

Mr Netanyahu declared Israel is "in a battle over Jerusalem, our eternal
capital" after the bloodshed and vowed to "settle the score with every terrorist
and their dispatchers".

However, he warned that "no-one may take the law into their own hands, even if
spirits are riled and blood is boiling".

Unrest in Jerusalem

The Israeli PM also denounced what he described as "shouts of joy" from the
dozens who celebrated in the streets of Gaza after the killing spree.

In an act of retaliation, he also ordered the demolition of the homes of the
attackers.

US President Barack Obama branded the attack "horrific" and without
justification and urged cooperation from both sides to ease tensions.

But Mr Netanyahu said he wanted to see "outrage" from the leaders of Western
countries over the "massacre". He pledged to increase security on the streets
but did not detail exactly what this would involve.

Read more: ISRAEL VOWS 'HEAVY HANDED' RESPONSE TO ATTACKBritish-born grandfather
and three US citizens killedEDITORIAL: AN EVER DEEPER DIVIDE

On Wednesday, Jewish worshippers returned to the Jerusalem synagogue and sought
comfort in prayer.

The attacks appeared to mark a turning point after weeks of unrest, with the
gruesome scene in a house of worship shocking a nation long accustomed to
violence.

Two weeks ago, a Palestinian driver was shot dead by Israeli police after
ramming his car into a crowd at a tram stop in East Jerusalem, killing a border
policeman and wounding 13 others.

A Palestinian bus driver was found hanging in his vehicle in a Jewish part of
Jerusalem late Sunday, which was ruled a suicide by an inquest. This verdict was
disputed by his family members and others, who claim he was murdered for being
Arab.

Shortly after Tuesday's attack, the Israeli government released a photo of a
bloody meat cleaver it said came from the crime scene. Government video showed
blood-soaked prayer books and prayer shawls on the floor of the synagogue.

"I saw people lying on the floor, blood everywhere," one worshipper at the
synagogue told Israel Radio.

"People were trying to fight with (the attackers) but they didn't have much of a
chance."

Police identified the synagogue assailants as Ghassan and Oday Abu Jamal,
cousins from the Jabal Mukaber neighbourhood in East Jerusalem. The Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), a militant group, said the cousins
were its members.

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas denounced the bloodshed in a statement,
saying: "The presidency condemns the attack on Jewish worshippers in their place
of prayer and condemns the killing of civilians no matter who is doing it.

But Mr Netanyahu said the Palestinian leader's condemnation of the attack was
insufficient and accused Abbas of inciting the recent violence.

The synagogue attack was the worst in the city since 2008, when a Palestinian
gunman killed eight people in a religious school.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    November 19, 2014 Wednesday 6:57 AM GMT

Jerusalem 'terror attacks': Netanyahu vows to 'respond with a heavy hand'

SECTION: IMAGES

LENGTH: 95 words


Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed to "respond with a heavy
hand" after at least four people were killed and eight injured in what Israeli
police described as a "terrorist" attack on a synagogue in Jerusalem.

Mr Netanyahu condemned violence as a "cruel murder of Jews who came to pray and
were killed by despicable murderers".

President Abbas denounced the bloodshed in a statement, saying: "The presidency
condemns the attack on Jewish worshippers in their place of prayer and condemns
the killing of civilians no matter who is doing it."

Unrest in Jerusalem

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    November 19, 2014 Wednesday 6:55 AM GMT

Jerusalem 'terror attacks': Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vows to
'respond with a heavy hand'

SECTION: IMAGES

LENGTH: 95 words


Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed to "respond with a heavy
hand" after at least four people were killed and eight injured in what Israeli
police described as a "terrorist" attack on a synagogue in Jerusalem.

Mr Netanyahu condemned violence as a "cruel murder of Jews who came to pray and
were killed by despicable murderers".

President Abbas denounced the bloodshed in a statement, saying: "The presidency
condemns the attack on Jewish worshippers in their place of prayer and condemns
the killing of civilians no matter who is doing it."

Unrest in Jerusalem

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    November 19, 2014 Wednesday 6:55 AM GMT

Jerusalem 'terrorist attack': Avraham Goldberg was 'a peace-loving grandfather'
from Liverpool;
Family pays tribute to the British grandfather stabbed to death at a Jerusalem
synagogue

BYLINE: Jonathan Owen

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 587 words


Avraham Goldberg was a "peace-loving" and "tolerant" grandfather, his family has
said.

"Apparently he was the first one they shot at," his cousin, Michelle
Hirschfield, told The Independent. "These kids that killed him were working in
the local grocery shop down the road; they had jobs there," she claimed.

The bodies of her 68-year-old cousin and the other three shot dead are said to
have been "hacked to pieces with knives and hatchets," she said.

It is an "extremely upsetting" time for the family. "I've obviously been shaken,
very shaken."

Ms Hirschfield, a 63-year-old lawyer from London, said: "We were brought up in
Liverpool together. He was an only child and I'm one of five children, and he
was like our surrogate brother."

Mr Goldberg went to Liverpool Institute, then studied chemical engineering at
Sheffield University and Imperial College London, before setting up a business
organising conferences for pharmaceutical companies and then going into
publishing.

In pictures: Jerusalem synagogue attack

The father of six lived in Golders Green, London with his wife Bryna, who worked
as a teacher, for many years. The family left Britain to live in Israel "about
18 years ago", according to Ms Hirschfield.

Her cousin "was a well-learned man, a peace- loving person, very educated; the
sort of person whose philosophy in life was everybody does what they want to do.
He was very tolerant."

She added: "He has six children [five daughters and a son]. Three are married.
He's got grandchildren. Two grandchildren were married recently."

The Goldberg family "are very upstanding members of the British community", and
Mr Goldberg's uncle was known as "the angel of medicine" in Liverpool.

"He would go round on a Saturday with his medical bag and a bucket of coal to
all these poor people in these Coronation Street type houses. He would take them
food because he knew they were ill because they were cold and they didn't have
heating. He was a legend in Liverpool - and that's the sort of family he came
from," commented Ms Hirschfield.

Her cousin took a keen interest in current affairs. "He was online every
morning, read all the British newspapers. He would tell me what was in them
before I'd even read them," she said.

And she recalled how they had discussed the recent problems in Gaza. "He just
felt 'what is it coming to? How can people be so radicalised? How can life be
reduced to people wanting to be martyrs, killing other people?'"

Ms Hirschfield recognised the synagogue on the news as she had dropped him off
there during a visit to Israel six months ago. "I immediately texted him because
I knew he'd go to the synagogue in the morning."

She added: "I then rang my sister, who lives in Israel. She had tried to get in
touch with him and couldn't. She then rang the house and spoke to the son who
said 'dad's not answering the mobile, mummy's gone down to the synagogue'."

Her sister then "rang up the hospitals in Jerusalem to find out if he'd been
admitted and got nowhere."

Hours later, they learned he was dead. Thousands attended a funeral for Mr
Goldberg, and two of the other victims, Aryeh Kupinsky and Cary William Levine,
in Jerusalem today.

Mr Goldberg "would only want justice to be done" according to his cousin. "I
don't think he would say 'go out and shoot them all'."

She added: "Arabs and Jews throughout Israel live side by side, especially in
Jerusalem. The ordinary person only wants to get on with each other. I just feel
that people think we can't live side by side - that's not true - we can."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    November 19, 2014 Wednesday 6:54 AM GMT

Jerusalem 'terror attacks': Four killed as Palestinians attack synagogue with
knives and guns;
One Briton and three US citizens die as conflict descends into religious war

BYLINE: Ben Lynfield

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 924 words


Two Palestinians armed with knives, an axe and a pistol attacked worshippers
during morning prayers in a Jerusalem synagogue today, killing four people as
the ongoing conflict appeared to be morphing into religious warfare.

Medical workers said at least eight people were wounded, one critically and
three seriously. The two assailants were shot dead by police. One of the
fatalities was a prominent rabbi, an American, Moshe Twersky.  Avraham Goldberg,
who was born in Britain, was also murdered, along with two other US citizens.

It was the deadliest incident in Jerusalem in six years and came after two car
attacks by Palestinians in recent weeks that killed four people. For Israelis it
was the most serious incident of the mounting unrest because it occurred in an
ultra-Orthodox neighbourhood in Jewish West Jerusalem, giving the sense that
nowhere is safe.

A prime cause of the violence is the Palestinian perception that Israel is
threatening Islam's third-holiest shrine, al-Aqsa mosque, despite statements by
the Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, that no changes are planned at
the site, which is also Judaism's holiest spot, the Temple Mount.

In pictures: Jerusalem synagogue attack

Witnesses said that about 25 people were praying shortly after 7am when the
attack began. "I looked up and saw someone shooting people at point-blank
range," Yosef Pasternak, a worshipper, told state-run Israel Radio. "Then
someone came in with what looked like a butcher's knife and he went wild."

Akiva Pollack, a paramedic, treated the bleeding worshippers. "There was a guy
sitting with his prayer shawl and phylacteries, he was completely bleeding. I
asked him what happened. He said someone shot him. But I picked up his shirt and
saw he had tremendous cuts on his back and chest. I ran in with the other
paramedic to the entrance and saw a guy in prayer shawl and phylacteries lying
on the floor in a big puddle of blood.

"We turned him over to see if he was dead or alive, and someone started shooting
towards us. I jumped out and so did the other paramedic. I heard the paramedic
screaming, he broke his ankle. I grabbed him and pulled away. Then the police
came, heavy shooting started. I saw a cop collapsing, he was shot in the head. I
incubated him and took him to hospital."

Uri Maklef, Deputy Speaker of the Knesset, said the attack "is a formative event
that requires new thinking" about how to deal with Palestinians. Yoram Cohen,
the head of the Shin Bet internal security service, told Knesset members that
politicians should stop visiting the Temple Mount because this fuels tensions
with the entire Muslim world. "The religious aspect that the conflict is wearing
is very dangerous and explosive because it affects the Palestinians and Muslims
the world over," Haaretz newspaper quoted Mr Cohen as saying. "Everything must
be done to calm things down."

Mr Maklef, from the Torah Judaism party, was outraged: "Blood and torn limbs
during prayer is a continuation of the images we saw during the Holocaust. This
wasn't a chance attack, it is going up a level, it's planned murder."

In Gaza, Hani Thawabta, a leader of the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine (PFLP) , a left-wing faction of the PLO, said his group claims, "full
responsibility for the execution of this heroic operation". But Mr Cohen said
the assailants had not trained as part of any group and a PFLP leader in the
West Bank, Khalida Jarrar, said she had no comment on the attack.

Mr Netanyahu vowed to respond "with a heavy hand" and said such violence is the
"direct result of incitement" by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Hamas,
which applauded the attack.

He added that this is "incitement the international community has been
irresponsibly ignoring". Mr Abbas issued a statement saying he "condemns the
attack on Jewish worshippers in one of their places of prayer in West Jerusalem
and condemns the killing of civilians no matter who is doing it". The US
Secretary of State, John Kerry, termed the attack "pure terror".

The assailants were cousins from Jabal Mukaber in East Jerusalem - Uday Abu
Jamal, 22, and Ghassan Abu Jamal, 32, a father of three. Both were construction
workers. Security forces arrested Ghassan's brothers, wife and mother, relatives
said. An uncle of Uday, who identified himself only as Abu Salah, held up their
pictures and said of the attack. "For every action there is a reaction. Every
day there is news of al-Aqsa and Jerusalem and what they watch on television
causes a reaction. The pressure built up and the moment comes right for an
explosion. And they did explode."

Abu Salah said that Israeli strictures on Palestinian access to the mosque,
while allowing far-right Israelis to visit the compound, were triggering
violence. "Netanyahu is pressing people to do such actions. It is a religious
war that Netanyahu started."

In a bid to cool things down, Israel lifted the age restrictions for Muslim
prayers last Friday and Israel's Internal Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovich
said he is considering halting the visits of Israeli politicians.

Another relative, Sufyan Abu Jamal, speculated that Ghassan may have been
motivated to kill Israelis by reports in the Palestinian media that Israelis
killed a bus driver who was found hanging in his vehicle on Sunday. Israeli
police say an autopsy shows he killed himself.

Tensions have been high since June, when a Palestinian 16-year-old, Mohammed Abu
Khdeir, was brutally murdered by Israelis in apparent retaliation for the
killings of three Israeli teenagers.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    November 19, 2014 Wednesday 4:19 PM GMT

Jews, Christians and Muslims unite in grief: Fragile truce as thousands gather
for funeral of hero policeman who died in Jerusalem synagogue terrorist attack

BYLINE: TED THORNHILL FOR MAILONLINE, PAUL ALSTER IN ISRAEL, INNA LAZAREVA IN
JERUSALEM, MICHAEL BURLEIGH FOR MAILONLINE, JOHN HALL FOR MAILONLINE, DAVID
WILLIAMS and ELEANOR HARDING FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 5037 words



     ·    Two Palestinians stormed a Jerusalem synagogue, attacking worshippers
          with knives, axes and guns
     ·    Eight people were wounded in the attack which took place in the
          ultra-Orthodox Har Nof neighbourhood
     ·    The attackers, Uday and Rassan Abu Jamal aged 22 and 27 were both
          killed by Israeli police yesterday afternoon
     ·    Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel will 'respond harshly' to the attack
          and said he would demolish the attacker's homes
     ·    Hamas leader Mushir al-Masri described the slaughter as a 'heroic act'
          leading to condemnation across Israel
     ·    US Secretary of State John Kerry condemned attack on 'innocent people
          who had come to worship'
     ·    An Israeli police officer has also died  following yesterday's
          terrorist attack
     ·    More than ten people were arrested after several hundred Jewish youths
          held a demonstration in Jerusalem


Jews, Christians and Muslims united in grief today for the funeral of the
policeman killed by two Palestinian terrorists who carried out a brutal dawn
attack at a Jerusalem synagogue on Tuesday.

Sergeant-Major Zidan Saif, who followed the Druze religion, succumbed to his
wounds in hospital after being shot in the head as he rescued civilians from the
frenzied assault.

Thousands, including dignitaries President Reuven Rivlin, Public Security
Minister Yitzchak Aharonovitch and National Police Commissioner Yohanan Danino,
gathered at the village of Kfar Yanouch in the Galilee to pay their respects.

Mr Danino, in a moving speech, said that the officer 'ran into the heart of the
murderous inferno, without fear, without concern' and that the people of Israel
'owe him a great debt', according to The Jerusalem Post.

Mr Saif, 30, died at the Hadassah University Medical Center in Ein Kerem on
Tuesday evening, leaving behind a wife and four-month-old baby.

Scroll down for video

Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has vowed revenge on the
Palestinians responsible for the attack, pledging to demolish the homes of the
men involved.

Speaking just hours after the attack, he said he would 'settle the score with
every terrorist', claiming those who wanted to force the Israeli people out of
Jerusalem would not succeed.

He said: 'We are in a battle over Jerusalem, our eternal capital.'

However, the Prime Minister warned against members of the public taking their
own revenge.

He warned: 'No-one must take the law into their own hands, even if spirits are
riled and blood is boiling.'

Addressing the nation, Mr Nethanyahu said: 'We are at the height of an ongoing
terror attack focused on Jerusalem.

'This evening, I ordered the destruction of the houses of the Palestinians who
carried out this massacre and to speed up the demolition of those who carried
out previous attack.'

He said: 'Citizens of Israel, I call on you to demonstrate great vigilance and
to respect the law because the state will bring to justice all the terrorists
and those who dispatch them.

'It is forbidden for anyone to take the law into their own hands, even if
tempers are high and even if you're burning with anger.'

On Wednesday morning worshippers returned to the synagogue with one, Gavriel
Cohen, saying that the attack showed 'that our future in this world is dependent
on God'.

Also early Wednesday, Israeli security forces demolished the east Jerusalem home
of Abdel Rahman al-Shaludi, the Palestinian who killed two people in October in
an attack on commuters at a crowded light rail platform in Jerusalem. Al-Shaludi
was killed by police after the attack.

Sitting amid the rubble inside the family's destroyed house, al-Shaludi's
grandmother said she was proud.

'No one should feel sorry for us, for our demolished home,' she said, refusing
to give her name for fear of reprisals.

Netanyahu has vowed to revive the controversial policy of home demolitions,
which Israel halted in 2005 after determining it wasn't an effective deterrent
for attacks.

He linked Tuesday's attack to inflammatory statements about the flashpoint
Al-Aqsa mosque compound made by the Palestinian Authority, the Islamist Hamas
movement and Israel's Islamic Movement, a religious advocacy group.

Known to Jews as the Temple Mount, the mosque compound is sacred to both faiths
and one of the most sensitive sites in the Middle East.

'Hamas, the Islamic Movement and the Palestinian Authority are spreading no end
of libels... against the state of Israel.

'They say that the Jews are defiling the Temple Mount, they say that we are
planning to destroy the holy places there, that we are intending to change the
prayer rites there.

'It's all a lie. And these lies have already cost a very high price..

'Today more victims were added to their number due to this crazy blood libel.'

Cabinet Minister Yaakov Peri, former director of the Shin Bet internal security
agency admitted that these types of attacks were incredibly difficult to defend
against.

He said: 'There is no solution in the world of intelligence to the problem of a
lone wolf who decides in the morning to launch an attack in the afternoon.'

Several hours after the attack, several hundred Jewish youths held a
demonstration in Jerusalem where they blocked traffic and chanted 'death to
Arabs'.

Police confirmed that at least ten people were arrested at the scene.

Also, there were reports of clashes outside the home of Oday Abu Jamal, one of
the cousins named as a killer.

Police waiting outside the house were bombarded with rocks and stones. Police
resonded with tear gas and stun grenades before arrested 14 members of Abu
Jamal's family.

EYE WITNESSES SPOKE OF THE HORROR THEY SAW UNFOLDING

Ya'akov Amos, who was inside the synagogue and witnessed the attack, described
how he saw one of the gunmen at point-blank range: 'The first thing I recall of
the incident is seeing a man close to me bleeding through his prayer shawl.
Moments later the terrorist moved to within a metre of me then started shooting
in the other direction. One, two, three, bang, bang, bang. I immediately hit the
ground and tried to protect myself with a prayer stand. I was completely in
shock. It all happened in a matter of moments. He kept screaming 'Allah
hu'Akbar'.

'I didn't see his face, but through the gap in the stand I saw him shooting from
almost point blank range. I then stood up and threw the stand in his direction
and simply ran for my life. The man was working his way round to me, so I just
ran.

'I ran outside with the shooting continuing in the background and screamed at
people 'they're shooting us... call the police!' There were 25 to 30 people
praying there. What a shock. It would seem that I know one of the men that was
murdered.

'I need to think how God protects us. I got to my house ([nearby] in hysterics.
It's a terrible feeling, but we won't give in. We will continue to pray. They're
big heroes killing people from behind.'

Another, Yossi, said: 'A little before seven o'clock two attackers stormed in
shouting 'Allah hu'Akbar' [Arabic for 'God is Great']. There were shouts and
screams. He tried to stab me.'

Dr Joyce Morel, 56, a physician who lives nearby got an emergency call to run to
the scene.

He said: 'I arrived a few minutes after it all started. there was an man sitting
outside the synagogue - he was severely injured. He told me he'd been shot and
stabbed. We opened up his shirts and he had a huge gash in his back where he was
stabbed with an axe which went all the way through his ribs.

'He was a young man, in his late 30s, still wearing the teffilin on his hands
from prayer. One of the paramedics slipped on blood in the shul [synagogue] and
broke his leg.'

Witness Sarah Abrams, 38, who lives a five-minute walk from the synagogue, told
how one of the attackers stabbed a worshipper as he ran inside.

She said: 'One man was lying on the street, all covered in blood. A neighbour
told me afterwards that she saw the terrorist go into the synagogue and on the
way he stabbed this man as he approached the synagogue.

'Two people came out with their faces half missing, looking like they'd been
attacked with knives.'

Victim Rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg, described as a 'pillar of the community',
was born in Liverpool. The father of six held a dual British-Israeli passport.

The others killed in the attack have been named as Rabbi Moshe Twersky, Rabbi
Arieh Kopinsky, 43, and Rabbi Calman Levine, who were all dual US-Israeli
nationals. The two terrorists were shot dead after the attack by police.

A fifth man, believed to be an Israeli police officer, also died in today's
attack.

Thousands of people attended a funeral for Twersky at the Torat Moshe yeshiva in
Sanhedria early this afternoon, which was closely followed by a joint funeral
for Kupinsky, Levine and Goldberg before sundown - the latter held outside the
synagogue where the attack occurred.

A Foreign Office spokesman told MailOnline: 'We are aware of the death of a dual
British-Israeli national in Israel on 18 November 2014.' Eight people were left
injured by the assault, including two police officers.

The horrific attack at the Kehilat Yaakov synagogue on Agasi Street - the
deadliest in Israel since a Palestinian assailant killed eight students at a
Jewish seminar in March 2008 - follows weeks of rising tensions and the death of
a Palestinian bus driver yesterday that many say is suspicious.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was joined by British Foreign Secretary Philip
Hammond, US Secretary of State John Kerry and Palestinian President Mahmoud
Abbas in condemning the attack, with Israel's leader promising a tough response.



He also called for an end to Israeli 'provocations' surrounding a sacred shrine
holy to both Jews and Muslims.

US President Barack Obama condemned the 'horrific attack' and urged Israelis and
Palestinians to calm tensions.

'At this sensitive moment in Jerusalem, it is all the more important for Israeli
and Palestinian leaders and ordinary citizens to work cooperatively together to
lower tensions, reject violence, and seek a path forward towards peace,' Obama
said.

Obama identified the three Israeli-Americans who died in Tuesday's attack by two
Palestinians armed with a gun and meat cleavers as Aryeh Kupinsky, Cary William
Levine and Mosheh Twersky

'There is and can be no justification for such attacks against innocent
civilians,' he said.

'The thoughts and prayers of the American people are with the victims and
families of all those who were killed and injured in this horrific attack and in
other recent violence.'

U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said he spoke to Netanyahu after the assault
and denounced it as an 'act of pure terror and senseless brutality and
violence.'

One Canadian was wounded in the attack, said Francois Lasalle, a spokesman for
Canada's Foreign Affairs Department. He declined to provide further details.

The assailants, named as cousins Uday and Rassan Abu Jamal, both in their 20s,
burst in to the synagogue just before 7am as up to 30 worshippers gathered for
prayers.

The fanatics used hand guns, axes and cleavers as they rampaged through the
building, sending those inside running for their lives.

Pictures posted online showed a bloodied meat cleaver at the scene, along with
heavily blood-stained floors and bodies covered in shawls.

Eye witness Ya'akov Amos said: 'The terrorist moved to within a metre of me then
started shooting. One, two, three, bang, bang, bang. I immediately hit the
ground and tried to protect myself with a prayer stand. He kept screaming 'Allah
hu'Akbar'.

Dr Joyce Morel, one of the first medics on the scene, spoke of the gruesome
scene he encountered. He said: 'There was a man sitting outside the synagogue -
he was severely injured. He told me he'd been shot and stabbed. We opened up his
shirts and he had a huge gash in his back where he was stabbed with an axe which
went all the way through his ribs.'

According to Times of Israel Rabbi Moshe Twersky, the head of Torat Moshe
yeshiva, was one of the American-Israelis killed in the attack.

Twersky was the elder son of Rabbi Isadore Twersky of Boston, and a grandson of
Modern Orthodox luminary Rabbi Joseph B. Soloveitchik.

His father was a Harvard professor noted for his scholarship on the 12th-century
Jewish philosopher Maimonides. He died in 1997 having worked at Harvard for more
than 30 years, serving as director of the Center for Jewish Studies from 1978
until 1993.

Two other victims have been named as Arieh Kopinsky, 43, from Har Nof and rabbi
Calman Levine, also from the neighbourhood.

The fourth victim Mr Goldberg, 68, is a grandfather who lived in Golders Green
in London before moving to Israel and was a regular visitor to the synagogue.

Friend David Osborne said: 'He was the most wonderful person, a pillar of the
community.

'I was on my way to the synagogue when I heard screams and shots being fired, I
knew instantly it was bad.

'Avraham prayed there most days for the last ten years or so, he was a devout
Jew with no political agenda. All he wanted was to live a peaceful life. His
family are the nicest people you could meet.'

Yesterday, a congregation member at the Golders Green Beth Hamerdash synagogue
said Mr Goldberg was fondly remembered.

The 23-year-old, who would not give his name, said: 'I've seen him when I've
gone out to Israel with my family. Every attack is bad but this one is closer to
home.

'A father goes out in the morning to pray and never returns. His family never
got a chance to say goodbye. His children will never see him again.

'It's disturbing that he was killed not for being a Zionist or a soldier, but
simply for being a Jew. He stood out as being very soft and genuine. He was a
very nice man.'

Afterward the shocking incident there were scenes of chilling celebration as a
woman in Gaza threw sweets into the crowd and masked Palestinian men posed in
triumph with axes - the weapons used in the massacre.

The two attackers are cousins Uday and Rassan Abu Jamal, close relatives of a
Hamas terrorist who was released in 2011 as part of the exchange deal for the
captured Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, according to Israeli radio.

Ya'akov Amos, who was inside the synagogue and witnessed the attack, described
how he saw one of the gunmen at point-blank range: 'The first thing I recall of
the incident is seeing a man close to me bleeding through his prayer shawl.'

'Moments later the terrorist moved to within a metre of me then started shooting
in the other direction. One, two, three, bang, bang, bang. I immediately hit the
ground and tried to protect myself with a prayer stand. I was completely in
shock. It all happened in a matter of moments. He kept screaming 'Allah
hu'Akbar'.

'I didn't see his face, but through the gap in the stand I saw him shooting from
almost point blank range. I then stood up and threw the stand in his direction
and simply ran for my life. The man was working his way round to me, so I just
ran.

'I ran outside with the shooting continuing in the background and screamed at
people 'they're shooting us... call the police!' There were 25 to 30 people
praying there. What a shock. It would seem that I know one of the men that was
murdered.

'I need to think how God protects us. I got to my house ([nearby] in hysterics.
It's a terrible feeling, but we won't give in. We will continue to pray. They're
big heroes killing people from behind.'

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel will 'respond harshly' to the
attack, which he described as the 'cruel murder of Jews who came to pray and
were killed by despicable murderers', while Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas
also condemned the attack.

Eight were injured in the attack and are being treated at the Sha'are Zedek and
Hadassah hospitals in Jerusalem. One policeman is in a serious condition, having
been shot in the head.

The attackers are aged 22 and 27 and from the Jabal Mukaber district of East
Jerusalem, which has been the scene of relentless clashes between Israeli police
and Palestinian protesters in recent months.

 We will return the yearned for quiet and peace to Jerusalem

They were reportedly inspired by calls from Hamas through Palestinian media and
on social media to attack Israeli targets to 'protect the Al Aqsa mosque'.

The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a small militant group, said
the cousins were among its members, though it did not say whether it had
instructed them to carry out the attack.

Israel's Shin Bet intelligence service are questioning relatives of the two
killers to determine the extent of the family involvement in the attack.

Israel's Internal Security Minister, Yitzhak Aharonovich, under growing public
pressure as the number of violent incidents continues to rise, speaking from the
scene of this morning's attack said: 'We will be there in Jabel Mukaber. We will
be there in all places. The security services, the police, the local council, we
will do everything to provide security. If we need more manpower, we will bring
more manpower. We will return the yearned for quiet and peace to Jerusalem.'

He insisted that the incitement from the Palestinian side prior to today's
incident, including using the pretext of the confirmed suicide of the Arab bus
driver yesterday, is unacceptable.

He also said he would ease controls on carrying weapons for self-defence in the
wake of the attack. He added: 'In the coming hours, I will ease restrictions on
carrying weapons,' indicating it would apply to anyone with a licence to carry a
gun, such as private security guards and off-duty army officers.

In a statement, Hamas praised the synagogue attack as a 'heroic act', saying it
was a 'response to continued Israeli crimes, the killing, desecrating al-Aqsa
(mosque),' a reference to a recent incident at the holy site. It also called for
a continuation of 'vendettas'.

Hamas leader Mushir al-Masri said that the slaughter of the worshippers was a
'natural reaction' to the death of 32-year-old Palestinian bus driver Yusuf
Hasan al-Ramuni, who was found hanged in his vehicle on Sunday.

Police said there was no evidence of foul play, blaming his death on suicide,
with their findings backed up by a post-mortem.

Both the Israeli and Palestinian pathologists who performed an autopsy at the
Abu Kabir Forensic Institute, agreed that it was a suicide.

But colleagues and family said there were signs of violence on his body,
claiming he was murdered.

THIS DEADLY ATTACK IS PART OF A SINISTER HAMAS PLAN TO TRIGGER A THIRD MAJOR
UPRISING, WRITES MICHAEL BURLEIGH

The catalyst for the seemingly random and senseless attacks that have happened
in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv was the burning alive of a 16 year old Arab boy by
Jews in July, in retaliation for the abduction and murder of three Jewish
schoolboys. The latest escalation is the axe, knife and gun attack that left
four Jewish worshippers dead inside a West Jerusalem synagogue yesterday. This
is against a backdrop of daily confrontations between Israeli police and rock
throwing Palestinian youths.

Why is this happening?

Jerusalem's Old City hosts sites that are sacred to both Muslims and Jews. The
al-Aqsa mosque is the third most sacred place in Islam, but the wider compound
on which it stands also overlays the ruins of two Jewish temples from biblical
times which very religious Jews want to rebuild. The site is so sensitive to
both faiths that a subtle deal was arranged, under which Jews can visit, but not
pray within the compound, while Muslims can.

Fervent religious Jews have being trying to overturn these arrangements, with
the passive connivance of members of right-wing religious parties in the Israeli
coalition government. The PM Netanyahu has condemned their actions, which have
also led Jordan, which oversees the entire site, to withdraw its ambassador,
while at the same time doing little to stop Jews from aggressively purchasing
property in Arab areas of the city.

But there are other more sinister agendas at work. The militant organization
Hamas suffered a severe setback in Gaza because of Israel's operation Protective
Edge. It has also failed to expand its influence at the expense of the rival
Palestinian Authority which governs the occupied West Bank.

As far as anyone knows the recent spate of violent attacks have been random and
self-generated. Enraged individuals have just decided to attack Jews, although
the latest incident seems more organised.

But Hamas is trying to incite a third intifada, or mass uprising, in which as in
1987-93 and 2000-05, Palestinian youths will hurl stones at heavily armed
Israeli police and troops. There will inevitably be casualties as both sides
settle into a mood of fear and hatred.

Hamas knows that international media coverage will depict this in David and
Goliath terms, as it did twice before, at a time when various European states
(and the EU) are discussing recognition of a Palestinian state, and there are
movements to boycott, disinvest and sanction Israel. Since the majority of
Palestinians have no appetite for years of strife, the Israeli government should
rein in its own extremists and so more to improve the security, living
conditions and welfare of Palestinians in Jerusalem before it is too late.
Otherwise they might find themselves facing Hamas rather than the relatively
benign Palestinian Authority.

Michael Burleigh is a historian and specialist on international affairs

And the Palestinian pathologist who attended the post-mortem also ruled out
suicide, suggesting he may have been drugged then strangled, the family's lawyer
said.

Thousands attended his funeral late on Monday, some of them calling for revenge.



Much of the recent violence stems from tensions surrounding the Jerusalem holy
site referred to by Jews as the Temple Mount because of the Jewish temples that
stood there in biblical times. It is the most sacred place in Judaism.

Muslims refer to it as the Noble Sanctuary, and it is their third holiest site,
after Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia.

The site is so holy that Jews have traditionally refrained from going there,
instead praying at the adjacent Western Wall. Israel's chief rabbis have urged
people not to ascend to the area, but in recent years, a small but growing
number of Jews, including ultranationalist lawmakers, have begun regularly
visiting the site, a move seen as a provocation.

Today's attack is bound to ratchet up fears of sustained violence in the city,
already on edge amid soaring tensions over a contested holy site.

Israeli TV footage showed the synagogue, in Jerusalem's ultra-Orthodox Har Nof
neighborhood, surrounded by police and rescue workers following the attack.

Dr Joyce Morel, 56, a physician who lives nearby got an emergency call to run to
the scene.

He said: 'I arrived a few minutes after it all started. there was an man sitting
outside the synagogue - he was severely injured. He told me he'd been shot and
stabbed. We opened up his shirts and he had a huge gash in his back where he was
stabbed with an axe which went all the way through his ribs.

 I saw a man stagger out of the synagogue with two bullets wounds in his back

'He was a young man, in his late 30s, still wearing the teffilin on his hands
from prayer. One of the paramedics slipped on blood in the shul [synagogue] and
broke his leg.'

Witness Sarah Abrams, 38, who lives a five-minute walk from the synagogue, told
how one of the attackers stabbed a worshipper as he ran inside.

She said: 'One man was lying on the street, all covered in blood. A neighbour
told me afterwards that she saw the terrorist go into the synagogue and on the
way he stabbed this man as he approached the synagogue.

'Two people came out with their faces half missing, looking like they'd been
attacked with knives.'

Eye witness Menahem Cohen, who saw the attack happen from his apartment directly
opposite the building, said: 'I saw a man stagger out of the synagogue with two
bullets wounds in his back, blood was running down, and he appeared to be in
complete shock.

'Very quickly the police arrived and took positions at different angles around
the building. Then I saw one of the attackers come out of the building holding a
meat cleaver, and as he came out he was shot from different angles by the police
and he fell to the ground.'

The attack, the deadliest in Jerusalem in six years, ratcheted up fears of
sustained violence in the city, which is already on edge amid soaring tensions
over its most contested holy site.

Jerusalem residents have already been fearful of what appeared to be lone wolf
attacks using cars or knives against pedestrians. But Tuesday's early morning
attack on a synagogue harkens back to the gruesome attacks during the
Palestinian uprising of the last decade.

Tensions appeared to have been somewhat defused last week following a meeting by
Benjamin Netanyahu, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Jordan's King
Abdullah II in Jordan. The meeting was an attempt to restore calm after months
of violent confrontations surrounding a sacred shrine holy to both Jews and
Muslims.

Israel and the Palestinians said then they would take steps to reduce tensions
that might lead to an escalation.

Netanyahu blamed the violence on incitement by the Islamic militant group Hamas
and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas.

Israel's police chief said Tuesday's attack was likely not organized by militant
groups, similar to other recent incidents, making it more difficult from
security forces to prevent the violence.

'These are individuals that decide to do horrible acts. It's very hard to know
ahead of time about every such incident,' Yohanan Danino told reporters at the
scene.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has joined US Secretary of State John Kerry in
condemning the attack.

Speaking in London, Mr Kerry and Mr Hammond called on the Palestinian leadership
'at every single level' to condemn the assault.

'To have this kind of act, which is a pure result of incitement, of calls for
days of rage, of irresponsibility is unacceptable,' Mr Kerry told reporters.

'The Palestinian leadership must condemn this and they must begin to take
serious steps to restrain any kind of incitement that comes from their language,
from other people's language, and exhibit the kind of leadership that is
necessary to put this region on a different path.'

Mr Hammond added: 'Both sides in this conflict need to do everything possible to
de-escalate the situation and reduce the tension we've seen in Jerusalem over
the past few weeks, which is extremely dangerous for both Palestinian and Jewish
communities in that area.'

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas condemned the attack, the first time he has
directly denounced violence after weeks of deepening unrest.

'The presidency condemns the attack on Jewish worshippers in one of their places
of prayer in West Jerusalem and condemns the killing of civilians no matter who
is doing it,' his office said in a statement to Reuters.

A CHRONOLOGY OF THE ESCALATING VIOLENCE BETWEEN ISRAEL AND THE PALESTINIANS IN
RECENT MONTHS

It has been a difficult year for Israelis and Palestinians, with the failure of
peace talks and a string of violent incidents that shows no signs of ending.
Here is a look at some key recent events:

April 24: Nine months of U.S.-mediated peace talks collapse.

May 15: Two Palestinian teens killed in a West Bank clash with Israeli troops on
the day that Palestinians mark their uprooting during the Mideast war over
Israel's 1948 creation.

June 2: A Palestinian unity government is sworn in, a major step toward
reconciliation between the rival Fatah and Hamas factions. Israel denounces the
government because it includes Hamas.

June 12: Three Israeli teenagers - Eyal Yifrah, 19, Gilad Shaar, 16, and Naftali
Fraenkel - are abducted and killed by Hamas operatives in the West Bank.

June 13: Israel launches a broad military operation to find the teens, arresting
hundreds of Hamas members. Hamas militants in Gaza respond with rocket attacks.

July 2: Mohammed Abu Khdeir, a 16-year-old Palestinian from east Jerusalem, is
abducted near his home and burned to death by Israeli extremists in a revenge
attack for the deaths of the Israeli teens. The death triggers violent protests.

July 8: Israel launches a military campaign against Hamas in Gaza after heavy
rocket fire on Israeli cities. The war lasts 50 days and kills more than 2,100
Palestinians, mostly civilians, according to the United Nations. Seventy-two
people die on the Israeli side.

Oct. 1: Israel gives final approval for construction of a new housing
development in east Jerusalem, the section of the city claimed by the
Palestinians as their future capital.

Oct. 2: Israeli nationalists move into apartments secretly purchased in the
heart of the Arab neighborhood of Silwan in east Jerusalem.

Oct 20: Israeli nationalists move into more apartments in Silwan.

Oct. 22: A Palestinian rams his car into a crowded Jerusalem train station,
killing a 3-month-old Israeli-American girl and a woman from Ecuador. The attack
comes after weeks of clashes around a sensitive holy site revered by Jews and
Muslims.

Oct. 29: A Palestinian on a motorcycle shoots and seriously wounds Yehuda Glick,
an Israeli-American rabbi campaigning for more Jewish access to the contested
Jerusalem holy site.

Nov. 5: A Hamas militant slams a minivan into crowd waiting for a train in
Jerusalem, killing two.

Nov. 8: Israeli police shoot and kill an Arab Israeli protester at a
demonstration in northern Israel. Video indicates the man was walking away from
the officer when shot.

Nov. 10: Palestinian attackers kill two Israelis in Tel Aviv and the West Bank
in separate stabbing attacks.

Nov. 13: U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry meets Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu and Jordan's King Abdullah II in Amman; the trio agrees on
steps to defuse tensions at Jerusalem holy site.

Nov. 14: Israel lifts age restriction at holy site; Friday prayers go off
without incident.

Nov. 16: Police say Israeli man stabbed in the back by an 'Arab' attacker in
Jerusalem and wounded. Assailant escapes.

Nov. 17: Israeli government says it will step up punitive demolitions, gives
notices to families of Palestinian attackers

Nov. 18: Two Palestinians storm Jerusalem synagogue, kill four and wound eight.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          November 19, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mark's got the tango terrors;
STRICTLY STAR SUFFERS ANXIETY ATTACKS tv biz

BYLINE: LEIGH HOLMWOOD; WILL PAYNE

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION COLUMN; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 253 words


STRICTLY star Mark Wright plans to undergo hypnotherapy to try to cure crippling
anxiety attacks.

The former Towie and I'm A Celeb star gets so nervous before he has to perform
on the BBC1 show that he thinks he is going to collapse.

Mark, who partners pro dancer Karen Hauer, said: "I'm an emotional person. I'm
loving Strictly but I'm putting so much pressure on myself. It's hard to keep
control.

"I have never had a fullblown panic attack but it's the closest thing you can
get to it. It's definitely anxiety attack. I can't breathe, sometimes I cry.

"I feel sick all week with nerves, then I see my family in the audience and all
the emotions come out.

"I'm thinking about having hypnotherapy."

Mark revealed that his fiancée Michelle Keegan and her family are throwing their
support behind him - although they think Jake Wood will win.

He said: "I haven't bet on myself but you're not allowed. Michelle and my family
have probably bet on Jake!" Mark, who was runner-up to McFly singer Dougie
Poynter on I'm A Celeb in 2011, also said he was backing former Towie pal Gemma
Collins to win this year's series.

The Essex loud-mouth is just four days into her jungle experience and has
threatened to leave because of the lack of food and creepy-crawlies.

He said: "In the jungle you are bored, starving, you miss your family.

"I think Gemma will do well. She's the kind of person who could pick a fight
with a cardboard box and the jungle is perfect for people like that.

"If someone p****s her off they will get to know about it."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EMOTIONAL . . Mark with dance partner Karen Hauer and, inset, tense
moment during telly show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                          November 19, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brutal terrorist attack condemned by leaders

BYLINE: Press Association

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 626 words


BRITISH leaders yesterday joined the Palestinian and American presidents in
condemnation of the brutal terror attack in Jerusalem that left four Israeli
worshippers dead.

One of the victims was Britishborn Rabbi Avraham Goldberg, whose cousin
described him as a man who "only wanted peace". The other three were Americans.

Prime Minister David Cameron said: "I'm appalled by the horrific attack on
worshippers at a Jerusalem synagogue."

He said his thoughts were with the victims' families.

Labour leader Ed Miliband tweeted: "My thoughts are with the families of the
victims and people of the holy city. I'm horrified by the barbaric attack on the
synagogue in Jerusalem - an appalling act of terrorism to be totally condemned."

US president Barack Obama condemned the attack saying there could be no
justification for such attacks and urged Israeli and Palestinian leaders as well
as ordinary citizens to "work co-operatively to lower tensions, reject violence
and seek a path forward towards peace".

Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas also condemned the attack, the first time he
has done so since a recent spike in deadly violence against Israelis. He also
called for an end to Israeli "provocations" surrounding the sacred site.

In a statement, his office said he "condemns the killing of the worshippers in a
synagogue in west Jerusalem". The statement called for an end to the "invasion"
of the mosque at the holy site and a halt to "incitement" by Israeli ministers.

State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki named the three US citizens as Mosheh
Twersky, Aryeh Kupinsky and Cary William Levine.

Mr Twersky - the grandson of a renowned rabbi from Boston, Joseph Soloveichik
--was the head of Yeshivas Toras Moshe, a religious seminary for
English-speaking students. All four victims were immigrants to Israel and held
dual citizenship, Israeli police said.

Thousands of people yesterday attended a joint funeral for Mr Kupinsky, Mr
Levine and Mr Goldberg before sundown.

The funeral was held outside the synagogue where they died.

Israel's Prime Minister has ordered authorities to destroy the homes of the
attackers. Benjamin Netanyahu also ordered the demolition of the homes of
Palestinians involved in other recent deadly attacks.

The killers who launched yesterday's deadly attack were two Palestinians who
burst into a synagogue during morning prayers with meat cleavers and a gun,
killing four before they were shot dead by police.

The attack occurred in Jerusalem's Har Nof neighbourhood, an ultra-Orthodox area
with a large number of immigrants from Western countries.

Mr Netanyahu announced the directive after a meeting top security officials. He
did not say when the demolitions would take place.

Israel halted its much-maligned practice of home demolitions in 2005 after
officials determined it was not an effective deterrent. But they have had a
change of heart recently and begun to renew the tactic in certain cases.

US Secretary of State John Kerry, travelling in London, condemned the attack on
"innocent people who had come to worship".

He said he spoke to Mr Netanyahu after the assault and denounced it as an "act
of pure terror and senseless brutality and violence".

Israeli police said the two assailants were cousins from east Jerusalem. The
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a militant group, said the
cousins were its members.

Hamas, the militant Palestinian group that runs the Gaza Strip, praised the
attack, saying it was a "response to continued Israeli crimes, the killing,
desecrating alAqsa (mosque)", a reference to a recent incident at the holy site.

Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said six people were also wounded in the
attack, including two police officers. Four of the wounded were reported to be
in a serious condition.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Paramedics carry a body out of a synagogue after an attack in Har No.
Below, a relative shows pictures of the <B killers, cousins Ghassan, right, and
Oday Abu Jamal, at the family home in Jerusalem

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2014 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

Israel eases gun control rules after recent terror attacks - newspaper report

LENGTH: 502 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 20 November

[Report by Ben Hartman: "Israel Eases Gun Control Rules After Jerusalem Terror
Attack"]

New guidelines on gun licensing in Israel were put into effect on Thursday,
easing the restrictions on firearm possession in towns and cities across the
country. The new guidelines were approved by Public Security Minister Yitzhak
Aharonovitch during a meeting he held Wednesday night with officials from the
Israel Police and his ministry's branch which approves firearm permits.

The decision comes in the wake of a series of terror attacks in Jerusalem and
elsewhere, and the minister's promise earlier this week that he would order a
probe into changing Israel's firearm restrictions, as a way of providing
security in the face of the terror threat.

The new guidelines will add Jerusalem and 41 other cities, towns, and local
councils to the list of areas in Israel considered "high risk" or "high
priority", such as West Bank settlements, where residency can allow you to
receive a permit if you meet the other criteria.

In addition, the new guidelines will allow security firms to let guards take
their firearms home at the end of their shifts, will give permits to soldiers
who served in certain elite combat units, will allow people with older
state-issued firearms to swap them for newer guns, will allow any reserve
officer of any rank to receive a firearm, will allow firearms shooting
instructors to receive a gun license, and will allow the police security branch
commander to allow on a case by case basis the carrying of military grade
firearms.

Aharonovitch said Thursday that "the decision to ease the restriction stems from
recent events and the need to strengthen the sense of security among the general
population and due to the recent terror attacks that have struck us. The giving
of permits will be done responsibly and with scrutiny and discretion, and in
keeping with the approved criteria."

As opposed to the United States where gun ownership is a right, in Israel it is
a privilege only given to people who meet certain requirements. The licenses
have only been given out to those who have a reason to own a gun because they
work in security or law enforcement, or they live in settlements or other places
where the state has an interest in them being armed.

As of earlier this week, criteria included that the applicant be over 21, an
Israeli resident for more than three years, have passed a mental and physical
health exam, background checks by the Public Security Ministry and shooting
exams and courses at a licensed gun range. If given a permit, the holder is then
allowed to order a single firearm with a one-time supply of 50 bullets from a
licensed dealer. They are then required to retake the licensing exam and undergo
testing at a gun range every three years. They also have to prove they have a
safe at home to store the gun.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 20 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

Intel report warns of possible terror attack from north-western border

LENGTH: 427 words


Text of report published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 20 Nov

The fresh threat from Pakistan may well emerge from the western sector along the
Rajasthan border. A recent intelligence report forwarded to the office of the
national security adviser warns that with the entire focus of security forces
along the Kashmir border in wake of Assembly elections in the state, Pakistan
may try and push in subversive elements from the Rajasthan border.

The report goes on to add that, "Pakistan's security and intelligence agencies,
particularly the ISI, have been for the last few months working on a plan to
activate the Rajasthan sector primarily for infiltrating subversive elements and
narcotic smuggling." Now with the focus of security forces primarily on the
Kashmir Valley to ensure peaceful Assembly elections that kick-start on 25
November, Pakistani agencies see this as an opportunity to step up subversive
activities along the western sector.

However, top intelligence sources said the government was already seized of the
matter and had held a high level security meeting sometime back in which
paramilitary forces and even the Army had been sensitised about the issue and
security along all the border outside Jammu and Kashmir had been beefed up.

"This issue was discussed at length at the highest quarters in the government
when dates for J&K Assembly elections were announced. We knew that Pakistani
agencies and terror groups operating out of their soil will try and take
advantage of the situation. So security along the border not just in western
sector but along Nepal as well as Bangladesh was beefed up," a senior security
official said.

What is of concern to Indian intelligence agencies was the fact that the Hafiz
Saeed the chief of Jamaat-ud-Dawa had visited a number of villages in Pakistan
close to the Rajasthan border sometime back.

There is credible information that the most wanted terrorist in India Hafiz
Saeed is now trying to activate his network along the Rajasthan border to push
in terror elements.

Apart from elections in J and K resulting in heightened security another reason
why Rajasthan route is being activated is that mountain passes in the Kashmir
Valley are beginning to close down due to intense cold and the snowfall in the
high reaches.

However, sources said, the BSF has already substantially increased its vigil
along the border in the region with additional deployments. Other defence units
in the region have also been directed to remain on high alert.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 20 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     November 20, 2014 Thursday 1:59 PM GMT

British Rabbi among five dead after armed men storm synagogue in 'terror attack'

BYLINE: Levi Winchester

LENGTH: 1322 words


AT least five people, including one Briton, have been killed by two men who
stormed a synagogue armed with axes, knives and guns, according to officials.

GETTY/REX

The victims and attackers of today's horrific incident have been announced

The violent attack broke out at a west Jerusalem synagogue this morning, and
ended with both attackers - Palestinians from east Jerusalem - being shot dead
at the scene following a shootout with police.

A policeman also later died of his wounds.

One of the five victims killed has been reported as British citizen Rabbi
Avraham Goldberg, 68, who emigrated to Israel from Liverpool in 1991.

The Foreign Office said they were "aware of the death of a dual British-Israeli
national in Israel on 18 November 2014".

The other victims were revealed as American citizens - Rabbis Moshe Twersky, 59,
Aryeh Kupinsky, 43, and Kalman Levine, 55.

The funeral of Rabbi Twersky took place today in Jerusalem, while it was
reported that the funerals of the three other victims are due to happen later
this evening.

A remarkable photo tweeted by Haaretz, an Israeli news source, showed a sea of
mourners dressed in black as they paid their respects to Rabbi Twersky.

Since the devastating news of his death was announced this morning, tributes
have poured in for Rabbi Goldberg from the Jewish community in Liverpool.

Victor Huglin, former joint Liverpool Area Chairman of the United Jewish Israel
Appeal, knew Rabbi Goldberg from primary school and said he was a "very bright
member of the community".

"He was very clever. He was also very warm and friendly and never had a bad
thought or a bad bone in his body," he said.

"He went to settle in Israel where he hoped to study and do good deeds."

He also condemned the earlier attack, expressing his outrage over the
"barbarians" who insight others to commit such acts.

HAPPENING NOW: Hundreds attending funeral of Rav Moshe Twersky HY"D killed in
todays J'lem synagogue terror attack. pic.twitter.com/gFx45Obo66

- Israel News Feed November 18, 2014

PHOTO: Thousands of Mourners attend funeral of Rabbi Moshe Twersky, killed in
Jerusalem terror attack today - Haaretz pic.twitter.com/q3DyGcnZcf

- Israel News Feed November 18, 2014

He added: "It comes to something when people can not pray, whether it is in a
church, a synagogue or a mosque, without fear of being bludgeoned to death."

While Rabbi Mordechai Wollenberg, from the Childwall Synagogue in Liverpool,
said the thought of such a "violation of a sacred place" always "makes you
shudder".

He said: "As a Rabbi, I want people to feel safe in my synagogue.

"It hurts anyway, the thought that there were people who did not come home alive
from their services, that hurts, but when you realise it's someone from your own
community, it puts a face to a name and it's obviously hit home for a lot of
people.

"A number of people said they remember him."

He also announced that the community in Liverpool will be holding a tribute to
Rabbi Goldberg tomorrow, although exact details are still being finalised.

Earlier today, the attackers of the brutal incident - where six other people
were also injured, four of which in a serious way - were named by Palestinian
sources as cousins Uday and Ghassan Abu Jamal, both 20.

Israeli police are now describing the assault as a "terrorist attack" and were
searching the area for other suspects.

Footage from this morning's scene showed the synagogue, in Jerusalem's Orthodox
Har Nof neighbourhood, surrounded by police and rescue workers as wounded
worshippers were treated by paramedics.

Horrific pictures posted online by an Israeli military spokesman also showed a
bloodied meat cleaver - apparently used in the attack - inside the building.

#Terror attack victims:Rabbis Moshe Twersky,59, Aryeh Kupinsky,43, Avraham
Shmuel Goldberg,68, and Kalman Levine, 55 pic.twitter.com/pvLgNMY5RC

- Israel Foreign Min. November 18, 2014

REUTERS

Israeli security running next to the synagogue

REUTERS

Police say they are treating the incident as a 'terrorist attack'

Yossi, who was praying at the synagogue at the time of the attack, described the
terrifying moment he was approached by one of the attackers.

"I tried to escape. The man with the knife approached me," he told Israeli
Channel 2 TV, while declining to give his last name.

"There was a chair and table between us... my prayer shawl got caught. I left it
there and escaped."

Israel's police chief said the attack was likely not organised by militant
groups, making it more difficult for security forces to prevent the violence.

"These are individuals that decide to do horrible acts. It's very hard to know
ahead of time about every such incident," Yohanan Danino told reporters at the
scene.

Hamas, the militant Palestinian group that runs the Gaza Strip, have since
praised the attack but did not claim responsibility.

In light of the events, the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed that
Israel will "respond harshly" to the violent incident, which he branded as a
"cruel murder of Jews who came to pray and were killed by despicable murderers".

He has also ordered the demolition of the Abu Jamal cousins' homes, according to
his spokesman.

The attack has also been condemned by Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond, who
branded the assault "unacceptable".

"Both sides in this conflict need to do everything possible to de escalate the
situation and reduce the tension we've seen in Jerusalem over the past few
weeks, which is extremely dangerous for both Palestinian and Jewish communities
in that area."

He was joined by US Secretary of State John Kerry, who said this violence has
"no place anywhere".

"This morning in Jerusalem, Palestinians attacked Jews who were praying in a
synagogue," he said shortly after the incident.

REX

The attackers were named by Palestinian sources as cousins Uday and Ghassan Abu
Jamal

AP

John Kerry and Philip Hammond speaking today

"Innocent people who had come to worship died in the sanctuary of a synagogue.

"They were hatcheted, hacked and murdered in that holy place in an act of pure
terror and senseless brutality and murder.

"I call on Palestinians at every single level of leadership to condemn this in
the most powerful terms.

"This violence has no place anywhere, particularly after the discussion that we
just had the other day in Amman."

US President Barack Obama was the latest world leader to comment on the attack,
stating that there can be "no justification".

He said in a statement: "I strongly condemn today's terrorist attack on
worshipers at a synagogue in Jerusalem, which killed four innocent people,
including US citizens Aryeh Kupinsky, Cary William Levine, and Moshe Twersky,
and injured several more.

"There is and can be no justification for such attacks against innocent
civilians.

"The thoughts and prayers of the American people are with the victims and
families of all those who were killed and injured in this horrific attack and in
other recent violence."

This morning's attack, which is being dubbed as the deadliest in Jerusalem in
years, follows months of tension between Israelis and Palestinians which first
erupted this summer in the Gaza Strip.

Just last week a young woman was stabbed to death and an Israeli soldier gravely
injured in two separate attacks in Israel.

The 25-year-old woman was attacked in the West Bank territory just hours after
the soldier was stabbed at a train station in Tel Aviv.

In another horrific incident that occured this month, four pedestrians were
killed after Palestinian militants rammed them with vehicles in Jerusalem.

Both attackers were shot dead at the scene.

Related articles Young woman killed and soldier gravely injured in latest wave
of violence in Israel Palestinian man rams car into crowded train platform and
attacks people with iron bar Baby dies in Jerusalem 'terrorist attack' as car
rams into pedestrians on railway platform  brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Keighley News

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

On-the-run prisoner jailed for Keighley attack terrorised former girlfriend,
court told

BYLINE: Martin Heminway

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 375 words


A 25-YEAR-OLD man serving six-and-a-half years' imprisonment for causing a woman
grievous bodily harm threatened to smash up his former partner's home while on
the run, a court heard.

Adrian Feather absconded from HMP Kirkham, a Category D open prison near
Preston, on June 12 and was at large for three months, Bradford Crown Court
heard.

The day after he stepped over the fence to freedom, he rang his former
girlfriend and threatened to take their child away and damage her home when she
refused to take the infant to see him.

Feather was jailed for 78 months in August, 2011, for viciously attacking a
woman in Keighley town centre.

The sentencing judge said he behaved like a wild animal when he punched, kicked
and stamped on bus driver, Verona Benson, and hit her partner,Tracey Williams.

Feather pleaded guilty to wounding Miss Benson with intent to do her grievous
bodily harm and common assault on Miss Williams.

Last Thursday, prosecutor Paul Nicholson said Feather had admitted escaping from
HMP Kirkham and threatening to cause criminal damage.

Mr Nicholson said Feather's former partner "sensibly" refused to meet up with
him when he was on the run.

Feather shouted and swore at her on the phone, threatened to take their child
and smash up her home.

She was so worried she temporarily moved away, the court heard.

Feather was arrested after three months on the run and was now in Leeds Prison.

His solicitor advocate, Nigel Jamieson, said he was nearing the end of his
lengthy jail term and was "the author of his own misfortunes".

Because several other inmates had recently absconded from HMP Kirkham, day
release and home visits were suspended.

Feather feared he was about to be sent back to a closed prison, although he
himself had done nothing wrong.

He was also distressed by a series of family bereavements, including having to
attend his mother's funeral in handcuffs.

Mr Jamieson said Feather did not contact his former partner again while on the
run and had no intention of carrying out the threats.

"They were words uttered in frustration," Mr Jamieson said.

Judge Colin Burn jailed Feather for eight months, to run consecutively to his
existing sentence.

He will also have to serve an additional three months to make up the time he was
on the run.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

U.S. Condemns Terrorist Attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 220 words


November 19, 2014

Jeff Rathke

Director , Office of Press Relations Washington, DC

The United States strongly condemns the continued terrorist attacks in Iraq,
including the suicide car bomb attacks today in Basrah and the Iraqi Kurdistan
Region in front of the Erbil Provincial Council Building that took a number of
innocent lives. We extend our condolences to the families of the victims and
hope for a rapid recovery for those who were injured.



The Iraqi people are determined to stand against the violence and horrific
ideology of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and have
successfully reclaimed their territory from ISIL at Mosul Dam, Rabiya, Zumar,
and other areas, including in recent days at Bayji. As Iraqi Security Forces
continue to gain strength and ISIL loses territory, ISIL will continue to resort
to cowardly attacks of killing civilians and other desperate measures to try to
maintain its reign of fear and prove its relevance.

The United States is committed to working with the Government of Iraq and our
coalition partners to end this terrorist scourge. The United States will
continue to stand with the Iraqi people, as they take back their country from
these violent extremists, and promote a unified, federal, pluralistic, and
democratic state, as envisioned in the Iraqi Constitution.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

Security Council strongly condemns 'despicable terrorist attack' in Jerusalem
synagogue

LENGTH: 210 words


November 19, 2014

The United Nations Security Council has strongly condemned yesterday's
"despicable terrorist attack" in a synagogue in Jerusalem, resulting in the
murder of four innocent civilians worshipping there and a police officer, as
well as the injury of many more.



In a statement to the press, the members of the Council strongly condemned all
such acts of violence, and expressed concern about increased tensions, "which
have affected both the Israeli and Palestinian people, and urged all sides to
take immediate steps to restore calm."

In addition, the Council emphasized the importance of all statements condemning
the attack and condemning all acts of violence, and encouraged Israeli and
Palestinian leaders and citizens to work together to lower tension, reject
violence, avoid all provocations and seek a path toward peace.

Council members expressed their condolences to the families of all those who
have died and sympathy to those injured and to the Israeli people.

Reaffirming that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations is criminal and
unjustifiable, "regardless of its motivation," the Council reminded States that
they must ensure that measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their
obligations under international law.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 20, 2014 Thursday 6:51 PM GMT

Arab workers sacked across Israel following Palestinian terror attacks;
Arab workers sacked across Israel in aftermath of wave of Palestinian attacks
against Israelis

BYLINE: By Robert Tait Jerusalem

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 642 words


Arab workers across Israel have been sacked from their jobs in a racist backlash
following a recent wave of Palestinian attacks against Israelis, the country's
equal opportunities body admitted on Thursday.

The sackings came to light as the mayor of Ashkelon, one of Israel's leading
cities, provoked a political outcry by firing Arab builders who were
constructing bomb shelters in municipal kindergartens.

The mayor, Itamar Shimoni, said he had been pressured into the move by worried
parents after two Palestinians killed four rabbis and a Druze police officer in
an attack on a prayer congregation at a Jerusalem synagogue on Tuesday that
shocked the nation.

One of the assailants, Ghassam Abu Jamal, who carried out the assault with his
cousin Uday, was a builder from East Jerusalem who was believed to have worked
on construction sites in Israel.

Mr Shimoni also deployed a team of armed security guards at kindergartens close
to building sites employing Arabs with funds provided by a private donor based
abroad.

His decision to sack Arab workers caused outrage across the Israeli political
spectrum amid charges of racism and signs of a wider purge of Arab workers by
Jewish employers professing fears that their employees could carry out a future
attack.

A chorus of criticism initially led by Left-wing opposition and Arab figures,
was eventually joined by the country's leaders after legal experts said Mr
Shimoni's decision breached Israel's equal opportunity laws, which forbids
employers from discriminating on grounds of religion, race or nationality.

Benjamin Netanyahu, the prime minister, said there was "no place for
discrimination against Israeli-Arabs", adding: "We cannot make generalisations
about an entire population based on a small unruly minority. Most Arabs citizens
of Israel are law-abiding."

Naftali Bennett, the far-Right Jewish Home party leader who is often accused of
anti-Arab sentiments, vowed to use his powers as economy minister to reverse the
decision. "We are experiencing a difficult time, a wave of terror, but we know
that 99.9 per cent of Arab Israelis are loyal to Israel," he added.

Tzipi Livni, the justice minister, and Gilad Erdan, the interior minister, also
pledged to use their ministerial authority to challenge the legality of the
decision.

The wave of outrage came after the economy ministry's equal opportunity
commissioner confirmed a rash of recent instances of employers trying to sack
Arab workers.

"Over the last few days, the Commissioner for Equal Employment Opportunities has
received a not insignificant number of requests regarding employers firing or
wishing to terminate the employment of Arab male and female employees, solely on
racial grounds," the commission said.

The trend has been fuelled by rising mistrust between Jews and Arabs following
months of unrest in mainly-Arab East Jerusalem and a spate of attacks that have
killed a total of 11 people, including Tuesday's synagogue murders.

Arab-Israelis and Palestinians from East Jerusalem commonly work in the building
trade and in restaurants in the city's Jewish western sector. Many have lost
their jobs in recent weeks because of their Arab background, Yedioth Ahronoth
newspaper reported.

One of the cousins who carried out this week's synagogue attack was reported by
Israeli media to have worked in a nearby grocery store in the ultra-Orthodox Har
Nof neighbourhood.

In response, a reception hall chain based in the coastal town of Bnei Brak fired
17 Arab dishwashers, according to Yedioth.

"I'm tired of giving them a livelihood only to get an axe in return," it quoted
the company's operations director, named only as Avraham, as saying. "They know
how to work. But I've got no faith in them.

I can't go on like this.

It isn't only the momentary fear after a terror attack. It's more than that.
Today it's Har Nof, tomorrow it's here."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    November 20, 2014 Thursday 11:02 PM GMT

Terrorist attack at Jerusalem synagogue

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 631 words


Sir, The appalling and brutal murders carried out in a synagogue in Jerusalem
during morning prayers this week ("Deaths push Jerusalem to brink of holy war",
Nov 19) are to be condemned in the strongest possible terms. The desecration of
the sacred, taking life in a house of prayer, is the absolute antithesis of
faith and of what we stand for. This attack on people at prayer is yet another
example from across the globe of violence in the name of religion, which
undermines religious freedom. We appeal to the believers of all traditions to
denounce such attacks wherever in our world they take place and to call for an
end to religiously motivated violence.The Most Rev Justin Welby Archbishop of
CanterburyEphraim Mirvis Chief Rabbi of the United Hebrew Congregations of the
CommonwealthShaykh Ibrahim Mogra Sir, There is, rightly, outrage at the
synagogue massacre; there should also be outrage at Benjamin Netanyahu's
response, which will ensure the cycles of "getting even" go on. It seems we are
lacking a statesman capable not only of halting this spiral of violence but even
understanding it.

Dominic Kirkham                     ManchesterSir, Foreign secretary Philip
Hammond calls for peace between the Palestinians and the Jews. Surely he should
be calling for peace between Palestinians and Israelis, whether the Israelis be
Jewish, Druze, Christian, Bahá'í or indeed Muslim. The tragedy is that a
separate state called Palestine would not have such a variety of believers.
Tamara SeligStanmore, MiddxSir, I have found that when someone shouts at me,
shouting back rarely makes things better. My daughter is in Israel at present. I
would feel more confident about her safety if the Israeli government took a more
measured approach to the inexcusable terrorist murders.James GoldmanLondon NW4

Sir, Thousands of Israelis, both Jews and Muslims, including the president and
heads of both religions, attended the funeral of Zidan Saif, the Druze policeman
killed in the attack. In this deeply conflicted part of the Middle East where
the positions of the Arab Muslim and Israeli Jewish parties appear intractable,
the Druze, a Muslim community living in Israel, should be seen as a model of
cooperation on which to build.Dr R RosenfelderLondon NW6Sir, Your correspondent
Catherine Philp puts the cart before the horse ("Jerusalem braced for holy war",
Nov 20). The conflict between Israel and its Arab neighbours did not begin as
"territorial and political," now "morphing into religious war." Its origins were
always fundamentally religious in nature - the notion of Jewish
self-determination in any part of the "Dar el-Islam" [The House of Islam] being
a challenge to Islamic jurisprudence. Israel's chief rabbinate may have
forbidden Jews from entering the Temple Mount, but other rabbis have ruled
differently. In any case, it is for each individual Jew to make up his or her
mind on this issue. If Christians and Moslems can pray at this site, why not
Jews?Professor Geoffrey AldermanUniversity of BuckinghamSir, It is 20 years
since Baruch Goldstein slaughtered 29 Muslims and wounded 125 others as the
prayed in the Mosque of Abraham in Hebron. His house was not demolished and
though some of his supporters in the extreme right-wing Meir Kahane group were
briefly held, it was the Palestinians of Hebron who were punished for this
atrocity: their movements became ever more restricted, and half their mosque was
converted into a synagogue. As we rush to condemn those who have applauded the
synagogue attack in Jerusalem, let us remember that Goldstein's grave became a
place of pilgrimage for Israeli settlers - more than 10,000 visited it before it
was demolished by the Israeli government. Brigid WaddamsBatcombe, Somerset

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    November 20, 2014 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

Fall in fertility is hidden aftershock of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Kat Lay

SECTION: SCIENCE

LENGTH: 434 words


Terrorist attacks make a country less fertile, according to new research.

Measured both by the number of incidents, and the number of deaths, terrorism
appears to have a negative effect on the number of children a woman is expected
to have over her lifetime, and the number of live births each year.

The study, by Claude Berrebi of the Hebrew University, Jerusalem, and Jordan
Ostwald of the US air force, studied 66,000 incidents of terrorism in 170
countries from 1970 to 2007.

They wrote: "Since the onset of the twenty-first century, terrorism has grown as
a significant factor affecting our lives in unforeseen ways."

They added: "Although terrorist attacks are a relatively rare occurrence, they
generate a disproportionate amount of stress and fear, suggesting that their
direct effects may be small in comparison to a range of larger and more
widespread indirect effects."

Dr Berrebi said he had been surprised to find such a big impact. He said: "It
means terrorism affects our lives way, way more than we initially thought; way
more than just economic damages or deaths or things like that."

Where there is an annual increase in terrorism of 2.5 attacks there will
subsequently be 18,000 fewer children born for every million women. Each 2.5
increase (with the average number of terrorist attacks per year being 9.6) means
a 0.018 per cent decrease in the fertility rate observed two years later.

The authors of the study, published today in the journal Oxford Economic Papers,
wrote: "Although this may seem small, it's important to put it into context. An
increase in terrorism by one standard deviation results, on average, in a 0.5
per cent reduction in births. In an average population where terrorism increased
by one standard deviation, for every one million women, 18,000 fewer children
will be born over a lifetime."

Dr Berrebi said that if children were thought of, crudely, as luxury goods -
bringing joy but also expense - it made sense that in more uncertain times
planned births might be put off.

"What it means is, when the future becomes more uncertain, you might be more
likely to either not have kids or postpone the decision to have kids, because it
is a costly undertaking."

Terrorism is thought to act on fertility through the likes of job uncertainty,
stress, financial insecurity and poor health, all thought to cause short-term
declines in fertility by influencing labour migration, age at marriage, age at
time of first birth and frequency of sex.

Dr Berrebi's previous work has shown that after a terrorist attack the labour
market becomes more uncertain, particularly for women.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            November 21, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Grandmother tells of terror as yobs attack bus

BYLINE: LINDSAY FERGUS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 332 words


A GRANDMOTHER said that someone could have been killed when the bus she was
travelling on was attacked by a mob of youths.

Four passengers were injured after the bus from Belfast City Hall was targeted
by a large group of young people - some as young as 11 - throwing stones in the
east of the city.

One woman was struck by a stone and three others by flying glass when four buses
were hit in the Castlereagh Street and Beersbridge Road area on Wednesday. A car
was also damaged in the incident at 9.30pm.

Jean Barnes, who was on the number 19 bus, has hit out at those behind the
mindless attack.

She said: "They could have seriously hurt the driver and he could have lost
control, there could have been fatalities."

Thankfully the 54-year-old, who is deaf, escaped injury in the terrifying
ordeal.

She said: "I crouched down but there were other people hurt. It was not very
pleasant."

The first Ms Barnes knew the bus had been attacked was when she noticed the
driver's window had cracked. "No one really knew what had happened," she
explained.

"They told us to crouch down and the next thing we were bombarded with bricks.

"There was a man just sitting there, he was frozen, the window had came in.
Everybody was frightened and physically shaken."

Ms Barnes described those behind the attack as "hooligans".

She said: "I was angry that it happened, I was annoyed for the driver who was
only doing a day's work and the other passengers."

Translink has offered a £1,000 reward for evidence that leads to a conviction.

PUP councillor John Kyle has also warned that the attacks needed to stop before
someone was seriously injured or killed.

He said that up to 40 youths were behind the disturbances. Mr Kyle said: "There
is absolutely no justification for it. It's disgraceful behaviour.

"Children should not be engaged in anti-social behaviour. Parents need to know
where their children are.

"Somebody will get seriously injured and some of these young people will end up
in court and with a criminal record."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 21, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Man shot in terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 51 words


A MAN is in hospital after being shot in a paramilitarystyle attack yesterday.
The 29-year-old was hit in his right leg at Cecilias Walk, Derry, at around 6pm.

The man's injuries are not life-threatening.

Police appealed for anyone with details about the attack to contact police on
the nonemergency number 101.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Scottish Daily Mail

                            November 21, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Should politicians condemn terror attacks?;
debate

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 392 words


FOUR rabbis and a policeman are murdered in a place of prayer in Jerusalem by
assailants using knives, guns and hatchets - yet some members of our political
class are unable to condemn this terror attack without reservation (Mail). As if
murdering innocent civilians wasn't enough, there were celebrations by
Palestinians, who gave out sweets and called for more killings.

Liberal Democrat MP David Ward tweets that the attack is a result of
Palestinians 'being driven to madness by the failure of the international
community to deal with Israel'. One has to ask how he would like the
international community to deal with Israel and why he is giving legitimacy to
attacks on civilians. On the same day, Baroness Warsi equated Israelis wanting
to pray at a holy site, the Temple Mount, with terrorists killing people in a
synagogue.

Such distortions give succour to those whose aim is not only the destruction of
Israel but the spread of fanatical Islamic fundamentalism throughout the world.

To be seen on the side of terror is unacceptable for any mainstream British
politician.

PAUL CORRICK, Manchester. FEW right-minded people will condone the bloody attack
in the Har Nof synagogue, but many will understand the underlying reasons.
Palestinian High Representative Frederica Mogherini condemned the attacks and
blamed the lack of progress towards the two-state solution and the 'absence of a
credible political framework'.

In recent times Al Aqsa mosque, Islam's third holiest site, has been the scene
of confrontations between Muslims and settlers and has led to soldiers entering
it and imposing age restrictions on worshippers. Israeli colonisation of East
Jerusalem is relentless, with the approval last week of yet another 200 settler
homes, while the ongoing excavations under the mosque have weakened its
foundations and exacerbated tension between the two religious communities.

This week's attack is not only the work of desperate men but an act of war by a
people whose plight and pleas for legitimacy have largely been sidelined by
political establishments. The significance of the location of Har Nof synagogue
shouldn't be understated as it is built on the ruins of the Palestinian village
Deir Yassin, where on April 9, 1948, 254 men, women and children were murdered
by Zionist militias. 'Blood will have blood.' EILEEN SEERY, Gorey, Co Wexford.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMLscot


                    Copyright 2014 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            November 21, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

TERROR OF 999 CREWS;
Thug attacks soar

BYLINE: CLAIRE McKIM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 163 words


AMBULANCE staff are terrorised by yobs almost once a day, according to figures.

Emergency crews suffered 321 attacks last year - up from 301 reported in 2012
and nearly 50 per cent higher than in 2009.

Union chiefs and politicians blamed boozed-up thugs for the "deplorable" rise of
violence.

Unison's David Forbes said: "It's completely unacceptable. There's no doubt
drinks and drugs play a role."

Among the attacks were six "aggravated assaults with intent to kill" using a
firearm or knife.

And in more than 100 incidents - revealed under Freedom of Information laws -
staff said they'd been "punched, kicked or spat at" by members of the public.

Others were subjected to 136 verbal insults, with four "threats to kill" a crew
member or "torch a property". Tory health chief Jackson Carlaw said: "We need
tough action. These yobs must be dealt with severely in the court."

The Scottish Government said: "We are working hard to bring down the level of
attacks."

scottish-sun@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Target ... mercy crews

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 21, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Police struggle to trap tech-savvy terrorists;
Security chief warns of increasingly sophisticated threats ; Police fight to
halt high-tech terror attacks

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 632 words


The ability of Britain's intelligence chiefs to monitor the terrorist threat is
at its lowest level for a decade, according to the country's most senior
anti-terrorism policeman.

Detectives are increasingly resorting to physical surveillance as the electronic
monitoring of jihadist suspects becomes patchier and more uncertain after leaks
by the whistleblower Edward Snowden and the installation of sophisticated
encryption on mobile phones. The comments by Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley
came as three young Muslim men who were arrested by armed police just before
Remembrance Sunday appeared in court accused of plotting to behead a member of
the public on the street.

Mr Rowley said that his officers in Scotland Yard were operating from a "shaky
platform" against a terrorist threat that was growing in scale, complexity and
volatility.

"Since the Snowden episode and with technology developments our intelligence
picture is less good than it was - both domestic and international - and that
makes operations harder to run," Mr Rowley told The Times.

The government signalled last night that it would restore police powers to send
terrorist suspects into "internal exile", after the Liberal Democrats dropped
their opposition to the measure. The ability to move suspects from their homes
was scrapped along with control orders in 2011 and replaced with Terrorist
Prevention and Investigation Measures (Tpims).

However, the threat posed by hundreds of British jihadists returning from Iraq
and Syria has forced a rethink and Theresa May, the home secretary, will
announce next week that police will again be allowed to relocate suspects.

Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem leader, had resisted the reintroduction of relocation
powers and wanted instead to increase the power to limit suspects' movements
within their neighbourhoods. He backed down, however, when David Anderson, the
independent reviewer of terrorist legislation, concluded that the option was
flawed.

Mr Rowley said police believed that the power to move a suspect would help to
disrupt terrorist plots by disconnecting extremists from friends and Continued
on page 4, col 5 Continued from page 1 associates. He said: "If you have
significant information that somebody is a terrorist risk and despite all your
best efforts you cannot build a case to put them in prison - really the state
has two choices: either to say we'll accept that risk or put in measures where
you have some controls around people.

"It's a political decision, but our experience is that for people in many of the
situations we deal with the ability to relocate would make a big difference."

He added: "We are less capable and have more blind spots than we had five years
ago."

Police and intelligence agencies are concerned that technology giants such as
Apple and Google have introduced encryption on devices that make it almost
impossible to track terrorist and criminal communications.

Mr Rowley said: "We don't want to do surveillance on everybody - we haven't got
the time for or the interest in doing that - but we ought to be able to chase
anybody effectively, if there is a good case for doing so. That is getting
harder and harder to do."

Internet companies already scan online activity to direct advertising at people,
and had a "corporate social responsibility" to do the same for signs of
violence. Mr Rowley said: "If they can spot if someone is interested in buying a
pair of jeans, surely they can spot if someone is interested in beheadings.
There must be scope for a more proactive duty on the technology sector." Both
sides of the coalition have had to give ground in negotiations over the new
counterterrorist moves. Last week David Cameron effectively admitted that he had
dropped his initial proposal to strip returning jihadists of their passports.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     November 22, 2014 Saturday 6:20 PM GMT

Kenya bus massacre: Gunmen slaughter 28 passengers in 'barbaric' terrorist
attack

BYLINE: Tom Rawle

LENGTH: 257 words


AT least 28 people have been killed by armed extremists in a terrorist attack on
a bus in Kenya.

It is believed more than 100 gunmen travelled over the Somalia-Kenya border
before targeting the bus.

Attackers fired rocket-propelled grenade launchers at the vehicle forcing it to
stop.

They boarded the bus and separated passengers they believed were non-Muslims and
brutally executed them.

Some victims were thought to be public servants travelling to the capital of
Nairobi for Christmas.

Terrorist group al-Shabab have since claimed responsibility for the attack.

A statement on a website linked to the Islamist group stated the attack was
carried out in retaliation to security raids on mosques in the coastal city of
Mombasa earlier this week.

Hugo Swire, Foreign Office minister

The extremists have caused chaos in Kenya for more than three years.

They have reportedly carried out 135 attacks since 2011, including the killings
of 67 people in the Westgate Mall massacre last year.

This evening UK Foreign Office Minister Hugo Swire slammed the group and
insisted they must be brought to justice.

Mr Swire said: "I strongly condemn the attack that took place in Mandera county,
Kenya, today, killing 28 people. I offer my condolences to the families and
loved ones of those who died.

"There can be no place for such senseless acts of violence in our societies. The
UK stands by the Kenyan government in its fight against terrorism and in its
efforts to bring those responsible for this barbaric act to justice."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    November 22, 2014 Saturday 10:52 PM GMT

'I thought it might be a terror attack': Horror of guests at five-star London
hotel after gas explosion rips through kitchen, leaving 14 injured

BYLINE: MAIL ON SUNDAY REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 232 words



     ·    Fourteen people were injured following the gas explosion at the hotel
     ·    500 staff and guests were forced to flee the Hyatt Regency Churchill
     ·    Guests said they feared they had been caught up in a terror attack


Shocked guests told last night how they feared they had been caught up in a
terror attack after an explosion rocked their five-star hotel in London.

Fourteen people were injured when the blast caused by a suspected gas leak
ripped a hole in the basement of the £300-a-night Hyatt Regency Churchill Hotel
in Portman Square.

In the aftermath of the explosion, 500 staff and guests - many still in their
night clothes - were forced to flee the hotel.

Stewart Dyer, 40, who was there with his wife and baby daughter, said: 'It was a
huge bang. I thought straight away it might be a terrorist attack.'

Rashid Al Marri, 27, from Qatar, said: 'My first thought was 9/11. It sounded
like a bomb.'

Guest Ahmed Al Maadeed, 34, also from Qatar, said the ceiling 'began shaking
like in an earthquake'.

Paramedics and firefighters raced to the scene of the blast, shortly before
midnight on Friday.

A spokesman for London Fire Brigade said: 'The cause of the explosion is being
investigated but is believed to have been caused by a gas leak.'

All of those hurt were night-time cleaners and five of them needed hospital
treatment.

A Hyatt spokesman said the hotel would be closed for the foreseeable future.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 22, 2014 Saturday 4:51 PM GMT

Guests at five-star London hotel 'feared terror attack' as midnight gas
explosion ripped through kitchen, leaving 14 injured

BYLINE: STEPH COCKROFT and DARREN BOYLE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 943 words



     ·    An explosion tore through plush Churchill Hyatt Regency in Marylebone
     ·    Building plunged into darkness as 500 guests were evacuated in 'chaos'


     ·    Two men were rushed to nearby hospital to be treated for leg wounds
     ·    Guests now waiting for luggage to be retrieved; some cancelled flights
     ·    It is believed the basement area suffered a 'gas explosion' at 11.40pm
     ·    National Grid and London Fire Brigade are today investigating the
          cause


Guests staying at a five-star London hotel have described how they feared a
terrorist attack after a suspected gas explosion ripped through the building,
injuring fourteen people.

Around 500 guests had to be evacuated from The Churchill Hyatt Regency hotel in
Marylebone after part of the building collapsed when the blast tore through the
kitchen just before midnight.

Today guests recounted how 'chaos' broke out when the blast, which started in
the basement, shook through the building and plunged the establishment into
complete darkness.

Scroll down for video

Workers from the National Grid and the London Fire Brigade are today on site at
the hotel, amid broken glass and rubble still visible from the aftermath of the
explosion.

Speaking while wearing his dressing gown as he waited for his belongings to be
returned, 40-year-old Stewart Dyer told how he was initially afraid the
deafening blast was a terrorist attack.

The 40-year-old, who was staying with his wife and nine-month-old daughter,
said: 'We heard this huge explosion. All the electricity went off and we just
heard sirens and the alarm.

'When you see something like that, you suddenly realise that you're not sure
what's happened.

'I've never heard a bomb go off next to me so you never know.'

He added: 'We do need clothes for the baby - my wife is in a nightie with no
underwear and no shoes.'

Raymund Reyes, 40, said he had been talking to his wife on the phone when the
explosion happened.

He said: 'The floor shook and there was a loud explosion simultaneously. The
power went out, it was pitch dark. I go into the hallway and it was pitch black
- no lights, nothing.

'We went down the stairs. On the first flight people were kind of panicked. I
thought it was a drill. But then I saw that it was pitch black and I thought,
there's something wrong.

'We get down here and there's chaos. This has been a shock.'

Today, staff were retrieving belongings from guests' rooms. But people who had
parked their cars underneath the hotel were told it was too dangerous to
retrieve them.

Many of the guests - who have been evacuated to the Radisson hotel - have also
had to cancel flights.

Two men sustained leg wounds and had to be rushed to nearby hospital for
treatment.

A further three people also went to St Mary's Hospital, while nine others were
checked over at the scene and given the all-clear. Twelve of those injured were
working at the hotel.

London Fire Brigade - which is carrying out a separate investigation - believes
the was caused by a gas leak.

At the height of the incident, around 80 firefighters were on the scene,
including appliances with specialist equipment to deal with collapsed buildings.



Nawaf Albarrak, 32, from Saudi Arabia, felt the explosion from his room in the
Radisson hotel across the street.

'I felt something, and I was afraid it was maybe an explosion or something.

'Then my sister came back along the road, and she said there are ambulances and
a lot of people here. I saw everybody outside, there were too many people.

'They took people inside. There were people in pyjamas and people without coats.
They gave them blankets. I think they did well.

'I hope they've taken them to another hotel because they were standing around. I
felt it, I heard the sound. I thought it might be an accident, a car crashing
into the hotel.'

Mr Albarrak was originally supposed to be staying in the Hyatt but changed his
reservation to the Radisson opposite just before he arrived.

A spokesman for the hotel told ITV no guests were harmed and that they would be
relocated until the damage was assessed.

It said: 'Hyatt Regency Churchill in London experienced a gas explosion in the
basement early this morning. Twelve Hyatt associates were treated for injuries.

'No guests were injured, and all guests were evacuated to nearby hotels. Hyatt's
top priority is the safety and wellbeing of our guests and associates, and we
are currently working to provide guests with accommodations while we evaluate
whether the hotel suffered any significant damage.'

Jeanette Unsworth, spokeswoman for the National Grid, said: 'We're still
investigating. We obviously had to spend a little time last night making sure
the situation was safe.

'We were waiting for the emergency services to do their work of getting the
injured people out, and we'll be on scene today investigating to establish the
exact cause.'

She said it was 'too early to say' what the exact cause of the blast had been,
and they did not know how long the investigation would take.

A spokesman for London Fire Brigade said: 'The cause of the explosion is being
investigated but is believed to have been caused by a suspected gas leak. Duty
of care has been handed back to the hotel.'

Police officers were also called to the scene and a Metropolitan Police
spokesman said: 'At about 11.40pm we were called to a suspected gas explosion at
Portman Square.

'Officers are in attendance alongside the fire brigade and ambulance service. A
small number of injured parties are being treated.'

London Fire Brigade later tweeted there had been 'extensive damage caused to the
basement'. Structural engineers have been called to assess the damage.

The five-star hotel, in the Marylebone area, features 434 guest rooms.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 23, 2014 Sunday

Kenyan leader urged to demand resignation of security chiefs over terror attacks

LENGTH: 699 words


Text of editorial entitled "The Mandera massacre must alter the terrible status
quo" published by Kenyan newspaper Sunday Nation on 23 November; subheadings as
published

It is a scandal that, as you read this, none of the people entrusted with the
onerous responsibility of ensuring security for all Kenyans has resigned or been
replaced.

Since it is unlikely that police boss David Kimaiyo or Security Minister Joseph
ole Lenku will honourably exit, President Uhuru Kenyatta must demand they do.

If he cannot do this following the massacre of 28 innocent men, women and
children at dawn Saturday [22 November] in Mandera - barely three weeks after 19
policemen and three civilians were gunned down in Kapedo - then the President,
too, will have failed in the one fundamental issue on which he took an oath -
protecting Kenyans.

It is unacceptable that this latest act of terror comes at a time when the
public had been assured that security had been tightened across the country,
amid persistent threats by members of the murderous Al-Shabab militia.

Mr Lenku has spoken repeatedly in recent days of the arrangements that have been
put in place to keep the public safe. Mr Kimaiyo has been consistently bullish
about the work his officers were doing to improve security.

Clearly, this was empty rhetoric. It is true that there are systemic issues that
drive the spate of terror attacks in Kenya, including a history of lax border
security, Kenya's willingness to absorb hundreds of thousands of Somalis fleeing
from hunger and insecurity in their motherland and mass youth unemployment that
supplies hundreds of youths eager to lend their services to extremists.

But many of these problems exist in countries such as Ethiopia, Djibouti and
Uganda that have all sent troops into Somalia and have not suffered the same
backlash.

Ineffective management

It is a fact that massive corruption in the security sector is one of the
biggest contributors to insecurity in Kenya. Throw in ineffective management of
the police, intelligence services and the immigration department and you have
the shambolic situation we are witnessing.

To address these problems, effective leadership at the Security Ministry and the
police must be reinstated. In the wake of this latest atrocity, the minister and
the police boss should resign.

If they will not jump on their own, then they must be pushed.

President Kenyatta, as the appointing authority, should have appreciated that
one of the most important roles he performs is that of ensuring the security of
everyone within Kenya's borders.

He should, therefore, have taken greater care in picking the man who would head
the all-important Security docket. It does not matter that the drafters of the
constitution may have gone too far in tying the President's hands on the
question of hiring and firing the police chief.

If State House is determined to effect changes in the department, those changes
will occur.

It is essential that the President moves to crack the whip and make changes in
the security sector because he must appreciate more than most the impact
insecurity is having on the nation.

Under pressure

The shilling has been under pressure in recent months, for example, amid sharply
reduced tourist numbers. The declining value of the shilling spells more
expensive imports and, with it, a higher cost of living.

Something has to change. In August, a South African MP and senior African
National Congress figure resigned after his academic credentials were shown to
be of doubtful authenticity.

Just on Friday, a British MP similarly quit her position for sending an
inappropriate tweet on the social media service, Twitter.

That is the course sensible leaders take when they fail. Mr Lenku and Mr Kimaiyo
should do the decent thing and allow a chance for their crucial dockets to be
led by more able figures.

Most of the young men and women who lost their lives in this cruel and savage
attack had offered their services to the cause of improving education and health
services in Mandera.

Their death is a terrible tragedy but this should serve as a moment when
everyone realises that it can no longer be business as usual.

Source: Sunday Nation, Nairobi, in English 23 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 23, 2014 Sunday

Kenyan deputy president to address nation on Mandera terror attack

LENGTH: 164 words


Text of report by state-owned KBC (Kenya Broadcasting Corporation) Radio on 23
November

The government is this afternoon expected to brief the nation on Saturday's [22
November] bus attack in Mandera [northeasten Kenya] that left 28 people dead.

Deputy President William Ruto will appraise the nation on the attack which the
dreaded [Somalia-based] Al-Shabab militia group has already taken responsibility
for. The deputy president, who is holding brief for President Kenyatta who is
out of the country, will shed more light on the status of the attackers and
their motive even though in a report on the Arabic channel, the Al-Shabab
claimed that the attack was a result of recent closure of mosques in Mombasa
[Coast Region] by Kenya's security agencies.

In his address, Ruto is also expected to disclose the status of the operation
that is aid to be ongoing in the volatile northern part of Kenya to flush out
Al-Shabab adherents.

Source: KBC Radio, Nairobi, in English 1000 gmt 23 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                      November 23, 2014 Sunday 1:45 PM GMT

West Yorkshire Police promote National Counter Terrorism Awareness Week;
The national campaign aims to make it harder for terrorists to attack the UK

BYLINE: By Emma Davison

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 400 words


Police have launched an awareness campaign in a bid to make it harder for
terrorists to attack the UK.

The North East Counter Terrorism Unit (NE CTU), which West Yorkshire Police has
responsibility for, is supporting the initiative.

The National Counter Terrorism Awareness Week runs from today.

During this week police and partner agencies will deliver activities and events
across the country.

This are aimed at increasing vigilance amongst the general public, business and
transport community.

Each day will feature a different theme.

These are crowded places, transport hubs, preventing violent extremism,
terrorist financing and the tools terrorists need to operate.

These will be supported through activities ranging from security briefings to
public advice in community venues, universities and shopping centres.

Targeted police operations will also take place at key sites across the
region.7/7 Memorial vandalised (Gallery)

These are aimed at disrupting terrorist activity, or criminal efforts which may
help to fund or support terrorist objectives.

The NE CTU is one of five counter terrorism units designed to strengthen the
UK's response to the threat of terrorism.

Assistant chief constable Geoff Dodd, the lead for the NE CTU, said: "In August
the threat to the UK from International Terrorism was increased to Severe.

"While there is currently no specific intelligence of an attack on the UK, it is
vital we ensure we are in the best possible position to prevent and detect any
potential terrorist threats.

"Members of the public and the business community have a particularly important
role to play when it comes to recognising suspicious activity and reporting it
to police.

"Those who work in, or visit, crowded places are often best placed to recognise
the early signs that something is wrong.

"We want them to know what to do if they suspect something is out of the
ordinary and how they can help to protect themselves and others."

Mr Dodd added that by working together communities can make it harder for
terrorists to operate.

He added: "Through increased awareness and vigilance we can reduce their
opportunities and disrupt their activities to better protect our communities,
our businesses and industry."

Anyone with concerns about suspicious activity or behaviour is asked to contact
the Confidential Anti-Terrorist Hotline on 0800 789 321.

In the case of an immediate threat, always dial 999.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      November 23, 2014 Sunday 1:58 PM GMT

Kenya bus attack: Primary school head teacher plays dead to escape slaughter by
Islamic extremists;
Douglas Ochwodho was travelling home for the Christmas holidays when his bus was
attacked by religious terrorists

BYLINE: Ben Tufft

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 497 words


A primary school head teacher has revealed how he played dead to survive a
massacre in Kenya after Islamist terrorists lined up 28 bus passengers on the
ground and shot them dead for not being able to recite the Koran.

Douglas Ochwodho, a non-Muslim, was ordered off the bus with 28 other mostly
non-Somali passengers at dawn yesterday. He said that those who did not look
Somali or could not recite an Islamic creed were separated from the other
passengers.

The two gunmen then began the killing spree; one from the left and one from the
right until they reached Mr Ochwodho, who was lying perfectly still.

The killers were then seemingly confused as to whether either of them had fired
a fatal shot and left.

After the 20 Islamists had fled the scene, the head teacher ran to the road and
flagged down a truck to take him back to nearby Mandera, the town where his
school is located, to raise the alarm.

The head teacher said he had been travelling home after his private primary
school had closed for the Christmas holidays. He was speaking from a hospital
where he is being treated for shock.

Mr Ochwodho brother's said after the attack: "They were shooting all the people
and the blood from the people beside my brother covered him.

"Then they reached him and they thought they had already killed him and then he
kept lying there, pretending he was dead."

Before the attack the bus had been travelling to Nairobi and was hijacked about
31 miles from the border with Somalia, by the country's notorious al-Shabaab
terrorist group.

The vehicle, carrying 60 passengers, initially refused to stop when flagged
down, so the attackers peppered the vehicle with bullets, but had to resort to
firing a rocket-propelled grenade before they could take control of the bus and
force it off the main road.

Warning: This video contains graphic content

28 travellers who did not look Somali, or were unable to recite the Shahada, an
Islamic creed, were made to lie on the ground where they were murdered, because
it was assumed they were not Muslims, police said. Nineteen men and nine women
were killed.

Of the 28 dead, 17 were teachers according to police.

READ MOREKENYA SHOPPING MALL ATTACK: WHO ARE AL-SHABAAB?HOW TO FIGHT
AL-SHABAABTHE HORN OF PLENTY: PIRACY IN SOMALIA

Kenya has been hit by a wave of attacks by the al-Qaeda linked al-Shabaab group,
after it sent troops to Somalia in October 2011.

Authorities said there have been 153 attacks since then, including the attack on
the upmarket Westgate mall in Nairobi in September 2013, in which 67 people were
killed.

In a report into the attacks, published in September, the International Crisis
Group said al-Shabaab is becoming "more entrenched and a graver threat to
Kenya".

Last week four mosques on the Kenyan coast were shut down after police said they
found explosives and a gun when they raided the places of worship.

Additional Reporting by PA

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            November 23, 2014 Sunday

GUESTS FLEE HOTEL BLAST AMID TERROR ATTACK FEARS

BYLINE: BY NO BYLINE AVAILABLE

LENGTH: 199 words


SHOCKED guests told last night how they feared they had been caught up in a
terror attack after an explosion rocked their five-star hotel in London.

Fourteen people were injured when the blast caused by a suspected gas leak
ripped a hole in the basement of the £300-a-night Hyatt Regency Churchill Hotel
in Portman Square.

In the aftermath of the explosion, 500 staff and guests - many still in their
night clothes - were forced to flee the hotel. Stewart Dyer, 40, who was there
with his wife and baby daughter, said: It was a huge bang. I thought straight
away it might be a terrorist attack.'

Rashid Al Marri, 27, from Qatar, said: My first thought was 9/11. It sounded
like a bomb.' Guest Ahmed Al Maadeed, 34, also from Qatar, said the ceiling
began shaking like in an earthquake'.

Paramedics and firefighters raced to the scene of the blast, shortly before
midnight on Friday. A spokesman for London Fire Brigade said: The cause of the
explosion is being investigated but is believed to have been caused by a gas
leak.'

All of those hurt were night-time cleaners and five of them needed hospital
treatment.

A Hyatt spokesman said the hotel would be closed for the foreseeable future.

© Mail On Sunday

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      November 23, 2014 Sunday 5:23 PM GMT

Terror chief's warning: 'We can't fight the threat of homegrown jihadis on our
own';
Mark Rowley says keeping Britain safe from terror attacks must be a joint effort
as fears mount over UK jihadis

BYLINE: By Darren Devine

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 581 words


Britain's counter-terror chief has warned that police and security services
alone cannot combat violent extremists.

Launching a nationwide anti-terror campaign, Metropolitan Police Assistant
Commissioner Mark Rowley said authorities have disrupted several attack plots
and made 271 arrests.

But in a week when counter-terror officers will brief more than 6,000 people at
80 venues, he warned: "the eyes and ears of law enforcement and other agencies
alone cannot combat the threat".

In Wales, the threat was brought home earlier this year when it emerged Cardiff
trio Nasser Muthana, 20, his brother Aseel, 17, and their friend Reyaad Khan,
21, went to Syria to fight for Islamic State (IS).

It followed the jailing of Cardiff brothers Gurukanth Desai and Abdul Miah for
almost 29 years in 2012 for their role in a plan to bomb the London Stock
Exchange.

A third man from the city, Omar Sharif Latif, was jailed for 10 years and four
months for his part in the plot that saw nine sent to prison.Nasser and Aseel
Muthana

Counter-terrorism awareness week comes a few months after the terror threat
level in the UK was raised from substantial to severe, meaning a terrorist
attack is "highly likely".

Mr Rowley said of terrorists: "They are no longer a problem solely stemming from
countries like Iraq and Afghanistan, far away in the minds of the public.

"Now, they are home grown, in our communities, radicalised by images and
messages they read on social media and prepared to kill for their cause."

Community worker Said Abdi believes it's vital that youngsters are educated to
critically assess online material used by extremists to brainwash them.

Mr Abdi, 37, whose work in Cardiff involves trying to prevent youngsters being
radicalised, said: "It's all about youngsters having the right education.

Ahmed Muthana urges sons to come home:Ahmed Muthana urges sons to come home

"When youngsters read an article in a newspaper they don't know how to be
critical - they believe in everything they see online."

This week police officers and theatre groups will be speaking to students about
the Prevent strategy, which aims to stop people from being radicalised.

Meanwhile, sniffer dogs will be hunting large amounts of money at ports,
airports and railway stations to prevent cash leaving the UK intended for IS.

Other events include working with farmers to ensure fertilisers - that can be
adapted into explosives - are stored securely.

Fears of an attack in the UK have heightened in the wake of the rise of IS,
which has taken over large swathes of Iraq and Syria and attracted thousands of
foreign jihadists to its cause, including more than 500 Britons.

IS has posted a series of online videos showing the beheadings of US journalists
James Foley and Steven Sotloff, US aid worker Peter Kassig and two British aid
workers, David Haines and Alan Henning.

General secretary of the Muslim Council of Wales, Saleem Kidwai, branded the IS
radicals involved in beheadings as "criminals", but suggested some may have been
radicalised by global paralysis over Syria's murderous dictator Bashar Al-Assad.

Labour's Cardiff South and Penarth MP Stephen Doughty, who in Parliament voted
against action on Assad but in favour of attacking IS, said: "Clearly police and
the security services are the frontline in defence.

"But it requires the public, community and community leaders working together to
identify any suspicious activity, but most importantly build resilience against
radicalisation in the first place."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 24, 2014 Monday

Kenyan spy agency reportedly warned of imminent terror attack in northeast

LENGTH: 329 words


Text of report by Adow Mohamed entitled "Police knew of impending terror attack,
says NIS officer" published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star
on 24 November

The National Intelligence Service informed the police and the Kenya Defence
Forces in Mandera [northeastern Kenya] and Nairobi about an imminent terror
attack by Al-Shabab but did not act.

According to an intelligence officer based in Mandera, the security agencies
were informed that at least 15 heavily armed insurgent had crossed into the
country using three pickups mid November.

The officer who requested anonymity for fear of reprisals from his seniors said
the police were also told of an active terror cell in Omar Jilaow area near
Arabia village between Mandera town and Elwak, the spot where 28 Kenyans were
brutally murdered on Saturday [22 November] morning.

He said the terrorists are believed to have come from Gedo, Somalia, a region
bordering Kenya at the northern tip of Mandera County. This region is often
known as "no man's land" as people move goods in and out of both countries
freely.

Vehicles carrying contraband sugar and other assorted illegal goods ply this
area with some dangerous fighters and caches of weapons finding their way into
the country.

Abdulaziz Mohamed, a Mandera resident who described himself as an independent
journalist also claimed he saw more than six cars "with dozen weapons on them,
and over 30 men" crossing into Kenyan on 10 November.

The intelligence officer told The Star that they had intelligence reports that
the newly-crowned Al-Shabab leader Ahmad Umar Abu Ubbaidah had convened a
meeting of heavily-trained members in Luq, southwestern Gedo, where they
identified a "soft target" in Kenya.

Mandera Governor Ali Roba also said he had shared intelligence information with
the government of the existence of terror cells but it was ignored.

"The government constantly downplayed the situation," he said.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 24 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            November 24, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Scotland Yard: we've foiled 'four or five' terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 85 words


LONDON: Security services have foiled "four or five" terrorist plots this year
and the threat is increasing, Britain's top policeman has warned.

Scotland Yard commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said the heightened tempo was
putting "pressure" on resources, hinting that he expects the Government to boost
funding in the Autumn Statement.

The warning come ahead of the launch of a nationwide terrorism awareness
campaign in which officers will brief more than 6,000 people at 80 venues on how
to prevent attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            November 24, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fears over a terror attack inside shops

BYLINE: Ben Hurst

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 382 words


BIRMINGHAM'S anti-terror police chief has said that the force believes
terrorists will target crowded shopping centres to maximise damage.

West Midlands Police Assistant Chief Constable Marcus Beale is today addressing
business leaders in the city - and warning them staff working in shops are the
first line of defence.

The event is part of a national campaign, where officers will brief more than
6,000 people at 80 venues including schools, universities, airports, shopping
centres, cinemas and farms in a bid to engage the public and businesses in
preventing terrorism.

The terror threat level in the UK was recently raised from substantial to
severe, meaning an attack is "highly likely", against a backdrop of increasing
concerns over hundreds of aspiring British jihadis travelling to Iraq and Syria
to learn terrorist "tradecraft".

Meanwhile, sniffer dogs will be hunting large amounts of money at ports,
airports and railway stations to prevent cash leaving the UK for terrorist
purposes.

Other events will follow, including work with farmers to ensure fertilisers -
that can be adapted into explosives - are stored securely and charities to
advise people about safe ways to donate money.

Asst Chf Const Beale said: "Experience from around the world shows us that
terrorists will target busy, crowded places to ensure that attacks have a
maximum impact.

"Businesses, particularly those in town and city centres, have an invaluable
role to play in preventing potential attacks. Staff working in shops and
entertainment centres are often the first people to spot signs that something is
wrong."

All week at railway stations, including those in the Midlands, British Transport
Police officers will be providing counterterrorism information to passengers and
delivering training sessions to rail staff.

Assistant Chief Constable Ian Wiggett, the North West lead for counter
terrorism, said: "This is not about scaring people, but highlighting that
everybody, from law enforcement to businesses, to the general public, has a role
to play in keeping the UK safe from terrorism. We encourage people to be
vigilant to things that are out of place or suspicious and report it to the
police."

Fears of a terrorist attack on Britain's streets have heightened in the wake of
the rise of Islamic State (IS).

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 24, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Passengers flee as fire on train raises fear of terrorist attack

BYLINE: Victoria Ward ; Tom Brooks-Pollock

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 270 words


CHARING Cross Station in London was closed yesterday after a fire broke out on
the track under a train.

Passengers were ordered to leave the station after the blaze spread to the front
carriage of the 10.55 South Eastern train to Robertsbridge, East Sussex.

Around 50 people who were sitting on board waiting for it to depart were forced
to jump off and run past the flames to get out of the station amid fears of a
terrorist attack.

Firefighters were called to Charing Cross at 10.52am and the fire was brought
under control by www.11.25am.No one was injured. Dramatic images were posted on
Twitter.

Passenger Eileen Harris, 60, said she thought a bomb had exploded and described
the panic as they tried to escape the thick smoke.

She said: "Suddenly the doors burst open and a woman ran through shouting
there's a bomb on the train, everybody get off.

"We ran away towards the opposite end of the station because I thought that if
there was a bomb, they'd probably take out the concourse.

"But the staff kept saying to us come back in and we really didn't want to come
back through the station, because by then there was thick smoke.

"There were big bangs and pops and flashes. And the smoke, the smoke was the
worst thing."

Her son Daniel, 26, added: "There was fire and lots of thick smoke, so we
assumed that there was a bomb ripping through the train.

"People were running through the train, and my first thought was the reason
they're running down the train is because they can't get off.

"No one really knew what was going on."

British Transport Police said it was an electrical fire caused by a defective
part of the track.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 24, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

FIVE TERROR ATTACKS STOPPED IN A YEAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 172 words


AS many as five terrorist atrocities have been foiled this year and the threat
is growing, Scotland Yard chief Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe warned yesterday .

He said: "On average over the last few years it has been one a year. But this
year alone we think four or five."

Sir Bernard also believed there was an increasing risk WARNIN W G Sir Bernard of
a "lone wolf" attack. He told the BBC: "It doesn't take an awful lot of
organising, doesn't take too many to conspire together and there's no real
complexity.

"What that means is we've a short time to intervene and make sure that these
people don't get away with it."

Home Secretary Theresa May said the police and the security services would be
able to identify computer firms to hand over individual IP addresses.

She admitted the new powers did not go as far as she wanted in being able to
trace everyone accessing illegal content on the net.

However, Lib Dem Cabinet Minister Alistair Carmichael claimed that his party had
stopped the new anti-terror bill from becoming "a snooper's charter".

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 24, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Five terror attacks stopped in a year

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 175 words


AS many as five terrorist atrocities have been foiled this year and the threat
is growing, Scotland Yard chief Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe warned yesterday.

He said: "On average over the last few years it has been one a year. But this
year alone we think four or five." Sir Bernard also said there is an increased
risk of a "lone wolf" attack. He told the BBC: "It doesn't take a lot of
organising.

"What that means is we've a short time to intervene."

An unnamed Whitehall official was last night reported as saying: "It is almost
inevitable something is going to happen in the next few months."

Home Secretary Theresa May said the police and the security services would be
able to identify terrorists under changes forcing computer firms to hand over
individual IP addresses.

But she admitted the new powers did not go as far as she wanted in being able to
trace everyone accessing illegal content on the net.

However, Lib Dem Cabinet Minister Alistair Carmichael claimed that his party had
stopped the new anti-terror bill from becoming "a snooper's charter".

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING Sir Bernard

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      November 24, 2014 Monday 5:00 PM GMT

Belfast police to install armed checkpoints to stop Christmas attacks;
Northern Ireland police fear shooting attacks and bombings by republican
dissident terror groups during festive period

BYLINE: Henry McDonald, Ireland correspondent

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 395 words


Armed police checkpoints are to be deployed around Belfast to prevent a
Christmas bombing campaign by republican dissident terror groups, it has been
announced.

The police service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) confirmed vehicle checkpoints will
be mounted and plain clothes officers will be on the streets to thwart attacks
on the city during the festive period.

PSNI Ch Supt Nigel Grimshaw, the district commander of Belfast city policing
district, said stopping high profile bomb attacks is one of the police's
priorities in the run up to Christmas.

He said: "As of this moment we've stopped something in the order of 1,000
vehicles coming in and out of the city centre. We want to do this in a balanced
way so people feel safe but as well as that we want to ensure that people with a
more sinister intent don't get to bring something into the city centre."

Referring to several dissident republican bomb attacks last December, Grimshaw
added: "I think Christmas is a very busy period and clearly the instances that
happened last year around Christmas were significant and certainly grabbed the
attention of the public. We take that on board, we have also seen the attacks
that have happened just outside the city centre but in Belfast city over the
last few weeks, so we constantly review our security profile."

He added that as well as being used to watch out for car bombs and arsonists
linked to hardline anti-ceasefire republican groups, the presence of plain
clothes officers would also deter normal street crime in the city centre. The
PSNI has been active over the last few weeks in deterring dissident republicans
from staging bombings and shootings in Greater Belfast.

A 29 year old man appeared in court in Belfast earlier on Monday charged with
possessing a rifle in the city last week. There were cheers in court in support
of west Belfast man Vincent Kelly, who also faced charges of possessing 50
rounds of ammunition.

Kelly was among four people arrested in a police operation in Belfast last
Thursday night. They recovered what was believed to have been an AK47 and
ammunition in a holdall bag inside a white taxi close to Grosvenor Road police
station in the west of the city. Three others all aged in their late 20s were
arrested as part of a follow-up operation but have since been released without
charge.

The case is expected to be heard again on 22 December.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      November 24, 2014 Monday 3:50 PM GMT

Theresa May: British security services foiled 40 terror plots since 7/7 attacks;

Home Secretary said terror threat is "diverse" as she outlined new legislation

BYLINE: Loulla-Mae Eleftheriou-Smith

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 461 words


Theresa May has revealed that 40 terror plots have been foiled by British
security services since the 7/7 bombings in 2005, as she unveiled a new
counter-terrorism bill.

The foiled plots include a planned Mumbai-style gun attack, the planned murder
of members of the armed forces, an attempt to bring down a plane, and an attempt
to assassinate an ambassador.

The Home Secretary told a counter terrorism event in London that since April
2010, 753 people have been arrested on terrorism-related offences, while 212
people have been charged and 148 have been successfully prosecuted.

Ms May said 138 people are "behind bars" serving sentences for terrorism-related
offences, while 13 people, including Egyptian radical cleric Abu Hamza, have
been extradited from the UK.

The Home Secretary stated that she has excluded 84 "hate-preachers" from
entering the UK, and outlined that she has now excluded 61 people on national
security grounds, and had not allowed 72 people across Britain's borders because
their presence here "would not have been conducive to the public good".

Read more: Ransom ban amid new counter-terrorism measures for UKGovernment wins
power to intervene in schools over radicalisationNew Security Bill will force
internet companies to keep files on users

Speaking as part of a new anti-terror drive, in which the Home Secretary
outlined a number of measures as part of the Counter-Terrorism Bill expected in
Parliament on Wednesday, Ms May said Britain was facing a terrorist threat "more
dangerous now or at any time since 9/11".

The legislation includes a ban on paying ransoms, which are thought to have
funded Isis to the tune of £28 million in the past year alone, and will oblige
internet service providers (ISPs) to retain information linking Internet
Protocol (IP) addresses to individual users.

Ms May said: "This legislation is important. The substance is right. The time is
right. And the way in which it has been developed is right."

"It is not a knee-jerk response to a sudden perceived threat. It is a
properly-considered, thought-through set of proposals that will help to keep us
safe at a time of very significant danger." Terror plots foiled by British
security since 7/7 attack

She said the terrorist threat to the UK is more "diverse" than the danger posed
by Isis (also known as Islamic State), but includes extremists from Boko Haram,
al-Shabaab, al-Qaeda, Afghanistan, Pakistan and home-grown extremists in the UK.

Ms May stated that since May 2010 she has revoked the British citizenship of 27
people, the overwhelming majority of which were down to terrorist activities,
and since April 2013 she had refused the or cancelled 29 passports to "disrupt"
the travel of people attempting to engage in terrorist-related activities
overseas.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                      November 24, 2014 Monday 1:06 PM GMT

Liverpool businesses told to be on alert for potential pre-Christmas attack in
terrorism briefing;
Businesses briefed on 'increase in international terrorism threat' as
counter-terrorism week launched

BYLINE: By John Siddle

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 661 words


Businesses across Merseyside were today being told by counter terrorism police
to be on alert for a potential pre-Christmas attack.

Merseyside Police, along with other forces across the north west, were briefing
bosses of shopping centres, cinemas, sporting stadiums and places of worship.

Anfield and Goodison stadiums are understood to be among venues where police
will be helping to step up security and train staff.

The briefing on terror risks in crowded places comes at the start of
counter-terrorism week, in which police are urging the public and firms to play
their part in keeping the region safe.

Project Griffin highlights where the police, businesses and the public can
prevent terrorism, vigilance in crowded places and transport hubs, preventing
violent extremism, cutting off terrorist financing, and preventing access to
tools that terrorists need to operate.

Merseyside landmarks and places of interest

Merseyside landmarks - pre-Christmas terror threat

ACC Ian Wiggett, the North West lead for counter terrorism said: "Following the
increase of the international terrorism threat to severe, there is a heightened
need to ensure that the North West is in the best position to deter and detect
potential terrorist threats.

"The week highlights the importance of training people to look out for
suspicious behaviour and what they should do if an attack happens, along with
preventing terrorism and radicalisation. It is important to protect vulnerable
people by responding to the ideological challenge of terrorism and the threat we
face from those who promote it.

"This is not about scaring people, but highlighting that everybody, from law
enforcement to businesses, to the general public, has a role to play in keeping
the UK safe from terrorism. We encourage people to be vigilant to things that
are out of place or suspicious and report it to the police."

In addition the National Crime Agency and Border Force have launched Project
Kraken to increase vigilance along the UK's coastline and increase public
reporting of suspicious or unusual behaviour in docks and naval yards.

Merseyside assistant chief constable Andy Ward will today be speaking at
Liverpool docks about Project Kraken to those involved in the coastline and
maritime environments.

He said: "It is important to stress that whilst the severe threat level
indicates that it is highly likely that a terrorist attack could happen in the
UK, there is currently no specific intelligence of a terrorist attack.

"Security at airports, train stations, ports and other transport hubs has been
increased but we want people to be vigilant and report potential threats.

"Here in the North West we have the North West Police Underwater Search & Marine
Unit, which is staffed by police officers from Merseyside Police, Greater
Manchester Police, Lancashire Constabulary, Cheshire Constabulary, Cumbria
Constabulary and North Wales Police.

"The team has responsibility for policing the waterways and the coastline from
the Scottish borders down to Barmouth in North Wales. The unit is a national
asset and can been deployed across the country to support other police forces.

"This week staff working in transport hubs across the country, including our
marine unit who are trained to look out for suspicious behaviour, will be
increasing awareness about the potential for terrorist attacks and ensuring that
they keep our waterways safe."

A National Crime Agency spokesman said: "There are nearly 20,000 miles of
coastline, and a complex network of estuaries, navigable rivers, coves, inlets,
ports and harbours, all of which can be exploited by serious criminals and
terrorists.

"We want the public to report any unusual or suspicious behaviour in these and
other maritime environments. No matter how trivial it may seem; if it looks out
of the ordinary, we want to know about it."

If you see or hear anything you would like to report, call police on 101 or
report it to Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                      November 24, 2014 Monday 1:06 PM GMT

Watch: Liverpool businesses told to be alert for potential pre-Christmas attack
in terrorism briefing;
Businesses briefed on 'increase in international terrorism threat' as
counter-terrorism week launched

BYLINE: By John Siddle

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 692 words


Businesses across Merseyside were today being told by counter terrorism police
to be on alert for a potential pre-Christmas attack.

Merseyside Police, along with other forces across the north west, were briefing
bosses of shopping centres, cinemas, sporting stadiums and places of worship.

Anfield and Goodison stadiums are understood to be among venues where police
will be helping to step up security and train staff.

The briefing on terror risks in crowded places comes at the start of
counter-terrorism week, in which police are urging the public and firms to play
their part in keeping the region safe.

Project Griffin highlights where the police, businesses and the public can
prevent terrorism, vigilance in crowded places and transport hubs, preventing
violent extremism, cutting off terrorist financing, and preventing access to
tools that terrorists need to operate.

Merseyside landmarks and places of interest

Merseyside landmarks and places of interest

ACC Ian Wiggett, the North West lead for counter terrorism said: "Following the
increase of the international terrorism threat to severe, there is a heightened
need to ensure that the North West is in the best position to deter and detect
potential terrorist threats.

"The week highlights the importance of training people to look out for
suspicious behaviour and what they should do if an attack happens, along with
preventing terrorism and radicalisation. It is important to protect vulnerable
people by responding to the ideological challenge of terrorism and the threat we
face from those who promote it.

"This is not about scaring people, but highlighting that everybody, from law
enforcement to businesses, to the general public, has a role to play in keeping
the UK safe from terrorism. We encourage people to be vigilant to things that
are out of place or suspicious and report it to the police."

In addition, the National Crime Agency and Border Force have launched Project
Kraken to increase vigilance along the UK's coastline and increase public
reporting of suspicious or unusual behaviour in docks and naval yards.

Merseyside assistant chief constable Andy Ward spoke at Liverpool docks about
Project Kraken to those involved in the coastline and maritime environments.

WATCH: Assistant chief constable of Merseyside Andy Ward at Brunswick Dock

Assistant Chief Constable of Merseyside Andy Ward at the Consortium police
vessel at Brunswick Dock talking about the terror threat

He said: "It is important to stress that whilst the severe threat level
indicates that it is highly likely that a terrorist attack could happen in the
UK, there is currently no specific intelligence of a terrorist attack.

"Security at airports, train stations, ports and other transport hubs has been
increased but we want people to be vigilant and report potential threats.

"Here in the North West we have the North West Police Underwater Search & Marine
Unit, which is staffed by police officers from Merseyside Police, Greater
Manchester Police, Lancashire Constabulary, Cheshire Constabulary, Cumbria
Constabulary and North Wales Police.

"The team has responsibility for policing the waterways and the coastline from
the Scottish borders down to Barmouth in North Wales.

"The unit is a national asset and can been deployed across the country to
support other police forces.

"This week, staff working in transport hubs across the country, including our
marine unit who are trained to look out for suspicious behaviour, will be
increasing awareness about the potential for terrorist attacks and ensuring that
they keep our waterways safe."

A National Crime Agency spokesman said: "There are nearly 20,000 miles of
coastline, and a complex network of estuaries, navigable rivers, coves, inlets,
ports and harbours, all of which can be exploited by serious criminals and
terrorists.

"We want the public to report any unusual or suspicious behaviour in these and
other maritime environments. No matter how trivial it may seem; if it looks out
of the ordinary, we want to know about it."

If you see or hear anything you would like to report, call police on 101 or
report it to Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            November 24, 2014 Monday

UK / FCO Minister condemns terrorist attack in Kenya

LENGTH: 113 words


November 24, 2014

LONDON, United-Kingdom - African Press Organization (APO)/ -- Foreign Office
Minister Hugo Swire condemns terrorist attack in Kenya and pledges continued UK
support in the fight against Al Shabab

Mr Swire said:



"I strongly condemn the attack that took place in Mandera county, Kenya, today,
killing 28 people. I offer my condolences to the families and loved ones of
those who died.

"There can be no place for such senseless acts of violence in our societies. The
UK stands by the Kenyan government in its fight against terrorism and in its
efforts to bring those responsible for this barbaric act to justice."

SOURCE

United Kingdom - Ministry of Foreign Affairs

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            November 24, 2014 Monday

UN chief condemns latest terrorist attack in Kenya

LENGTH: 183 words


November 22, 2014

United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has condemned the brutal killing of
almost 30 people on a bus in Mandera, Kenya in the latest spate of terrorist
violence to afflict the East African nation.



In a statement issued today by his spokesperson, Mr. Ban conveyed his "profound
condolences" to the families of the victims while pledging the UN's "continuing
support" to Kenya and the countries of the region "in their multidimensional
efforts to address the scourge of terrorism."

According to media reports, militants claiming to belong to the Al-Shabaab
extremist group hijacked the commuter bus travelling to Nairobi, the country's
capital, in the early morning hours of 22 November, executing at least 28 of the
passengers.

Al-Shabaab's operations have sown terror across Somalia and Kenya in recent
years with coordinated attacks against hotels, shopping centres, and other
civilians areas.

Mr. Ban expressed his solidarity with the people and the Government of Kenya and
voiced the hope that those responsible for today's attack would be brought to
justice "swiftly."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            November 24, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Met boss: Terror attack in Britain more likely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 116 words


FIVE terror plots have been foiled this year and the threat is growing,
Britain's top policeman is warning.

There is also growing concern about the possibility of a lone wolf attack on the
streets of Britain, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said.

'It doesn't take an awful lot of organising, doesn't take too many to conspire
together, there's no real complexity to it. What that means is we have got a
very short time to intervene.' The Met police chief told BBC1's Andrew Marr Show
the heightened threats were putting 'pressure' on resources. His words came
ahead of the launch of a nationwide terrorism awareness campaign. Officers will
brief 6,000 people at 80 venues around Britain to help prevent attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Threat is real: Sir Bernard issued warning

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTRscot


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                     November 24, 2014 Monday 02:09 PM GMT

Bombs And Beheadings: Foiled Terror Attacks

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 385 words



HIGHLIGHT: New laws have been proposed to stop terror attacks on UK streets.
Here are some of the notable plots headed off by security services and police.


  :: November 2000 - UK's 'First al Qaeda-inspired terrorist' - MI5 found Moinul
Abdein with 100kg of bombmaking chemicals and detonators in his Birmingham
house. He was jailed for 20 years.

:: August 2004 - 'Dirty bomb' plot - Group ringleader Dhrien Barot planned to
plant radioactive, chemical or toxic gas bombs and pack limousines with nails
and explosives in the UK and America. He also wanted to use a petrol tanker to
cause an explosion.

:: August 2006 - Liquid bombs on planes - A plot by a group of British Muslim
men to blow up planes travelling from the UK to North America using homemade
liquid bombs disguised as drinks. Hundreds of flights were grounded and it led
to the current restrictions on carrying liquids on flights. Abdulla Ahmed Ali,
Assad Sarwar and Tanvir Hussain were among those found guilty of conspiracy to
murder.

:: January 2007 - Beheading a British Muslim soldier - Parviz Khan from
Birmingham pleaded guilty to plotting to abduct and then film the killing of a
soldier. He was sentenced to life.

:: December 2010 - London Stock Exchange bomb - Undercover police stopped the
plot before firm dates for the attacks were set or any homemade bombs produced.
The group also planned to send postal bombs in the run-up to Christmas and
discussed a Mumbai-style gun attack.

:: September 2011 - Rucksack suicide bombs - Plot to use bombers to set off
eight rucksack devices in an attack that could have been worse than the London
7/7 attacks. Twenty-four-hour surveillance and the bugging of the men's safe
house foiled the plot. Eleven Birmingham men were jailed.

:: May 2012 - Territorial Army base bomb - Covert recordings uncovered a plot in
which a group discussed attaching a bomb to a remote controlled toy car and
sending it under the entrance gate at a TA centre in Luton. Four men were jailed
- two of them for life.

:: June 2012 - English Defence League rally - Islamic extremists planned to
ambush marchers in Dewsbury using shotguns, explosives, knives and swords. The
plot was discovered by chance when police impounded one of the cars and
discovered the cache of weapons several days later. The attack failed as the
march had finished early.

:: November 2014 - Three men arrested over an alleged plot to behead a member of
the public in the UK.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2014 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      November 24, 2014 Monday 1:01 PM GMT

Terrorists plotted 40 attacks and planned to kill thousands since July 7
bombings

BYLINE: Justin Davenport, Nicholas Cecil

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 599 words


Terrorists have sought to kill thousands in around 40 plots targeting Britain
since the July 7 attacks on London nearly ten years ago, Home Secretary Theresa
May revealed today.

Calling for MPs to back tougher anti-terror emergency laws, she stressed that
Islamist fanatics were determined to bring "death and destruction" onto the UK's
streets.

"The threat that we face is greater now than it has been at any time before or
since the attacks in the United States on 9/11," she said.

"We must have the powers we need to defend ourselves."

Schools, shopping centres, universities and businesses across London are being
urged to be vigilant against the growing terror threat as a Scotland Yard chief
told how several recent plots were foiled in their "final stages".

Related stories

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, Britain's top anti-terror policeman, also
revealed that half of all those joining Islamic State from the the UK were only
recently radicalised and had not been on the radar of police or the intelligence
services.

More than 3,000 police officers are being deployed in an anti-terror campaign in
the capital this week to raise awareness of the danger from a "lone wolf" or
organised attack.

Cinemas, sports stadiums and airports are also being briefed.

High visibility patrols are being mounted around crowded places, including rail
and bus stations, as well as churches and mosques.

Amid warnings from security officials that a terror attack is now almost
"inevitable," Ass Com Rowley said: "If we look back over the last decade then we
can see, however hard security services and police work, we do find that
terrorists from time to time succeed."

In a speech in central London, Mrs May said that more than 750 people have been
arrested for terrorism-related offences since April 2010, with 212 charged and
148 successfully prosecuted.

"The Security Service believes that since the attacks on 7th July 2005, around
forty terrorist plots have been disrupted," she added.

"There have been attempts to conduct marauding 'Mumbai-style' gun attacks on our
streets, blow up the London Stock Exchange, bring down airliners, assassinate a
British ambassador and murder serving members of our armed forces."

Emphasising the threat from home grown extremists as well as from overseas, she
highighted "plots that aim to kill hundreds and even thousands of people."

The latter is believed to refer to the "liquid bomb" plot to bring down
Transatlantic airliners.

Under the Counter-Terrorism and Security Bill, being presented to Parliament
this week, schools, universities and prisons will have a new duty to prevent
radicalisation.

Insurance firms will be banned from footing the cost of terrorist ransoms.

Internet service providers are also to be forced to retain information linking
IP (Internet Protocol) addresses to users, and jihadists face being stopped from
returning to Britain unless they co-operate with the authorities.

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg has also agreed to the reintroduction of
relocation powers to force terror suspects to move out of London, or another
town or city, to stop them plotting with associates or from absconding.

But Mrs May has accused the Liberal Democrats of blocking other measures in the
so-called "Snooper's Charter" despite the security services saying they need
greater powers to spy on suspected terrorists' electronic communications as
technology evolves and extremists become more expert at avoiding detection.

A new independent privacy and civil liberties board will be set up to support
the Independent Reviewer of Terrorism Legislation, David Anderson QC.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     November 24, 2014 Monday 10:09 AM GMT

Businesses urged to be vigilant in fight against terror attacks in London

BYLINE: Alexandra Rucki

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 248 words


Businesses which operate in crowded places are being urged to be vigilant as
police launch a campaign to counter terrorism in the capital.

A number of events organised by City of London Police are taking place this week
giving tips to staff on how they can make it harder for terrorists to attack
London.

Police will be focusing on key areas such as businesses in crowded places,
transport hubs, preventing extremism, terrorist financing and the tools
terrorists need to operate.

A statement said: "Businesses, particularly those in crowded places, have an
invaluable role to play in our fight against terrorists, violent extremists and
other criminals.

"Their staff are often the first people to spot signs that something is wrong."

Related stories

Over the week police will be releasing tips each day online on what to look out
for. It comes after three men were charged with terrorism offences on Friday.

The group were alleged to have plotted to behead a member of the public in the
UK.

Mark Rowley, National Policing Lead for Counter Terrorism Assistant, said: 'The
danger posed by violent extremists has evolved.

"They are no longer a problem solely stemming from countries like Iraq and
Afghanistan, far away in the minds of the public.

"Now, they are home grown, in our communities radicalised by images and messages
they read on social media and prepared to kill for their cause. The tragic
murder of Lee Rigby last year was a stark warning to us all about how real and
local the threat is."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      November 24, 2014 Monday 5:09 PM GMT

Cardiff retailers shown graphic footage of terror bombings to prepare them for
attack in Wales;
Retailers shown videos of the 2005 Bali bombing and Nairobi shopping mall
massacre to highlight importance of being "vigilant"

BYLINE: By James Rothwell

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 514 words


Retailers in Cardiff were shown graphic footage of terrorist bombings to prepare
them for the risk of an attack in Wales.

Nearly 100 representatives for Cardiff retailers attended a Project Griffin
Counter Terrorism Advice session at Cineworld Cardiff.

The event hoped to raise awareness of "hostile reconnaissance," a process where
terrorists visit their targets, film them, and carry out a "dry run" of the
attack.

Retailers were told how to spot suspicious packages and shown a dramatic
instructional video on what to do if a mass-shooter attacked their workplace.

They were taught how to react if being shot at, where to find cover from bullets
and how to evacuate business premises safely.

But they also watched graphic footage of the 2005 Bali Bombing and the Nairobi
shopping mall massacre to highlight the importance of being vigilant.

Kenya attacks

A security expert told retailers: "If you see something and think, that's not
quite right, then it probably isn't."

He revealed how in 2013 Cardiff nearly underwent a major terror scare shortly
after the Woolwich attack, where extremists mowed down and killed Drummer Lee
Rigby.

When teenagers in Cardiff tried to buy large knives in John Lewis similar to
those used in the Woolwich attack, police and anti-terror squads were alerted.

But those teenagers turned out to be working with Trading Standards in a
crackdown on knife crime, the expert said.

That was a good example of Cardiff retailers showing vigilance, but a "very bad
time" for Trading Standards to ask teenagers to try and buy knives in the city
centre, he said.

The security expert also showed retailers photographs of a 40-page document
penned by one of the Bali Bombers in preparation for the attack.

"A potential target is the place where there are many foreigners and easy to
access. Hotels are an exception from the survey due to the security system," the
attacker wrote.

A booklet handed out to retailers detailed suspicious behaviour they should
report to police as part of its ongoing work under Operation Lightning.

Among the examples of suspicious behaviour were people watching buildings "for
no apparent reason," vehicles moving slowly near public buildings or bridges,
and people asking detailed questions about buildings or business operations.

The training for retailers comes after a senior counter-terrorism chief called
for more help from the public to tackle terrorism in Wales.

Assistant Chief Constable Nikki Holland said: "We can't protect Wales from
terrorism without help from the public. Police officers and our partners are
continuing to work 24 hours a day, seven days a week to protect Wales from a
terrorist attack."

"So far this year across the UK we have disrupted several attack plots and made
218 arrests following counter-terrorism investigations, but the eyes and ears of
law enforcement and other agencies alone cannot combat the threat."

She added: "While the severe threat level indicates that it is highly likely
that a terrorist attack could happen in the UK, there is currently no specific
intelligence of a terrorist attack within Wales."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      November 24, 2014 Monday 3:32 PM GMT

Police urge vigilance for signs of terrorism in Wales after attacks thwarted
elsewhere;
Detective Chief Superintendent Darren Davies said there was 'definitely no
information to suggest any attack planned in Cardiff at all'

BYLINE: By James Rothwell

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 624 words


Thwarted terror attacks elsewhere in the UK prove the need for vigilance on the
streets of Wales, a senior police officer has said.

Speaking on the first day of National Counter Terrorism Awareness Week,
Detective Chief Superintendent Darren Davies denied there was any direct threat
to towns and cities in Wales after the UK terror threat was raised to "severe".

Nationwide anti-terror campaign, Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Mark
Rowley has said authorities have disrupted several attack plots and made 271
arrests.

In Wales, the threat was brought home earlier this year when it emerged Cardiff
trio Nasser Muthana, 20, his brother Aseel, 17, and their friend Reyaad Khan,
21, went to Syria to fight for Islamic State (IS).

It followed the jailing of Cardiff brothers Gurukanth Desai and Abdul Miah for
almost 29 years in 2012 for their role in a plan to bomb the London Stock
Exchange.

A third man from the city, Omar Sharif Latif, was jailed for 10 years and four
months for his part in the plot that saw nine sent to prison.

But DCS Davies, of South Wales Police, moved to allay fears of an imminent
threat in Wales.

He said: "There is definitely no information to suggest any attack planned in
Cardiff at all. But there have been attacks thwarted elsewhere and we need
members of the public's support by being vigilant and reporting any suspicious
activity."

DCS Davies urged the public to report any suspicious activity they see in
Cardiff by calling the police's non-emergency service on 101 or the
anti-terrorist helpline.

He also called on parents who have caught their children visiting extremist
websites to report them - but stressed the police were "not out to arrest every
child who has visited an inappropriate website".

He said: "The desire is to prevent people from becoming engaged in extremist
activity and we encourage families to come forward to prevent people from
starting on that path.

"My main concern is the same as any other parent: what children are up to in the
media and online. People need to be aware of what their children are doing
online and report any concerns to us."

He added: "People may hold back, but ultimately we don't arrest everyone who is
passed to us, we don't want to take everyone through the criminal justice route,
but we will investigate everything reported to us."

Asked how police could prevent a case like Nasser Nuthana, the 20-year-old
Cardiff medical student fighting in Syria with Islamic State, he said: "I can't
refer to specific cases but our drive is to work closely with families and
communities."

Does this map show the very real problem Cardiff has with Islamic extremism?

"We have a good relationship with local communities and we try to prevent people
from travelling overseas, engage with them, and essentially make sure they don't
travel to these areas of conflict.

"If people are concerned about what's going on in these countries then they
should donate through official charities. If people are wanting to go overseas,
they should recognise it is not a viable way to offer meaningful support and it
can lead to unfortunate consequences of one kind or another.

Suspicious behaviour included taking photographs or filming in unusual places,
DCS Davies said. He also warned the public against a sense of complacency, which
could lead to a greater risk of an attack in the future.

"There is no room for complacency, and we have seen how terrorist attacks have a
terrible impact on people. But, there is no intelligence to suggest Wales or
Cardiff is to be subject to any attacks. The threat level for the UK is
currently at severe, but is a nationwide assessment," he said.

"Complacency could possibly lead to there being a risk of attack in the future,
so we need to be vigilant."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 25, 2014 Tuesday

Yemen on high alert in anticipation of terrorist attack by Somalia's Al-Shabab

LENGTH: 227 words


Text of report in English by English-language weekly newspaper Yemen Post on 24
November

[Unattributed report: "Yemen on High Alert To Face Infiltration of Shabab
Terrorists"]

Yemen's security authorities on Monday [24 November] tightened measures and
ordered the Coastguard to be on high alert amid reports Somali terrorists could
infiltrate into the country.

The interior ministry said on its website it obtained information members from
the Somali Al-Shabab al-Mujahideen Group have planned to carry out terrorist
operations in Yemen.

In response, the ministry gave orders to the Coastguard in nine governorates
including Aden, Ta'iz, Hajjah and Abyan to stay alert and coordinate with the
Navy to prevent any suspects from infiltrating into the country.

Separately, the Security Commission within the Friends of Yemen Group held a
meeting on Monday and discussed necessary support to and challenges facing the
national security and armed forces.

The meeting was attended by representatives from donor countries and
organizations.

Yemen has been in an open war with the Al-Qa'idah in the Arabian Peninsula
(AQAP) for months. The US is providing direct support to the authorities
including drone operations to fight AQAP militants who have claimed many deadly
operations in various parts of the republic in recent months.

Source: Yemen Post, Sanaa, in English 24 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 25, 2014 Tuesday

SAfrica's president strongly condemns terrorist attack in Kenya

LENGTH: 237 words


Text of report by website of South African Department of International Relations
on 24 November

[Statement issued by the South African Department of International Relations and
Cooperation: "South Africa Joins the International Community in Condemning the
terrorist Attacks in Kenya"]

His Excellency President Jacob Zuma has today, on behalf of the South African
Government and the people, joined the African Union (AU), the United Nations
(UN) and the rest of the international community in strongly condemning the
terrorist attack that took place in Mandera, Republic of Kenya, on 22 November
2014, in which 28 people were killed.

President Zuma said: "Terrorism in any form and from whichever quarter cannot be
condoned, and South Africa stands firmly with the international community in
condemning all terrorism, including the latest attack in Kenya".

President Zuma added that: "South Africa's foreign policy is driven by the
vision to achieve an African continent which is prosperous, peaceful, democratic
and united. In this regard, we stand with the Government and people of Kenya
during this difficult time and assure them of our continued support in their
efforts to address the scourge of terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations."

The president also expressed his sympathy and deepest condolences the families
of the deceased.

Source: Department of International Relations website, Pretoria, in English 24
Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 25, 2014 Tuesday

Iran arrests "terrorists" behind attack in southeastern province

LENGTH: 212 words


Text of report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news agency

Tehran, 25 November: A senior IRGC commander said perpetrators of terrorist
attacks in October in Iran's southeastern town of Saravan, in which four police
officers were killed, have been detained.

"The elements behind the blast have been arrested but their nationalities have
not been identified yet," Brigadier-General Abdollah Araqi told the Tasnim News
Agency on Tuesday [25 November].

He said the name of the terrorist group and the number of its members has been
identified, but at the same time noted that he cannot announce further details
because investigation is underway into the case.

The senior commander also said that in addition to sabotage and terrorist
activities, the terrorist group was also involved in other crimes, such as
theft.

Back on 9October, a car bomb attack on a border outpost in the Aspich district
in the border city of Saravan left one police officer dead and three others
injured.

The attack came a day after three other police forces were killed in a separate
terrorist attack in the city.

The Pakistani-based Jaishuladl terrorist group has already carried out terrorist
activities in the area.

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 0840 gmt 25 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 25, 2014 Tuesday

Russia condemns terrorist attack in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 170 words


Text of "Comment by the Information and Press Department of the Russian Ministry
of Foreign Affairs on a terrorist act in Afghanistan" in English by the Russian
Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on 25 November

On 23 November, a suicide bomber blew himself up amid a crowd of spectators at a
volleyball match in the Yahya Khel district of Afghanistan's Paktika province,
killing more than 60 people and wounding dozens of others.

The attack, which followed the Afghan parliament's approval earlier in the day
of a security agreement between the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the
United States and of the status of NATO forces in Afghanistan after 2014,
clearly stands in contrast to the optimistic assessments by ISAF and NATO
representatives of the security situation in the country.

We condemn the terrorist act against civilians, offer our condolences to the
families of the victims and wish those wounded a speedy recovery.

25 November 2014

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Moscow, in English 25 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 25, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

POLICE FOIL 40 TERROR ATTACKS [...]

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 8 words


POLICE FOIL 40 TERROR ATTACKS SINCE 2005 SEE PAGE 5

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Hull Daily Mail

                           November 25, 2014 Tuesday

'Everyone must play part in reducing risk of terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: Mark Williams; Crime Reporter; mark.williams@hulldailymail.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:CRIME; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 490  words


RESIDENTS in East Yorkshire have been warned not to be complacent about the
threat posed by terrorists.

Humberside Police Assistant Chief Constable Alan Leaver has said it is not safe
to assume terrorists would only attack London.

He was speaking at the local launch   of the National Counter Terrorism
Awareness Campaign, which took place at the KC Stadium in Hull yesterday.

The initiative will see officers and partner agencies across the Humberside
Police region working together to increase vigilance and awareness of the
problem among residents, businesses and the transport sector.

Although police and Home Office officials say there is no immediate threat to
the UK, the national threat level was recently raised to "severe" because of
conflicts in Iraq and Syria.

Mr Leaver said: "We cannot assume   every terrorist attack will necessarily
happen in London or the south east of the country. Could it happen in Hull or
our region? We just do not know.

"There have been incidents where attacks have happened in the South but there
have been links to Northern areas.

"Every one of us must play a part in reducing the risk of an attack on our
communities.

"It is not just the police and the Government who can thwart attacks. Residents
and office workers, in day-to- day life, could pick up on something suspicious
and report it.

"It may be nothing, but then it could also save lives."

Yesterday's theme focused on threats to crowded areas such as football stadiums
and shopping centres.

Throughout the week, officers will examine threats at transport hubs, preventing
violent extremism and  terrorist financing and look at the tools terrorists need
to operate.

Addressing officers, special branch members and businessmen, Mr Leaver said:
"While there is currently no specific intelligence of a terrorist attack
nationally, or in the region, it is vital that we do not become complacent.

"Experience tells us that our transport infrastructure is an attractive target
for terrorists and we must do everything we can to prevent any attempt to
threaten its safety."

It was revealed yesterday that 34 terrorist plots had been disrupted nationally
since the London bombings on July 7, 2005. There have been 218 terror-related
arrests in the UK this year, while more than 1,000 pieces of content linked to
terrorism are removed from the internet every week.

Humberside Police counter terrorism security advisor Nigel Colley said: "The
Metropolitan Police has decided the time has come for the public to be made
aware exactly how big this threat is.

"We absolutely need people to be more vigilant and more aware. There are clues
out there that could lead to giving police valid intelligence.

"People may start to act differently, or suddenly start trying to raise funds
because, ultimately, terrorists need money for bullets and explosives.

"It is about alert, not alarm."

Anyone with information should call the confidential anti-terrorist hotline on
0800 789321.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING: Humberside Police Assistant Chief Constable Alan Leaver at the
launch of the National Counter Terrorism Awareness Campaign at the KC Stadium.
Picture: Rob Stebbing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           November 25, 2014 Tuesday

Security Council strongly condemns terrorist attack in Kenya

LENGTH: 307 words


November 24, 2014

The United Nations Security Council has strongly condemned Saturday's attack in
Mandera, Kenya for which Al Shabaab has claimed responsibility and which has
caused the deaths of numerous innocent people.



In a press statement, the Security Council extended its condolences to the
families of the victims and to the people and Government of the Republic of
Kenya.

According to media reports, militants claiming to belong to the Al-Shabaab
extremist group hijacked the commuter bus travelling to Nairobi, the country's
capital, in the early morning hours of 22 November, executing at least 28 of the
passengers.

The members of the Security Council in their statement reiterated their
solidarity with the people and Government of Kenya in their fight against
terrorism. The members of the Security Council paid tribute in particular to the
role of Kenya in the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) as part of the
fight against Al Shabaab.

Reaffirming that terrorism constitutes one of the most serious threats to
international peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal
and unjustifiable regardless of their motivation, the Council reiterated its
determination to combat all forms of terrorism, in accordance with their
responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to
justice and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with relevant regional authorities in this regard.

Further to the statement, the Council reiterated its resolute and long-standing
support to all actors working to end the threat posed by Al Shabaab in the
region.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 25, 2014 Tuesday 4:57 PM GMT

Commuters told to 'run, hide and tell' in leaflet distributed by police warning
of Mumbai-style gun terror attacks at train stations

BYLINE: RICHARD SPILLETT FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 451 words



     ·    New campaign by police to encourage public to be aware of terror
          threat
     ·    Leaflets handed out at stations telling passengers what to do in
          attack
     ·    Police say the campaign is the result of an increased threat from
          fanatics
     ·    But some commuters have criticised the leaflets as 'scaremongering'


Police took to railway stations today to tell passengers what to do in the event
of a Mumbai-style terrorist attack at one of Britain's busy terminals.

The day after the government warned that the threat to Britain from Islamist
fanatics was 'greater than ever', officers handed out leaflets telling the
public to 'run, hide and tell' if they are caught up in an attack.

The flyer, which has been attacked as 'scaremongering' by critics, shows images
of worried-looking people running down flights of stairs, cowering in the dark
and anxiously talking on their mobile phones.

The campaign comes after the Home Secretary Theresa May outlined a raft of
measures to tackle both home-grown extremists and those returning from fighting
with ISIS in Syria.

Launching the campaign today, Chief Constable of British Transport Police (BTP)
Paul Crowther said: 'More than six million people travel on our railways every
single day

'For commuters, who make the same journey over and over again, it can be easy to
become oblivious to their surroundings.

'But I would urge them to remain alert, use their instinct and have the
confidence to report anything that strikes them as out-of-place or suspicious.

'Earlier this month a man was sentenced for terrorism offences after being
caught in possession of information about how to make bombs.

'This was as a direct result of a rail passenger reporting suspicions to train
staff. We need others to follow suit and play their part in keeping the UK's
transport systems safe from terrorists.'

The leaflets were handed out around the country today as part of Counter
Terrorism Awareness Week.

But some have criticised the campaign, accusing the police of scaremonger and
comparing the leaflets to the 'duck and cover' adverts of the early Cold War
years.

Rochester's Chris Irvine said: 'I cannot believe that the Association of Chief
Police Officers and the Metropolitan Police are putting this out.

'It's totally alarmist. I grew up in Northern Ireland but I have never seen
anything like it. Obviously we have to take the threat seriously, but I don't
see how striking the fear of God into people helps.'

Other rail passengers took to Twitter to express their anger at the campaign.

Gary Levy wrote: 'Did somebody get paid for coming up with this? Thought the
country was broke! What a waste of money.'

And Michael Earl added: 'Unbelievable! They might as well just say "Run like
hell and start a Panic".'

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 25, 2014 Tuesday 11:20 AM GMT

Four British terror attacks foiled by the authorities;
As Theresa May reveals 40 terror plots have been thwarted by security services
and with a report on Lee Rigby's death due to be published, here are some of the
most high-profile plots stopped by British authorities

BYLINE: By Ben Riley-Smith Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 621 words


Liquid bomb plot - August 2006

It was one of Britain's biggest ever surveillance operations, involving more
than 220 police officers and fundamentally changing the way airport security is
carried out today.

Angered by the conditions of Afghanistan refugee camps and infuriated by the
failure of protest to stop the Iraq invasion, a group of increasingly
radicalised east Londoners plotted to launch suicide bomb attacks on successive
transatlantic airliners leaving Britain.

Investigators first became suspicious when they secretly opened the luggage of
Abdulla Ahmed Ali, who they had been monitoring, as he returned from Pakistan in
June 2006 and discovered an unusual powdered soft drink, Tang, and a large
number of batteries.

The surveillance project launched exposed a horrifying plan to take liquid bombs
disguised as soft drink bottles onto aeroplanes, with plotters sharing coded
emails and getting as far as researching flight times. Three men including Ahmed
Ali were jailed for life.

Birmingham beheading plot - 1 February 2007

A plan to kidnap, torture and behead a British Muslim soldier in Birmingham was
foiled after security services used secret bugs to thwart the plot.

Parviz Khan, the 37-year-old ringleader, was recorded planning to film a
confession and then behead a soldier, saying: "We give the judgment ... well
then cut it off like you cut a pig, man."

"Then you put it on a stick. Then we throw the body, burn it, [and] send the
video to the chacha (uncles, a term for Mujahideen leaders in Afghanistan or
Pakistan)."

Khan was jailed for life after pleading guilty, with the judge saying he was
"absolutely serious and determined" to carry out the attack and "undermine the
morale of the British Army". Others were also found guilty of supplying
terrorism.

Tiger Tiger bomb plot - 29 June 2007

A car packed with 60 litres of petrol, gas cylinders and nails was discovered by
police parked outside the London nightclub Tiger Tiger just two days after
Gordon Brown became Prime Minister.

An ambulance crew saw smoke coming from the green Mercedes around 1.30am in
Haymarket, near Piccadilly Circus, with a controlled explosion eventually
defusing the situation.

A second bomb was discovered in another car illegally parked nearby and towed to
the Park Lane car pound. Police said there would have been "carnage" if the
explosives had gone off.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke said at the time: "The threat from
terrorism is real - it is here and enduring." Mr Brown said the incident showed
that Britain faced "a serious and continuous threat."

Birmingham rucksack bomb plot - September 2011

The men were plotting an attack to rival the 9/11 atrocities in America and the
7/7 bombing of the London underground; detectives believed it was the most
significant terror plans to be uncovered since the 2006 liquid bomb plot.

Radical Islamists from Birmingham planned to set off up to eight bombs in
rucksacks concurrently, using timers to detonate the charges in a coordinated
attack across Britain.

Leaders of the would-be suicide bombers had travelled for Pakistan for training
from al-Qaeda contacts in Pakistan and recorded martyrdom videos there before
returning to the UK, posing as Muslim Aid charity street collectors to raise
£12,000 and taking out loans to help fund the attack.

Eleven men were jailed in total for the plot, with three getting life sentences.
"Many deaths were planned by a determined team of individuals who were fully
radicalised," said the judge. "No lack of assets, skill or manpower was going to
stop you."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     November 25, 2014 Tuesday 12:50 AM GMT

Police prepare for threat of terrorist attack on shoppers

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill, Crime & Security Editor

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 503 words


Police are training to tackle a Mumbai-style terrorist raid as the home
secretary warned yesterday that the terror threat from Syria had created a "time
of very significant danger" for Britain.

Theresa May announced a series of new anti-terrorism powers on the eve of the
publication of the long-awaited report by a parliamentary committee on ­possible
intelligence failings before the murder last year of Fusilier Lee ­Rigby in
Woolwich, southeast London.

The committee's most detailed ­report ever is understood to acknowledge the
difficulty of thwarting a "lone-wolf" attack. However, it also criticises MI5's
response to signs that Michael Adebolajo - whom the agency tried to recruit as
an informant before he ­murdered Fusilier Rigby - was becoming increasingly
volatile.

The intelligence and security ­committee has questioned Andrew Parker, MI5's
director-general, and had access to hundreds of pages of ­intelligence as it
examined the agency's contact with Adebolajo before the murder.

The Times understands that dozens of specialist officers took part in an
exercise at the Metropolitan police ­firearms range in Gravesend, Kent,
simulating an assault by terrorists.

A shopping street has been mocked up and a source said that the exercise
simulated ­terrorists running through the area opening fire indiscriminately.
"It was intensive training and pretty shocking to watch," one source said.

The Met has conducted such exercises since 2008, when 164 people died in an
Islamist assault on Mumbai. This is thought to have been the largest training
session since the Westgate Mall attack in ­Nairobi last year and since a London
plot in which suspects had acquired a firearm was foiled last month.

Police will speak to shopping centre management companies and security industry
leaders as part of Counter-terrorism Week, which began yesterday. They are also
asking commuters to be alert on their journeys and report anything "out of place
or suspicious".

Mrs May marked the effort to raise awareness of the threat by ­announcing the
range of measures she will put before parliament tomorrow in the
Counter-Terrorism and Security Bill.

Schools, universities and probation providers will be required to prevent people
from being radicalised. People suspected of terrorist activity can have their
­passports seized, be kept out of the country while they are investigated, and
be moved away from their homes. Insurance companies will be banned from making
or reimbursing ransom payments.

Airlines and internet service providers will also be obliged to retain and share
data on customers. However, Mrs May warned that the new powers to collect data
were "limited" and she emphasised that it would be necessary to return to the
question of law enforcement agencies' access to communications data in the next
parliament.

Mrs May said: " When the security and intelligence agencies tell us that the
threat we face is now more dangerous than at any time before or since 9/11, we
should take notice."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 25, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Terror attack training;
IN THE NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 28 words


Police are training to tackle a Mumbai-style terrorist raid as the home
secretary warned that terrorism in Syria had created a "very significant danger"
for Britain. Page 2

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Al-Arab (English)

                               November 26, 2014

Terror attack leaves 3 Egypt policemen dead in Sinai

LENGTH: 208  words


Assailants shoot dead three policemen, including colonel, who were travelling in
pick-up truck in North Sinai's provincial capital El-Arish.


Terror haunts Egypt


CAIRO - Gunmen shot dead on Wednesday three Egyptian policemen in the Sinai
Peninsula, where militants regularly launch attacks on security forces, the
interior ministry said.

The three policemen, including a colonel, were travelling in a pick-up truck in
North Sinai's provincial capital El-Arish when assailants in a car shot at them
and fled, the ministry said in a statement.

The attack came several days after two policemen were killed in a roadside
bombing at the entrance to the town.

Egypt's military is battling an Islamist insurgency in the peninsula that has
left scores of policemen and soldiers dead since the army overthrew Islamist
president Mohamed Morsi last year and cracked down on his supporters.

The government declared a state of emergency in parts of North Sinai after an
October 24 suicide attack near El-Arish killed at least 30 soldiers in the
deadliest assault on security forces since Morsi's ouster.

Militant groups claim their attacks are in retaliation for a government
crackdown targeting Islamists that has left hundreds dead and thousands jailed.

Alarab Online.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 172


                         Copyright 2014 Alarab Online.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                          November 26, 2014 Wednesday

Victims of India 2008 terror attacks remembered

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 62 words


India has remembered the victims of the 2008 terror attack in Mumbai.

The attack by Pakistani gunmen in India's financial capital on Nov. 26, 2008
killed 166 people and shattered relations between the nuclear-armed neighbors.

Pictured are Indian policemen standing guard outside the Chhatrapati Shivaji
train station, one of the sites of the 2008 terror attack, in Mumbai, India.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 26, 2014 Wednesday

Afghan police arrest 13 criminals, prevent two terror attacks in capital

LENGTH: 373 words


Text of report by private Pakistan-based Afghan Islamic Press news agency

Kabul/Herat: Thirteen people get arrested on different charges

Officials have reported arresting 13 people in Kabul and Herat provinces on
charges of different crimes. The Kabul police have claimed that they have
prevented two terrorist attacks.

A newsletter received by Afghan Islamic Press from the Ministry of Interior
Affairs on Wednesday 26 November reported that police have arrested nine people
in different parts of Kabul on charges of robbery, murder and smuggling of drugs
in the past 24 hours.

The newsletter added that five of the individuals have been arrested on charges
of robbery and murder and four others have been arrested by the border police at
Kabul airport for trying to smuggle two kilograms of heroin.

The source said that the drug smugglers tried to take the heroin abroad, but
they were arrested by the police.

Meanwhile, Kabul police have claimed preventing two terrorist attacks in
District Eight and Qarabagh District.

Spokesman for the Kabul police headquarters, Hashmatollah Stanekzai, told Afghan
Islamic Press that the police discovered and defused some explosives yesterday
evening prepared by the armed opponents in District Eight of Kabul city to carry
out terrorist attacks.

He added that the police have also discovered and defused four mortars along the
Kabul-Parwan highway in Qarabagh District.

The spokesman said that they have not arrested anyone in this connection, but
investigations are in progress.

Kabul police have reported defusing the said attacks at a time when consecutive
blasts have taken place in different parts of Kabul city in the past few days
and the Taleban have claimed responsibility for most of them.

Meanwhile, a newsletter published by the police headquarters in Herat on
Wednesday reported that the criminal investigation police have arrested four
individuals on charges of killing a 22-year-old young man in Shahrak-e Shaidai
area of Herat city.

According to the newsletter, the said 22-year-old, who was a resident of Ghowr
Province, was killed around four months ago by unknown individuals and his body
was found in a deep well.

Source: Afghan Islamic Press news agency, Peshawar, in Pashto 1310 gmt 26 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 26, 2014 Wednesday

Many crimes result of enemies' terrorist attacks - Iran police chief

LENGTH: 461 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News
Agency website

Tehran: Iran's Police Chief Brigadier General Esma'il Ahmadi-Moqaddam said a
main part of the crimes committed in the country was the result of the enemies'
terrorist attacks. "Annually, 5,000 crimes are committed in Iran and part of the
crimes is the result of the enemies' terrorist attacks against the Islamic
Republic of Iran," Ahmadi Moqaddam said, addressing Law Enforcement Police
commanders in the Northern province of Gilan on Wednesday [26 November].

He also referred to the enemies' trafficking of illicit drugs to the country,
and said, "The world's largest drug producer is Iran's neighbour (Afghanistan)."

Iranian security forces often arrest terrorists inside the country who have been
hired by certain western and regional states.

In a latest development in May, Iran's security forces captured a notorious
Takfiri terrorist ringleader in Gilan province, a provincial intelligence
official announced.

"The concerns caused by Takfiri groups in Gilan have been removed as their
(notorious) ringleader has been apprehended," a spokesman of Gilan Intelligence
office said.

The spokesman declined to reveal any further detail about the arrest, including
the identity of the terrorist commander, but underlined that security has now
been restored to the Gilan province.

Iranian Prosecutor General and Judiciary Spokesman Gholam Hoseyn Mohseni Ezhe'i
had also announced in May that security forces had arrested a number of Takfiri
terrorists who were trying to sneak into the country.

"The necessary orders have been given to the security bodies to prevent these
people's (Takfiris') infiltration into the country and a number of them have, of
course, been arrested for the same charge," Ezhe'i told reporters in his weekly
press conference in Tehran.

In relevant remarks in January, Iranian Judiciary Chief Sadeq Amoli-Larijani
warned the country's security and intelligence forces to safeguard the country's
borders against the possible penetration attempts by Takfiri groups.

"The Takfiri and Salafi streams are not at all related to Islam or our Sunni
brothers' beliefs, but they are a cult which have been created by the West to
weaken the Islamic societies," Larijani said, addressing a number of Judiciary
officials.

"We ask the intelligence ministry and the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC)
to keep vigilant against the danger of the infiltration of Takfiri streams into
the country and never think that the Takfiri viewpoints are related to the
different thinking of Islamic sects; rather they should encounter them in a
manner appropriate to the anti-security nature of the streams," he added.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1315 gmt 26 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                          November 26, 2014 Wednesday

India pays tributes to victims of Mumbai terror attacks

SECTION: ASIA PACIFIC

LENGTH: 225 words


NEW DELHI - India on Wednesday paid tributes to the victims of Mumbai terror
attacks which left more than 170 people dead.

In a message, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, currently attending a South
Asian leaders' summit in Nepal, said: "We remember the horrific terror attacks
in Mumbai on this day in 2008 and pay homage to the innocent men and women who
lost their lives."

"The country salutes the brave security personnel who laid down their lives to
protect several lives on that fateful day. They are our true heroes. Today is a
day to reaffirm our commitment to work together to combat the menace of terror
and uproot it from the face of humankind."

In Mumbai, Chief Minister of the western state of Maharashtra, Devendra
Fadnavis, paid homage to the cops who were killed fighting the terrorists who
carried out the massacre and said that the state government would do its best to
strengthen the police force.

"I pay homage to the brave policemen who fought and laid down their lives for us
on 26/11. We are proud of them and we will strive hard for the safety and
security of our state," he said.

It was on this date in 2008 that 10 Pakistani terrorists entered Mumbai through
sea route and carried out a massacre, killing more than 170 people and injuring
300 others. Some of the city's top policemen were also killed fighting the
terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Dumbarton Reporter

                          November 26, 2014 Wednesday

Woman's terror during long attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 529 words


Robert Keogh, 27, pleaded guilty to seizing his victim by the throat, pushing
her against a wall and hitting her on the head earlier this year.

He also spat on her and caused her to fall on broken glass, for which she
required stitches.

Last week Dumbarton Sheriff Court heard the pair had been in a relationship and
that the woman met Keogh at his former home in Merkins Avenue, Bellsmyre, at 7am
on January 14.

Jeanette McLean, fiscal depute, told the court that Keogh quickly became
aggressive - then launched a violent attack.

Ms McLean said: "They began to wrestle for the phone at which point the accused
bit the witness' right index finger, causing it to bleed. The accused then
pushed the witness to the ground and she began to cry.

"The accused said 'Don't cry' and gave the witness a tissue to wipe the blood.
At this point the accused threw the phone on the floor and the witness retrieved
it." The woman got up to leave but Keogh pushed her on to the sofa. She then let
Keogh look through her phone as she was operating it, however he lost the plot
again when her Facebook application failed to open.

The fiscal depute added: "The accused took the phone from the witness and
continued to go through the contents.

"He looked at messages which he took umbridge to and became abusive and spat in
her face.

"Once again the witness tried to grab it and he pushed her back to the couch."
The victim grabbed Keogh in an effort to stop herself falling and he slapped her
on the face.

After smashing her phone against the wall, attacked his girlfriend again.

The fiscal depute said: "The accused pushed her, causing her to fall on to her
back. "The accused then put his face across her shoulder and chest, pinning her
to the ground. The witness lashed out with her legs to try to free herself. She
managed to stand up and made for the door however the accused seized her by the
hood of her jumper and her hair, swinging her towards the spare bedroom." It was
heard the victim lost her temper and threw a glass against a wall, causing it to
break.

Keogh then pushed the woman, causing her to fall and strike her head against a
coffee table.

She landed on a piece of the broken glass, causing lacerations to her right
thigh. The woman pleaded to go to hospital but Keogh refused, seizing her by the
hair and dragging her into the bedroom.

The victim eventually made her way to Stobhill Hospital where she received
stitches for the leg wound. She also had bruises on her face, arms, hands, legs
and back.

Keogh was arrested two days later.

Defence lawyer Scott Adair said Keogh suspected his girlfriend was cheating on
him and this led to the row.

He said his client, a first offender, accepted he faced a jail sentence and
acknowledged the relationship was now over.

Sentencing Keogh to eight months in prison, Sheriff Simon Fraser said: "It is
very unusual to send someone to jail for a first offence. The law requires that
I do not send someone to jail unless there is no alternative.

"You subjected that lady to a sustained and prolonged attack.

"You kept her there for some hours, during which time you carried out a
sustained assault. A community payback order would be wholly inappropriate."

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    November 26, 2014 Wednesday 11:59 AM GMT

Police accused of 'spreading fear' after issuing commuters with terror attack
leaflets

BYLINE: Peter Henn

LENGTH: 367 words


POLICE have been accused of scaremongering after issuing leaflets to commuters
telling them to 'run, hide and tell' in the event of a terrorist attack.

REUTERS·GETTY

The terrorism leaflet is being distributed by the police to commuters

The flyer, which shows commuters running down stairs, hiding in a darkened area
and using their phones, was handed out at some of Britain's busiest railway
stations.

It says: "If you hear gunfire or a weapons attack, leave the area safely if you
can.

"If this puts you in greater danger, find a safe place to take cover."

The leaflets were handed out after Home Secretary Theresa May announced a wide
range of counter-terror laws.

However, concerns were raised on Twitter by people who accused the police of
scaremongering.

Ukip councillor Lawrence Webb wrote: "Spreading terror & fear; not extremist,
the police! Commuters told to run & hide and in leaflet distributed by police."

Another user, named Vapin' Dave, posted: "Fighting terrorism by spreading
terror. Stay classy."

REUTERS

The leaflet that was handed to Scottish commuters

However British Transport Police's chief constable, Paul Crowther, defended the
move.

He said public transport users could become "oblivious to their surroundings"
and miss signs of extremist behaviour.

"More than six million people travel on our railways every single day," he said.

"For commuters, who make the same journey over and over again, it can be easy to
become oblivious to their surroundings.

"But I would urge them to remain alert, use their instinct and have the
confidence to report anything that strikes them as out-of-place or suspicious."

Mr Crowther highlighted the case of Andreas Pierides, who was given an 18-month
suspended sentence after admitting taking eight explosive flares on to a plane
at a UK airport and possessing a terrorist manual.

The alarm was raised when a passenger, looking through a gap in a train seat,
noticed Pierides was researching explosives and had instructions about how to
make a bomb.

She instantly reported her concerns and police used CCTV to track him to the
station where he bought his ticket. He was subsequently identified and arrested
at Stansted Airport attempting to fly out of the country.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    November 26, 2014 Wednesday 10:21 AM GMT

UK police leaflets advise people to 'run, hide and tell' in event of terrorist
attack;
Leaflets showing terrified commuters running down stairs and hiding in darkened
corner have been criticised for stoking fear

BYLINE: Alexandra Topping

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 508 words


Police handed out leaflets at railways stations on Wednesday telling people to
"run, hide and tell" if they found themselves caught up in a Mumbai-style
terrorist attack.

The leaflets, which show apparently terrified commuters running down stairs,
hiding in a darkened corner and speaking anxiously on a phone, have been
criticised by some who received them as "scaremongering", but police said they
were raising awareness after a government warning that the threat to Britain
from terrorists was greater than ever".

The leaflets were handed out across the country as part of counter-terrorism
awareness week, and come after the home secretary, Theresa May, revealed that 40
terrorist attacks had been foiled since 7/7 in 2005. A range of anti-terrorism
measures aimed at tackling the threat from home-grown extremists and those
returning from fighting with Isis is set to go before parliament.

Launching the campaign, the chief constable of British transport police (BTP),
Paul Crowther, said: "More than 6 million people travel on our railways every
single day. For commuters who make the same journey over and over again, it can
be easy to become oblivious to their surroundings. But I would urge them to
remain alert, use their instinct and have the confidence to report anything that
strikes them as out of place or suspicious."

He added that earlier this month a man was sentenced for terrorism offences
after being caught in possession of information about how to make bombs.

"This was as a direct result of a rail passenger reporting suspicions to train
staff. We need others to follow suit and play their part in keeping the UK's
transport systems safe from terrorists," he said.

But transport users took to Twitter to complain about the leaflets, which some
said were stoking fear. Rob Thompson wrote: "These leaflets are more likely to
cause panic than any apparent terrorism ", while one user going by the name of
Survival Chick tweeted: "These are a bit scaremongering are they not! Being
handed out in #london today." Another user, using the Twitter handle
@citizenx99, resorted to sarcasm to comment on the leaflets, tweeting: "If you
hear gunfire ... leave the area if you can ... or hide. Gee, thanks for that."

May is to publish the counter-terrorism and security bill on Wednesday, which
will include a range of new powers including a legal requirement by schools,
prisons and councils to take steps to prevent potential terrorists being
radicalised.

"We are in the middle of a generational struggle against a deadly terrorist
ideology. These powers are essential to keep up with the very serious and
rapidly changing threats we face," said May on Monday.

"In an open and free society, we can never entirely eliminate the threat from
terrorism. But we must do everything possible in line with our shared values to
reduce the risks posed by our enemies. This bill includes a considered, targeted
set of proposals that will help to keep us safe at a time of very significant
danger by ensuring we have the powers we need to defend ourselves."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    November 26, 2014 Wednesday 10:52 AM GMT

Police leaflets tell commuters to 'run, hide and tell' in event of Mumbai-style
terror attack;
Police are giving out advice on dealing with shootings at transport hubs

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 594 words


Commuters are being handed leaflets telling them to "run, hide and tell" in the
event of a Mumbai-style terror attack in the capital.

The Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) commissioned the flyers, which
have been called "scaremongering" by some critics, as part of an awareness
campaign.

With pictures of office workers running down stairs, hiding in the dark and
anxiously calling police, they instruct travellers on what to do in a "firearms
and weapons attack".

"Make a plan now and stay safe", the text says, telling travellers to exit
danger areas if gunfire is heard, hide and alert authorities.

Chris Irvine, a Ukip counsellor for Rochester, called it "disgraceful
scaremongering".

"Extraordinary leaflet from Acpo being distributed in London," he wrote on
Twitter. "Words fail me."

Other rail passengers were also unimpressed, calling the initiative a "waste of
money"

One Twitter user quipped: "Thank goodness for these "Run & Hide" advice leaflets
re: armed terrorist attacks. I probably would have just stood still & waved my
arms."

Another critic added: "I'd rather have more police than a leaflet."

The leaflets were given out a day after Theresa May said security services had
foiled "attempts to conduct marauding 'Mumbai-style' gun attacks on our streets,
blow up the London Stock Exchange, bring down airliners, assassinate a British
ambassador and murder serving members of our armed forces".

The Home Secretary was referring to the Mumbai attacks of 2008, when extremists
killed 164 people and injured 300 more in a series of shootings and bombings at
transport hubs and crowded public places over four days.

Security services have said that since the 7/7 London bombings in 2005, when 52
people were killed by four attackers on Tubes and buses, around 40 UK terrorist
plots have been stopped.

In August, the UK-wide terror threat level was raised to "severe", meaning a
terrorist attack is deemed highly likely but not imminent.

The Home Secretary said it was a response to the conflicts in Syria and Iraq,
where Isis and other groups were "planning attacks against the West".

The Chief Constable of British Transport Police (BTP), Paul Crowther, urged
travellers to aware of their surroundings and alert officers to anything
suspicious as part of Counter Terrorism Awareness Week.

"More than six million people travel on our railways every single day," he said.

"For commuters, who make the same journey over and over again, it can be easy to
become oblivious to their surroundings. But I would urge them to use their
instinct and have the confidence to report anything that strikes them as
out-of-place or suspicious."

Earlier this month, a man was sentenced for terrorism offences after being
caught with information on bomb-making because a train passenger reported
concerns, he said.

Mr Crowther added: "If we can utilise the eyes and the ears of the public in our
surveillance of the transport system, combined with our already substantial CCTV
coverage, we stand every chance of detecting and stopping attacks."

BTP officers are monitoring stations and trains across the UK for suspect
packages and suspicious behaviour.

In London, armed police are on regular patrols at the busiest stations and teams
have been trained to handle bomb, gun, chemical and biological attacks.

Police at airports and ports are continuing work to prevent British-born
extremists joining up to 500 citizens believed to have travelled to join Isis in
Iraq and Syria.

Suspicious activity can be reported by calling the confidential Anti-Terrorist
Hotline on 0800 789 321.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    November 26, 2014 Wednesday 11:43 AM GMT

Commuters told to 'run, hide and tell' in leaflet distributed by police warning
of Mumbai-style gun terror attacks at train stations

BYLINE: RICHARD SPILLETT FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 846 words



     ·    New campaign by police to encourage public to be aware of terror
          threat
     ·    Leaflets handed out at stations telling passengers what to do in
          attack
     ·    Police say the campaign is the result of an increased threat from
          fanatics
     ·    They say information from passengers has prevented previous plots
     ·    Security services say they've foiled 'marauding gun attacks' in recent
          years
     ·    But some commuters have criticised the leaflets as 'scaremongering'
     ·    A new anti-terror bill is be unveiled today in a bid to stop
          radicalisation


Police are taking to railway stations to tell passengers what to do in the event
of a Mumbai-style terrorist attack at one of Britain's busy terminals.

After government warnings that the threat to Britain from Islamist fanatics is
'greater than ever', officers handed out leaflets telling the public to 'run,
hide and tell' if they are caught up in an attack.

The flyer, which has been attacked as 'scaremongering' by critics, shows images
of worried-looking people running down flights of stairs, cowering in the dark
and anxiously talking on their mobile phones.

The campaign comes as a sweeping package of measures to tackle the threat from
home-grown extremists and those returning from fighting with ISIS is set to go
before Parliament.

Launching the campaign, Chief Constable of British Transport Police (BTP) Paul
Crowther said: 'More than six million people travel on our railways every single
day.

'For commuters, who make the same journey over and over again, it can be easy to
become oblivious to their surroundings.

'But I would urge them to remain alert, use their instinct and have the
confidence to report anything that strikes them as out-of-place or suspicious.

'Earlier this month a man was sentenced for terrorism offences after being
caught in possession of information about how to make bombs.

'This was as a direct result of a rail passenger reporting suspicions to train
staff. We need others to follow suit and play their part in keeping the UK's
transport systems safe from terrorists.'

The leaflets were handed out around the country today as part of Counter
Terrorism Awareness Week.

But some have criticised the campaign, accusing the police of scaremongering and
comparing the leaflets to the 'duck and cover' adverts of the early Cold War
years.

Rochester's Chris Irvine said: 'I cannot believe that the Association of Chief
Police Officers and the Metropolitan Police are putting this out.

'It's totally alarmist. I grew up in Northern Ireland but I have never seen
anything like it. Obviously we have to take the threat seriously, but I don't
see how striking the fear of God into people helps.'

Other rail passengers took to Twitter to express their anger at the campaign.

Gary Levy wrote: 'Did somebody get paid for coming up with this? Thought the
country was broke! What a waste of money.'

And Michael Earl added: 'Unbelievable! They might as well just say "Run like
hell and start a panic".'

Home Secretary Theresa May will today publish a Counter-terrorism and Security
Bill containing a range of new powers, including a legal requirement by schools,
prisons and councils to put in place policies to stop would-be extremists being
radicalised.

Mrs May said: 'We are in the middle of a generational struggle against a deadly
terrorist ideology. These powers are essential to keep up with the very serious
and rapidly changing threats we face.

'In an open and free society, we can never entirely eliminate the threat from
terrorism. But we must do everything possible in line with our shared values to
reduce the risks posed by our enemies.

'This bill includes a considered, targeted set of proposals that will help to
keep us safe at a time of very significant danger by ensuring we have the powers
we need to defend ourselves.'

SLAUGHTER IN THE STREETS: FEARS THAT TERRORISTS IN BRITAIN MAY TRY TO EMULATE
THE GROUP WHO BROUGHT BLOODSHED TO MUMBAI

Security chiefs believe Islamic extremists have taken inspiration from the 2008
attacks in Mumbai, in which terrorists went to crowded public places armed with
machine guns and bombs.

The gang spread out across the Indian city slaughtering more than 160 people at
locations they knew would be packed with people.

A group of Pakistani men linked to the terror group Lashkar-e-Tayyiba stormed
buildings in Mumbai, killing 164 people. Nine of the gunmen died during the
attacks, one survived and was later executed.

They targeted busy a railway station, a packed restaurant, two hotels, a cinema
and a hospital.

The attacks only ended when commandos stormed the buildings, killing militants
and rescuing hostages.

British Security Services have said that since the 7/7 attacks in 2005 - in
which 52 people were killed by four bombers on London transport - around 40 UK
terrorist plots have been disrupted.

Theresa May said this week: 'There have been attempts to conduct marauding
"Mumbai-style" gun attacks on our streets, blow up the London Stock Exchange,
bring down airliners, assassinate a British ambassador and murder serving
members of our armed forces.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    November 26, 2014 Wednesday 8:30 AM GMT

Commuters told to 'run, hide and tell' in leaflet distributed by police warning
of Mumbai-style gun terror attacks at train stations

BYLINE: RICHARD SPILLETT FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 612 words



     ·    New campaign by police to encourage public to be aware of terror
          threat
     ·    Leaflets handed out at stations telling passengers what to do in
          attack
     ·    Police say the campaign is the result of an increased threat from
          fanatics
     ·    They say information from passengers has foiled attacks in the past
     ·    But some commuters have criticised the leaflets as 'scaremongering'
     ·    A new anti-terror bill is be unveiled today in a bid to stop
          radicalisation


Police are taking to railway stations to tell passengers what to do in the event
of a Mumbai-style terrorist attack at one of Britain's busy terminals.

After government warnings that the threat to Britain from Islamist fanatics is
'greater than ever', officers handed out leaflets telling the public to 'run,
hide and tell' if they are caught up in an attack.

The flyer, which has been attacked as 'scaremongering' by critics, shows images
of worried-looking people running down flights of stairs, cowering in the dark
and anxiously talking on their mobile phones.

The campaign comes as a sweeping package of measures to tackle the threat from
home-grown extremists and those returning from fighting with ISIS is set to go
before Parliament.

Launching the campaign, Chief Constable of British Transport Police (BTP) Paul
Crowther said: 'More than six million people travel on our railways every single
day.

'For commuters, who make the same journey over and over again, it can be easy to
become oblivious to their surroundings.

'But I would urge them to remain alert, use their instinct and have the
confidence to report anything that strikes them as out-of-place or suspicious.

'Earlier this month a man was sentenced for terrorism offences after being
caught in possession of information about how to make bombs.

'This was as a direct result of a rail passenger reporting suspicions to train
staff. We need others to follow suit and play their part in keeping the UK's
transport systems safe from terrorists.'

The leaflets were handed out around the country today as part of Counter
Terrorism Awareness Week.

But some have criticised the campaign, accusing the police of scaremongering and
comparing the leaflets to the 'duck and cover' adverts of the early Cold War
years.

Rochester's Chris Irvine said: 'I cannot believe that the Association of Chief
Police Officers and the Metropolitan Police are putting this out.

'It's totally alarmist. I grew up in Northern Ireland but I have never seen
anything like it. Obviously we have to take the threat seriously, but I don't
see how striking the fear of God into people helps.'

Other rail passengers took to Twitter to express their anger at the campaign.

Gary Levy wrote: 'Did somebody get paid for coming up with this? Thought the
country was broke! What a waste of money.'

And Michael Earl added: 'Unbelievable! They might as well just say "Run like
hell and start a panic".'

Home Secretary Theresa May will today publish a Counter-terrorism and Security
Bill containing a range of new powers, including a legal requirement by schools,
prisons and councils to put in place policies to stop would-be extremists being
radicalised.

Mrs May said: 'We are in the middle of a generational struggle against a deadly
terrorist ideology. These powers are essential to keep up with the very serious
and rapidly changing threats we face.

'In an open and free society, we can never entirely eliminate the threat from
terrorism. But we must do everything possible in line with our shared values to
reduce the risks posed by our enemies.

'This bill includes a considered, targeted set of proposals that will help to
keep us safe at a time of very significant danger by ensuring we have the powers
we need to defend ourselves.'

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                    November 26, 2014 Wednesday 10:14 AM GMT

Kenyans Protest Over Surge In Terror Attacks

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 423 words



HIGHLIGHT: Angry demonstrations have been taking place in the Kenyan capital of
Nairobi over continuing attacks on citizens by extremists.


  Protesters carried coffins and red crosses as a memorial for the hundreds of
Kenyans killed in recent shootings and grenade attacks  by fighters of Somalia's
Islamist terror group, al Shabaab.

The most recent attack occurred on Saturday in the north of the country when
attackers hijacked a bus near the city of Mandera, singled out non-Muslims and
shot 28 of them in the head.

Twenty-two of those killed were teachers leaving the city for their holiday
break.

Achieng Otieno, a 35-year-old IT consultant who took part in Tuesday's
demonstration, said: "One thing we want to do is put it clear to our leaders
that the state of security is worrying for all Kenyans.

"We need to put our security organs in place - how do you explain someone coming
from nowhere and shooting 28 people?"

One group of protesters discussed security efforts against Islamic extremists
after four mosques in Mombasa were closed down last week - al Shabaab said the
bus attack was in retaliation for that move.

Accountant Newton Kidali, 30, said: "I think the government has played into
their hands by closing the mosques and the extra-judicial killings.

"I think if those Muslim clerics are committing crimes they should just be
arrested."

Earlier this year, gunmen near the coastal resort town of Lamu killed around 50
people.

Al Shabaab terrorists in 2013 attacked a Nairobi mall and killed 67 shoppers.

Militants allied with them have carried out more than 100 bombings and gun
attacks inside the country since Kenya sent military troops into neighbouring
Somalia in 2011.

In response, Kenyan authorities have shut down mosques, carried out mass arrests
of Muslims and, according to rights activists, have sometimes killed Muslim
leaders, acts that critics worry are continuing to perpetuate the cycle of
violence.

One of the country's largest papers, the Daily Nation, said claims that police
manning the border checkpoints with Somalia allowed the Mandera attackers must
be investigated.

The paper questioned the police force's commitment to fighting terrorism.

Another opinion column on Tuesday, addressing Kenyan leader Uhuru Kenyatta,
asked: "Dear Mr President, what are you doing as Kenya burns?"

Non-Muslim Kenyans from Mandera on Tuesday sought refuge at an army post,
fearful of another attack and hoping for protection from the army.

They say they want to be evacuated from the area.

Regional governor Ali Roba has urged people to reconsider, arguing such a move
is a sign of fear and a victory for the terrorists.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2014 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 26, 2014 Wednesday 3:09 PM GMT

Making Facebook hand over data about its users is unlikely to prevent terror
attacks;
Asking technology companies to look out for potential terrorists is both
uncertain in principle and unworkable in practice

BYLINE: By Jamie Bartlett

LENGTH: 894 words


In 2012, Michael Adebowale communicated online with an Islamist extremist based
overseas, known as "Foxtrot" . It is widely understood that this exchange was a
direct message sent on Facebook (although Facebook has not confirmed that) in
which he expressed a desire to murder a solider.

According to the Intelligence and Security Committee, whose report into how the
intelligence agencies handled Lee Rigby's murder was released yesterday, had
this bit of communication been passed on, perhaps it would have been prevented .
In reality, this exchange between the two men was likely never seen by anyone at
Facebook or picked up by any "automated system" and then ignored. According to
the Committee's report, it was via an account that Adebowale himself closed down
- and the company does not monitor private message sent between users.

In one sense, this shouldn't come as any surprise. Yes, extremists use Facebook.
And Twitter. And Amazon, Google, Skype, Yahoo, laptops, iPhones and everything
else the rest of us use. Still, the Committee suggested that when these internet
companies find material on their site they consider extreme, they should pass it
to the police or intelligence agencies. The Prime Minister got involved too,
also urging internet companies to more proactively monitor their sites for this
type of chatter.

I'm not one of those privacy advocates who thinks nothing else matters - I'm
usually found arguing in favour of generally more powers for security services
to get the powers they need to monitor internet content. But this is idea is
both uncertain in principle and unworkable in practice.

First off, there is the sheer volume. As you may have noticed, an awful lot of
people say extreme, offensive, threatening stuff online. A tiny slither, a
fraction of a fraction, will go on to actually go on to do anything about. I've
spent years studying whether it's possible to predict who that might be -
without, I'm sorry to say, much success. In my book The Dark Net, I traced the
story of Paul, an extreme nationalist who spent much of his life online, posting
virulent race hate. He never did anything about it in the real world. Experts
often use the "needle in the haystack" analogy. If only. It's more like
searching for a very particular but indistinguishable piece of hay. It's
difficult for seasoned specialists inside MI5 to work this out - one of the
reasons that they missed Lee Rigby's murderers - and far more difficult for the
less qualified "content managers" that work for Facebook. Of course, if someone
makes a clear and present threat to another individual, or signs of imminent
acts of serious criminality, I would expect any company just like any citizen to
pass that over to the police. This could be sped up no doubt. But no two people
ever agree on what precisely constitutes the extreme, the virulent, the hateful
that falls just below that threshold.

Second, I don't think social media companies should be in the business of proxy
policing. There are already powers in place for the authorities to hand over
communications between individuals they think need to be monitored. The
Committee is right that this could be made smoother and quicker. But to ask
private companies to proactively monitor all their content for hints of
terrorism or serious violence turns them into an extended arm of the law. As it
stands, most internet companies don't constantly monitor and review everything
their users are writing - partly because those users would feel rightly a little
aggrieved, and partly because it would be technologically difficult. Rather,
they ask other users of the site to report content they think it is extreme, and
then a human reviewer makes a judgment. There are millions of direct messages
sent between Facebook users, or Twitter users, and so this would require some
kind of automated system of detection using clever algorithms. This would be a
monumental task. A good rule of thumb is that if humans can't work it out, don't
expect algorithms to. More to the point, this sort of complicated monitoring for
flashes of extremism would, I suspect, seriously damage people's confidence in
these platforms - and the economic and social benefit they provide. Not to
mention the message it sends out. Expect Putin to be next in line, asking
Facebook and Twitter to hand over all chats suggestive of extreme anti-Russian
sentiment that he reckons could lead to terrorism.

Finally, and probably most importantly, is whether any of this would work. Had
Facebook seen this exchange, and then passed it over to MI5, it's not certain it
would have made much of a difference. MI5 had already clocked him on several
other investigations: would a Facebook message changed much? There are a growing
array of other platforms used by terrorists - in particular Isil - and they
increasingly use powerful encryption software to keep their communications
secret. This is making them more difficult to track and monitor. If it's known
that Facebook, Twitter, Google and the rest will automatically send all content
to the authorities, they'll just move to places even more difficult to find.
Hard as it is to accept, it's impossible to prevent every attack, especially
given that terrorists are shifting toward more rudimentary methods that require
little planning or co-ordination. No amount of data can stop that.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 26, 2014 Wednesday 2:39 PM GMT

What is the Israeli anti-terror bill?;
Under draconian new measures Arab's in Israel could lose their citizenship. What
is the eight-point plan aimed at providing a "real deterrence" against terror
attacks?

BYLINE: By Robert Tait Jerusalem

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 357 words


Arabs in Israel are to be stripped of their Israeli citizenship and deported if
convicted of committing or aiding "terrorism", under a tough new eight-point
plan drawn up by Benjamin Netanyahu's goverment.

The bill - tabled by Yariv Levin, a Likud MP at the instigation of Mr Netanyahu,
the Israeli prime minister - follows a series of attacks that have left 11
people dead in the past five weeks and would also make it a crime to display the
Palestinian flag and other "enemy" emblems at demonstrations.

The provisions are:

· Automatic loss of citizenship for Israeli-Arabs found guilty of committing or
cooperating in militant attacks. Those living in Palestinian Authority
administered areas would loss residency rights.

· Deportation from Israel after serving prison sentences.

· Those killed while carrying out attacks will not receive a funeral but will
instead by buried in secret locations which relatives will not be permitted to
visit.

· The bodies of attackers will not be returned to their families.

· Homes of militants to be demolished within 24-hours of an attack, a measure
that some human rights groups have denounced as "collective punishment".

· Masked stone-throwers and those taking part in illegal gatherings in which
Molotov cocktails and firecrackers are thrown will be arrested and held in
custody until the completion of legal proceedings. The same will apply to those
waving "enemy flags" - including the Palestinian flag - at demonstrations. Those
convicted will lose social welfare benefits and drivers' licences for 10 years.

· Relatives who publicly voice support - including through social media - for
attackers' deeds will lose their citizenship and be deported to Gaza

· Businesses that publish material or print posters supporting attacks to be
closed. Employers will also have the right to ask the police about the security
records of employees and be entitled to fire without severance pay anyone found
to have committed previous offences.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                 Hampstead and Highgate Express (Ham and High)

                           November 27, 2014 Thursday

Terror attack 'possible' for main road

BYLINE: Koula Paizi

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 173 words


Police taking part in a national Counter Terrorism Awareness Week have expanded
Camden's "safety zones" to include Finchley Road, revealing it has been
earmarked as a possible target for a terrorist attack.



Camden officers handing out information packs to shoppers and residents outside
Waitrose in Finchley Road on Monday said the road has been highlighted as a
"major arterial" route through London and so could be targeted by groups or
individuals "wanting to cause major disruption".

Police were handing out free emergency "grab bag" rucksacks to businesses along
the road, advising staff to fill them with, among other things, high-visibility
vests, a wind-up radio, foil blankets, first aid kits and a loud hailer.

The emergency bags also contained information on how to deal with bomb threats,
suspicious devices and letter bombs.

It comes as the terrorism threat level in the UK remains "severe" and attacks
were recently foiled.

Residents who see or hear anything suspicious are asked to call the
anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789 321.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HHE


                      Copyright 2014 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2014 Friday

Afghan paper condemns recent terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 348 words


Text of an editorial headlined: "Our people expect security officials to prevent
brutal actions of enemies" by state-owned Afghan newspaper Anis on 25 November

Afghanistan has suffered the effects of bloody wars provoked by foreigners for
more than three decades. The suicide attacks and explosions kill or injure many
innocent civilians every day and the unending war causes deep sorrow among many
needy families.

Unfortunately, we watch or hear sad news about explosions and suicide attacks on
TV or radio every day and the enemies of Afghanistan continue launching their
deadly attacks on this land. The enemies who are causing the tragic incidents
and killing our innocent civilians will have to respond to God in the hereafter.

Last Sunday [23 November], a suicide attacker carried out a deadly attack on a
volleyball ground in Yahyakhel District of Paktika Province which killed about
40 people and injured 60 others.

Over the past few years, enemies of Afghanistan have launched similar horrific
attacks which have killed hundreds of our people in different parts of the
country. The attacks on Afghan MPs in Baghlan Province, the attack on Ashura Day
in Kabul, the attack on Id day in a mosque in Maymana of Fariab and the attack
in Urgun District of Paktika were examples of hundreds of terrorist attacks
against our civilians.

However, enemies of this land must know that they cannot undermine the Afghan
people's morale and will not create a gap between government and people by
launching such inhumane and non-Islamic attacks. Today, people of Afghanistan
differentiate their friends from the enemy and will not forgive the enemies.

In addition, Afghan security forces will soon end the tragedy and identify the
factors behind the attacks. Furthermore, the national unity government regards
ensuring security as one of the priorities and there is hope that it will
prevent the occurrence of similar attacks in the near future.

People of Afghanistan expect the security forces to identify and bring to
justice those behind the brutal acts.

Source: Anis, Kabul, in Dari 25 Nov 14, p 1

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2014 Friday

Signing of Afghan-US security pact possible cause of terrorist attacks - TV

LENGTH: 458 words


Text of report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 28 November

[Presenter] The approval of the Kabul-Washington security pact has given rise to
terrorist attacks in the country. Spokesman of the interior ministry said that
the police have serious plans to prevent such attacks and efforts are under way
to strengthen the detective and intelligence forces. The former interior
minister said that terrorist attacks have been escalating in the country due to
lack of equipment of the Afghan forces as well as weakness of the detective and
intelligence forces. Soleman Mostamand has more details.

[Correspondent] The Afghan capital has lost its tranquillity nowadays. Suicide
bombings and group attacks disrupt calmness of the capital. Kabul has undergone
bloody attacks over the past two weeks. What are the reasons for such attacks
increasing?

[Sediq Sediqi, spokesman for interior ministry, captioned, talking to camera]
The Afghan government and parliament have signed and approved the
Kabul-Washington security pact. This is a very strong message for enhancing
Afghan security forces' capability. Hence, it is obvious that when we take any
step to strengthen the Afghan security forces and government, we face a wave of
such incidents.

[Hasib Sediqi, spokesman for National Directorate of Security (NDS), captioned,
talking to camera] Afghanistan is taking strong steps to have a bright future.
Afghanistan has taken steps in the political field to strengthen its relations
with the world which is not acceptable for the enemy. Therefore, the terrorists
use all their strength ahead of the winter.

[Correspondent] Terrorists have succeeded in carrying out 10 terrorist attacks
and explosions in Kabul alone over the past two weeks and these attacks have
mostly taken their toll on civilians. An increase in terrorist attacks leads to
criticism of detective and intelligence bodies. But why does Kabul face such a
destiny? Why are not terrorist activities curbed in the country?

[Mojtaba Patang, former interior minister, captioned, talking to camera]
Unfortunately, professional and scientific investment has not been made in
Afghan forces. This policy needs to be reviewed. The police lack the necessary
equipment to investigate, detect and foil crimes and terrorist incidents.

[Correspondent] Apparently, terrorist attacks have increased in the country
following the formation of the national unity government. Major cities have seen
terrorist attacks which have roots on the other side of the border [in
Pakistan].

[Video shows spokesmen of the interior ministry, NDS, former minister talking to
camera, archive footage of some bodies, wounded people, sites of terrorist
attacks]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1315 gmt 28 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      November 28, 2014 Friday 4:10 PM GMT

Terrorism threat to shoppers and fans Terrorism threat to shoppers and fans;
Police raise awareness to shoppers and football fans from sites in the region
"at risk" from a terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Sandy Kilpatrick

SECTION: NEWS,LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 264 words


Christmas shoppers and football fans are at risk from a terrorist attack.

The Loreburne Centre, in Dumfries, and Gretna Gateway Outlet Village are
potential targets in the area, police believe.

And crowds at Queen of the South matches could also be under threat.

Officers will be out patrolling this weekend, raising awareness among festive
shoppers and footy fans when Queens play Brora Rangers at Palmerston.

And while officers admit it is unlikely the region will actually be targeted,
they are warning people not to be complacent.

Inspector Ian Cowie said: "It's not about alarming the public, it's about making
them aware.

"These sites can be crowded places and are most vulnerable at weekends. The
threat has been increased to severe, meaning a strike is highly likely, although
there is no specific intelligence of any planned attack.

"A commonsense approach says this region isn't a high priority target but we're
not immune. It would be foolish to say we're safer here than anywhere else.

"Obviously we've had the Lockerbie disaster - the biggest terrorist attack the
UK has ever seen - right on our doorstep.

"We're not saying something is definitely going to happen but there will be
people in our country with the intention to cause harm."

The warning comes as Police Scotland joins every force in the  UK Counter
Terrorism Awareness Week to highlight the threat level and ask for people to
report any suspicious activity.

The awareness initiative runs until Sunday, covering crowded places, transport
hubs, preventing violent extremism, terrorist financing and firearms and
explosives.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 28, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Two men shot in both legs by paramilitaries;
Men recover in hospital after terror gun attacks

BYLINE: SARAH SCOTT

SECTION: Pg. 1,7

LENGTH: 178 words


TWO men were in hospital last night after being shot in separate
paramilitary-style attacks.

One victim was forced into a car in South Belfast and later blasted in both
legs.

Det Insp Jenna Fitzpatrick said: "It is believed the man was grabbed by three
masked men in the Donegall Road area, put into a dark coloured car and taken to
the Ladymar Walk area where he was shot."

The man in his 20s was targeted at around 6pm and driven to the west of the city
where the attack took place.

The victim's injuries are not believed to be lifethreatening.

Det Insp Fitzpatrick urged anyone who noticed suspicious activity to call police
on the non-emergency number 101.

Reports also emerged that another man had been shot three times in the legs in
the Bracken Park area of Galliagh in Derry.

SDLP councillor Brian Tierney took to his Twitter account last night to say he
was at the scene of the shooting after 9.30pm.

Sinn Fein councillor Elisha McCallion hit out at the attack, adding: "The people
of the area do not want these actions taking place on our streets. It needs to
stop."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AT SCENE Cllr Brian Tierney

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            November 28, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

House smash attack terror for family

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 145 words


A FAMILY were subjected to a terrifying attack as bricks were deliberately
thrown at their home in Fartown, Huddersfield.

The attack - which police believe was targeted - happened on Wednesday night.

The bricks were thrown at downstairs windows at the house in Cawthorne Avenue.

Fortunately no-one was injured when all the downstairs windows - including a bay
window were smashed causing all the glass to shatter.

And the damage did not end there.

The suspects then smashed four windows of a BMW 5 Series parked outside.

Det Insp Andrew Parr of Huddersfield CID said: "Objects were thrown at a house
in Cawthorne Avenue causing the windows to smash.

"A family was inside the property but no-one was injured. Enquires are ongoing.
We are treating this as a targeted attack."

Anyone who witnessed the incident should contact police on 101 or Crimestoppers
anonymously on 0800 555 111

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            November 28, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Hamas terrorist cell plotted city attacks;
METRO world

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 68 words


ISRAEL: Thirty Hamas militants who planned to attack key public sites in
Jerusalem have been arrested. Israel's Shin Bet security service says the men
were trained and recruited in Jordan and Turkey. They aimed to kill Israeli
civilians who use the city's light railway and its football stadium. Over the
past month, 11 people have been killed in Palestinian attacks, including five at
a synagogue last week.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 29, 2014 Saturday

Afghan security service says it foils most terror attacks

LENGTH: 342 words


Text of report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV)

[Presenter] The National Directorate of Security [NDS] has said that 97 per cent
of terrorist attacks are foiled in the country and terrorist groups succeed in
carrying out two or three attacks out of 100 attacks [they plan] in various
parts of the country.

Nearly, 90 terrorists have been arrested in various parts of the country over
the past one month.

Qeyam Nuri reports.

[Correspondent] The National Directorate of Security reports about its
achievements. It continues to carry out special operations across the country,
particularly in the capital without any delay.

It reports that several terrorist networks have been curbed in Kabul alone over
the past three days. These terrorist groups belonged to the Haqqani network.

[Hasibollah Sediqi, NDS spokesman, captioned, speaking at a news conference] Our
compatriots may ask why these incidents are not prevented, but they should know
that our enemies succeed in carrying out only three attacks out of 100 and 97
per cent of their attacks are thwarted.

[Correspondent] The National Directorate of Security also answers the question
why terrorist attacks are not prevented before taking place?

[Sediqi] Undercover servicemen of the National Directorate of Security have
launched several special operations and destroyed several terrorist networks,
including the biggest terrorist centre for making suicide vests, explosives and
magnet mines in the Kabul city alone over the past three days.

[Correspondent] The National Directorate of Security also reports that the
latest terrorist attack in the Waziristan Akbar Khan area was carried by the
Taleban, but an investigation is under way to further clarify this.

Nearly 90 terrorists have been arrested in Kabul, Baghlan, Konduz, Ghazni, Khost
and Nangarhar Province over the past one month.

[Video shows the NDS spokesman speaking at a news conference, archive footage of
Afghan forces during an operation, blurred faces of some terrorists]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1315gmt 28 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 29, 2014 Saturday

At least 15 killed, 14 injured in China's Xinjiang terrorist attack - Xinhua

LENGTH: 69 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Urumqi, 29 Nov: Fifteen people, including 11 mobsters, were killed and 14 people
were injured in a terrorist attack in Shache County on Friday afternoon in
northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, local authorities announced
in a statement on Saturday.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0951gmt 29 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 29, 2014 Saturday

Iran condemns "terrorist" attack on Nigeria mosque

LENGTH: 131 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 29 November: Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham on Saturday
[29 November] strongly condemned the terrorist attack on mosque in Nigeria
claiming lives of 120 people and injured 270 prayers.     Expressing regret over
the human tragedy, she said that those accountable for the crimes against
humanity must be brought to justice.

She said that the extent of the tragedy requires strong campaign for
annihilation of terrorism and extremism in Nigeria.

The Nigerian nation should exercise vigilance and maintain unity in order to
thwart menaces of terrorism and prevent any religious or ethnic discord, she
said.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1540 gmt 29 Nov
14

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           November 29, 2014 Saturday

Four die in terrorist attack in Xinjiang

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 95 words


Four people died and 14 were hurt in a terrorist attack that happened at 1:30pm
on Friday in Shache county, Kashgar prefecture,  Uyghur Autonomous Region,
according to the region's official news portal, Tianshannet (www.ts.cn)

A group of knife-wielding terrorists attacked a main street with many food
outlets by using explosives at 1:30pm. Eleven of the terrorists were shot to
death by the police.

After the incident, police and medical experts have been sent to the spot by
local authorities. Injured people have been effectively treated. The case is
under investigation.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 29, 2014 Saturday 12:37 PM GMT

Chinese 'terrorist attack' kills at least 15;
Eleven 'mobsters' are gunned down by police in Xinjiang after they allegedly
launched a 'terrorist' assault on civilians with knives, explosives and axes

BYLINE: Tom Phillips in Shanghai

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 371 words


At least 15 people were killed and 14 others injured in the latest outbreak of
bloodshed to hit China's violence-stricken northwest, according to
state-controlled media.

Details of what official reports immediately dubbed a "terrorist attack"
remained sketchy on Saturday afternoon, one day after the incident took place in
Xinjiang's Yarkand county.

However, Xinhua, the state news agency, claimed police had gunned down 11
"mobsters" after the group set upon civilians at around 1.30pm on Friday with
knives and "explosives devices", killing four.

"A number of explosive devices, knives and axes were found at the scene," Xinhua
reported. Fourteen people were injured

The killings - the second such episode to hit Yarkand county this year - come as
Beijing struggles to respond to what appears to be a dramatic spike in violence
linked to Xinjiang, the home of the largely Muslim Uighur ethnic minority.

The Communist Party increasingly blames Islamic extremists for the violence but
experts and activists believe it is also fuelled by Beijing's repressive and
discriminatory policies towards the Uighurs and the increasing presence in
Xinjiang of immigrants from China's Han majority.

In late July at least 96 people were killed in Yarkand in circumstances that
remain murky. State media said the killing began when terrorists armed with
knives and axes murdered 37 civilians. Police then opened fire on the alleged
perpetrators, killing dozens.

With a major anti-terror campaign underway, independent reporting from Xinjiang
is now effectively impossible meaning the precise details of such attacks rarely
surface.

News of Friday's attack came one day after Xinjiang's government announced plans
to hire 3,000 ex-soldiers in a bid to further boost security .

James Leibold, a specialist on China's ethnic policy from La Trobe University in
Australia, said Beijing appeared to be trying to raise a "protective" shield
around Han Chinese interests in Xinjiang including schools, banks and shopping
centres. That was partly intended to prevent a further slowing of Han migration
to the border region, he argued.

"The attacks have really spooked the Han population in Xinjiang and the Party
cannot afford to lose their trust and faith."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 30, 2014 Sunday

Intel agencies warns south Indian coastal cities of possible terror attacks

LENGTH: 283 words


Text of report published by Indian newspaper The Hindu website on 30 Nov

Visakhapatnam: The Intelligence Bureau [IB] has alerted South Indian States with
coastal cities of possible terror attacks. Visakhapatnam, which has a long
coastline is one among these cities to be put on alert, said a senior police
officer of Andhra Pradesh.

Three-day drill

According to him, National Security Guard (NSG) will be conducting a three-day
anti-terror drill from 1 December in Visakhapatnam, along with the State's
anti-terror outfit Octopus and local police.

Commissioner of Police (in-charge) of Visakahapatnam and IG of North Coastal
Zone, Atul Singh, said 200 NSG and 120 Octopus commandos will be carrying out
the drill in eight select locations.

Sources say that the locations include vulnerable spots such as Visakhapatnam
Steel Plant, Vizag Airport, Wipro and Tech Mahindra IT centres, GITAM
University, Port Stadium, Novotel Hotel, HPCL, NSTL and Naval Armament Depot
(NAD).

The NSG commandos are from the Special Action Group (SAG) that specialises in
urban counter terrorist operation. The local police are expected to give the
logistic support.

This apart the city police will be embarking upon major visible policing efforts
from Monday.

Visible policing is important not only to instil confidence among the citizens,
but it also keeps the force in alert mode and acts as a deterrent to the terror
groups, said Mr. Atul Singh.

About 15 days ago, a coastal security drill 'Hamla' was jointly conducted by the
City Police, Coast Guard and Navy, and on Friday, Home Secretary B. Prasada Rao
held a session on coastal security with senior police officials.

Source: The Hindu website, Chennai, in English 30 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 30, 2014 Sunday

Morocco strongly condemns terrorist attack against Kano mosque in Nigeria

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, Nov. 30, 2014 (MAP) - Morocco strongly condemned, Sunday [30 November],
the "horrendous and odious" terrorist attack against Kano mosque Nigeria.

"The Kingdom of Morocco condemns in the strongest terms the terrorist attack
against the Great Mosque of Kano in Nigeria, during Friday prayers, which killed
120 prayers and left more than a hundred injured", the Foreign Ministry said in
a statement.

Expressing its sympathy and solidarity with the Nigerian people, the kingdom
expressed its condolences to the families of the victims and called for
promoting cooperation and coordination among countries in their fight against
terrorism in all its forms, the statement added.

At least 120 people were killed and 270 others wounded on Friday when two
suicide bombers blew themselves up and gunmen opened fire during Friday prayers
at the mosque of one of Nigeria's top Islamic leaders.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 1653 gmt 30 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 30, 2014 Sunday

Saharan president condemns "terrorist" attack on Kano mosque

LENGTH: 201 words


Text of report by official news agency of the Saharan Arab Democratic Republic
(SPS) website

Bir Lehlu, 30 November 2014, [SPS] - President of the Republic,
Secretary-General of the Polisario Front Mohamed Abdelaziz has expressed his
strong condemnation of the terrifying attacks which targeted worshippers in the
Grand Mosque in the town of Kano in northern Nigeria.

In a condolence letter he sent to Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan, the
president of the republic expressed his shock and deep sadness in the wake of
these ugly terrorist attacks which targeted the aforementioned town last Friday
[28 November] and left tens of people dead and numerous others injured.

On behalf of himself and the Saharan government and people, Mohamed Abdelaziz
expressed his condolences to his Nigerian counterpart and to the victims'
families and the Nigerian people in general.

The president of the republic strongly condemned this criminal act and
reiterated the support of the Saharan Arab Democratic Republic [SADR] to the
Federal Republic of Nigeria in its rapid efforts to combat terrorism and to
consolidate democracy and development in Africa.

Source: Sahara Press Service (SPS) website in Arabic 1952 gmt 30 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     November 30, 2014 Sunday 10:26 AM GMT

Isis suicide bombers used Turkish territory to launch attack on Kobani, human
rights group says;
Turkey denies that the Islamist terror group used its territory in the attack
yesterday

BYLINE: Jon Stone

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 379 words


An Isis suicide bomb attack on the Syrian border town of Kobani was launched
from across the border in Turkey, Kurdish officials have said.

Human rights observers from the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights
corroborated reports that fighters used Turkish territory for the raid.

Nawaf Khalil, a spokesperson for Syria's Kurish Democratic Union Party said
Isis, also known as Islamic State, was attacking the embattled town "from four
sides".

The Turkish government confirmed that a bomb-loaded vehicle was detonated on the
Syrian side of the border at Kobani, but denied the vehicle had crossed the
border from Turkey.

"Claims that the vehicle reached the border gate by crossing through Turkish
soil are a lie," read the statement released from the government press office at
the border town of Suruc.

"Contrary to certain claims, no Turkish official has made any statement claiming
that the bomb-loaded vehicle had crossed in from Turkey."

Isis fighters are said to be attacking the town from the south west with reports
of heavy gunfire in the surrounding hills and black smoke rising above the urban
area. Isis is reportedly using tanks and other armoured vehicles in the assault.

Huge explosions in Kobani

Mustafa Bali, a Kobani-based activist, told the Associated Press news agency
that Isis fighters were positioned in grain silos on the Turkish side of the
border and were launching attacks toward the border crossing point. "It is now
clear that Turkey is openly cooperating with [Isis]," Bali said.

Kurdish fighters have been making up ground in Kobani since late October when
well-armed Iraqi Kurdish peshmerga fighters joined Syrian Kurds fighting against
an Isis insurgency in the area. The Islamic militant group's assault began in
September, when it captured part of the town.

Turkey has been previously accused of taking a soft line against Isis in order
to damage Kurdish forces. The regional power has fought a decades-long battle
against Kurdish separatist militants in is eastern territory and worries that
events in Iraq and Syria could increase the power of the Kurds in the region.

US vice president Joe Biden travelled to Turkey earlier this month to urge the
country's government to play a bigger role in the battle despite its differences
with the Kurds.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            December 1, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lock-up your fertiliser to beat terror;
90% of UK attacks are manure-based bombs

BYLINE: JAMES ROTHWELL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 442 words


THE quiet Welsh countryside might seem the least likely place for terrorists to
plan their next attack.

But police have given the farming community a stark warning about their role in
staving off bombing raids on Britain's streets.

Farmers in Wales have been told about the dangers of leaving fertiliser
unattended amid fears it could be used by terrorists to make bombs.

Police have launched a plan to keep farmers and growers informed about the risks
of leaving fertiliser insecure in a bid to clamp down on extremism.

More than 90% of terrorist attacks in the UK have used homemade explosives, the
majority of which have been fertiliser-based.

Those using fertiliser commercially are being told how to store it securely to
prevent it getting into the wrong hands.

Farmers and growers are also urged to ensure that they report any loss or theft
to the police.

In September 38 forces signed up to a two month firearms surrender. The results
of 18 forces show 3,429 items including firearms, air weapons, ammunition and
other items such as pepper sprays and stun guns are now off the streets.

National Policing Lead for Gangs and Criminal Use of Firearms, Deputy Chief
Constable Dave Thompson said: "We want to stop terrorists getting access to
tools that they can use against UK citizens.

"We need to make sure licensed gun-owners are securing their guns properly and
remove guns from our streets and criminal networks so that terrorists cannot
take advantage of them.

"These operations won't impact on conscientious and responsible firearms
licence-holders but they will help to prevent weapons getting into the wrong
hands.

"We are making sure that those who handle large quantities of fertilisers
understand how they can help us to prevent a terrorist attack through simple
security measures.

"Terrorists can use ordinary objects such as kitchen knives and other items as
weapons so we need people to report any concerns they have about anyone who is
showing signs of extremism.

"If you suspect it, report it. We can then intervene early and help. Your piece
of information could hold the key."

Stephen James, National Farming Union (NFU) Cymru President said: "We have
worked closely with National Counter Terrorism Security Office and other
industry stakeholder to ensure there is clear guidance to the industry on how
farmers should buy, store and audit the fertilisers they need for the everyday
running of their businesses. "We are aware of the risks and we would urge
farmers to continue to be vigilant and to follow the guidance on ammonium
nitrate - and to report any suspicious activity to their local police or
national counter terrorism on 0800 789321."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            December 1, 2014 Monday

United States Condemns Terrorist Attacks in Nigeria

LENGTH: 124 words


November 28, 2014

Jen Psaki

Department Spokesperson Washington, DC

The United States condemns in the strongest terms today's horrendous attack on
worshippers at the Central Mosque in Kano and recent attacks on innocent
civilians in northeastern Nigeria. We extend our deepest condolences to the
families and loved ones of the individuals killed and injured.



These attacks, while as yet unclaimed, have all of the hallmarks of Boko Haram
and the group's disregard for human life as it continues in its efforts to
destabilize Nigeria.

The United States stands with the Nigerian people in their struggle against
violent extremism and the threat of terrorism and affirms our ongoing commitment
to work with all Nigerians to combat these atrocities.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 2, 2014 Tuesday

Russia expresses "outrage" at terrorist attack in Kano, Nigeria

LENGTH: 178 words


Text of "Comment by Information and Press Department of Russian Foreign Ministry
on terrorist attack in Kano, Nigeria", in English, by the Russian Ministry of
Foreign Affairs website on 1 December

A terrorist attack occurred in the city of Kano, northern Nigeria, on 28
November. According to incoming information, over 100 people died and more than
200 were wounded in a mosque explosion and subsequent shooting. By all
indications, this was yet another crime committed by Boko Haram, an extremist
movement operating in Nigeria, purportedly in "defence of Islam."

We are outraged by this inhuman act which cannot be justified. We support the
Government of Nigeria in its fight against Boko Haram and hope that the
organizers and perpetrators of this bloody crime in Kano as well as those
implicated in other terrorist attacks in Nigeria will receive justice.

We feel deeply for the family and friends of the deceased and sympathize with
the injured and wish them a speedy recovery.

29 November 2014

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Moscow, in English 1 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 2, 2014 Tuesday

Kenyan leader confirms police chief quits in wake of 2 December terrorist attack

LENGTH: 74 words


Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta has confirmed Police Inspector-General David
Kimaiyo has quit his post. Kenyatta, who was addressing the nation from State
House in the wake of a dawn attack in northern Kenya, in which 36 people were
killed by suspected Somali Al-Shabab militia, said Kimaiyo had opted to retire.
"Mr David Kimaiyo offered to retire" and I have accepted his request, Kenyatta
said.

Source: NTV, Nairobi, in English 1240 gmt 2 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 2, 2014 Tuesday

Text of address by Kenyan leader on wake of 2 December terrorist attack

LENGTH: 1984 words


Text of statement entitled "Statement by HE Hon Uhuru Kenyatta, president of the
Republic of Kenya on the current security situation. December 2 2014" by Kenya
presidency website on 2 December; subheadings inserted editorially:

Kenya's "decades of horror"

1. Our country and our people are under attack. A war has been waged against all
Kenyans by an enemy hiding behind religion, and much innocent blood has been
shed. Kenya has been subjected to a long history of murder and violence at the
hand of bandits, terrorists and extremists.

2. For over two decades now, Kenya has endured immense vulnerability owing to
the collapse of the Somalia government in 1991. This led to civil war in that
country, and provided space for bandits to roam the entire region at will.

3. This space became ideal for terrorists to train and plan far-reaching attacks
in the region, continent and even abroad. From Somalia, they inflicted murder
and mayhem with impunity everywhere they went. Kenya has, by far, borne the
brunt of these terrorist attacks.

4. In August 1998, 200 Kenyans were murdered by terrorists when they detonated a
bomb at the US embassy in Nairobi. In November, 2002, terrorists struck in
Kikambala, Kilifi County [Coast Province], claiming over a dozen lives.

5. Since then, a spate of attacks and abductions threatened our people and the
economy, violated our territorial integrity and insulted our sovereignty. More
recently, there has been a series of terror attacks, culminating in the violence
and murder at the Westgate mall in September last year, and the murders early
this morning in Mandera. These terrorist attacks have claimed the lives of more
than 500 civilians and 300 security officers.

6. After decades of horror, fear, outrage and frustration, we resolved as a
nation to protect our sovereignty by pursuing our enemies beyond our borders
into Somalia. By mid-2011, it had become abundantly clear that our long border
with an ungoverned territory teeming with violent criminals was a threat to our
national stability. Joining military efforts to bring peace to Somalia was the
inevitable answer to our terror and security threats. In October, 2011, the
Government authorized the KDF [Kenya Defence Forces] to pursue the Al Shabab
militia into Somalia. This decision was right then, and remains so today.

7. Following requests by regional, continental and global actors, KDF joined
Amisom [African Union Mission in Somalia] in February 2012. We remain part of
the African Union mission to date.

8. The incursion in Somalia has been largely successful. Al-Shabab is depleted
and on the retreat. However, even in its diminished state, it remains a threat
to our nation. In desperation, it formally affiliated itself in 2012 to Al
Qa'idah, the international terrorist group.

9. This way, they secured resources and ability to infiltrate civilian
populations and recruit, then radicalize Kenyan youths to execute attacks within
our communities.

10. This is why we have witnessed intensified extremist rhetoric against the KDF
campaign in Somalia as well as support for murder and impunity. This
reprehensible rhetoric has embraced Al Qa'idah's extremist ideas of setting up
an Islamic caliphate in east Africa.

11. Places of worship have become fertile places for recruitment and several
Mosques have been taken over by radicalised terrorist sympathisers and
accomplices.

Recent attacks "bear the terrorists' signature"

Dear Kenyans,

12. All recent attacks bear the terrorists' signature. Last week's bus attack
was accompanied by typical terrorist rhetoric. Last night, a terrorist attack
that would have wrought unspeakable devastation was successfully repulsed in
Wajir. Today's attack in Mandera targeted a soft area, leaving 36 Kenyans dead.

13. These attacks follow a pattern identical to the attacks on Christians in
Lamu, the sporadic attacks in Mombasa, Kwale, Garissa and Tana River. The
obvious intent is to create hostility and suspicion across ethnic and religious
lines and to drive non-Muslims from certain parts of this country. The ultimate
aim of this atrocious campaign is to establish an extremist caliphate in our
region.

Dear Kenyans,

14. A time has come for each and everyone of us to decide and choose. Are you on
the side of an open, free, democratic Kenya which respects the rule of law,
sanctity of life and freedom of worship, or do you stand with repressive,
intolerant and murderous extremists?

"We will not flinch or relent in the war against terrorism in our country and
our region"

Dear Kenyans,

15. Terrorism and violent crime are grave threats to our nation. We are in a war
against terrorists in and outside our country.

16. With the aid of sympathisers, supporters and collaborators among our
communities, terrorists have retaliated viciously to deter us from our
determined, effective and successful effort to rid the Horn of Africa of
terrorism and violent extremism. We will not flinch or relent in the war against
terrorism in our country and our region. We shall continue to inflict painful
casualties on these terrorists until we secure our country and region. Our
stability and prosperity depends on a secure neighbourhood. This is our
commitment.

17. We ask every Kenyan to take a principled stand against the evil of terror,
and to support this war. We are in this together, all the way.

18. Innocent Kenyan lives have been lost, in a most harrowing manner, to these
animals. Too many lives, too painfully snuffed out. Again, I extend condolences
to the families of all Kenyans who lost their lives in the hands of terrorists.
My Government continues to extend support to you, and we pray that God gives you
His divine solace, and comforts each of you in this painful moment.

19. In our shock, bitterness and outrage, many Kenyans, leaders included, have
lost sight of the context of this situation, and the scale of the war on terror.
Kenya is at war. Our enemy thrives on sowing panic and despondency in our
hearts. We aid this enemy when we succumb to suspicion, fear, finger-pointing
and blame-games.

20. Terrorists' efforts bear fruit a hundredfold when we see things their way:
with countenances of fear, anger and despair. We become their unwitting
accomplices when we doubt, and we come to their aid when we shout at each other.

21. This is a war against Kenya, and Kenyans. It is not a war against the
[governing] Jubilee government or its leaders. It is a war that every one of us
must fight. Our bickering only emboldens the enemy.

22. Our national conversation, whatever its temper, is facilitated by our media.
The media must step back from being an inert funnel of sentiments, opinions and
messages, and become a true mediator and an honest broker of the national
discourse. The media must not allow intemperate, intolerant, divisive, alarmist
and stigmatizing views.

23. Ideas that profile and victimize communities and individuals serve the
precise aims of our enemies. Media serving as a platform for destructive and
toxic interaction is dangerous for our nationhood. I urge the media to help
Kenya develop a sober, bipartisan consensus on matters of national importance,
where we may confer as a national family without sacrificing our democracy,
freedom of opinion or robust debate.

Terrorists not Muslim but "deranged animals"

Fellow Kenyans,

24. I must address myself at this point to our Muslim community. Muslims are a
hardworking, and peaceful community. Their contribution to nation building is
indispensable. We ask you to continue standing with your country and compatriots
as always, and not to give in to the desires of terrorists who may use your
religion to manipulate or coerce you. All Kenyans understand Islam to be a
religion of peace, because Allah is all gracious and merciful.

25. Without a doubt, terrorists who claim to kill in the name of Allah are
neither Muslims nor Godly people, but deranged animals who have lost their souls
and minds. Stay true to your religious tradition of tolerance and respect for
all people. We depend on your support in our war against violent extremism and
terror.

26. I also want to reach out, in a special way, to county governments, and
especially those whose counties border Somalia. Let us never forget that as
leaders, we are all sworn to protect the sovereignty of this nation.

27. I remind you of your responsibility to work with the national government in
keeping our country and people safe. Your interactions with the grassroots place
you in a vantage for purposes of preventing attacks and peace-building within
and among our communities. As always, we will keep a listening ear at all times
to take your input on board.

28. Let us all pull together as one nation: to comfort the afflicted and
bereaved, to confront the terrorists and to build a stronger, more tranquil and
happier nation.

Optimistic "our security situation will turn around"

Fellow Kenyans,

29. As President and the commander-in-chief of our defence forces, I hurt with
you, and grieve with you very deeply. I continuously consult and review concrete
strategies to make every part of this country safe for every Kenyan. I remain
confident that our short, medium and long-term plans are feasible and
appropriate, and that in due course, our security situation will turn around.

30. My government has invested heavily in terms of increasing the recruitment of
security personnel and improving their welfare, providing vehicles for our
security services, equipping them with the hardware and technology needed to
keep Kenya safe. We will continue to increase investment in this sector until
our country and citizens are secure.

31. Despite this progress, we acknowledge some weaknesses in our security
architecture.

32. In light of this, last week, I directed my government's security actors to
engage with the members of the relevant committees of the legislature, with a
view to rectify administrative and legal hurdles that limit our ability to deal
with the very real and existential threat that we face.

33. On Thursday [4 November] this week, I expect a final report of their
deliberations and recommendations for my consideration and further action. To
this end, I have written to the National Assembly to ask them to extend their
sitting until this process is concluded.

34. Recognizing that the war on terrorism requires all of us, I also call upon
other arms of government, particularly the Judiciary and the Office of the
Director of Public Prosecutions to work with us and seal all gaps that hinder
the effective operations to secure the country.

Police chief, interior minister replaced

Dear Kenyans,

35. As we intensify the war on terrorism, I acknowledge the thousands of our men
and women in uniform. They continue to serve this nation diligently in difficult
and trying circumstances.

36. We have lost hundreds of them as they work to defend us. For this reason, I
urge all Kenyans to support and pray for our security forces at all times.

37. Earlier today, I held a meeting with the Inspector-General of Police, Mr
David Kimaiyo, a man who has served this nation with dedication and commitment.

Mr David Kimaiyo offered to retire and I have accepted the retirement request. I
therefore take this opportunity to thank Mr David Kimaiyo for his many years of
service to our nation.

Further to this, I have nominated Hon Maj-Gen (retd) Joseph Nkaissery as the new
cabinet secretary for interior and coordination of national government. I hope
the National Assembly will expedite the process of his vetting and approval.

Fellow Kenyans,

38. I know we are all under a lot of pressure, but I appeal to each one of us:
this is not a time to be cowed by the enemy. I also call on all leaders to stand
together and confront this enemy. This is a war we must win.

39. We must win it together. In times like this, Kenyans must unite and stand
for Kenya.

Thank you and God bless you.

Source: Kenya presidency website, Nairobi, in English 2 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            December 2, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

DISSIDENT XMAS BLITZ WARNING;
Cops on high alert for terror attacks

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 384 words


DISSIDENT terror groups could join forces in a Christmas bombing blitz, a police
commander said yesterday.

Assistant Chief Constable Will Kerr warned there is a "strong possibility
dissident republicans" will carry out attacks. He added his officers have seen
an "uplift in capability" in some terror groups which he labelled "unrepentant
elements" of "a past nobody wants to go back to".

ACC Kerr was speaking after a group calling itself the IRA claimed it was behind
a rocket attack on police officers in Ardoyne in North Belfast last month.

It warned its "engineering departments" were improving their arsenal to attack
"at a time of our choosing".

ACC Kerr added "in recent months we've seen an upsurge in the level and
intensity of attacks" but that it would be worse if it were not for a "number of
impactive successes against these groups in recent months". He said his officers
will be ramping up security levels but would not go into specifics and declined
to state if the warning was based on intelligence.

ACC Kerr said: "The fact we are putting out a statement that we assess there is
a strong possibility that violent dissident republicans will attempt to carry
out attacks will give you a strong sense of how concerned we are.

"That is why we are putting out this appeal for patience, for vigilance, for
information and support over Christmas."

Police do not believe Belfast will necessarily be the main target and smaller
towns and cities could be hit. Last year, dissidents carried out a number of
attacks in Belfast in the run-up to Christmas.

A small bomb exploded in the Cathedral Quarter and a man set himself alight
inside a shop when the device he was carrying appeared to ignite prematurely.

There was also a bid to car bomb Victoria Square shopping centre.

Yesterday ACC Kerr called for the public to do their bit in stopping the
dissidents by being the police's "eyes and ears".

He also urged people to be patient during security alerts saying it takes "more
than half an hour" to secure possible bomb sites and any potential evidence.

ACC Kerr also urged the public to show the lack of support there is for the
terror groups by bringing forward information about their activities.

irish@mgn.co.uk

The fact we are putting a warning out shows our level of concern ACC WILL KERR
belfast yesterday

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: APPEAL ACC Will Kerr yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            December 2, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

DISSIDENT XMAS BLITZ WARNING;
Cops on high alert for terror attacks

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 384 words


DISSIDENT terror groups could join forces in a Christmas bombing blitz, a police
commander said yesterday.

Assistant Chief Constable Will Kerr warned there is a "strong possibility
dissident republicans" will carry out attacks. He added his officers have seen
an "uplift in capability" in some terror groups which he labelled "unrepentant
elements" of "a past nobody wants to go back to".

ACC Kerr was speaking after a group calling itself the IRA claimed it was behind
a rocket attack on police officers in Ardoyne in North Belfast last month.

It warned its "engineering departments" were improving their arsenal to attack
"at a time of our choosing".

ACC Kerr added "in recent months we've seen an upsurge in the level and
intensity of attacks" but that it would be worse if it were not for a "number of
impactive successes against these groups in recent months". He said his officers
will be ramping up security levels but would not go into specifics and declined
to state if the warning was based on intelligence.

ACC Kerr said: "The fact we are putting out a statement that we assess there is
a strong possibility that violent dissident republicans will attempt to carry
out attacks will give you a strong sense of how concerned we are.

"That is why we are putting out this appeal for patience, for vigilance, for
information and support over Christmas."

Police do not believe Belfast will necessarily be the main target and smaller
towns and cities could be hit. Last year, dissidents carried out a number of
attacks in Belfast in the run-up to Christmas.

A small bomb exploded in the Cathedral Quarter and a man set himself alight
inside a shop when the device he was carrying appeared to ignite prematurely.

There was also a bid to car bomb Victoria Square shopping centre.

Yesterday ACC Kerr called for the public to do their bit in stopping the
dissidents by being the police's "eyes and ears".

He also urged people to be patient during security alerts saying it takes "more
than half an hour" to secure possible bomb sites and any potential evidence.

ACC Kerr also urged the public to show the lack of support there is for the
terror groups by bringing forward information about their activities.

irish@mgn.co.uk

The fact we are putting a warning out shows our level of concern ACC WILL KERR
belfast yesterday

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: APPEAL ACC Will Kerr yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                            December 2, 2014 Tuesday

Security shake-up after series of deadly terror attacks in Kenya

LENGTH: 524  words


Kenya's president has announced a security shake-up, firing his interior
minister and accepting the resignation of the national police chief, in the wake
of a series of deadly attacks by Islamic extremists from neighbouring Somalia.

President Uhuru Kenyatta named an opposition politician and retired army
general, Joseph Nkaissery, to be the new interior minister, in charge of
security.

Police Chief David Kimaiyo said he resigned for personal reasons.

Public pressure had been mounting for the two officials to be replaced following
a string of extremist attacks.

The changes come after Islamic extremists from Somalia killed 36 quarry workers
in northern Kenya early yesterday, targeting non-Muslims just like an attack 10
days ago on bus passengers.

The killings happened in Mandera County near the border with Somalia and the
attackers escaped.

The group al Shabab, which has been battling for years to establish hard-line
Islamic rule in Somalia, claimed responsibility for the killings.

A group of about 50 heavily armed people walked into the camp next to the quarry
at 12.30am as the workers were sleeping and fired warning shots, said Peter
Nderitu, who works at the quarry.

Mr Nderitu said when he heard the shooting he ran and hid in a trench from where
he could hear his colleagues being asked to recite the Shahada, an  Islamic
creed declaring oneness with God. Then gunshots followed.

He only rose from his hiding place two hours later when he was sure there was no
more movement, he said. The bodies of his colleagues were in two rows and nearly
all had been shot in the back of the head, he said.

The gunmen singled out non-Muslims and killed them, said the police.

Al Shabab spokesman Sheikh Ali Mohamud Rage said the latest attack was a
response to Kenya's troop presence in Somalia and alleged atrocities committed
by the Kenyan army.

Al Shabab claimed a recent air strike killed innocent people and destroyed their
property. The Kenyan government said the air strike was in response to a
November 22 al Shabab attack on bus passengers in Mandera County that left 28
people dead.

In that attack, the non-Muslims were also separated  from other passengers and
shot dead.

About 100 non-Muslims last week sought refuge at the army base in Mandera,
demanding that the government evacuate them.

Mr Kenyatta's chief of staff, Joseph Kinyua, attempted to persuade non-Muslim
from leaving Mandera County, whose population is predominantly Kenyan Muslims of
Somali origin.

Those who wanted to be evacuated argued that they could not stay because
governor himself is not safe. Mandera governor Ali Roba survived an improvised
explosive device attack on his vehicle on October 15.

The quarry attack came hours after a hotel in Wajir, also in northern Kenya, was
hit by a grenade and gunfire, killing one person and wounding 13, said police.

Lebanese authorities detained a wife and suspected son of Abu Bakr
al-Baghdadi,the leader of the "Islamic State" (IS) group several days ago, and
she is being questioned, two senior officials have said. A military official
said the woman and child were detained about 10 days ago while carrying fake ID
cards.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday

UN, US condemn terrorist attack on Lebanese soldiers

LENGTH: 262 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese news website Naharnet on 3 December

The United Nations and the US State Department have condemned the deadly attack
on Lebanese troops in Ras Baalbek near the Syrian border, reiterating their
commitment to support the army.

UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon Derek Plumbly "strongly condemned" the attack
and "expressed his condolences to the families of those killed and to the people
and government of Lebanon."

He paid tribute to "the determination and dedication shown by the Lebanese army
in their efforts to maintain security and stability, and to the sacrifices as
they seek to protect Lebanon." "He underlined again the strength of the
commitment of the United Nations and the international community to support for
the army."

Deputy State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf also said on Tuesday [2 December]
that the US condemns the attack and extends its "sincere condolences to the
victim's family and wish a speedy recovery to those who were injured."

"The United States remains committed to strong support for the Lebanese armed
forces as they protect Lebanon's sovereignty and security and combat violent
extremists," she told reporters.

An army statement said Tuesday that a patrol was conducting a "surveillance
mission" in an area on the outskirts of Ras Baalbek at 5:15 p.m. when it was
ambushed by a terrorist group. A clash ensued between the patrol's members and
the militants which resulted in the death of six soldiers and the injury of
another, the statement added.

Source: Naharnet, Beirut, in English 1630 gmt 3 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday

Six Lebanese soldiers killed in terrorist attack on army patrol

LENGTH: 76 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese Hezbollah Al-Manar TV website on 3
December

A terrorist group ambushed a Lebanese army patrol on the barrens of Ras Baalbek
in Bekaa, claiming 6 martyrs and one injured.

The security sources asserted that the Lebanese army evacuated the martyrs as
well as the injured from the battlefield and summoned reinforcements, clashing
with the terrorists.

Source: Al-Manar Television website, Beirut, in English 1450 gmt 3 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday

Didier Reynders condemns terrorist attacks in Kenya

LENGTH: 86 words


December 3, 2014

BRUSSELS, Kingdom of Belgium - /African Press Organization (APO)/ -- Deputy
Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Didier Reynders strongly condemns
the terrorist attacks of the past days in Kenya. He extends his condolences to
the family and friends of the many victims.

Didier Reynders reaffirms the support of Belgium, together with the European
Union, to Kenya in its fight against terrorism and in its efforts for a
stabilization in Somalia.

SOURCE

Belgium - Ministry of Foreign Affairs

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday

Ban deplores deadly terrorist attack against civilians in north-eastern Kenya

LENGTH: 221 words


December 2, 2014

United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has condemned a "horrific"
terrorist attack in Mandera, Kenya which left over 30 people killed in the
second outburst of extremist violence to afflict the East African nation in less
than two weeks.



According to media reports, militants claiming to belong to the Al-Shabaab
extremist group targeted non-Muslim civilian workers in Mandera -- a town
sitting along the Kenya-Somalia border -- killing at least thirty-six people. It
is the second targeted attack in Mandera following the brutal killing of 28
people on a passenger bus there 10 days ago.

Al-Shabaab's operations have sown terror across Somalia and Kenya in recent
years with coordinated attacks against hotels, shopping centres, and other
civilian areas.In a statement issued today by his spokesperson, the
Secretary-General strongly condemned the violence and expressed his "deep
condolences to the families of the deceased and to the people and the Government
of Kenya."

"The Secretary-General hopes that those responsible will be brought swiftly to
justice," the statement continued, adding that Mr. Ban reaffirmed the UN's "full
support" in aiding Kenya's efforts "to fight terrorism and to provide security
to the population consistent with international law and Kenya's human rights
obligations."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday

Soldiers thought explosion was terror attack

BYLINE: Stuart Minting

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 557 words


SOLDIERS believed they were under attack from terrorists after being rocked by
an explosion near Britain's biggest Army base, it has emerged.

Last night more details emerged about what happened when troops on security duty
at Marne Barracks, Catterick, issued an alert to their superior officers at
about 3am on Sunday.

North Yorkshire's deputy chief constable Tim Madgwick said soldiers on duty
reported hearing a huge blast and said they saw dazzling light outside the
guardroom, which is yards from a slip road to the southbound A1.

Eight residents have since told police they also heard the explosion, the cause
of which is baffling police.

In the aftermath of the blast, four houses on the garrison were evacuated and
soldiers told police of their shock as explosives detection teams and the
National Police Air Service were called in.

Counter-terrorism officers were also sent to the scene to examine whether
extremists had targeted the garrison for the first time in its 100-year history.

A six-mile section of the A1 was closed for 14 hours, causing major tailbacks in
the area, as it was established a suspicious vehicle had been sighted near the
barracks - the home of 5 Regiment Royal Artillery and 1st Battalion Mercian
Regiment - which had made off two hours before the blast.

But, despite an intense search of the area, detectives admit they have yet to
establish what caused the security alert.

Mr Madgwick said: "One of the guards who had been outside at the time described
it as a particularly loud explosion.

"He subsequently thought it might have been part of an attack and the guards
inside the guardroom saw a flash across the windows.

"They immediately called the police and their Army colleagues."

Mr Madgwick said when police arrived at the scene it had been impossible to
identify the cause of the explosion due to darkness, but officers rapidly
established there was no obvious damage to the perimeter of the base or
structures inside or outside it.

He said officers made a swift decision to close the A1 on the basis that they
could not identify the damage or what the ongoing risk was to Army personnel,
police staff or the travelling public using the A1.

When asked about concerns over whether terrorists had launched an attack, Mr
Madgwick said: "We were aware of the national state of readiness and the risk
status that we were all working under.

"We are aware that the armed military bases area a moderate risk, we are very
conscious that Catterick is the largest military base in the country and is
always going to be a subject of interest, so we had that as one hypothesis."

While North Yorkshire Police initially ruled out terrorism, Mr Madgwick said all
other theories for the blast, such as it being caused by contractors working in
the barracks or on the A1, a nearby quarry or a farm, had been checked and
dismissed. However, the suspicious vehicle has been eliminated from the inquiry
after officers traced and interviewed the driver.

Nothing was found apart from a box of ageing detonators near the barracks
perimeter fence, which were destroyed in a controlled blast.

Mr Madgwick said: "It is frustrating for us as investigators. We still don't
know what caused the explosion."

An Army spokesman said it had not launched an inquiry into the incident and that
it remained happy with the security measures at the garrison.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 4, 2014 Thursday

Saudi Arabia says attack on Canadian national not terror-related

LENGTH: 417 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Arab News website on 4 December

[Report by Ghazanfar Ali Khan: "Attack on Canadian 'Not Terror-Linked'"]

The Ministry of Interior on Wednesday rejected the claim that the stabbing of a
Canadian national by an armed man at a shopping mall in the Eastern Province was
part of any terror plot. The accused -a young Saudi national -has been detained,
and police are currently investigating the possible motive behind the attack.

Maj-Gen Mansur Al-Turki confirmed to Arab News that "the suspect who attacked
the Canadian national in Eastern Province is in custody and is currently
undergoing medical examination as the investigating agencies wish to verify the
mental condition of the suspect, who has shown signs of abnormal behaviour."

Asked about reasons behind the attack on the Canadian man in particular, and on
Westerners in general recently, both Saudi and Canadian officials refused to
speculate. Nevertheless, authorities have increased security patrols on the
streets, as well as in public places and key areas in the Kingdom. Western
diplomatic missions have also asked their citizens to be more vigilant.

In reply to a question about the Canadian Embassy's assistance to the victim,
Nancy Guy, consul at the Canadian Embassy, said that "Canadian officials in
Riyadh are in contact with the family and have offered consular assistance." She
added: "To protect the private and personal information of the individual
concerned, further details on this case cannot be released".

Guy said that the warning level maintained by the Canadian travel advisory for
Saudi Arabia "remains the same." The embassy has, however, advised Canadian
citizens to exercise "a high degree of caution due to the general threat of
terrorist attacks." Guy also recommended that Canadian citizens monitor updates
on the travel advisory for Saudi Arabia on a regular basis, and register with
Canada's Registration of Canadians Abroad (ROCA).

This most recent attack on a Canadian citizen is not an isolated incident. Only
a few days ago, a Danish resident was gunned down as he left his office in
Riyadh in broad daylight. Last month, an American man was shot and killed and
his co-worker wounded during an attack that also occurred in the capital. Since
September this year, Saudi Arabia has taken part in the US-led campaign of
airstrikes against the so-called Islamic State in Syria, raising concerns about
possible retaliation.

Source: Arab News website, Jedda, in English 4 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           December 4, 2014 Thursday

Security Council Press Statement on the terrorist attack in Mogadishu

LENGTH: 341 words


December 4, 2014

NEW YORK - /African Press Organization (APO)/ -- The members of the Security
Council are outraged by today's terrorist attack in Mogadishu which has caused
numerous deaths and injuries and damaged a UN convoy, for which Al Shabaab has
claimed responsibility. The members of the Security Council condemned the attack
in the strongest terms. They expressed their condolences to the families of the
victims as well as to the people and government of the Federal Republic of
Somalia. The members of the Security Council also wished a speedy recovery to
those injured.



The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms
and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable regardless of their motivation, wherever and whenever and by
whomsoever committed.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to combat all
forms of terrorism, in accordance with their responsibilities under the Charter
of the United Nations.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to
justice and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with relevant regional authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reminded States that they must ensure that
measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under
international law, in particular international human rights, refugee and
humanitarian law.

The members of the Security Council underlined their support and gratitude to
all UN staff working under difficult circumstances to bring peace and stability
to Somalia. The members of the Security Council reiterated that this or any
other attack by Al Shabaab would not dent their resolve to support the people of
Somalia.

SOURCE

UNITED NATIONS

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           December 4, 2014 Thursday

Somalia: UN 'outraged' by deadly terrorist car bomb attack in Mogadishu

LENGTH: 306 words


December 3, 2014

The United Nations Security Council and Secretary-General expressed outrage
today over an Al-Shabaab terrorist attack in Mogadishu this morning that damaged
a convoy of UN vehicles and killed and injured several Somali bystanders and
security personnel.



"There can be no justification for terrorism or such attacks," the UN chief said
in a statement issued by his spokesman. The Secretary-General also reaffirmed
the UN's strong commitment to working with the people and Government of Somalia
to help rebuild peace and prosperity for all Somalis.

In a statement to the press issued later in the day, the members of the Security
Council strongly condemned the attack, reaffirming that terrorism in all its
forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to
international peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal
and unjustifiable regardless of their motivation, wherever and whenever and by
whomsoever committed.

The Council also reiterated its determination to combat all forms of terrorism,
underlining the need to bring perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors
of such reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice. Underlining their support
and gratitude to all UN staff in Somalia, they also reiterated that this or any
other attack by Al Shabaab would not dent their resolve to support the people of
Somalia

According to the UN Assistance Mission in Somalia ( UNSOM ), no staff were
injured in the attack, which took place at approximately 9:40 am, and
investigations into the bombing continue, with no group as yet claiming
responsibility.

In other news from Somalia, Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General
for Somalia, Nicholas Kay, welcomed the inauguration of Sharif Hassan Sheikh
Adan as the head of the newly formed Interim South West Administration.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 4, 2014 Thursday 9:02 PM GMT

Woman arrested for U.S. mother's Abu Dhabi mall murder in dramatic raid on home
packed with explosives after she 'planted a bomb outside American doctor's
apartment' in dual terror attack

BYLINE: TAHIRA YAQOOB IN DUBAI and LYDIA WARREN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2321 words



     ·    Police have arrested an Emirati woman 'for stabbing American teacher
          Ibolya Ryan, 47, to death in a mall restroom on Reem Island on Monday'
     ·    An hour after the attack, she 'planted a bomb outside the home of an
          American doctor' - but it was found and safely dismantled
     ·    Authorities released dramatic footage showing a night-time police raid
          on a house where the woman is found and taken away in handcuffs
     ·    A white SUV - identical to the one she was seen driving from the crime
          scene - is shown at the house and has blood on its steering wheel
     ·    The footage also contains shots of explosives and home-made bombs
     ·    Sources say the suspect was 'not lone wolf' and her home was ' a base
          of operations'
     ·    Ibolya Ryan, a divorced mom of twin boys, was stabbed to death by
          someone wearing a burqa after an altercation in toilets
     ·    Authorities say they believe the woman targeted Ryan and the doctor
          based solely on their nationalities and did not know them


A woman suspected of stabbing an American teacher to death in an upscale Abu
Dhabi mall has been arrested during a dramatic night-time raid.

The 'face covered' suspect is an Emirati national in her late 30s, said Sheikh
Saif Bin Zayed al Nahyan, the minister of the interior for the United Arab
Emirates, at a press conference on Thursday. Her name was not released.

The woman was wearing a burka when she allegedly stabbed 47-year-old
mother-of-two Ibolya Ryan, who once lived in Colorado, in a mall restroom on
Reem Island on Monday.

An hour after the stabbing, the suspect then planted a home-made bomb outside
the house of a Muslim Egyptian-American doctor, Sheikh Saif said. But the
device, which was made of small gas cylinders, a lighter, glue and nails, was
successfully dismantled after one of the man's sons found it.

Sheikh Saif added that the woman targeted her victims based solely on their
nationality and did not know either of them. He said she 'aimed to create chaos,
shake the security in the country and terrorize people in the UAE' - although
investigations are still continuing into her exact motive.

UAE police have also told ABC News that the suspect was 'not lone wolf' and her
house was 'a base of operations'.

Scroll down for video

On Thursday, authorities released dramatic video footage showing the suspect's
arrest during a night-time raid.

It shows a SWAT team swooping on the home at night and bursting through the
front door - forcing a man to the ground at gunpoint and dragging the woman away
in handcuffs.

The footage, which was released by Abu Dhabi Police, also shows images of what
appear to be home-made bombs at the house, as well as stashes of knives.

There are also shots showing the same white SUV that the suspect was seen
driving from the scene of the crime. Blood can be seen on the steering wheel and
a black suitcase - identical to the one she allegedly carried to the doctor's
apartment - are also shown in the police video.

The teacher was stabbed to death by an attacker wearing the black veil commonly
worn by women throughout the Gulf Arab region. Witnesses told MailOnline she was
stabbed as many as six times.

Detectives previously released CCTV footage which showed how the suspect lay in
wait for the teacher for an hour - which suggested the attack was a targeted
murder.

Mrs Ryan, who was Hungarian-born, raised in Romania and trained as a teacher in
the U.S., was left in a pool of blood after what police said was a 'brawl' in
the toilets of the upmarket Bourik Mall.

As security guards rushed to the scene of the killing, her attacker calmly got
in an elevator and walked out into the car park. The assailant left behind the
weapon, a large kitchen knife.

She aimed to create chaos, shake the security in the country and terrorize
people in the UAE Sheikh Saif Bin Zayed al Nahyan, the interior minister of the
UAE

In the newly-released video, the suspect is then seen heading towards the
doctor's home with a small black suitcase. A security guard said he saw her
enter and then leave quickly.

The bomb was spotted when the doctor's son was going to mosque in the evening to
pray and noticed the strange object in front of the house.

Colonel Rashid Bourshid, head of the criminal investigation department, said:
'The doctor who was targeted with the bomb, 46-year-old MH, informed the
security guard about the strange package in front of his door.

'The guard in turn informed the police who rushed to the spot and evacuated the
site.

'They dismantled the bomb and identified its primitive components that included
small gas cylinders, a lighter, glue, and nails to cause maximum injuries when
detonated.'

It set off alarm bells as a woman wearing a niqab and gloves had called at the
house several days earlier to see if the family was home - then fled at top
speed before the doctor or his wife could identify her.

She was also seen driving a white SUV with a United Arab Emirates Flag across
its back window and had tried to disguise the vehicle's license plates.

'Your brothers at the Ministry of Interior and security forces have worked all
night and day to reach this suspect and to identify her, despite all of her
attempts to disguise herself,' Sheikh Saif said.

He said the woman was identified in less than 24 hours and arrested in less than
48 hours. It is unclear how authorities were able to identify the suspect.

Separate CCTV footage released by authorities earlier this week showed that the
suspect spent at least an hour apparently waiting in the toilets of the mall.

She entered the mall from the car park at 1.12pm and after apparently asking a
security guard for directions, headed to the restroom. An hour and a half later
she is seen leaving the toilets.

Witnesses told MailOnline that they overheard a heated row between two women and
then heard one threaten to kill the other.

Vithi Cuc, a Vietnamese restaurant worker, was in a toilet cubicle when she
heard banging sounds from the disabled toilet cubicle next door.

She said: 'Then I heard one of them threatening the other saying: 'Sit down or
I'll kill you'.' I heard one of them try to call out for help. By this time
there were three of us outside the toilet and one of us ran to get security.

'When the female guard arrived they told us to leave the bathroom. I was so
scared and frightened for her.'

Another witness said he saw a woman bleeding on the floor outside the entrance
to Waitrose, the upscale British supermarket nearest the toilets in the mall.

Bernadette Ruizo, manager of La Brioche restaurant near the scene of the murder,
said: 'I heard she was stabbed five or six times.

'None of us knows exactly what happened as it was so busy in the restaurant.
There was a crowd around the toilet entrance and I only found out afterwards
what had happened.'

On the CCTV footage, people on the scene can be seen reacting to the killing.
One mother with a young child can be seen hurrying him away while security
guards move towards the corridor.

She then calmly goes down to the parking garage and is last seen moving towards
cars in it.

In new footage released on Thursday, the suspect can be seen walking towards a
parking lot of vehicles while dragging a small dark suitcase on wheels, although
it is not clear when this was taken.

She then apparently drives off in a white SUV draped with the flag.

The victim - who is divorced from the father of the twins - described herself in
an online profile as a teacher at a large kindergarten called Al Oula in Abu
Dhabi, 35 minutes away from the downtown area of the emirate.

She had previously lived in Denver, Colorado, where she worked as a special
educational needs teacher and took a course in teaching English as a foreign
language.

She has also worked as an executive assistant at a Colorado technology company,
an event planner at a Hungarian hotel, a substitute teacher at the American
International School in Vienna, and a part-time events planner in Abu Dhabi.

She wrote: 'I enjoy learning about other cultures, and as a person I enjoy being
with others and tend to be an organizer of those around me.

'Also I have high interest in other languages; one of my goals while here in the
UAE is to gain some proficiency in Arabic.

'I live in Abu Dhabi with my 10-year-old twin boys and I teach in a big KG
school named Al Oula KG School, 35 minutes away from downtown Abu Dhabi.'

The victim's ex-husband, Paul, was said to be overseas but was flying back to
comfort his sons.

Mrs Ryan lived in a beachside apartment on Reem Island, where the mall where she
was murdered is situated. Her ex-husband is believed to currently live in
Europe.

After her murder, America's embassy in Abu Dhabi issued new security advice to
US citizen.

SECURITY ADVICE TO US CITIZENS

Avoid large crowds or gatherings of unknown origin or circumstances when
traveling in public;

Know where you are going and have a plan of what to do in the event you
encounter demonstrations or violence;

Identify safe areas (for example police stations, hospitals) in your area and
how to get to them quickly;

Tell co-workers or neighbors where you're going and when you intend to
return;Minimize your profile while in public;

Always carry a cell phone and make sure you have emergency numbers
pre-programmed into your phone such as the U.S. Embassy in Abu Dhabi and U.S.
Consulate General in Dubai;

Be prepared to postpone or cancel activities for personal safety concerns.

Source: US Embassy in Abu Dhabi

In a statement, the embassy said: 'On December 1, a U.S. citizen was killed in a
public restroom at a shopping mall on Reem Island in Abu Dhabi. The U.S. Embassy
is working with all the appropriate authorities to seek further information.'

It listed extra precautions for US citizens, saying they should avoid crowds and
places they did not know previously, and 'minimize their profile in public'.

The embassy did not say it was linked the murder to the jihadi threat, which was
highlighted to American citizens at the end of October in a statement on the
embassy website.

It said: 'The Embassy/Consulate wishes to notify the U.S. citizen community of a
recent anonymous posting on a Jihadist website that encouraged attacks against
teachers at American and other international schools in the Middle East.

'The Mission is unaware of any specific, credible threat against any American or
other school or individual in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).

'Nonetheless, the Mission is working with local schools identified with the
United States to review their security posture. U.S. citizens residing in or
visiting the UAE should remain vigilant regarding their personal security and be
alert to local security developments.'

Reem Island is a residential, commercial and business development connected to
Abu Dhabi city centre by a bridge. It was built as the city center became
over-populated.

It is mostly inhabited by expatriates and boasts the upmarket Boutik Mall, which
opened in 2011 and has 50 shops and restaurants, including the capital city's
first Waitrose, the upscale British supermarket chain, Leopold's of London and
La Brioche.

The mall bridges two residential buildings, Sun and Sky towers. Its website says
it 'offers the best of everything that anyone needs to lead a stylish life.

'Serving the vibrant and cosmopolitan community of Shams Abu Dhabi and beyond,
Boutik is an oasis of independent retailers, brand outlets, comfortable cafes
and day-to-day services.

'For busy professionals living and working in the adjoining towers and for
students at the Sorbonne, it is a welcome social centre and cornerstone of the
community.'

Although Abu Dhabi is not the largest emirate - Dubai has the biggest population
- it has an estimated 40,000 American expatriates.

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES: IS ALLY IN TERROR WAR NOW UNSAFE?

Until now, the United Arab Emirates - and particularly its capital Abu Dhabi,
and economic powerhouse Dubai - have been regarded as the safest part of the
Middle East for Westerners.

If Mrs Ryan is a victim of jihadis, she is the first American to die as a result
of Islamic terrorism in the Emirates.

Unlike their larger neighbour, Saudi Arabia, the Emirates have so far managed to
keep al Qaeda and other Islamic terror groups at bay and maintain close
alliances with the West.

The UAE is currently home to one significant American military unit - the 380th
Air Expeditionary Wing - and Dubai is used as a transfer point to Afghanistan by
military personnel.

The Emirates are close allies of the US and its airforce's F-16s were among the
first to join the international effort to blast ISIS.

Military authorities proudly published pictures of the country's first female
pilot preparing her aircraft.

But there was a backlash which may be an ominous sign of the tensions inside the
UAE - which have no functioning democracy and where rapid economic expansion has
gone hand-in-hand with a conservative legal and social system - as the female
pilot was threatened on social media.

In fact there have been growing signs in recent months of those tensions. In
June seven men were jailed after being arrested the previous year over an
alleged plot to attack targets in the Emirates.

Since then, embassies have consistently issued security warnings to Westerners
with the latest today in the wake of Mrs Ryan's murder.

The most specific of all the warnings was that issued in October to teachers by
the American embassy.

But security experts believe that Islamic militants are likely to target Dubai,
Abu Dhabi and the other five Emirates not just because of their alliances and
actions against ISIS but because of their economic success and their vast
non-Muslim populations.

There are are 1.4 million Emiratis and largely open borders mean there are 7.8
million expatriates.

Among those are an estimated 40,000 Americans, mostly in Dubai and Abu Dhabi,
and now clearly seen as potential targets by their own embassy.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     December 4, 2014 Thursday 11:03 AM BST

MAN DENIES PLANNING TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: David Mercer, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 161 words


A man accused of arming himself with a knife and a hammer as he allegedly
planned a terror attack on British soldiers has pleaded not guilty to a
terrorism offence.

Brusthom Ziamani, 29, appeared via video link at the Old Bailey charged with
preparing an act of terrorism on or before August 20 this year.

The details of the charge state that Ziamani researched locations of military
bases and how to achieve ``Jannah'' or paradise.

He is also alleged to have encouraged others to engage in Jihad and written a
letter expressing his intention to commit a terrorist act on military or
government personnel.

The charge goes on to state that he made peace with an ex-girlfriend and armed
himself with a knife and a hammer.

Wearing a skull cap, a dark jumper and light-coloured trousers, Ziamani, of
Warner Road, Camberwell, south-east London, pleaded not guilty to the alleged
terror offence during the 10-minute hearing.

Judge Timothy Pontius set a trial date of February 9.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2014 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Regional Press Releases: London

                     December 4, 2014 Thursday 11:17 AM BST

MAN DENIES PLANNING TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 161 words


A man from south-east London accused of arming himself with a knife and a hammer
as he allegedly planned a terror attack on British soldiers has pleaded not
guilty to a terrorism offence.

Brusthom Ziamani, 29, appeared via video link at the Old Bailey charged with
preparing an act of terrorism on or before August 20 this year.

The details of the charge state that Ziamani researched locations of military
bases and how to achieve ``Jannah'' or paradise.

He is also alleged to have encouraged others to engage in Jihad and written a
letter expressing his intention to commit a terrorist act on military or
government personnel.

The charge goes on to state that he made peace with an ex-girlfriend and armed
himself with a knife and a hammer.

Wearing a skull cap, a dark jumper and light-coloured trousers, Ziamani, of
Warner Road, Camberwell, pleaded not guilty to the alleged terror offence during
the 10-minute hearing.

Judge Timothy Pontius set a trial date of February 9.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2014 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Regional Press Releases: London

                     December 4, 2014 Thursday 11:17 AM BST

MAN DENIES PLANNING TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 161 words


A man from south-east London accused of arming himself with a knife and a hammer
as he allegedly planned a terror attack on British soldiers has pleaded not
guilty to a terrorism offence.

Brusthom Ziamani, 29, appeared via video link at the Old Bailey charged with
preparing an act of terrorism on or before August 20 this year.

The details of the charge state that Ziamani researched locations of military
bases and how to achieve ``Jannah'' or paradise.

He is also alleged to have encouraged others to engage in Jihad and written a
letter expressing his intention to commit a terrorist act on military or
government personnel.

The charge goes on to state that he made peace with an ex-girlfriend and armed
himself with a knife and a hammer.

Wearing a skull cap, a dark jumper and light-coloured trousers, Ziamani, of
Warner Road, Camberwell, pleaded not guilty to the alleged terror offence during
the 10-minute hearing.

Judge Timothy Pontius set a trial date of February 9.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2014 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 5, 2014 Friday

Afghan intelligence service reports foiling terrorist attacks - TV

LENGTH: 377 words


Excerpts from report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 5 December

[Presenter] The process of withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan has
completed. The commander of the transport unit of the US forces said that troops
and military equipment have been pulled out of Afghanistan. Qeyam Nuri reports.

[Correspondent] This is the last minute of America's most prolonged war in its
history. The USA has fought for nearly 14 years in Afghanistan. It has lost
hundreds of troops and billions of dollars, but now the process of the
withdrawal of the American troops from Afghanistan has officially ended. A
Russian news agency quotes the commander of the transport unit of the US forces
as saying that their military equipment has been transferred to Kuwait and most
American troops have also returned home.

[Passage omitted, text of remarks by an American commander]

[Correspondent] Only 9,800 American troops will be in Afghanistan in January
2015. They are assigned to provide training, advice and support for the Afghan
forces. Afghan forces will not be forgotten. They will be provided with
necessary weapons, military equipment and support. They are working hard to
ensure security and stability in the country. National Directorate of Security
[NDS] talked about its achievements in this regard.

[Hasib Sediqi, NDS spokesman, captioned, talking to camera] The enemy has
planned several suicide attacks by using vehicles. They wanted to carry out
suicide attacks in Kabul. Fortunately, the NDS adopted special measures and
thwarted the plans. We have succeeded in foiling suicide attacks in Kabul and
other parts of the country over the past one week.

[Correspondent] American forces are leaving Afghanistan at a time when most
major cities such as Kabul are under serious terrorist threats. The NDS also
discovered two big caches of munitions of the Haqqani network in Maydan-Wardag
and Baghlan provinces. It has succeeded in arresting two suicide bombers in
Kabul and Maydan-Wardag provinces as well.

[Video shows NDS spokesman talking to camera, text of remarks, photo of an
American commander, archive footage of American, Afghan forces in the
battlefield, Afghan police searching vehicles]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1315 gmt 5 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            December 5, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

20 killed in terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 27 words


TWENTY people died after gunmen attacked a police post and stormed a building in
Chechnya yesterday.

Ten officers and 10 militants were killed in the carnage in Grozny.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            December 5, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack plot denied

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 102 words


A man accused of arming himself with a knife and a hammer as he allegedly
planned a terror attack on British soldiers has pleaded not guilty to a
terrorism offence.

Brusthom Ziamani, 29, appeared via video link at the Old Bailey charged with
preparing an act of terrorism on or before August 20 this year.

The details of the charge state Ziamani researched locations of military bases
and how to achieve "Jannah" or paradise.

He is also alleged to have encouraged others to engage in Jihad and written a
letter expressing his intention to commit a terrorist act. Judge Timothy Pontius
set a trial date of February 9.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            December 5, 2014 Friday

Ban condemns deadly terrorist attacks in Grozny

LENGTH: 112 words


December 4, 2014

United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today strongly condemned last
night's terrorist attacks in Grozny, Russia, reiterating that there can be no
justification for acts of terror.

According to media reports, a gun battle between Islamic militants and
Government forces overnight on Thursday left as many as 19 people dead.

In a statement issued by the UN chief's spokesperson, Mr. Ban sent his deepest
sympathies to the families of the victims of these "heinous acts."

The Secretary-General also expressed condolences to the Government and people of
the Russian Federation.

"He wishes a speedy recovery to those injured," Mr. Ban's spokesperson said.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 5, 2014 Friday 11:56 PM GMT

WHIPLASH: Terror attack a big concern for the Army

BYLINE: GAUTAM DATT

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 293 words


The army camp at Mahura on the Uri-Baramulla road, located close to the Line of
Control, came under attack by six terrorists. The terrorists have been killed,
but not before they inflicted heavy casualties.

Eight army men, including a lieutenant colonel, and three policemen, lost their
lives in one of the biggest attacks on security forces in recent years.

The fact that army camps have been a target for militants, was highlighted last
year, as they attacked an armoured unit in Sambha in Jammu. Post that attack,
the security of such installations should have been made fool proof.

But in this case, the terrorists not only breached the security tiers, but also
managed to set a barrack on fire, trapping army men in the result.

This not only showed they were heavily armed but had come with the purpose of
causing maximum damage. It was a commando-like operation and the target
deliberately chosen.

In this attack, what is worrying is that the Quick Reaction Team (QRT) that had
rushed from the nearby Uri town - were ambushed by a sole terrorist, who had
stayed out of the camp to engage them.

Three QRT men were killed, as their Gypsy plunged into a gorge during the
attack. The five other terrorists inside the camp managed to engage army men in
battle. As the army analyses the operation, it will have to explain how the
terrorists were able to come inside the camp.

The situation could have been worse if the camp had also had an ammunition dump.
The terrorists had done their homework, as they knew where the QRTs would
approach the camp in case of an attack, and a terrorist was kept ready.

The security agencies claim that the attack is a desperate attempt by terror
groups to stay relevant, after huge voter turnout in the ongoing assembly
elections.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            December 5, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Muslim planned terror attack, Old [...]

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 108 words


Muslim planned terror attack, Old Bailey told A Muslim convert researched how he
could enter paradise while planning a terror attack on British soldiers, the Old
Bailey was told (David Brown writes).

Brusthom Ziamani, 19, who armed himself with a hammer and knife that he had
wrapped in an Islamic flag, researched the location of military bases and how to
achieve Jannah, or Islamic paradise, the court was told.

Mr Ziamani, who was arrested near his home in Camberwell, south London, in
August, pleaded not guilty to a charge of preparing for a terrorist attack. He
is also accused of encouraging others to engage in jihad. He was remanded in
custody.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 6, 2014 Saturday

US condemns terror attacks in disputed Kashmir - Indian news agency

LENGTH: 380 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI on 6 December

The US has strongly condemned the terrorist attacks in Kashmir ahead of Prime
Minister Narendra Modi's poll rally, and said it remained firm on its
"commitment" to work with India to defeat terrorism in all forms.

"The United States strongly condemns today's (Friday's) terrorist attacks in
Kashmir, which claimed the lives of innocent civilians, military, and police
personnel," a senior State Department official said.

Kashmir Valley was yesterday rocked by four terror attacks by militants from
across the border who stormed an Army camp in Uri leaving 11 security personnel
including a Lt Colonel dead and killed two civilians in Tral.

"The United States remains firmly committed to working in close partnership with
India to defeat terrorism in all its forms," the State Department in a statement
issued last evening.

"Our hearts go out to the families of those affected by this deplorable attack,"
it said.

Earlier in the day, the State Department expressed its concern about any
violence in Kashmir adding that its policies on it have not changed.

"We are concerned about any violence in Kashmir. Our policy on Kashmir hasn't
changed. We still believe that the pace and the scope and character of India and
Pakistan's dialogue on Kashmir is for those two countries to determine,"

State Department Deputy Spokesperson Marie Harf, told reporters. "Our embassies
in both places have raised these types of incidents with their respective host
governments and certainly encouraged both to continue working together on the
issue," she said.

The attacks and gun battles with security forces which in all left 21 people
dead also included a top commander of Pakistan-based terror outfit LeT and seven
militants. Srinagar and Shopian were the other two places where the militants
struck.

Modi, who will be holding a rally in Srinagar city on Monday, condemned the
terror attacks as "desperate attempts" to derail the atmosphere of hope created
by the increased voter turnout and saluted the soldiers who laid down their
lives for the nation. Uri, Srinagar, Tral and Shopian goes to polls in Jammu and
Kashmir state elections, in the third and fourth phase over the next 10 days.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0000gmt 06 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 6, 2014 Saturday

Yemeni, Iranian foreign ministers discuss terrorist attack on mission in Sana'a

LENGTH: 342 words


Excerpt from report in English by privately-owned Yemeni news website Yemen Fox
on 5 December

[Unattributed report: "Iranian, Yemeni FMs discuss terrorist attack in Sana'a"]

Yemeni Foreign Minister Abdallah al-Sa'idi and his Iranian counterpart Mohammad
Javad Zarif in a phone conversation conferred on the Wednesday morning [3
December] terrorist attack on the residence of Tehran's ambassador in Sana'a.

During the conversation on Wednesday, both top diplomats condemned the terrorist
attack in Sana'a, and underlined that the issue should be seriously followed.

Zarif, for his part, referred to the terrorist acts in the past one year against
diplomats and diplomatic buildings, and reminded the international conventions
and agreements. He also asked his Yemeni counterpart to act decisively according
to their duties for maintaining security of diplomats and diplomatic buildings.

The Iranian foreign minister also expressed concern over releasing process of
Iranian kidnapped diplomat Nour Ahmad Nikbakht, who was kidnapped one and half
year ago by unknown groups. He called for serious action of the Yemeni
government to free the diplomat promptly.

Abdallah al-Sa'idi voiced regret over the incident, and expressed the hope that
Nikbakht would be released soon.

Also on Wednesday, the Iranian Foreign Ministry summoned the Yemeni charge
d'affaires to Tehran over the terrorist attack. At the meeting, the Islamic
Republic's displeasure and official protest was conveyed to the Yemeni charge
d'affaires over the terrorist attack on the residence of the Iranian ambassador
in the Yemeni capital.

The Iranian Foreign Ministry in its protest letter called on the Yemeni
government to find and bring to justice the perpetrators of the terrorist attack
and adopt the needed security measures to protect the Iranian embassy in Sana'a.

The Yemeni charge d'affaires, for his part, voiced regret over the incident, and
said that he will quickly relay Iran's official protest to his government.
[Passage omitted]

Source: Yemen Fox, Sanaa, in English 2000 gmt 5 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 6, 2014 Saturday

Yemeni Shi'i popular committees arrest terror cell ahead of suicide attack

LENGTH: 161 words


Text of report by Yemeni pro-Southern Mobility Movement news website  Al-Umana
on 5 December

[Unattributed report: "Ansarallah: Arresting terrorist cell loading cars with
explosives in Sanaa"]

Sources in the Ansarallah group have said that the popular committees affiliated
to the group arrested today a "terrorist cell," as the group put it, in a villa
in Amanat al-Asimah [the governorate within Sana'a where government bodies and
ministries are located] which manufactures vehicles and loads them with
explosives. The committees found in its possession three booby-trapped cars
prepared for a bombing operation in Amanat al-Asimah, a named list of persons to
be assassinated, and documents showing targets to be blown up.

The committees also found silencer pistols, explosive belts, and an additional
amount of explosives. The source did not refer to the destination to which the
arrested members of the cell were taken.

Source: Al-Umana website, Aden, in Arabic 5 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 6, 2014 Saturday

Ugandan police warn of likely terror attacks over Christmas

LENGTH: 428 words


Text of report by Steven Candia entitled "Police, army warn of terrorist attacks
ahead of festive season" by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New
Vision website on 6 December

Kampala - The police and military have warned the public against being
complacent with their security this festive season, especially in light of the
recent terror attacks in Kenya.

Police Chief Gen Kale Kayihura and his military counterpart, Gen Katumba Wamala,
said the terrorist attacks can happen in Uganda and appealed for vigilance.

"We are safe for as long as we are vigilant. If we relax, we shall only be
deceiving ourselves. We know that these evil forces are lurking in the shadows,"
Kayihura said.

He appealed to the public to take any terror alert issued by security agencies
seriously.

"The mere fact that we have managed to avert two attacks in the recent past does
not mean that there is no danger. The danger is real," Kayihura said, adding
that specific instructions for security to be heightened across the country have
been sent out.

"I have ordered all unit commanders to heighten security and anyone who does not
heed the order will have to explain why," Kayihura said.

The police, he said, have worked out a comprehensive security detail for the
festive season and added that they are working closely with other regional
bodies to avert any attacks.

Uganda security forces in September foiled an attack and arrested scores of
suspects, most of them Somalis who are now battling charges of terror and
illegal entry into the country.

Katumba, in a separate interview, warned against complacency.

"With the developments in Kenya and Nigeria, you can see that this threat is
real. We need to be vigilant and people should get out of the thinking that
security is the preserve of the armed forces," Katumba, who is the Chief of
Defence Forces, said.

Their comments come after the Tuesday incident where armed men attacked the
Kenyan northeastern county of Mandera, killing 36 people at a quarry. The
Al-Qa'idah -linked Somalia-based Al-Shabab militants claimed responsibility for
the attack.

Katumba noted that it is clear from the modus operandi of terrorist groups world
over, that they like striking during festive seasons, when the vigilance of the
public is usually at its lowest.

"We cannot sit and relax and think we are out of al-Shabaab's range. It is when
things look to be the best that the worst happens."

Kenya has in the recent past suffered a string of terror attacks mostly
orchestrated by Al-Shabab.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 6 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 7, 2014 Sunday

Iran condemns recent "terrorist attacks" in Kenya

LENGTH: 109 words


Iran's Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham has condemned the recent
"terrorist attacks" in Kenya, the Mehr news agency reported on 7 December.

Commiserating with Kenyans over the recent "terrorist attacks which were carried
out by extremists on innocent people", Afkham condemned the attack and called
for the arrest of the perpetrators and bringing them to justice.

Elsewhere in her remarks, the Foreign Ministry's spokeswoman urged the Kenyan
people to distance themselves from any ethnic and religious division in the
country and she called on them to stay united to fight terrorism,

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 0514 gmt 7 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 8, 2014 Monday

China sentences eight to death for Xinjiang terror attacks

LENGTH: 55 words


Text of report by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News Agency)

Urumqi, 8 Dec: A Xinjiang court on Monday [8 December] sentenced eight people to
death in connection with two terrorist attacks happened in April and May in the
regional capital of Urumqi.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0842gmt 08 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 8, 2014 Monday

Israeli air attack on Syria encourages "terrorists" - Iran foreign minister

LENGTH: 475 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 8 December: Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said the Sunday [8
December] attack of Zionist regime fighters to Syria indicates the bonds of
sympathy between Israel and terrorist groups. He made the remarks in a joint
press conference with the visiting Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Mu'allim
here on Monday.

He said the attack took place with the objective of spiriting up terrorist
groups in Syria that are suffering serious blows by the public resistance waves.

He condemned the air attacks and said they disclosed the identical objectives
the Zionist regime shared with the Takfiri groups and extremist terrorists.

He reiterated that Iran has already condemned the Zionist regimes actions.

Like a similar event two weeks ago, the gathering on World against Violence and
Extremism to open in Tehran on Tuesday will also try to convey the message to
the world that divine religions are clean of any notions promoting extremism and
radicalism, he added.

Zarif went on to stress that Takfiri groups have no place in Islamic community,
neither with the Sunni nor Shi'i Muslims.

Their actions, the Iranian foreign minister noted, are against the interests of
not only the regional nations but the whole Muslims worldwide.

He said the meeting carries the political message that the world today is well
aware of the fact that using Takfiri groups as instruments will at the end hurt
those who are manipulating them.

The foreign minister reiterated that the only way to confront Takfiri groups was
to wage an all-out global war against them and use all cultural, political and
economic means as well as military arms to fight them.

He said regional countries have to come to the point that they have no choice
but combat the terrorists because the menace of these terrorist groups target
their founders more than anybody else.

Al-Mu'allim is here to take part in the WAVE confab to be held in Tehran 9-10
December with the participation of 40 countries.

No statement would be issued at the end of the conference but instead a
directive is to be presented based on the address of President Hassan Rouhani at
the General Assembly of the United Nations in 2013 during which his proposal for
a World Against Violence and Extremism was overwhelmingly ratified with 190
votes as the WAVE Act.

The WAVE Act urges UN member states to take appropriate measures to strengthen
universal peace and achieve international cooperation in solving international
problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian nature.

Prime ministers and former foreign ministers of a number of Asian and African
states as well as senior officials from Iraq, Syria and Nicaragua are to take
part in the gathering.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1120 gmt 8 Dec
14

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            December 8, 2014 Monday

Eight sentenced to death for Xinjiang terrorist attacks

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 118 words


URUMQI - A Xinjiang court sentenced eight people to death on Monday in
connection with two terrorist attacks that occurred in April and May in the
regional capital of Urumqi.

Following their first trial, the Intermediate People's Court of Urumqi also
sentenced another five people to death with a two-year reprieve, and four others
were sentenced to imprisonment, according to the local publicity department of
northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.

Xinjiang saw its bloodiest day in five years on May 22 when 39 people were
killed and 94 were injured in an attack on a market in Urumqi. On April 30,
three people were killed and 79 were injured in a terror attack at a railway
station in the city.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      December 8, 2014 Monday 9:16 AM GMT

British embassy in Cairo shut amid terror attack fears as special forces fail
Brit rescue

BYLINE: John Chapman

LENGTH: 596 words


BRITAIN yesterday closed its Embassy in Cairo amid fears of terror attacks - and
in the wake of a failed special forces raid to rescue a UK-born photographer.

EPA

The British embassy in Cairo was closed amid terror attack fears

Officials took the decision for "security reasons" and are working with the
Egyptian authorities to find a way of reopening public services in the capital
as soon as possible.

A statement from the Foreign Office confirming the closure said: "Please do not
come to the embassy building."

The Foreign Office last night refused to comment on the threat to the British
Embassy in Cairo which is located in the quiet Garden City neighbourhood beside
the River Nile.

An Embassy spokesman said: "The decision to suspend public services at the
embassy has been taken for security reasons and is in the best interests of our
staff."

But a security source said a said a suspected militant who was recently detained
by Egyptian authorities had confessed to plans to target foreign embassies.

The move came as further details emerged of the bid to save the lives of
hostages Luke Somers and Pierre Korkie. The American, who was born in Britain,
and South African were being held by Al Qaeda militants in the Yemen.

Related articles EXCLUSIVE: Hi-tech terrorists stay one step ahead of GCHQ
Terror alert at Heathrow after police arrest teenager as he landed in UK from
Jordan EXCLUSIVE: Al Qaeda plot to blow up 5 passenger planes in Christmas
'spectacular'

Security officials last night[SUN] said 10 insurgents had been killed in the
raid. There were also reports a woman and an 11-year-old boy had also died.

The captives died of wounds sustained during the raid.

About 40 American special operations forces were involved in the rescue attempt,
which followed U.S. drone strikes in the area, U.S. officials said.

Following a firefight with militants, the rescuers eventually reached the men
and found them alive but gravely wounded. They both died shortly after.

The US said the raid by elite Navy Seals was launched because there was an
"immediate threat" to Mr Somers' life.

But it also emerged that the US rescue team was not aware of the presence of
teacher Mr Korkie. A charity called Gift Of The Givers with Mr Korkie said he
was to have been freed on Sunday.

Its project director Anas Hamati said the US rescue attempt had "destroyed
everything.

The US ambassador to London, Matthew Barzun, said the rescue mission had lacked
the "element of surprise" because of threats made by the hostage takers in a
video.

Mr Somers had moved to Yemen in 2011 to teach English but soon began
photographing protests in the capital San'a.

He was taken hostage in 2013 and sold to militants by local criminals.

Mr Somers' stepmother Penny Bearman, from Deal, Kent, said: "Luke was a talented
photographer with a sensitivity for people and people's lives."

Meanwhile, the widow of a British aid worker murdered by Islamic State
extremists has branded his killers "cowards".

Dragana Haines, whose husband David was killed by the militants in a graphic
video posted online in September, said she could not bear to watch the whole
footage.

Father-of-two Mr Haines, 44, was taken hostage in Syria while working for
international relief agency Acted in March last year.

The former RAF aircraft engineer had been been helping refugees in a camp near
the Turkish border when he was snatched by IS militants.

Speaking in Croatia, Mrs Haines said: "You are a coward if you are going to
behead someone who is helpless. You're not even a human being.

"You must be a monster to do something like that."

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      December 8, 2014 Monday 3:57 PM GMT

Hafiz Saeed: Twitter suspends account of man accused of orchestrating Mumbai
terror attack;
There was no immediate response from Twitter

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 372 words


Hafiz Saeed, the man accused of orchestrating the 2008 attack on Mumbai, has
been a prolific and enthusiastic user of social media.  Over the years the
64-year-old Pakistani has taken to Twitter to level accusations at India, to vow
his support to Kashmir and even to give his backing to Prime Minister Nawaz
Sharif.

But today his online voice has fallen quiet after Twitter apparently stepped in
and suspended his account. Amid ongoing controversy about a man on whose head
the US has placed a $10m reward, a search for Mr Saeed's account results in the
message: "The profile you are trying to view has been suspended."

Mr Saeed, who heads the Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), an Islamic charity, has been
accused of heading the Lashkar-e-Taiba militant group and of plotting the attack
on Mumbai by 10 Pakistani gunmen that resulted in the deaths of more than 160
people. Though Mr Saeed has always denied the allegations, the UN has declared
him a terrorist and placed sanctions on the JuD, describing it as a terror
outfit and a front for militant activity.

There was no immediate response from Twitter as to the reason it had apparently
taken the decision to suspend Mr Saeed's account. The social media site
maintains the right to suspend accounts for violation of its rules or even for
investigation if it is suspected that an account has been hacked. Neither Mr
Saeed or a spokesman for the JuD were available for comment.

On social media, there was swift reaction to the suspension of Mr Saeed's
account. "Glad that @twitter has suspended account of int'l terrorist
@HafizSaeedJUD", wrote Husain Haqqani, a former Pakistani ambassador to the US.
"Hope @twitter will suspend new terrorist accounts too".

In September Mr Saeed had used social media to accuse India of releasing
excessive water into the Indus river which he said was responsible for flooding
downstream in Pakistan. "Pakistan should raise Indian water aggression issue on
global forums while practical steps be taken for Kashmir freedom struggle," he
said.

His most recent message on twitter was on 5 December when he voiced his wish
that Pakistan will avenge its defeat in the 1971 war against Bangladesh and that
Muslim victims of a 2002 massacre in India would receive justice.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 9, 2014 Tuesday

Pakistan rejects Indian allegations over Kashmir terror attacks

LENGTH: 289 words


Text of report by Pakistan daily The News website on 9 December

Pakistan on Monday rejected as "baseless" criticism from the Indian Ministry of
External Affairs that terrorists from Pakistan were behind the recent attacks in
the Indian held Kashmir that saw several security forces taken out.

Foreign Office spokesperson Tasnim Aslam said that Pakistan had taken a "serious
note of these remarks" adding that in fact Pakistan has been in the forefront of
combating terrorism and was also its biggest victim.

"On the contrary, if any evidence of mainstreaming of terrorism in India was
needed, one only had to look at the perpetrators of the Samjhuta Express
terrorist attack and its masterminds," she pointed out.

Hitting out at India, the spokesperson blamed it for failing to implement the UN
Security Council resolutions on Jammu and Kashmir. "Pakistan takes its
obligations under the UN Security Council mandate very seriously," she reminded
New Delhi. Pakistan also rejected as "equally baseless" the allegations and
efforts to malign Pakistan by implicating it in the recent attacks in the
Indian-occupied Kashmir.

"The recent verdict of court martial on fake encounter of 2010 exposes the
hollowness of Indian infiltration claims. The violence in IHK is the result of
decades of repressive Indian policies and imposition of sham elections in the
occupied Kashmir, an exercise in futility," the spokesperson reminded New Delhi.

India has to understand, she added, that the people of Jammu and Kashmir would
accept nothing short of their right to self-determination, promised to them by
the United Nation's Security Council and accepted by India and the international
community.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 09 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 9, 2014 Tuesday

Search on for two missing Palestinians who vowed to carry out terror attacks

LENGTH: 438 words


Text of report by Israel's state funded, editorially independent Channel 1 TV on
8 December

[Report by newscaster Merav Levi and Palestinian Affairs Correspondent Yoram
Kohen]

[Miller] Yoram, You are telling us about efforts to locate two Palestinians who
declared their intention to carry out a terror attack and then disappeared.

[Kohen] We are certainly talking about a serious threat. The defence
establishment is concerned by this story. It's about two Palestinian residents
of Hebron. One of them is an adult, 34-year-old Mu'taz Abu-Ayshah. He's the
cousin of Amr Abu Ayshah, one of the terrorists who abducted and murdered the
three teenagers about six months ago in Gush Etzyion. He's single, by the way.
They live in the Wadi al-Hariyah neighbourhood in the Hebron area. Both of them
left on Friday [16 December] at 0700. They told their relatives that they are
going to carry out a terror attack, and spoke about it for several days.

Their families went to Gush Etzyion yesterday, to the security forces
headquarters there, and were interrogated. Security forces are holding two
people in custody. One of them is Mu'taz's brother and the other is his friend.
By the way, this friend claimed in the interrogation - as far as I know,
according to Palestinian sources - that the two suggested that he join them in
carrying out an attack, but he refused. The two disappeared, there was a search,
and Palestinian security forces also followed their path from Hebron in the
direction of the town of Dura. Palestinian security forces examined security
cameras and identified them at a store on the way between Dura and Hebron, but
they disappeared and at this time their whereabouts are unknown. There was also
a search for them at the Salafi centre in the town of Yata.

There are roadblocks, but there is a possibility that they could infiltrate
Israel. It's uncertain whether they have weapons or ammunition, but this is
certainly a serious threat. I'm not calling it a ticking bomb, but it's
certainly a threat and it's being addressed seriously. By the way, the adult
suspect told his friends: prepare to add my photo to my cousin who abducted and
murdered the teens. Prepare to add my photo to his photo.

[Amir Buhbut adds at 1822 GMT in leading news website Walla! in Hebrew:
"Palestinians have reported heavy aircraft traffic in the skies of Hebron in the
past hour. A military source said that 'IDF forces at the Hebron sector received
a tactical warning about the possibility of a terror attack in the area and have
been instructed to raise their alert level.'"]

Source: Channel 1 TV, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1800 gmt 8 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      December 9, 2014 Tuesday 7:36 PM GMT

William and Kate brave the rain to visit 9/11 memorial and museum in New York;
Duke and Duchess of Cambridge lay flowers at site of 2001 terrorist attackDuke
to visit Empire State Building with Mayor Bill de Blasio· Royals' visit
coincides with police brutality protests

BYLINE: Lauren Gambino in New York

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 611 words


The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge laid flowers at the 9/11 memorial in lower
Manhattan on Tuesday and paid personal tribute to the victims who lost their
lives in the 2001 terrorist attacks.

Amid lashing rain, the royal couple arrived at the National September 11 Museum
and Memorial on the final day of their three-day visit to the US east coast. The
duke held an umbrella borrowed from the Hotel Carlyle for his wife as they
walked through the tree-lined plaza to lay a bouquet at the memorial site
erected in the footprints of the twin towers. Kate stood out against the grey
morning haze in a fuchsia Mulberry coat, which she wore over a UK label
Seraphine maternity dress.

The duchess placed a wreath of white roses, the New York state flower, on the
bronze edging around one of the twin reflecting pools, where the names of the
nearly 3,000 victims, including 67 Britons, are inscribed.

They placed their flowers at a spot where the names of 40 passengers and crew
aboard United Flight 93, which crashed in Pennsylvania on 9/11, are recorded.

A handwritten message on the flowers said: "In sorrowful memory of those who
died on 11th September, and in admiration of the courage shown to rebuild."
Underneath the message, they signed their names - William and Catherine.

They then toured the recently opened museum that stands next to the site of the
World Trade Center.

Joe Daniels, the museum's chief executive and president, said: "You could see it
really in both their eyes, the sort of care and curiosity they had for the story
of what happened and the people who died that day."

The duchess touched on controversy when she reportedly asked how the victims'
families felt about the museum. Behind a wall there are the fragments of human
remains that have remained unidentified - a decision accepted by most families,
but regarded as an affront to the dignity of the dead by some. Daniels told the
duchess that the "vast majority" of the families had been impressed with the
museum and the care that went into its design.

The museum's chief of staff, Allison Blais, said Kate "talked about how in awe
she was of the enormity of the space. It was something she did not anticipate.
She also talked about how moving the memorial was, and being able to touch the
names of the victims outside on the pools."

After the museum tour, the couple briefly visited the lobby of the newly built
One World Trade Center, located near the site.

Inside the blue-panelled 104-storey glass building, they admired a vast abstract
mural by the Brooklyn-based artist José Parlá and a huge Christmas tree.

Later this afternoon, the duke will accompany New York City's mayor, Bill de
Blasio, to the top of the Empire State Building, though the nasty weather may
hinder their visit. Aides have said William is very excited to visit the
skyscraper, promising to brave the rain for a glimpse of the city's skyline from
the 86th floor.

On Monday night, the royal couple attended their first-ever NBA basketball game,
amid ongoing protests in the city over the death in a police chokehold of Eric
Garner.

As the royal couple dined with NBA executives and the basketball elite,
demonstrators lay in the street outside the arena to protest against the
decision not to indict the police officer implicated in Garner's death. In a
show of sympathy with the protesters, the Cavaliers star LeBron James, warmed up
in a shirt that read: "I can't breathe" - Garner's final words.

During the second half, William and Kate shook hands with pop royals Beyoncé and
Jay Z, and after the game finished, posed for photos with James, who gave the
couple custom jerseys and cupcakes from his hometown of Akron, Ohio.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     December 9, 2014 Tuesday 11:33 PM GMT

Former CIA agents hit back at shocking 'torture report', calling its findings
'cherry-picked';
The CIA maintains that the harrowing program did prevent terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 634 words


Former senior CIA officers have hit back at a damning US Senate report published
today, which documents how agents used inhumane techniques against some 116
prisoners in the wake of the 9/11, but failed to thwart potential terrorist
attacks.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, the Democratic committee chairman whose staff prepared
the summary, branded the findings a stain on the nation's history.

"Under any common meaning of the term, CIA detainees were tortured," she
declared, commanding the Senate floor for an extended accounting of the
techniques identified in the investigation.

The 500-page summary of a 6,000 report concluded that the American public and
policymakers were mislead into believing that harsh techniques, which it has
emerged included water-boarding and a tactic known as 'rectal rehydration',
would halt terror plots and save American lives.

But ex-CIA directors quickly took to the CIA Save Lives website today to defend
the techniques used during the agency's Rendition, Detention, and Interrogation
program which ran from 2002 to 2006.

The website presents documents which the ex-officers claim prove that the
program was authorised by the former President, overseen by the National
Security Council, and deemed legal by the Attorney General of the US "on
multiple occasions".

In an introductory statement on the webpage, former agents accused the Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) of having "cherry picked" incidents from
6 million pages of documents, to create a report which was "marred by errors of
facts and interpretation" and is therefore "completely at odds with reality".

They go on to complain that the report does not discuss the context of the US
following the 9/11 attacks, during which time they claim there was "solid
evidence" to show that "al-Qaida was planning a second wave of attacks against
the US," including reports that nuclear weapons were being smuggled in the New
York City.

"It felt like a 'ticking time bomb' every single day," the officers said.

Read more: The shocking CIA 'torture report' in numbersReport shows the CIA
tortured suspects at secret overseas sites for years, achieved nothing from it,
and lied about itThe programme of cruelty and violence has dragged America into
a moral black-holeRead the Senate Intelligence Committee's damning findings in
full11 ways in which the CIA was worse than it ever admittedCIA 'torture'
report: Timeline from 9/11 to Dianne Feinstein's findings

Officers also said that the CIA briefed both the House of Representatives and
the SSCI had on the use of so-called "enhanced interrogation techniques", almost
immediately after they were approved in 2002.

"None of the members [of the House] expressed any reservations or objections to
the program," officers claim on CIA Saved Lives.

One such officer, Former CIA director George J. Tenet, who served as agency head
between 1997 and 2004, was adamant that the operation was successful in "saving
American and allied lives".

He went on to call the document "biased, inaccurate, and destructive," and said
it has damaged national security and "and most of all to the truth."

Responding to the shocking findings, the current CIA Director, John Brennan,
said the agency made mistakes and has learned from them, and asserted the
techniques "did produce intelligence that helped thwart attack plans, capture
terrorists and save lives."

President Barack Obama vowed on Tuesday that harsh US interrogation methods will
not take place on his watch, saying the techniques did significant damage to
American interests abroad without serving broad counter-terrorism efforts.

In a written statement, President Obama said: "Rather than another reason to
refight old arguments, I hope that today's report can help us leave these
techniques where they belong, in the past."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      December 9, 2014 Tuesday 1:15 PM GMT

Sony Pictures cyber-attack: cancel 'terrorist' film or else, say hackers;
Hackers make threat alongside new batch of documents, which show extortion
threats against Sony executives

BYLINE: Andrew Griffin

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 682 words


Hackers claiming to be those that have seriously disrupted Sony Pictures'
computer systems in the biggest corporate hack in history posted a message to
the heads of the company telling them to cancel the release of controversial
film The Interview, last night.

The group also leaked a trove of emails from senior Sony Pictures employees.
While those writing the message can't be confirmed to be the same people that
carried out the rest of the hacks, the leaks imply that they are at least
connected with the group.

The newly-released documents include more private employee information, the
phone numbers of actors and the aliases they use when travelling, film budgets
and unreleased scripts. It includes the private information of about 40,000
employees - including home addresses, previous salaries and social security
numbers.

In a message titled 'Their Privacy', and written in broken English, hackers said
that Sony had refused to give in to its demands, which have not been
communicated publicly, and were referenced in the hackers' very first messages.
It also said that Sony Pictures should cancel the release of the 'movie of
terrorism' - an apparent reference to The Interview, a North Korea-baiting film
that is a reason some have speculated that the country could be involved in the
attack.

"We have already given our clear demand to the management team of SONY, however,
they have refused to accept," the message said. "Do carry out our demand if you
want to escape us.

"And, Stop immediately showing the movie of terrorism which can break the
regional peace and cause the War!

The message was apparently directed to Amy Pascal, Sony Pictures' co-chairman,
and Stephen Mosko, the president of Sony Pictures Television.

Unlike previous releases - which have tended to be posted on text-sharing site
Pastebin - this one was released on a similar site, Github. It stayed up for
much longer than previous posts - as of this morning, 16 hours after the message
was posted, it is still accessible, along with links to the new documents
released by hackers.

The new trove of documents appears to show that hackers attempted to extort Sony
executives, by warning them of the attack three days before it happened. The
email was found inside files from the email account of Amy Pascal, Sony
Pictures' co-chairman. She did not appear to have read the message.

"We've got great damage by Sony Pictures," it read.

"The compensation for it, monetary compensation we want.

"Pay the damage, or Sony Pictures will be bombarded as a whole.

"You know us very well. We never wait long.

"You'd better behave wisely.

"From God'sApstls"

The message was sent on November 21. Hackers then took down Sony's computer
network on November 24, writing in a message that was displayed across the
company's computers that they would "continue till our request be met".

The message released last night appeared to disavow the threats made against
Sony Pictures employees that emerged over the weekend. It said: "We know nothing
about the threatening email received by Sony staffers, but you should wisely
judge by yourself why such things are happening and who is responsible for it."

A message had been sent to employees telling them to criticise their company or
put their family in danger, the FBI said.

"Please sign your name to object the false (sic) of the company at the email
address below if you don't want to suffer damage," the message said, according
to Variety. "If you don't, not only you but your family will be in danger."

The full text of yesterday's message read:

"We have already given our clear demand to the management team of SONY, however,
they have refused to accept.

"It seems that you think everything will be well, if you find out the attacker,
while no reacting to our demand.

"We are sending you our warning again.

"Do carry out our demand if you want to escape us.

"And, Stop immediately showing the movie of terrorism which can break the
regional peace and cause the War!

"You, SONY & FBI, cannot find us.

"We are perfect as much.

"The destiny of SONY is totally up to the wise reaction & measure of SONY."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 9, 2014 Tuesday 10:19 PM GMT

Texas fugitive arrested in Israel 'for plotting terror attacks on Muslim holy
sites while posing as a Navy SEAL'

BYLINE: REUTERS and SNEJANA FARBEROV FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 614 words



     ·    Everett Adam Livvix, 30, was arrested in November in Netanya, Israel,
          and charged with weapons possession
     ·    He allegedly admitted to police to plotting to carry out terrorist
          attacks on unspecified Muslim holy sites
     ·    While living in West Bank, a Palestinian tried to recruit Livvix to
          assassinate President Obama during his March 2013 visit
     ·    Livvix is accused of encouraging a soldier friend to steal weapons
          from the military


A Texas man has been arrested and indicted in Israel on weapons charges for
allegedly plotting to bomb Muslim holy sites,

The Israeli domestic security service Shin Bet and the Justice Ministry
identified the suspect Tuesday as Adam Everett Livvix, 30, of Texas, and said he
was wanted in the US on unrelated drug charges.

Livvix, who was arrested November 19, was charged Monday with conspiring with
his roommate, an Israeli soldier, to steal 3lbs of explosives from the Israel
Defense Forces.

The Israeli authorities said an undercover police agent uncovered the alleged
terror plot and that ammunition and weapons material stolen from the military
were found in Livvix's possession.

A gag order on details of the case, being heard in a court in the central
Israeli city of Netanya, was lifted Tuesday.

'Under questioning, Livvix admitted... he had weighed various ideas about
committing terrorist attacks at different venues and even gave preliminary
thought to the possibility of attacking venues (of) Islamic holy places in
Israel,' the Shin Bet said, without identifying them.

The suspect's attorney told reporters that the Shin Bet was exaggerating the
security implications of the case, which coincides with high Arab-Jewish
tensions in Jerusalem over access to a holy site where the al-Aqsa mosque now
stands in place of biblical Jewish holy sites.

The Justice Ministry said the court has ordered Livvix to undergo a psychiatric
examination prior to entering a plea.

Israeli authorities said Livvix is a Christian and that he arrived in the region
in 2013, living first in the Palestinian cities of Hebron and Bethlehem in the
West Bank and then residing illegally in the State of Israel.

According to Livvix's public arrest records, the 6-foot-tall, 200lbs man was
wanted in Indiana for failure to appear in court on marijuana possession
charges.

He was also named most wanted criminal in Crawford County, Illinois, in
connection to failure to appear and theft charges.

The indictment against Livvix, made public Tuesday and cited by  The Jerusalem
Post, recounted how while living in the West Bank, the Texan was allegedly
approached by a Palestinian operative who tried to recruit Livvix to assassinate
President Barack Obama during his visit to the region last March.

Livvix was allegedly offered sniper rifles to carry out the plot on Obama's
life, but he refused.

He then illegally crossed the border into Israel and settled in Netanya, where
he passed himself off as a member of an elite Navy SEAL commando unit, the court
documents stated.

In mid-November, police were tipped off about Livvix's whereabouts, resulting in
his arrest.

When officers kicked down the door to his apartment on November 19, Livvix
attempted to flee by leaping from his seventh-floor window and landing on a
sixth-floor balcony, but he was quickly apprehended.

During questioning, the American fugitive admitted to committing fraud and
plotting to carry out terrorist attacks on Muslim holy sites.

When officers searched his apartment in Netanya, they allegedly discovered
ammunition and spare gun parts stolen from the military.

According to his indictment, Livvix had encouraged his soldier friend to steal
six stun grenades, smoke grenades and tear gas canisters from an IDF base.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 9, 2014 Tuesday 7:42 PM GMT

Torture report: CIA lied to Congress and allies about its secret prisons;
America's spies misleading information "impeded" others trying to stop terror
attacks, according to report

BYLINE: By Raf Sanchez Washington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 694 words


The CIA repeatedly lied to the US Congress and foreign allies as it tried to
cover up the scale and brutality of its secret global torture programme,
according to a damning new Senate report.

The Senate's three-year investigation to CIA torture after the September 11
attacks details not only the methods used by low-ranking interrogators at prison
sites around the world but the vast effort by the agency's leaders in Washington
to cover up what was happening.

The report paints a picture of a spy agency determined to avoid oversight by
elected officials and whose secretive approach at times "impeded" the work of
others trying to keep America safe from terrorism.

"The CIA programme was far more brutal than the CIA represented to policymakers
and to the American public," said Dianne Feinstein, the Democrat senator who
championed the release of the report.

The Senate alleged that the cover-up began with Abu Zayadah, a Saudi terror
suspect who in 2002 became the first person to be tortured by the CIA.

While the CIA told Congress that it had initially tried an "open,
non-threatening approach", the Senate report claims that Zayadah was almost
immediately tortured "in near non-stop fashion for days or weeks at a time".

The programme grew from just Zayadah to 119 detainees but the CIA continued to
keep Congress and even George W Bush - who authorised the programme - in the
dark about its specifics, according to the Senate report.

The report claims Mr Bush was not told the full details of the torture programme
until April 2006, by which time 38 people had been brutalised and secret prisons
had been set up in multiple countries.

Although Mr Bush was apparently not told every development of the programme he
has been a staunch defender of the CIA programme, saying the techniques "saved
lives".

The report also claims that the Bush White House tried to make sure Colin
Powell, the secretary of state, was not fully briefed. A CIA email from 2003
said the White House was "extremely concerned Powell would blow his stack if he
were to be briefed about what's been going on."

The CIA briefed two senior senators about some aspects of the programme in 2002
but refused to tell other members of the Senate intelligence committee about it
until September 6, 2006 - the same day Mr Bush acknowledged the programme in a
public speech.

Yet during that period the CIA tried to reassure other agencies that the Senate
was fully informed on the programme and it "misrepresented the views of members
of Congress on a number of occasions," according to the report.

The report claims that the CIA also lied to America's allies, possibly including
Britain, about keeping the Senate informed about the torture programme.

In March 2007, the CIA's then-director Michael Hayden told European ambassadors
that Congress was "fully briefed" on the torture programme, a claim later shown
not to be true.

"This is not the CIA's programme. This is not the President's programme. This is
America's programme," he said. It is not clear whether the then-British
ambassador, Sir David Manning, was at the speech.

As it tried to defend the programme to angry senators, the CIA cited what it
said were 20 examples of times that information extracted under torture had
helped thwart terror plots.

But the Senate said in its report that "each of those examples was found to be
wrong in fundamental respects" and that "at no time" did the torture help stop
imminent attack.

The Senate concluded that the CIA's behaviour had "complicated, and in some
cases impeded" the work of the FBI and other national security agencies trying
to stop terror attacks on the US.

As well as fighting critics outside of the agency, the CIA's leadership fought a
running battle against its own internal watchdog. The Senate report said the
agency "avoided, resisted, and otherwise impeded" efforts by the CIA inspector
general to learn more about the torture programme.

John Brennan, the current director of the CIA, forcefully denied a cover-up by
his agency. "While we made mistakes, the record does not support the Study's
inference that the Agency systematically and intentionally misled," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 10, 2014 Wednesday

Iran leader's aide: Pakistan not to be blamed for "terrorist attacks" on border

LENGTH: 428 words


Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamene'i's senior adviser Ali Akbar
Velayati has said that the Pakistani government should not be blamed for
"terrorist attacks" in the border region between the two countries, the Iranian
Students News Agency (ISNA) reported on 10 December.

Velayati, who is also director of the Strategic Research Centre of Iran's
Expediency Council, made the remarks at a gathering of journalists after his
meeting with visiting former Pakistan Prime Minister Asif Ali Zardari.

Responding to a question about unrests on the Iran-Pakistan border, Velayati
stated: "This is a problem shared by the two countries. Pakistan does not want
terrorist groups to create insecurity and incidents on the border between the
two countries.""Terrorist groups have also created a lot of trouble for
Pakistan's government and people. For example, terrorist groups have conducted
many terrorist attacks in Pakistani Baluchestan. Therefore, if bandits create
incidents on the border between the two countries, we should not blame the
Pakistani government for these actions," Velayati added.

Stressing that cooperation between Iran and Pakistan would continue with usual
vitality, Velayati stated: "We expect the Pakistani government to undertake
necessary cooperation to put an end to the terrorist acts conducted by bandits
so that we will not have to see our border guards being martyred."

The southeastern province of Sistan-Baluchestan has been the scene of numerous
armed clashes and militants attacks in the past few months. On 17 October, two
border guards were killed in armed clashes with "hooligans". Four Iranian police
officers, including a conscript, were also killed in two attacks in the border
post in the southeastern province of Sistan-Baluchestan in the same month. Three
Iranian police forces were also killed by unknown individuals while on patrol on
26 November.

Commenting on his discussions with Zardari, Velayati said: "We discussed the two
countries' common interests, relations with Afghanistan, peace in the region,
and the fight against terrorists such as Da'ish [group calling itself Islamic
State, also known as IS/ISIS/ISIL] and Al-Qaidah.

"The former Pakistani prime minister [Zardari] and I had very similar opinions.
We had good discussions about bilateral relations. Zardari also expressed his
satisfaction with Iran's help to Iraq, Syria and Lebanon in the fight against
terrorism and extremism in the region. We were able to defeat the terrorists
with minimum capabilities."

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 1342 gmt 10 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    December 10, 2014 Wednesday 12:18 AM GMT

William and Kate brave the rain to visit 9/11 memorial and museum in New York;
Duke and Duchess of Cambridge lay flowers at site of 2001 terrorist attackDuke
to visit Empire State Building with Mayor Bill de Blasio· Royals' visit
coincides with police brutality protests

BYLINE: Lauren Gambino in New York

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 611 words


The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge laid flowers at the 9/11 memorial in lower
Manhattan on Tuesday and paid personal tribute to the victims who lost their
lives in the 2001 terrorist attacks.

Amid lashing rain, the royal couple arrived at the National September 11 Museum
and Memorial on the final day of their three-day visit to the US east coast. The
duke held an umbrella borrowed from the Hotel Carlyle for his wife as they
walked through the tree-lined plaza to lay a bouquet at the memorial site
erected in the footprints of the twin towers. Kate stood out against the grey
morning haze in a fuchsia Mulberry coat, which she wore over a UK label
Seraphine maternity dress.

The duchess placed a wreath of white roses, the New York state flower, on the
bronze edging around one of the twin reflecting pools, where the names of the
nearly 3,000 victims, including 67 Britons, are inscribed.

They placed their flowers at a spot where the names of 40 passengers and crew
aboard United Flight 93, which crashed in Pennsylvania on 9/11, are recorded.

A handwritten message on the flowers said: "In sorrowful memory of those who
died on 11th September, and in admiration of the courage shown to rebuild."
Underneath the message, they signed their names - William and Catherine.

They then toured the recently opened museum that stands next to the site of the
World Trade Center.

Joe Daniels, the museum's chief executive and president, said: "You could see it
really in both their eyes, the sort of care and curiosity they had for the story
of what happened and the people who died that day."

The duchess touched on controversy when she reportedly asked how the victims'
families felt about the museum. Behind a wall there are the fragments of human
remains that have remained unidentified - a decision accepted by most families,
but regarded as an affront to the dignity of the dead by some. Daniels told the
duchess that the "vast majority" of the families had been impressed with the
museum and the care that went into its design.

The museum's chief of staff, Allison Blais, said Kate "talked about how in awe
she was of the enormity of the space. It was something she did not anticipate.
She also talked about how moving the memorial was, and being able to touch the
names of the victims outside on the pools."

After the museum tour, the couple briefly visited the lobby of the newly built
One World Trade Center, located near the site.

Inside the blue-panelled 104-storey glass building, they admired a vast abstract
mural by the Brooklyn-based artist José Parlá and a huge Christmas tree.

Later this afternoon, the duke will accompany New York City's mayor, Bill de
Blasio, to the top of the Empire State Building, though the nasty weather may
hinder their visit. Aides have said William is very excited to visit the
skyscraper, promising to brave the rain for a glimpse of the city's skyline from
the 86th floor.

On Monday night, the royal couple attended their first-ever NBA basketball game,
amid ongoing protests in the city over the death in a police chokehold of Eric
Garner.

As the royal couple dined with NBA executives and the basketball elite,
demonstrators lay in the street outside the arena to protest against the
decision not to indict the police officer implicated in Garner's death. In a
show of sympathy with the protesters, the Cavaliers star LeBron James, warmed up
in a shirt that read: "I can't breathe" - Garner's final words.

During the second half, William and Kate shook hands with pop royals Beyoncé and
Jay Z, and after the game finished, posed for photos with James, who gave the
couple custom jerseys and cupcakes from his hometown of Akron, Ohio.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    December 10, 2014 Wednesday 11:33 AM GMT

CIA torture: Fox News says 'the US is awesome' - and torture report is just 'one
last shot at Bush';
Correspondent claimed "people do nasty things in the dark, especially after a
terrorist attack"

BYLINE: Victoria Richards

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 453 words


Fox News has condemned the release of a damning report into the CIA's use of
torture as a political manoeuvre designed to show Americans "how we're not
awesome".

The broadcaster's National Security Analyst K.T. McFarland argued that the
techniques were both "legal and justified" by the 9/11 terror attacks.

And she denounced the publication of the Senate Intelligence Committee report as
a move made by Democrats to "do harm" to the country by angering terrorists.

"Why go after it now unless the motivation is completely political?" she said.

"Congress is changing hands, the Senate is going from Democrat to Republican
hands. And are the Democrats in the Senate just - they've been evicted from the
house, are they just trashing the place before they leave?" CIA torture report:
The 10 most harrowing stories

Ms McFarland made the comments on the news channel's Out Numbered programme,
moments after Senate Intelligence Committee Chairwoman Dianne Feinstein
announced on the floor of the Senate that the long-delayed torture report had
been made public.

Read more: Calls to prosecute US officials involvedRead more: The British plots
CIA used to justify tortureRead more: Ex-CIA agents hit back at shocking
'torture report'

She was backed up by Out Numbered host Andrea Tantaros, who said the country
didn't need the CIA to be transparent because it is "awesome".

"The United States of America is awesome, we are awesome," she said. "The reason
they want to have this discussion is not to show how awesome we are. This
administration wants to have this discussion to show us how we're not awesome."

Fox News correspondent Jesse Watters also told the hosts of Out Numbered that
the American people did not need to know about torture at the CIA because
"people do nasty things in the dark especially after a terrorist attack."

"Senate Democrats, they're just trying to get one last shot in at Bush before
they go into the minority," he said.

According to the Pew Research Center, in July 2004 a majority (53 per cent) of
Americans said the use of torture to gain important information from suspected
terrorists was "rarely or never justified".

Since then, however, opinion has shifted - with more Americans finding torture
acceptable. In August 2011, a majority (53 per cent) said the use of torture was
"often or sometimes justified", while 42 per cent said it would "rarely be
justified" or "not be justified at all".

And in 2012, a YouGov poll of 1,000 adults revealed that 47 per cent believed
that the use of torture against suspected terrorists who may know details about
future terrorist attacks against the US was "always, or sometimes justified" -
compared to 41 per cent who believed it was "rarely, or never justified".

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                           December 11, 2014 Thursday

Terror attack alert for police

BYLINE: Chris Jaffray

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 137 words


Scotland's police officers have been advised not to travel to or from work
wearing uniform due to fear of terror attacks.

This has emerged after police in England confirmed that counter-terror officers
were dealing with intelligence surrounding a possible IS-inspired plot to kidnap
and murder a serving police officer.

Officers in Scotland were briefed on Tuesday and told to avoid wearing uniforms
or display ID badges when off duty.

A Police Scotland spokesman said: "We have issued advice and guidance to
officers and staff, not in response to any confirmed threat we know about but in
terms of general awareness, because of the increased threat."

North-east Labour MSP Lewis Macdonald said: "This is a reminder to all of us of
how important it is to deal effectively with terrorism and deal with those
guilty of plotting."

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2014 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 12, 2014 Friday

Defence minister says more terror attacks in Indian Kashmir not to be ruled out

LENGTH: 708 words


Text of report published by Indian newspaper Daily Excelsior website on 12
December

Srinagar: Defence Minister Manohar Parikkar today said that recent militant
attacks in Kashmir are aimed at scaring people away from the democratic process
but "they have failed in their designs". He didn't rule out the possibility of
more attacks during election process and said troops are alert to tackle them.

The Defence Minister who arrived here today on a short visit to review the
security situation in the wake of last week's audacious attack on an Army camp
in North Kashmir's Uri sector told reporters:"Due to high voter turnout in
elections, this is an attempt to bring it down again. But we managed to get good
voting. You see the result of Tral, for example. From one per cent to 37.8 per
cent."

Parikkar said that the people of the State want to be part of Indian democratic
system and that is why they voted in large numbers. "The people are coming out
in large numbers to vote. People of Jammu and Kashmir want to be part of India
and the democratic system," he said.

The Defence Minister said the possibility of more such attacks cannot be ruled
out till the elections are over. "Till the elections are on, the possibility (of
attacks) cannot be ruled out. We are alert for it," he said.

Parikkar said the morale of the troops in Kashmir is high as it is evident from
the way Uri and Nowgam infiltration incidents were tackled in a professional
way. "The casualties they suffered was at the beginning of the operation.
Otherwise the Army did an extremely professional job. No civilian was allowed to
be touched (by militants), that was the biggest success," he said.

Defence Minister earlier after his arrival reviewed the security situation in
the State in the wake to recent militant attacks, including the Uri attack that
left 11 security personnel dead.

Parrikar was briefed by General Officer Commanding (GOC) Northern Army Command,
Lt General D S Hooda, about the security situation in the State. "The Defence
Minister was apprised about the situation obtaining along the Line of Control,
Line of Actual Control and hinterland operations of the Army," Defence spokesman
said here.

The official said Parikkar was also briefed by General Officer Commanding of
Army's 15 Corps Lt General Subrata Saha about the Army operations in the Valley,
with particular reference to Uri operation on Dec 5 and Nowgam infiltration bid
that was foiled on December 2.

The Defence Minister also inspected the recoveries, including weapons and
warlike stores, effected from the slain militants in the two operations in first
week of the month.

Parikkar also visited the War Memorial at the Badamibagh headquarters of Army's
15 Corps to pay tributes to the eight soldiers including a Lieutenant Colonel
who were killed in the militant attack at Uri.

A Defence spokesman said that on his arrival at Srinagar, the Defence Minister
was received by Army chief, General Dalbir Singh, Northern Army Chief Lt Gen DS
Hooda, and the Chinar Corps Commander, Lt Gen Subrata Saha.

"The Minister visited the War Memorial of the Chinar Corps and paid tributes to
the martyrs by laying the wreath at the Memorial. He was briefed on the
prevailing security situation in Jammu and Kashmir. The Minister was apprised
about the robust Counter Infiltration grid along the Line of Control and the
Counter Terrorist grid in the hinterland established by Army. The Minister was
also given an overview of the Counter Infiltration and Counter Terrorist
Operations undertaken by the Corps in the recent past. He appreciated the
effectiveness of the intelligence and operational grid and the much higher
success rate this year, in neutralizing infiltration attempts, which had
contributed significantly towards a secure environment in the State", the
spokesman said.

The spokesman said that after addressing all ranks of the Corps, the Minister
interacted at length with the soldiers and complimented them on the high state
of morale and operational preparedness. He lauded the Army personnel for their
selfless service towards the National Security. He assured that the Nation stood
behind them and would support them in all their endeavours.

Source: Daily Excelsior website, Jammu, in English 12 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 12, 2014 Friday

Kenyan president criticizes media over images of terror attack victims

LENGTH: 124 words


Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta has criticized the media for publishing graphic
images of terror victims. Making remarks in Swahili after reading his prepared
speech in English, President Uhuru Kenyatta said: "It is wrong to publish
pictures of dead people in newspapers because terrorists use the images to
advance their cause".

Alluding to media reports following last year's terror attack on Nairobi's
Westgate Shopping Mall, he quipped: "Is it humane to publish images of dead
people on newspapers?"

President Kenyatta was addressing nation in a speech broadcast live by all the
country's main TV stations to mark Kenya's 51st independence anniversary on
Jamhuri Day marked every 12 December.

Source: NTV, Nairobi, in English 1200 gmt 12 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 12, 2014 Friday 5:14 PM GMT

Did torture stop UK terror attack? Al-Qaeda terrorist captured in London after
CIA spies interrogated Guantanamo Bay detainee

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE, DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1046 words



     ·    Information provided by Moazzam Begg helped identify Dhiren Barot
     ·    British terrorist was plotting 'dirty bomb' terror attack on London
     ·    He was considered Al-Qaeda's top terrorist in the UK, lying low in
          London
     ·    Barot, also known as 'Issa al-Britani' or 'al-Hindi', was tracked down
          in 2004


Al Qaeda's top British terrorist was captured after CIA spies tortured former
Guantanamo Bay detainee Moazzam Begg, it was claimed today.

Crucial information provided by Mr Begg while he was being held helped identify
'dirty bomber' Dhiren Barot who was plotting terror attacks on London, according
to the long-awaited publication of a report into CIA torture programmes in the
wake of 9/11.

The report claims that drawings by Mr Begg - who claims to have been beaten and
deprived of sleep in Guantanamo Bay - helped lead British security services to
Barot, who had gone to ground in London.

Barot - also known as 'Issa al-Britani' or 'al-Hindi' - was tracked down in 2004
before being found guilty two years later of planning to detonate a dirty bomb
and launch an attack on the Tube.

The revelation will prove highly controversial as it appears to contradict the
findings of the Senate's intelligence committee report which found that the
CIA's 'enhanced interrogation techniques' did not yield information crucial in
stopping terror attacks.

It even stated specifically that torture techniques - including waterboarding,
rectal feeding and sleep deprivation - at Guantanamo were not central to Barot's
arrest, or any other significant breakthrough.

The report criticises the CIA for making 'inaccurate' representations that
'enhanced interrogation' was effective and necessary in producing 'otherwise
unavailable intelligence'.

It said Barot's arrest 'resulted from the investigative activities of UK
government authorities.'

Scroll down for video

UK DID ASK FOR INFORMATION TO BE KEPT OUT OF TORTURE REPORT

The Government asked for information to be kept out of the US Senate report
detailing the scale of torture in CIA prisons, it emerged last night.

After initially insisting that no representations were made to keep secret
evidence about British complicity in CIA interrogation programmes, Downing
Street yesterday changed its story.

Asked on Wednesday about requested redactions, David Cameron's official
spokesman said there had been 'none whatsoever, to my knowledge'.

But yesterday his deputy said: 'My understanding is that no redactions were
sought to remove any suggestion that there was UK involvement in any alleged
torture or rendition.

'But I think there was a conversation with the agencies and their US
counterparts on the executive summary.

'Any redactions sought there would have been on national security grounds in the
way we might have done with any other report.'

But the report also described how Mr Begg not only suggested where Barot - an
old acquaintance - might be found in London, but provided a sketch good enough
to identify him, according to report footnotes revealed in the Independent
today.

One reference in the report states: 'While still in Pakistani custody, Begg
provided reporting on UK-based extremists in the context of terrorist training
camps, including information on an individual who would play a key role in
'Issa's' identification and capture.'

In October 2003, CIA officers wrote: 'Our latest information, based on [foreign
partner reporting] and a detainee's assessment [Moazzam Begg in US military
custody], is that Issa is believed to currently be located in Wembley, a suburb
of London.'

According to the CIA document, Begg's 'description and resulting sketch of UK
contact Issa al-Hindi' - whose true identity was then unknown - 'was compared to
a still shot of an unidentified man taken from a surveillance video of UK
extremists.'

The comparison 'revealed that the man in the video probably [was] the elusive
Issa al-Hindi.' Just months later, in August 2004, Barot was arrested.

Mr Begg has also reacted furiously to the claim. In a letter to The Independent
last night, lawyers for Mr Begg rejected any suggestion that he 'volunteered or
co-operated in the provision of information to any intelligence service'.

They added: 'Insofar as he was tortured and under extreme and unlawful
continuing duress for three-and-a-half years in Bagram and Guantanamo he, as
every other individual subject to such treatment, cannot be regarded in any
proper sense of the words to have 'given or provided information' voluntarily.'

Mr Begg was arrested in Pakistan in 2002, and was held at Bagram, Afghanistan,
before being sent to Guantanamo Bay.

He was among former detainees who received an out-of-court payment over claims
British officials were complicit in his torture.

Mr Begg was arrested again this year - accused of attending a terrorism training
camp in Syria. But the charges were dropped in October after it emerged MI5 knew
of his activities.

PARLIAMENTARY PROBE INTO UK COMPLICITY KICKED INTO LONG GRASS

A parliamentary probe into the complicity of British spies in US torture
programmes will not get fully under way for at least six months, it was claimed
today.

The revelation will pile further pressure on David Cameron to launch a
full-judicial inquiry to get to the bottom of how much MI6 and the Foreign
Office knew about CIA 'enhanced interrogation techniques'.

The Prime Minister earlier this year asked the Commons intelligence and security
committee to complete a probe started by former judge Sir Peter Gibson into
whether UK spies and ministers turned a blind eye to the torture of detainees by
the CIA.

That inquiry, set up in 2010, stalled because of police investigations into the
rendition of two suspects to Libya, before any MI5 or MI6 officers were
questioned.

But a member of the committee told the Times it was unlikely to start examining
witnesses before the general election - raising concerns that the probe has been
kicked into the long grass.

The Deputy Prime Minister, Nick Clegg has said he is open to a full public
inquiry into Britain's involvement in torture.

Mr Cameron has not ruled this out if the current investigation by the
Intelligence and Security Committee does not settle the issue.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                            December 12, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

OLYMPIC BRIT GIRLS KNIFE MUG TERROR;
Gang attack heroes

BYLINE: FELICITY CROSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 247 words


TWO British Olympic heroes feared for their lives as they were robbed at
knifepoint in Brazil.

The women, who won silver medals at the London 2012 Games, were held up by a
masked gang wielding 7-inch blades.

Sailors Hannah Mills and Saskia Clark were robbed of all their possessions, even
their lycra kit, as they walked from their training HQ in the capital Rio de
Janeiro.

Writing on their Facebook page the pair, who are in Brazil training for the 2016
Olympic Games, said: "Back in Rio for 2 weeks training. Top News Today: We've
been mugged.

"Our delightful walk back from the sailing club to the hotel turned fairly nasty
when two guys wielding 7inch knives ran at us, pushed us around and grabbed
everything we had.

"Along with the things that were actually worth something, the most annoying
thing right now is our lycra we were sailing in got taken. Unbelievable!!" Their
ordeal has cast a shadow over the event with Rio having one of the highest
violent crime rates in the world.

Earlier this year, Cardiffborn Hannah, 26, and Essex girl Saskia, 35, won bronze
at the World Championships in Santander, Spain, to qualify in the 470 class for
the Rio Olympics.

The pair reassured fans online that they were safe after the attack, adding: "We
made it back to the hotel slightly shaken but all OK."

It comes days after they celebrated setting up their brand new rig. Their
previous boat The Honeybadger took "a bit of a beating" while training in
Portugal.

felicity.cross@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACKED: Sailors Saskia and Hannah were targeted by vicious thugs in
Brazil

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 12, 2014 Friday 6:28 PM GMT

Drones 'could be used as flying bombs for terror attack on passenger jet';
Terrorists could "with impunity" fly multiple drones to take out passenger
aircraft, a leading expert warns, following report into 'near-miss' at Heathrow
Airport

BYLINE: By Tom Brooks-Pollock

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 692 words


Drones could be used as flying bombs by terrorists to take down a passenger
aircraft, according to a leading expert, who called for improved security
measures to deal with the "gaping hole" in the national defences.

Prof David H Dunn, of the University of Birmingham, said that jihadis could
"with impunity" fly multiple remote-controlled unmanned aircraft into the
engines of a jumbo jet, causing it crash.

Prof Dunn was speaking after it emerged that a drone flew within 20ft of an
Airbus A320 as it landed at Heathrow Airport in July.

An official report into the near-miss, or 'airprox', found that the mobile
helicopter narrowly avoided colliding with the passenger jet, 700ft above the
runway, on July 22 of this year.

The drone was not picked up on radar, and the operator of the drone could not be
traced according to the report, by the UK Airprox Board (Ukab).

Prof Dunn - the co-author, with Sir David Omand, the former head of GCHQ, of a
recent Birmingham University report on drones that called for "urgent" measures
to protect British aerospace from attack - said: "Chances are this was a
civilian drone that got lost by an operator who lost sight of it.

"But what if that was a terrorist that had bought several drones on the
internet? They could surround the aircraft with multiple drones at 200ft after
take-off and take out the engines and leave it with nowhere else to go."

"It would be the equivalent of an aerial truck bomb, like a suicide bomb only
the terrorist could fly it remotely, with impunity. These drones can be bought
anonymously online, piloted anonymously and the attacker would be untraceable
because they are completely unlicensed."

This amounted to a "gaping hole" in the country's national defences, Prof Dunn
said, despite the fact it is already illegal to fly drones into flight paths.

An unmanned drone attack would have "huge symbolic value" to Al Qaeda because of
their use by the US in countries such as Pakistan, Prof Dunn said.

Terrorists might also use drones to fire chemical weapons or flammable liquids
on large crowds of people at events such as football matches, the professor
said.

The Government should consider bolstering the country's military defences along
the lines of the temporary measures taken during the London 2012 Olympic, Prof
Dunn added.

During the games, a Royal Navy aircraft carrier docked on the Thames, RAF
Typhoon Eurofighters and security drones patrolled the skies, to prevent a
terrorist strike.

Prof Dunn said the British Government should "look at" introducing such measures
- or something similar to the laser drone defence system developed by the
Chinese government - as a matter of course.

The Ukab report found that the model helicopter passed dangerously close to the
Airbus A320, 700ft above Heathrow.

It was the second recorded near-miss, or 'airprox', between a commercial
passenger flight and a drone in Britain, and the first at Heathrow, while two
others.

Crew on board the passenger flight had seen the drone, which flew 20ft over the
A320's wing, the report said. It was not picked up on radar, probably because of
its small size.

It added: "That the dangers associated with flying such a model in close
proximity to a Commercial Air Transport aircraft in the final stages of landing
were not self-evident was a cause for considerable concern."

The Civil Aviation Authority can prosecute people who fly drones to aircraft,
crowds or buildings. Earlier this year Robert Knowles, 46, was ordered to pay
£4,340 in fines and costs after his drone crashed in a no-fly zone near a BAE
Systems shipyard in Cumbria that builds nuclear submarines.

But critics, such as the British Airline Pilots Association (Balpa), have called
for police and the CAA to better enforce the law, and have said that larger,
commercial drones should be as tightly regulated as manned aircraft.

Jim McAuslan, Balpa's general secretary, said some form of registration and
licensing scheme for drones and their owners - along the lines of the system
already in place for model aircraft or motorised gliders - was "something that
is going to have to be done" because so many people were buying drones.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                    December 13, 2014 Saturday 12:05 AM GMT

Clown terror! Police hunt for club attack yob

BYLINE: Sam Christie

LENGTH: 334 words


POLICE have released CCTV footage of a suspect dressed as a clown wanted over
two brutal assaults in a city nightclub.

The reveller who was wearing a pink and purple onsie outfit, is accused of
attacking two men in the gents toilets.

A 37-year-old man was left suffering from whiplash and concussion after being
hit on the back of the head.

The second victim, a 23-year-old man, suffered a fractured jaw after being
punched in the face.

He was rushed to hospital to undergo extensive surgery to repair his mandible.

The assaults happened in the gents of Crash Manor nightclub in Plymouth, Devon,
at around 3am on November 1.

But the suspected attacker managed to escape by disappearing into the crowds.

His costume blended with other fancy dress revellers out for Halloween.

Police have released two photos and a 22-second clip of the clown at the popular
nightspot.

It comes after a man dressed as a clown terrorised a town in winter 2013.

Dressing like horror writer Stephen King's character Pennywise from the movie
It, a student spooked residents in Northampton for weeks.

He became a global sensation after he first turned up in Northampton on Friday,
September 13th.

A few weeks later posters promoting a circus visit were taken down because a
woman with a fear of clowns was terrified of driving past them.

Leighton Buzzard Town Council, in Bedfordshire, said the posters were removed at
the woman's request.

The council said it was a "short-term, easily solvable problem".

In January Hollywood hunk Johnny Depp faced his clown phobia head on by locking
himself in a room with them.

The star, 51, who played the clownlike Mad Hatter in Alice in Wonderland, said:
"I've had this fear of clowns for years."

Anyone who recognises the Plymouth clown should contact Crimestoppers on 0800
555 111.

Related articles Masked clowns cover man's face in cavity filler Masked attacker
in horrific sex assault on heavily pregnant woman Grim Reaper found guilty of
vicious attack at party

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                    December 13, 2014 Saturday 10:24 AM GMT

Army cadets told to avoid wearing military uniform in public amid fears of
terror attack;
The warning comes days after soldiers were advised not to wear uniforms outside
barracks amid fears of a copycat attack following the murder of Fusilier Lee
Rigby

BYLINE: By David Collins

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 533 words


Children in school cadet forces have been warned not to wear their army uniform
in public amid fears of a terror attack.

Pupils were also told to carry out searches of training areas and accommodation
before setting up camp.

A notice published on a Facebook group told individual units to ensure with
"immediate effect" that "appropriate security measures" were put into place in
all detachments.

The warnings come just days after serving soldiers were told not to wear their
uniform outside barracks.

It comes amid fears of a copycat attack following last year's murder of Fusilier
Lee Rigby in south-east London.

They were also told not to let strangers know that they are serving in the
British Army.

Earlier this week, police were also warned not to wear their uniforms off-duty
following an 'anonymous but credible' telephone threat.

A source said: "It is such a terrible shame that children are being told not to
wear their uniforms. It is sad they can't proudly walk the streets."

The threat level for the armed forces was raised from "substantial" to "severe"
last week, meaning a terrorist attack on military personnel is highly likely.

An MoD spokesman said the same security measures that applied to serving
personnel also applied to cadet forces across the country.

In light of the revised terror threat level, a spokesman for the Middlesex and
North West London Army Cadet Force issued a six-point list for managing security
for children across the region.

The directives issued to more than 1,000 cadets included: "No uniform when
travelling to and from cadet activities."

Another rule told members to maintain "vigilance when travelling including at
motorway service stations... hence civilian clothes when travelling".

Others warned them to "ensure vehicles are guarded or parked in a secure area"
and "carry out searches of training areas, ranges and accommodation before
occupation".

They were also told to ensure all accommodation was secure when not in use and
to report any suspicious activity.

Military officials took to Twitter to warn cadets not to wear their uniform.

A spokesman for the 235 Westminster Cadet Detachment wrote: "Reminder not to
travel into the unit in uniform. Bring it in a bag and change in the unit."

Whitehall officials are understood to have noticed increased "chatter" among
jihadists wanting to carry out a beheading or other high-profile attack on a
serving soldier.

Fanatics have been searching online for the location of army barracks across the
country to identify targets.

Commanders have told soldiers to act as if the threat is 'critical' - the
highest level of terrorism alert - and to be ready for an imminent attack.

Last month, 15-year-old army cadet Callum Watkins was attacked with a makeshift
flame-thrower as he sold poppies wearing his uniform.

The teenager suffered minor burns in the assault in Manchester city centre ahead
of Remembrance Sunday.

The news comes after the Mirror revealed last month how police officers across
the UK are being warned not to wear their uniforms whilst off-duty.

The Security Service MI5 has received intelligence about a terrorist plot to
kill a police officer on the streets of London and have increased security
protocols.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 14, 2014 Sunday

Afghan leader says terrorist attacks not to weaken determination for peace

LENGTH: 201 words


Afghan president has said that terrorist attacks in the country will not weaken
the Afghan people's determination for peace and stability. Addressing a
gathering held to mark international day of human rights in Kabul on 14
December, aired live on state broadcaster national Afghanistan TV and other main
TV channels, the Afghan president said:

"Peace is our vital social need. The meaning of lasting peace is to move from
long-term instability to lasting stability and for this we need prudence,
meditation and patience. If the aim of terrorist attacks is to make us reject
peace, this is not the response. If they think that with terrorist acts they can
weaken our determination, they should realize the fact that the Afghan nation
has united determination. We will never surrender to terrorism. The logic of
peace is the logic of stability, welfare and rights...We are seeking solutions
and taking the complex regional, national and international situation that
Afghanistan is faced with into consideration, we will take effective, firm and
comprehensive measures [for peace] with a framework that includes all these
[challenges]."

Source: National Afghanistan TV, Kabul, in Dari and Pashto 0600 gmt 14 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            December 15, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lone wolf attack is now tactic of choice for terrorists

BYLINE: Robert Fox

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 457 words


TODAY'S siege looks like the latest in a string of attacks by "lone wolf"
militants backing the cause of extremist political Islam.

It comes after warnings to Australians about the growing jihadi threat in their
midst. Several hundred Australians have left to fight for the cause of Islamic
State in Iraq and Syria over the past 18 months.

In September, Australia's Prime Minister Tony Abbott committed 600 troops to the
multi-national effort against IS in Iraq - considerably more than Britain
intends to send to date.

But the Lindt café incident should not just be seen in an Australian context.
Lone wolf attacks across three continents have coincided with the steady rise of
the Islamic State over the past two years.

In October, a soldier was shot dead outside Canada's parliament in Ottawa by a
32-year-old convert to Islam who was planning to go to Syria.

In September, a teenager described as "a known terror suspect" was shot and
killed in Melbourne after he had stabbed two police officers.

In the UK, the most infamous lone wolf attack was the murder of Drummer Lee
Rigby with a knife and meat cleaver by Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale
on May 22 last year. In Septem-ber, IS propaganda on social media told followers
to carry out random attacks on infidels wherever they could.

Warning of the growing dangers of such attacks, the Metropolitan Police
Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe told the BBC: "It doesn't take an awful lot
of organising, and it doesn't take too many people to conspire together
--there's no great complexity to it - so that means we have a very short time to
actually intervene."

The lone attack is the tactic of choice since IS took over the command of the
jihadi extremist brand from the core of al Qaeda.

Elaborate plots such as 9/11 and the 7/7 London attacks in 2005 take a great
deal of planning, training, and in most cases, delicate movement of material and
bomb equipment. They can easily go wrong. The problem with tracking the lone
wolf terrorist is one of quantity and quality. It is now thought that some 2,000
or more people have left the UK to serve IS.

Each lone wolf behaves differently. The Lindt gunman hasn't used social media,
and he doesn't seem bent on suicide. Moreover he has seemed prepared to talk.

The heart of the current phase of sociopathic jihadi attack is the presence of
IS in Syria and Iraq. For IS to be defeated, a coherent ground operation with
viable local Iraqi and Kurdish ground troops must be put together.

That is why the UK and Australia are following America's lead in sending ground
force trainers - the war cannot be fought from the air alone. It looks as if it
will be a long job yet.

The Lindt gunman doesn't seem bent on suicide, and has seemed prepared to talk

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      December 15, 2014 Monday 8:52 AM GMT

Two Sydney men charged with funding travel of Australians fighting with Isis;
Police allege the two men, one previously charged with preparing to commit a
terrorist attack, made $15,000 available to Islamic State

BYLINE: Michael Safi

SECTION: AUSTRALIA NEWS

LENGTH: 230 words


Two Sydney men, including one already facing trial for allegedly preparing to
commit a terrorist attack, have been accused of financing the travel of
Australians to the Middle East to fight with the militant group Islamic State
(Isis).

A 25-year-old from Beecroft in Sydney's north-west was arrested on Monday
morning "as the result of an assessment of information" obtained by police
during sweeping counter-terrorism raids in September, the Australian federal
police said in a statement.

Omarjan Azari, 22, who was charged with preparing a terrorist act following the
largest police raids in Australian history in September, was also charged with
terrorism funding offences.

Police will allege the two men made $15,000 available to Isis in August this
year, and that they were "key facilitators in the movement of funds" that paid
for Australians to travel to Iraq and Syria to fight with the group.

Around 60 Australians are believed to be fighting in the region with Isis and
other groups, including Sydney teenager Taha ElBaf and his three older brothers,
who are believed to have slipped into Syria in November.

Police have said there is no evidence the arrests were linked to the siege of a
cafe in Martin Place on Monday.

The Beecroft man appeared via video link in Sydney central local court on Monday
afternoon. Azari will next appear in Sydney central local court on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      December 15, 2014 Monday 4:30 AM GMT

Sydney CBD siege: hostages forced to hold black and white Islamic flag;
Terrorist attack feared after a man, reportedly armed with a gun, walked into
cafe in Martin Place and took a number of staff and customers hostage· Sydney
siege - live coverage

BYLINE: Michael Safi and Shalailah Medhora

SECTION: AUSTRALIA NEWS

LENGTH: 708 words


Customers and staff were taken hostage in a cafe in the heart of Sydney's CBD on
Monday morning by at least one man reportedly armed with a gun.

Chilling early images showed some hostages apparently forced to hold a black and
white flag against the window bearing the Islamic creed, raising fears that a
terrorist attack was under way.

Other hostages inside the Lindt Chocolate Cafe in bustling Martin Place could be
seen with their hands pressed against the glass.

The number being given for hostages inside the building varied wildly, with the
CEO of Lindt Australia suggesting up to 40 people could be held inside.

At least one gunman reportedly entered the cafe around 9:45am on Monday morning,
and a siege situation quickly developed, with heavily armed police surrounding
the cafe and closing off the streets of the central area of Australia's biggest
city.

Police evacuated offices in the immediate vicinity of the cafe and directed
workers in nearby building to remain indoors and away from open windows.

Negotiators were attempting to make contact with the hostage takers, police
said.

Witnesses reported that the hostage situation began when a man with a sports bag
was seen near the cafe. The man was seen to walk into the cafe and police were
called.

Within minutes hostages were being pressed up against the large glass windows of
the cafe, which is overlooked by the studios of the TV station, Channel Seven.

The channel's breakfast show The Morning Show was on air when news of the siege
broke.

The black flag in the window of the cafe appeared to bear the shahada, an
Islamic affirmation of the oneness of God, reading: "There is no god but the
God, Muhammad is the messenger of God."

The creed is common in the Islamic world and appears on the Saudi Arabian flag,
but has been embraced by Islamist groups such as Jabhat al-Nusra and Hizb
ut-Tahrir.

One Lindt employee, Nathan Grivas, arrived for work just after the siege began
and found the glass sliding door of the cafe disabled.

"It was already locked [when he arrived]. I didn't get a good look at them, as
soon as I saw the gun all I wanted to do was get out," he said.

Staff and tourists around Sydney Opera House were also reported to have been
evacuated after a suspicious package was seen. Helicopters were seen hovering
above the tourist attraction.

The New South Wales police commissioner, Andrew Scipione, said law enforcement
was "on a footing consistent with a terrorist act" but there was no evidence the
incident was connected to an arrest on Monday morning of a 25-year-old Sydney
man for alleged terrorism financing.

Scipione said police had not been in contact with the offender and that his
origins were still unknown.

He would not confirm claims by a Sydney radio personality, Ray Hadley, that his
station had been called by one or more of the hostages inside the cafe.

"We are being tested today in Sydney. The police are being tested; the public is
being tested, but whatever the test, we will face it head on. We will remain a
strong, democratic, civil society," he said.

The prime minister, Tony Abbott, made a short statement to journalists on
Monday, urging people not to be deterred by the siege.

"We don't yet know the motivation of the perpetrator, we don't know whether this
is politically motivated although obviously there are some indications that it
could be," Abbott said.

"We have to appreciate that even in a society such as ours, there are people who
would wish to do us harm, that's why we have police and security organisations
of the utmost professionalism that are ready and able to respond to a whole
range of situations and contingencies including this situation that we are now
seeing in Sydney."

Abbott would not be drawn on the details of the siege, including how many
hostages were being held, instead referring queries to NSW police, who are
leading the operation.

"The whole point of politically motivated violence is to scare people out of
being themselves. Australia is a peaceful, open and generous society. Nothing
should ever change that and that's why I would urge all Australians today to go
about their business as usual."

Abbott confirmed in a carefully worded statement that the national security
committee was briefed on the siege this morning.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            December 15, 2014 Monday

Greece: UN Security Council condemns terrorist attack on Israel embassy

LENGTH: 223 words


December 14, 2014

The United Nations Security Council has condemned in the strongest terms the 12
December terrorist attack on the Israeli Embassy in Athens, Greece, underscoring
the continuing threat posed by terrorism to global peace and security.



In the early hours of Friday morning, a number of assailants reportedly sprayed
the Embassy of Israel in the Greek capital with gunfire, hitting the building
multiple times. According to media reports, the attack did not cause any
casualties or serious damage.

In a press statement issued yesterday evening, the 15-member Council commended
the Greek Government's response to the incident including its "unequivocal
condemnation and immediate commencement of an investigation" into the attack and
emphasized the need to bring the perpetrators to immediate justice.

"Terrorism, in all its forms and manifestations, constitutes one of the most
serious threats to peace and security," the Council declared.

"Any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their
motivations, whenever and by whomsoever committed."

The members of the Security Council also reaffirmed the need to combat "by all
means" and in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and all
obligations under international law all threats to international peace and
security caused by terrorist acts.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 15, 2014 Monday 5:11 PM GMT

Pictured: Moment suspected hostage-taker surrenders to police in Belgian city of
Ghent as armed siege sparks fears of terror attack

BYLINE: KHALEDA RAHMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 580 words



     ·    Sparked fears siege may be terror-related after an Islamist fanatic
          takes hostages in Sydney cafe today
     ·    Police sealed off wide perimeter around the area to keep bystanders
          away
     ·    'We have no indication that there is a link to terrorism,' said a
          police spokesperson
     ·    A police source told reporters they believe incident is drug-related
     ·    Three people have been detained and hostage released unharmed
     ·    W itnesses claimed the men had Kalashnikovs, but police have found no
          weapons inside so far


Three men have been detained after taking a man hostage in an apartment in the
Belgian city of Ghent today, sparking fears the siege could be linked to
terrorism.

Police have taken the men into custody - who left the building with their hands
up - and the hostage has now been released unharmed.

It was still unclear why the men had taken the hostage but it was not an act of
terror, federal police spokeswoman Annemie Serlippens said.

'There appears to be nothing political,' she said.

The incident sparked fears it could be linked to terrorism, occurring hours
after police in Australia locked down the centre of Sydney after an Islamist
fanatic took numerous hostages in a cafe.

The siege in the Dampoort district in Ghent ended at around 1pm when armed
police in balaclavas emerged from the cordoned-off building and began reopening
roads - with one saying: 'It's over'.

Witnesses reported seeing the men carrying Kalashnikovs, but no weapons have
been recovered by police yet.

Scroll down for video

Belgian broadcaster VRT reported neighbours claiming that the flat had been used
by drug dealers.

A spokeswoman for state prosecutors said witnesses had reported the men were
carrying Kalashnikovs - but none have been found yet.

She said: 'Three men have been taken away though there were no weapons found.

'The earlier reports were of four men with Kalashnikovs.'

She added: 'It's not entirely clear whether someone was in fact taken hostage.'

This morning, a wide perimeter around the scene in the Dampoort area of the city
was blocked off urged residents to remain indoors.

More than 30 police officers had been called out to the scene this morning, but
a police source said they believed the incident to be drug-related.

'For the time being we have no indication that there is a link to terrorism,'
said a spokesperson for the state prosecution service.

They said: 'There is no indication that this is anything to do with terrorism.
This is possibly related to drugs.'

This morning, head of Ghent police Filip Rasschaert told  De Standaard  that
federal authorities were taking control of the situation and added they were
carrying out the operation carefully because of the potential involvement of a
hostage.

'They have all they need to bring a successful end to a hostage-taking,' he
said.

'There is information that a hostage might have been taken, so we err on the
side of caution.'

Earlier today, police spokesman Manuel Mugica Gonzalez said: 'Four armed men
invaded an apartment building.

'They're in the building but it is not clear what is happening inside.

'We have set up a security zone and asked residents to stay indoors for their
own safety.'

By mid-morning, a big police operation had been set up in the working-class
neighborhood to keep bystanders away from the scene.

It is the second time in six weeks time there has been hostage situation in
Ghent.

On October 23, a man was taken hostage on the top floor of an apartment building
at Charles de Kerchovelaan over an unpaid debt.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 15, 2014 Monday 4:52 PM GMT

Pictured: Moment suspected hostage-taker surrenders to police in Belgian city of
Ghent as armed siege sparks fears of terror attack

BYLINE: KHALEDA RAHMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 580 words



     ·    Sparked fears siege may be terror-related after an Islamist fanatic
          takes hostages in Sydney cafe today
     ·    Police sealed off wide perimeter around the area to keep bystanders
          away
     ·    'We have no indication that there is a link to terrorism,' said a
          police spokesperson
     ·    A police source told reporters they believe incident is drug-related
     ·    Three people have been detained and hostage released unharmed
     ·    W itnesses claimed the men had Kalashnikovs, but police have found no
          weapons inside so far


Three men have been detained after taking a man hostage in an apartment in the
Belgian city of Ghent today, sparking fears the siege could be linked to
terrorism.

Police have taken the men into custody - who left the building with their hands
up - and the hostage has now been released unharmed.

It was still unclear why the men had taken the hostage but it was not an act of
terror, federal police spokeswoman Annemie Serlippens said.

'There appears to be nothing political,' she said.

The incident sparked fears it could be linked to terrorism, occurring hours
after police in Australia locked down the centre of Sydney after an Islamist
fanatic took numerous hostages in a cafe.

The siege in the Dampoort district in Ghent ended at around 1pm when armed
police in balaclavas emerged from the cordoned-off building and began reopening
roads - with one saying: 'It's over'.

Witnesses reported seeing the men carrying Kalashnikovs, but no weapons have
been recovered by police yet.

Scroll down for video

Belgian broadcaster VRT reported neighbours claiming that the flat had been used
by drug dealers.

A spokeswoman for state prosecutors said witnesses had reported the men were
carrying Kalashnikovs - but none have been found yet.

She said: 'Three men have been taken away though there were no weapons found.

'The earlier reports were of four men with Kalashnikovs.'

She added: 'It's not entirely clear whether someone was in fact taken hostage.'

This morning, a wide perimeter around the scene in the Dampoort area of the city
was blocked off urged residents to remain indoors.

More than 30 police officers had been called out to the scene this morning, but
a police source said they believed the incident to be drug-related.

'For the time being we have no indication that there is a link to terrorism,'
said a spokesperson for the state prosecution service.

They said: 'There is no indication that this is anything to do with terrorism.
This is possibly related to drugs.'

This morning, head of Ghent police Filip Rasschaert told  De Standaard  that
federal authorities were taking control of the situation and added they were
carrying out the operation carefully because of the potential involvement of a
hostage.

'They have all they need to bring a successful end to a hostage-taking,' he
said.

'There is information that a hostage might have been taken, so we err on the
side of caution.'

Earlier today, police spokesman Manuel Mugica Gonzalez said: 'Four armed men
invaded an apartment building.

'They're in the building but it is not clear what is happening inside.

'We have set up a security zone and asked residents to stay indoors for their
own safety.'

By mid-morning, a big police operation had been set up in the working-class
neighborhood to keep bystanders away from the scene.

It is the second time in six weeks time there has been hostage situation in
Ghent.

On October 23, a man was taken hostage on the top floor of an apartment building
at Charles de Kerchovelaan over an unpaid debt.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 15, 2014 Monday 1:39 PM GMT

Pictured: Moment suspected hostage-taker surrenders to police in Belgian town of
Ghent as armed siege sparks fears of terror attack

BYLINE: KHALEDA RAHMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 525 words



     ·    Sparked fears siege may be terror-related after an Islamist fanatic
          takes hostages in Sydney cafe today
     ·    Police sealed off wide perimeter around the area to keep bystanders
          away
     ·    'For the time being we have no indication that there is a link to
          terrorism,' said a police spokesperson
     ·    A police source told reporters they believe incident is drug-related
     ·    Local journalist reports three people have been taken into custody
     ·    Situation appears to be under control with no violence used
     ·    Police are now leaving the scene and reopening roads in the area


Four gunmen took a hostage in an apartment in the Belgian city of Ghent today,
the state prosecution service confirmed.

A wide perimeter around the scene in the Dampoort area of the city was blocked
off and police have urged residents to remain indoors - but the situation now
appears to be under control.

Reporters at the scene said three people had surrendered without any violence,
but it was not clear if they were suspects - and police are beginning to reopen
roads.

The incident sparked fears it could be linked to terrorism, occurring hours
after police in Australia locked down the centre of Sydney after an Islamist
fanatic took numerous hostages in a cafe.

More than 30 police officers have been called out to the scene this morning, but
a police source said they believed the incident to be drug-related.

Scroll down for video

'For the time being we have no indication that there is a link to terrorism,'
said a spokesperson for the state prosecution service.

A police source reportedly told local journalists the incident is possibly
related to drugs.

They said: 'There is no indication that this is anything to do with terrorism.
This is possibly related to drugs.'

A federal police spokeswoman Annemie Serlippens added: 'There appears to be
nothing political. And it does not seem to be going that way.'

Local journalist Bert Staes reported earlier that people have been taken into
custody without any violence and armed police are now entering the building.

He wrote on Twitter: 'Hostage incident Dampoort #Ghent: two persons taken in
custody without violence, says colleague on the ground'.

Head of Ghent police Filip Rasschaert told  De Standaard  that federal
authorities were taking control of the situation and added they were carrying
out the operation carefully because of the potential involvement of a hostage.

'They have all they need to bring a successful end to a hostage-taking,' he
said.

'There is information that a hostage might have been taken, so we err on the
side of caution.'

Earlier today, police spokesman Manuel Mugica Gonzalez said: 'Four armed men
invaded an apartment building.

'They're in the building but it is not clear what is happening inside.

'We have set up a security zone and asked residents to stay indoors for their
own safety.'

By mid-morning, a big police operation had been set up in the working-class
neighborhood to keep bystanders away from the scene.

It is the second time in six weeks time there has been hostage situation in
Ghent.

On October 23, a man was taken hostage on the top floor of an apartment building
at Charles de Kerchovelaan over an unpaid debt.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 15, 2014 Monday 12:28 PM GMT

Pictured: Moment suspected hostage-taker surrenders to police in Belgian town of
Ghent as armed siege sparks fears of terror attack

BYLINE: KHALEDA RAHMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 513 words



     ·    Sparked fears siege may be terror-related after an Islamist fanatic
          takes hostages in Sydney cafe today
     ·    Police sealed off wide perimeter around the area to keep bystanders
          away
     ·    'For the time being we have no indication that there is a link to
          terrorism,' said a police spokesperson
     ·    A police source told reporters they believe incident is drug-related
     ·    Local journalist reports three people have been taken into custody
     ·    Situation appears to be under control and armed police are leaving the
          building with no signs of violence used


Four gunmen took at least one hostage in an apartment in the Belgian city of
Ghent today, the state prosecution service confirmed.

A wide perimeter around the scene in the Dampoort area of the city has been
blocked off and police have urged residents to remain indoors.

Reporters at the scene said three people had surrendered without any violence,
but it was not clear if they were suspects - as armed police start to leave the
building.

The incident sparked fears it may be linked to terrorism as a siege in Sydney
continues after an Islamist fanatic armed with weapons took a number of hostages
in a cafe today.

More than 30 police officers have been called out to the scene this morning, but
a police source said they believed the incident to be drug-related.

Scroll down for video

'For the time being we have no indication that there is a link to terrorism,'
said a spokesperson for the state prosecution service.

A police source reportedly told local journalists the incident is possibly
related to drugs.

They said: 'There is no indication that this is anything to do with terrorism.
This is possibly related to drugs.'

A federal police spokeswoman Annemie Serlippens added: 'There appears to be
nothing political. And it does not seem to be going that way.'

Local journalist Bert Staes reported earlier that people have been taken into
custody without any violence and armed police are now entering the building.

He wrote on Twitter: 'Hostage incident Dampoort #Ghent: two persons taken in
custody without violence, says colleague on the ground'.

Head of Ghent police Filip Rasschaert told  De Standaard  that federal
authorities were taking control of the situation and added they were carrying
out the operation carefully because of the potential involvement of a hostage.

'They have all they need to bring a successful end to a hostage-taking,' he
said.

'There is information that a hostage might have been taken, so we err on the
side of caution.'

Police spokesman Manuel Mugica Gonzalez said: 'Four armed men invaded an
apartment building.

'They're in the building but it is not clear what is happening inside.

'We have set up a security zone and asked residents to stay indoors for their
own safety.'

By mid-morning, a big police operation had been set up in the working-class
neighborhood to keep bystanders away from the scene.

It is the second time in six weeks time there has been hostage situation in the
town.

On October 23, a man was taken hostage on the top floor of an apartment building
at Charles de Kerchovelaan over an unpaid debt.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 15, 2014 Monday 11:59 AM GMT

Belgian town of Ghent forced into lockdown as armed hostage situation sparks
fears of terror attack

BYLINE: KHALEDA RAHMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 482 words



     ·    Sparked fears siege may be terror-related after an Islamist fanatic
          took hostages in Sydney today
     ·    Police sealed off wide perimeter around the area to keep bystanders
          away
     ·    'For the time being we have no indication that there is a link to
          terrorism,' said a police spokesperson
     ·    A police source told reporters they believe incident is drug-related
     ·    Local journalist reports three people have been taken into custody so
          far and armed police are in the building


Four gunmen took at least one hostage in an apartment in the Belgian city of
Ghent today, the state prosecution service confirmed.

A wide perimeter around the scene in the Dampoort area of the city has been
blocked off and police have urged residents to remain indoors.

Reporters at the scene said three people had surrendered without violence, but
it was not clear if they were suspects - and armed police remain in the
building.

The incident sparked fears the siege may be terror-related coming so soon after
an Islamist fanatic armed with weapons has taken a number of hostages in a
Sydney cafe today.

But a police source said they believed the incident to be drug-related.

'For the time being we have no indication that there is a link to terrorism,'
said a spokesperson for the state prosecution service.

A police source reportedly told local journalists the incident is possibly
related to drugs.

They said: 'There is no indication that this is anything to do with terrorism.
This is possibly related to drugs.'

A federal police spokeswoman Annemie Serlippens added: 'There appears to be
nothing political. And it does not seem to be going that way.'

Local journalist Bert Staes reported earlier that people have been taken into
custody without any violence and armed police are now entering the building.

He wrote on Twitter: 'Hostage incident Dampoort #Ghent: two persons taken in
custody without violence, says colleague on the ground'.

Head of Ghent police Filip Rasschaert told  De Standaard  that federal
authorities were taking control of the situation and added they were carrying
out the operation carefully because of the potential involvement of a hostage.

'They have all they need to bring a successful end to a hostage-taking,' he
said.

'There is information that a hostage might have been taken, so we err on the
side of caution.'

Police spokesman Manuel Mugica Gonzalez said: 'Four armed men invaded an
apartment building.

'They're in the building but it is not clear what is happening inside.

'We have set up a security zone and asked residents to stay indoors for their
own safety.'

By mid-morning, a big police operation had been set up in the working-class
neighborhood to keep bystanders away from the scene.

It is the second time in six weeks time there has been hostage situation in the
town.

On October 23, a man was taken hostage on the top floor of an apartment building
at Charles de Kerchovelaan over an unpaid debt.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 15, 2014 Monday 11:28 AM GMT

Belgian town of Ghent forced into lockdown as armed hostage situation sparks
fears of terror attack

BYLINE: KHALEDA RAHMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 440 words



     ·    Sparked fears siege may be terror-related after an Islamist fanatic
          took hostages in Sydney today
     ·    Police sealed off wide perimeter around the area to keep bystanders
          away
     ·    'For the time being we have no indication that there is a link to
          terrorism,' said a police spokesperson
     ·    A police source told reporters they believe incident is drug-related
     ·    Local journalist reports two people have been taken into custody while
          two remain in the flat


Four gunmen took at least one hostage in an apartment in the Belgian city of
Ghent today, the state prosecution service confirmed.

A wide perimeter around the scene in the Dampoort area of the city has been
blocked off and police have urged residents to remain indoors.

The incident sparked fears the siege may be terror-related coming so soon after
an Islamist fanatic took a number of hostages in a Sydney cafe today.

But a police source said they believed the incident to be drug-related.

'For the time being we have no indication that there is a link to terrorism,'
said a spokesperson for the state prosecution service.

A police source reportedly told local journalists the incident is possibly
related to drugs.

They said: 'There is no indication that this is anything to do with terrorism.
This is possibly related to drugs.'

A federal police spokeswoman Annemie Serlippens added: 'There appears to be
nothing political. And it does not seem to be going that way.'

Local journalist Bert Staes reports that two men have been taken into custody
without any violence.

He wrote on Twitter: 'Hostage incident Dampoort #Ghent: two persons taken in
custody without violence, says colleague on the ground'.

Head of Ghent police Filip Rasschaert told  De Standaard  that federal
authorities were taking control of the situation and added they were carrying
out the operation carefully because of the potential involvement of a hostage.

'They have all they need to bring a successful end to a hostage-taking,' he
said.

'There is information that a hostage might have been taken, so we err on the
side of caution.'

Police spokesman Manuel Mugica Gonzalez said: 'Four armed men invaded an
apartment building.

'They're in the building but it is not clear what is happening inside.

'We have set up a security zone and asked residents to stay indoors for their
own safety.'

By mid-morning, a big police operation had been set up in the working-class
neighborhood to keep bystanders away from the scene.

It is the second time in six weeks time there has been hostage situation in the
town.

On October 23, a man was taken hostage on the top floor of an apartment building
at Charles de Kerchovelaan over an unpaid debt.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:23:29

