



Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:58:57
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Newham Recorder

                            March 23, 2011 Wednesday

Yob attack sparks rush hour Tube terror

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 290 words


Terrified rush hour commuters dived for cover as the windows of packed Tube
trains were smashed by missiles.

Eight Central Line trains were damaged after they were targeted by yobs last
Wednesday evening, writes MATT NICHOLLS.



Police are unsure exactly what caused the breakages, although there are reports
an air rifle was used.

Passengers are said to have been shaken by the attack, although no injuries were
reported.

Officers combed the area between Stratford and Leyton stations, but have yet to
make any arrests.

They are appealing for anyone onboard, or who may have seen suspicious activity
in the area, to come forward.

A British Transport Police spokesman said: "An investigation has been launched
and officers are working to establish the full circumstances surrounding the
incidents, including establishing exactly what was used to smash the windows.

"These incidents left passengers onboard the trains understandably shaken.

"We urge those who think throwing stones and other objects at passing trains is
fun to consider the consequences of their actions, which in this case could have
been much worse.

"Those who throw objects at trains risk causing serious injury to passengers and
staff and could face a maximum penalty of life imprisonment."

A TfL spokesman added: "The railway is not a playground.

"Throwing things at trains is not only dangerous but can have serious - and
sometimes fatal - consequences.

"This sort of behaviour also causes significant delays to train services and we
urge Londoners to report anything untoward they see to the British Transport
Police or a member of staff."

Anyone with information should call 0800 405040, quoting incident number 450 of
March 16, or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

276 words

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NRC


                      Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      March 23, 2011 Wednesday 2:33 PM BST

MI5 WARNED OF LIBYA TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Rosa Silverman, Press Association, in Gioia del Colle

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 169 words


MI5 has warned its Nato allies of the risk of terror attacks in the wake of the
military action in Libya.

The security service reportedly sent a memo a few hours before the start of the
operation after intercepting a number of conversations among British-based
Libyans.

The discussions about how to support Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi were held by
expatriates who, though well assimilated in the west, retain close links with
their homeland, Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera reported.

They are understood to have vowed to take action wherever they are, with older
Libyan men willing to provide backing for them.

And the intelligence cited in the chilling warning was deemed ``reliable'' by
the security service, the newspaper reported.

The Home Office said the UK faced a ``real and serious threat from terrorism''.

But a spokesman said: ``We do not comment on intelligence or operational
matters, or specific threats.''

The overall threat level remains at ``severe'', meaning an attack is thought to
be highly likely.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2011 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday

Romanian president warns against higher risk of terror attacks in Europe

LENGTH: 350 words


Text of report in English by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

["President Basescu: Although not in the frontline of risks, Romania should be
careful about terror attacks" - Agerpres headline]

Bucharest, March 24 /Agerpres/ - President Traian Basescu on Wednesday [ 23
March] evening said that although it is not in the frontline of risks, Romania
should be careful about terror attacks amidst the situation in Libya, saying
that this is why he asked the Romanian Intelligence Service (SRI) to upgrade the
warming levels.

'If you take a look at the recent developments, after the non-fly zone
enforcement operations started in Libya, even the Arab League took a step back
from supporting these operations and so did the Union of African States, which
initially voiced support for the operations. At the same time, I do not know
whether you heard the statements of some Taleban officials that they will come
to help Gaddafi [Al-Qadhafi]. I do not mean to say that this is what will
happen, but a country such Romania must think prudently,' Basescu told
Realitatea TV commercial television channel in an interview.

He added that the risks of terror attacks in Europe will increase, and that is
why he asked the SRI to upgrade the warning level.

'Libya is located at the southern border of the European Union and terror
attacks are one of the weapons used by Islamic extremists. You could have seen
this in action in Tel Aviv. We can see them also in Europe, which has not been
spared such attacks. Even if it is not in the frontline of risks, Romania should
be careful as it does not take brilliant analysts to see that Northern Africa is
ablaze, the Middle East is tensioned and so is the Gulf zone, including
Bahrain,' Basescu explained.

He added that when events of such magnitude happen in the Arab world considering
possible terror threats when assessing the situation and making decisions it is
unavoidable.

'There is no person about whom to say he will strike, but such possibility
should be taken into account,' said Basescu.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 0634 gmt 24 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday

Italian official warns about risk of Libya-linked terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 231 words


Text of report by Italian popular privately-owned financial newspaper Il Sole-24
Ore, on 24 March

[Unattributed report: "Terrorism Alert, Defences Reinforced"]

Rome - There is a terrorism alert in Italy. According to Interior Ministry Under
Secretary Alfredo Mantovano, "there is considerable concern - he reported
yesterday in parliament - deriving both from the presence in Libya of
individuals belonging to the new terrorism of the Salafist area and of
Al-Qa'idah, and over the possible reactions which an old terrorist like
Al-Qadhafi can unleash, having already had a remote but awful experience in that
subject."

Thus, Libyan circles which support the Arab leader [Al-Qadhafi], and which are
present in Italy, are under close observation. An eye is also being kept on
Islamic fundamentalist circuits, which could act on Al-Qadhafi's appeal against
the "Crusaders." Although there are no specific signs.

Rome is the city where attention is greatest, with more than 1,000 sensitive
sites guarded by the forces of law and order, including embassies (in particular
the French Embassy, and the embassies of the other countries in the coalition
which intervened in Libya), airports, and stations. Military bases are also
under special surveillance, such as the NATO naval command for the Mediterranean
in Naples, and the US base at Aviano.

Source: Il Sole 24 Ore, Milan, in Italian 24 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

MI5 terror attack warning

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: FOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 116 words


MI5 has warned its Nato allies of the risk  of terror attacks in the wake of the
military action in Libya.

The security service reportedly sent a memo a few hours before the start of  the
operation after intercepting a number of conversations among British-based
Libyans.

The discussions about how to support Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi were held by
expatriates who, though well assimilated in the west, retain close links with
their homeland.

They are understood to have vowed to take action wherever they are, with older
Libyan men willing to provide backing for them.

And the intelligence cited in the chilling warning was deemed  reliable  by the
security service, an Italian newspaper reported.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Drug-fuelled knifepoint robbery in churchyard;
Pair locked up for terror attack

BYLINE: EXAMINER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 836 words


A JUDGE has locked up a pair of drugged-up robbers who subjected a group of
friends to a terrifying knifepoint ordeal in a Huddersfield churchyard.

And one of them had been jailed for 18 months - just seven months before he
struck again.

Prolific criminal Scott Asquith was locked up in February last year after he
mugged a 12-year-old boy out trick or treating on Halloween 2009 - causing him
psychological damage. The robbery was committed in the graveyard at St Paul's
Church in Armitage Bridge.

The serial mugger admitted at the time that he was a bully, but claimed he was
changing his ways.

Yet in September last year - just two months after he was released early on
licence - he and an accomplice robbed a group of students.

The students had been out that night celebrating one of their group's 18th
birthday when they were confronted by Asquith and his accomplice Daniel
Cunningham. The attack again took place in the grounds of St Paul's Church last
September.

Bradford Crown Court heard yesterday that the hoodie-wearing duo were each
carrying a knife and had been taking the illegal high M-CAT before carrying out
the hold-up in the early hours of the morning.

Judge Robert Bartfield told them: "It is said you had taken M-CAT and were
therefore feeling invincible. I'm afraid this drug is becoming all too frequent
in offences of this kind and I'm confident you two knew the effect it would have
on you.'' Prosecutor Heather Gilmore described how the four students were
ordered at knifepoint to empty their pockets and then told to lie down on the
ground.

One of the students had a knife held to his throat while he was 'patted down' to
see if he had any more property on him.

But when another asked to keep his SIM card Asquith handed him his knife so the
shaking complainant could use it to open the mobile phone.

Miss Gilmore said one of the students tried to make a run for it, but after only
a short distance he was called back when threats were made towards his remaining
friends.

Asquith then asked one of the group to hand over a newly-bought jacket but
Cunningham told him to leave it saying: "We've taken enough.'' As they left the
robbers told the group that they knew people in Berry Brow who knew where they
lived.

In a victim impact statement submitted to the court, one of the complainants
described being scared to go out after the incident which had left him suffering
sleepless nights and anxiety.

Another victim said he had suffered flashbacks and his college work had been
affected.

The robbers fled with various items including mobile phones, cigarettes, cash
and an MP3 player.

The duo were identified through CCTV footage from a nearby building and they
were arrested later that month.

The court heard that Cunningham, who had no previous convictions, immediately
admitted his involvement, but said he could not remember having a knife himself.

He said he wasn't drunk, but had taken M-CAT.

Two months before the hold-up in the churchyard Asquith, of Field Road,
Holmfirth, had been released on licence from a previous custodial sentence for
robbery.

Following his arrest he denied involvement in the incident and only admitted the
matter when his case was listed for a trial earlier this month.

Both defendants pleaded guilty to four joint charges of robbery and offences
relating to their possession of the knives.

Asquith, 19, was sent to a young offenders institution for four-and-a-half years
while 20-year-old Cunningham, of Lightenfield Lane, Netherton, was locked up for
just over 22 months.

Judge Robert Bartfield accepted submissions that the robberies had been
spontaneous, but he described the offences as prolonged and persistent.

"Both of you had knives with you. Both of you were wearing hoods over your heads
and you saw an opportunity to rob them,'' the judge told the defendants.

"They were sworn at. They were told to lie down. One of them had a knife held to
his throat by one of you. One or more of them was patted down until a thorough
removal of all their valuable property had been made.

"One of the boys at one stage tried to run for it but he was made to return by
your threats to do harm to the boys who remained.

"The only moment at which you showed any humanity was when one of the boys asked
you, Asquith, if he could borrow your knife to remove his SIM card from his
phone and you allowed him to do that and you Cunningham eventually said they've
had enough."

The judge said two of the victims had suffered significant psychological
consequences and no doubt the others had suffered in a similar way.

"You were wearing hoodies which effectively disguised you from your victims and
this was a long and persistent robbery where the victims were degraded by you.
There was an element of bullying going on here in addition to everything else."

The judge pointed out that Cunningham's sentence had been reduced by 25% because
of his early guilty pleas while Asquith only received a 10% reduction because he
pleaded at trial.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ LOCKED UP: Scott Asquith. Below, the churchyard at Armitage Bridge

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Islington Gazette

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday

Islington businesses to get life-saving training for terrorist attacks

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 403 words


COUNTER terrorism police have teamed up with the British Red Cross to train
workers in how to react in the aftermath of a terrorist attack.

Officers from Islington and Camden's counter terrorism units will be joined by
Red Cross first aid experts to give life-saving training to people who work in
the crowded areas that are most likely to be targets, such as King's Cross
station and the Emirates Stadium.



They will teach specific skills that could help save lives in the event of a
terrorist attack or other major incident such as a gas main explosion or bus
crash.

Sergeant Andrew Wadeson, who heads Islington Police's counter terrorism unit,
said: "At the moment the threat level from international terrorism is severe.
That means an attack is highly likely.

"If an incident occurs it will take a few minutes for the first emergency
services to respond. We will not be there when it happens. We are equipping
people who will be there with the skills to react.

"Our aim is to make people aware of what to look for leading up to attack, and
if an attack or major incident does take place, make sure they are better
prepared to respond to it. This will make Islington and Camden safer."

The programme was launched at Islington Police Station, in Tolpuddle Street,
Islington, on Friday.

Over the next year, workers will get special first aid training tailored towards
the kinds of injuries that are more likely to occur in terrorist attacks,
including wounds with embedded glass or shrapnel, burns from explosions and
fractures.

British Red Cross community based first aid trainer Katie Pavoni, who will be
the lead trainer, said: "These are life-saving skills and anybody can save a
life. Our aim is to get a first aider on every street corner, so they can start
life-saving treatment before the arrival of the emergency services."

In what is the first partnership of its kind, people will also be given training
in other key skills such as managing by-standers, dealing with walking wounded,
delivering emotional support and prioritising casualties.

Police Constable Helen Billany, of Camden Police's counter terrorism team, said:
"The threat is very, very real and we can't be complacent. You never know what's
round the corner. We want to get more first aid out there so people can help
save lives, lessen the impact on the immediate community and even help get
everything back up and running more quickly after an incident."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IGZ


                      Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday

MI5 warning over Libyan terror attacks

LENGTH: 100  words


MI5 has warned its Nato allies of the risk of terror attacks in the wake of
military action in Libya.

The security service reportedly sent a memo a few hours before the start of the
operation, after intercepting a number of conversations among British-based
Libyans.

According to an Italian newspaper, the discussions about how to support Libyan
leader Colonel Gaddafi were held by expatriates who have retained close links
with their homeland.

Although the Home Office has refused to comment on the report, the overall
threat level remains at "severe", meaning an attack is thought to be highly
likely.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2011 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                             March 25, 2011 Friday

Driver tells of sledgehammer 'terror' attack

BYLINE: Ruth Warrander

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 317 words


A COMPANY director has admitted smashing a van's windscreen with a 2.5ft long
sledgehammer.

And today a grandad-of-two - who was inside the vehicle - spoke of his terror.

Robert Finnie was in the driver's seat of the van when James Jamieson launched
the attack.

The 30-year-old, who appeared at Aberdeen Sheriff Court, admitted striking the
windscreen of the vehicle causing Mr Finnie fear and alarm and putting him at
risk of injury.

The court heard Jamieson, who is the company director of a building contractor
firm, was angry over a verbal attack by Mr Finnie.

His defence solicitor Zoe McDonald said Jamieson, whose address was given in
court papers as Eastbank, Station Road, Ellon, was leaving his dad's house when
the attack happened on December 6, 2010 at Ardlethen Quarry near Ellon.

"It was his position that the road was partially blocked," she said.

"He gestured to Mr Finnie to get out of his way. He got out and walked towards
the van and Mr Finnie verbally abused him."

It was claimed remarks were made about a member of Jamieson's family suffering a
still birth.

It was alleged Mr Finnie said: "I hope the same thing happens again."

The solicitor said Jamieson "saw red" and got the first thing he could lay his
hands on from the back of the van.

The court heard this was a sledgehammer 2.5ft long.

Jamieson hit the window on the passenger side.

Mr Finnie, 61, of New Pitsligo, said: "It was terrifying.

"When I saw the hammer, I thought he was going to use it on me - I couldn't
believe my eyes."

He said there was glass everywhere. "It was even in my hair," he added.

Sheriff Graeme Buchanan said he accepted that the offence was out of character
but fined Jamieson £1,350. He was also ordered to pay £500 in compensation to Mr
Finnie.

Mr Finnie today hit out at the penalty of a fine and compensation. He said:
"It's a ridiculous punishment for what he did.

"It's nothing to him at all."

cjordan@ajl.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: rage: Robert Finnie, inset, was attacked at Ardlethen Quarry near
Ellon.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2011 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                             March 25, 2011 Friday

BUCHAN MAN'S HAMMER ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Andy Groundwater

SECTION: NEWS; COURTS; Sheriff; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 22 words


A BUCHAN sledgehammer attack victim today told of his ordeal.

Robert Finnie's van windscreen was smashed in a row with a company director.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2011 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 25, 2011 Friday

Pakistan TV show discusses Karachi killings, terror attack on Balochistan port

LENGTH: 666 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1700 GMT on 21 March relays live
regularly scheduled "Today With Kamran Khan" programme. Noted Pakistani
journalist Kamran Khan reviews, discusses, and analyzes major day-to-day
developments with government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and
prominent analysts in Geo TV's flagship programme. Words within double slant
lines are in English.

Programme: "Today With Kamran Khan"

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Khan begins the programme by listing the topics under discussion in today's
programme.

Segment I

Referring to the president's address to the joint session of Parliament on 22
March, Khan says that the opposition has planned to launch a strong protest
during the address against the performance of the government. Khan says
reportedly, Pakistan People's Party [PPP] ministers are trying to convince the
Pakistan Muslim League-Qaid-e-Azam, [PML-Q], Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz
[PML-N], and Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazlur Rehman [JUI-F] not to protest during
the address but to date all efforts are in vain.

Khan collectively asks PML-Q leader Failsal Saleh Hayyat, PML-N leader Ahsan
Iqbal, and Fazlur Rehman, chief of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazlur Rehman
[JUI-F] about the protest plans related to the address. Hayyat says that they
have not planned a boycott as yet. Rehman says that their strategy will depend
on the meeting with the opposition leader as they wanted a consensus on the
issue between the opposition. Iqbal says that the PML-N strongly disagrees with
the PPP policies and will express its opinion in a democratic way in parliament.

Segment II

Khan says that Karachi is once again haunted with terrorism with 30 deaths in
the last three weeks, resulting once again in exchange of hot words between the
Muttahida Qaumi Movement [MQM] and Sind Interior Minister Zulfiqar Mirza.

Khan establishes video link with Geo News Correspondent Afzal Nadeem Dogar and
asks who were the people who got killed and how they were assassinated. Dogar
says that those killed included a few political workers and the rest were all
innocent civilians. Dogar informs that hand grenades were used in these attacks
targeting different offices.

Khan plays a report by Geo News Correspondent Syed Arfeen saying that most of
the killings in Karachi are based on lingual differences and there are also
quite a few people who do not even know why they are killed. It was hoped that
real peace will be seen in Karachi following the patch up of MQM and PPP but 21
people have lost their lives in target killings from March 15 meeting to date.
The government has neither condoled nor provided any financial assistance to the
families of those killed.

Segment III [Passage on fake telephone exchanges omitted]

Segment IV

Khan says that Auditor General of Pakistan [AGPR] has completed the audit of the
National Insurance Corporation Limited [NICL] on the orders of Supreme Court of
Pakistan. Reportedly, there was a corruption of ten billion during the time when
Ayaz Khan Niazi was the chairman of the NICL.

Khan reads out the points of the report presented by AGPR in the Supreme Court
of Pakistan.

Khan says that the Federal Investigation Agency is investigating into the
scandal but unlike the Hajj corruption scandal, it has initiated any
investigation against the influential players in the scandal.

Segment V

Referring to the recent terrorist incident in Gawadar, Baluchistan where the
workers of Frontier Works Organization were targeted who were building a road,
Khan says that the attack resulted in the killing of 11 labourers and the motive
of the killing is still unclear.

Khan establishes telephone link with Geo News Correspondent, Naseer Baloch and
asks for the details of the attack. Baloch says that the incident took place on
the Makran Coastal Highway, which links Karachi to Gawadar and Iran was being
linked thorough this highway. The attackers just killed and fled.

Khan concludes the programme.

Source: sGeo TV website, Karachi, in Urdu 22 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 25, 2011 Friday

Pakistan helps foil terror bid to attack cricket World Cup in India - minister

LENGTH: 601 words


Text of report headlined "Pak help foils India terror bid" published by
Pakistani newspaper published by Pakistani newspaper The Nation website on 25
March

Islamabad, 25 March: A terrorist plotting to target the ongoing cricket World
Cup has been arrested with the help of Pakistan, according to Interior Minister
Rehman Malik who claimed there was a "serious attempt" to carry out a terror
attack during the tournament.

Rehman Malik, who did not identify the nationality or the affiliation of the
alleged terrorist, made the revelation at a joint briefing with Interpol chief
Ronald Noble here, saying that the International Police Organization had helped
to uncover the plot. New Delhi had been informed of the plot, the interior
minister said, as he also claimed that the Taleban had spread its tentacles to
India. Malik said there were reports that the Taleban had started their
activities in India and that he had warned the neighbouring country's government
of this menace. "Let's not forget that terrorists have got no boundary or
religion. There are several indications that the Taleban have started their
activities in India," Malik said addressing the joint news conference with
Noble.

"I am saying this on record and I have also informed India. We must work
together to stop the work of terrorists," he added. Malik however did not give
details of the Taleban's "activities" in India. He said there was a "serious
attempt" at carrying out a terrorist attack during the ongoing cricket
tournament and that a terrorist was arrested. He claimed that the arrested man
had no connection with Pakistan and information about the incident was being
shared with India. Noble too said a possible terrorist attack on the World Cup
was averted with Pakistan's help.

"Last week, with the help of Pakistan, we identified and arrested the terrorist
who had left Karachi... Thanks to the cooperation (of Pakistan) and other
countries, we were able to make sure that the World Cup remains safe," he
contended.

Earlier this month, India had sounded an alert about possible terror attacks
during the World Cup and had said that they had taken measures for the security
of the tournament.

Noble lauded Pakistan for collecting data on terrorists and announced aid worth
two million Euros.

Noble said the Interpol also managed to arrest the terrorist from Colombo with
the assistance of Pakistan. He said the FIA was also being provided access to
Inerpol's data.

Moreover, Malik said he hoped that India would ensure security for the Pakistani
cricket team during the semi-final in Mohali.

Rehman, while demanding immediate action against those fanatics involved in
desecration of the Holy Koran, urged the Interpol secretary general to play his
role. Ronald said that this act would encourage terrorists' agenda. He said that
the man who travelled from Karachi was arrested, adding that the man had desires
to conduct terrorism in Sri Lanka.

On the occasion, Rehman Malik said Pakistan had shared intelligence information
to foil terrorism bid.

The two million Euros would be used for the capacity building of 38 centres of
FIA across the country besides giving access to the agency to its database.

The interior minister gave a list of most wanted persons of 2009 to Interpol and
called for issuing blue notices. The SG said Pakistan had done a great job by
providing the list to Interpol.

He said peace in Pakistan and Afghanistan would guarantee peace in the rest of
the world, adding that international community must support Pakistan to root out
terrorism and extremism.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 25 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Scots Bible scholar dies in Israeli terror attack

BYLINE: david ross

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 136 words


A SCOTS Christian campaigner who devoted her life to translating the Bible has
been killed by a terrorist bomb in Israel.

Mary Gardner, 59, died when an explosion ripped through a bus station in
Jerusalem on Wednesday.

The bomber has yet to be caught, but the attack has been linked to the renewed
hostilities between Israelis and Palestinians in the Gaza Strip.

Ms Gardner is survived  by her 81-year-old mother  Jean and father Tony, 82, in
Aberdeenshire, as well as siblings Andrew, David, Tom and Alison.

Her mother said the family were devastated by her death but felt  truly blessed
to have had her in our lives .

Mary was a very special person and we thought the world of her,  she said.  She
was devoted to her work and was well liked wherever  she went. Her loss in this
way has been deeply upsetting  for us all.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIM: Mary Gardner was the only fatality in the attack.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 26, 2011 Saturday

Paper asks government to take steps against northwest Pakistan terror attacks

LENGTH: 472 words


Text of editorial headlined "Kurram ambush" published by Pakistani newspaper
Dawn website on 26 March

Friday's deadly ambush targeting a convoy of passenger vehicles in Kurram Agency
seriously threatens to scuttle the fragile peace that has barely held in the
region. At least eight people were reportedly killed while several were wounded
as gunmen attacked vehicles on the Thall-Parachinar road in Baggan. Several
people were also kidnapped. Reports indicate that most of the victims are Shia,
which points to an overtly sectarian motive to the ambush as Shi'a and Sunni
tribes have been at daggers drawn in the region bordering Afghanistan. Observers
say this is the first attack inside Kurram proper since the Feb 3 peace deal was
signed between the rival factions, though there have been several acts of
violence in the surrounding areas. A few days earlier, militants kidnapped over
20 tribesmen from a village festival in Baggan while Thursday's suicide attack
in Hangu, in which five people, including a policeman, were killed, is
indicative of the general insecurity that plagues the region.

There was guarded scepticism of the February peace deal -- guaranteed as it was
by the Taliban -- when its details emerged. The TTP had welcomed it largely for
ulterior motives, as observers said the sectarian conflict in Kurram was
affecting the Haqqani network's activities inside Afghanistan. As incidents of
violence continued, tribal elders called upon the government to punish violators
of the truce. Yet the political administration has failed to keep the peace and
has not been able to protect vital road links. While it is true that the Taliban
are not a monolithic entity and Friday's ambush may have been the work of a
militant faction not interested in honouring the peace deal, the fact remains
that regardless of the militants' intentions, securing the area remains the
state's responsibility. The government's lack of action has emboldened the
militants.

The state - both the political leadership as well as the military - needs to be
serious about securing Kurram and its surrounding areas. Though sectarian
problems in the region date back to the Ziaul Haq era, matters have taken a turn
for the worse ever since the Taliban arrived in 2007. Some say the military has
focused too much on Swat, ignoring the security threats in Kurram. Also, critics
point out that the security establishment claims the majority of Orakzai Agency
- which borders Kurram - has been cleared of militants; if this is so why do the
attacks continue? The state needs to prevent what is left of the peace process
from completely falling apart. The ambush may well trigger retaliatory attacks
and if the government fails to secure Kurram in the long run, this cycle of
violence will never end.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 26 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 28, 2011 Monday

Afghan security agency says it can foil 90 percent of terror attacks

LENGTH: 437 words


Text of report by Afghan privately-owned Shamshad TV

[Presenter] The National Directorate of Security has said that now it is capable
of foiling 90 percent of terrorist attacks across the country. Lotfollah Mashal,
the spokesman for National Directorate of Security, said that they arrested a
seven-member Haqqani terrorist gang in the city of Kabul, two suspects in
southern Kandahar Province and a journalist who had a hand in several terrorist
attacks in eastern Nangarhar Province. Gol Agha Zamiri has more details.

[Correspondent] Mashal told a news conference in Kabul on Saturday that they had
arrested seven activists of the Haqqani network in the city of Kabul who were
planning to carry out terrorist attacks in several areas during Nowruz festival.

He added that four members of the gang were brothers and studied at Mobtal Holum
Seminary in the Qalacha area of Kabul city. And they were enrolled in the
seminary to carry out suicide attacks.

[Lotfollah Mashal, captioned as spokesman for National Defence Ministry,
speaking at a news conference, in Dari] This group belonged to the Serajoddin
Haqqani network. They intended to carry out attacks during Nowruz festival in
the city of Kabul.

[Correspondent] He also said that they arrested two brothers in southern
Kandahar Province who had been involved in terrorist attacks.

He reported and they arrested a journalist, Erfanollah Sapan, who worked for two
news agencies, abused his profession and was involved in terrorist attacks in
eastern Nangarhar Province.

[Mashal] He [reporter] had a hand in planting mines in Pachir Square in Pachir
wa Agam District against foreign forces, planting mines in the Sabari village of
Pachir wa Agam, attaching magnetic mines to coalition forces' fuel tankers in
the Mawlawi Khales Township in the city of Jalalabad and placing mines in a
music shop in Talashi Square in the city of Jalalabad, [Nangarhar Province]. I
am sure you [media] have already reported on all these cases.

[Correspondent] Mashal said that now the NDS had the capability to thwart 90
percent of terrorist attacks in the country. And only 10 per cent of attackers
succeed in carrying out attacks.

The spokesman said that they had seized an explosive-packed tractor in eastern
Maydan-Wardag Province. The tractor carried a huge quantity of explosives,
including 10 suicide vests, 750 kg explosives, 1,000 meters of wire used for
detonating explosives and some other material which were transferred from
Pakistan.

[Video shows the spokesman speaking at a news conference, explosives, suicide
vests, terrorists]

Source: Shamshad TV, Kabul, in Pashto 1430gmt 27 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 28, 2011 Monday

Afghan spy body says most terror attacks foiled

LENGTH: 465 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 27 March

[Presenter] The [Afghan] National Directorate of Security (NDS) has spoken of
preventing 90 per cent of terrorist attacks. The NDS says it recently captured a
seven-member [terrorist] group that had intended to carry out suicide attacks on
Nowruz day in Kabul. In the meantime, the NDS speaks about a gathering of
terrorists in Korm Agency, adding that the presence of the individuals in the
area of Pakistan is a serious threat for Nangarhar, Logar and Kabul provinces
and even for Badakhshan.

[Correspondent] The NDS says the Quetta and Peshawar councils and the Haqqani
[terrorist] network that are operating in tribal areas of Pakistan are serious
threats for stability of the country.

[Lotfollah Mashal, captioned as spokesman for NDS, in Dari] They are beyond the
border. I do not mention the name, otherwise they will be disgraced. They are
stationed inside those areas. They are operating over there. They can threaten
Paktia, Khost, Zabol, Logar and Kabul. On their right, there are Jalalabad,
Konar, Laghman and Nuristan, and even they can threaten Badakhshan because there
are linking roads. These three networks are stationed in that area.

[Correspondent] The NDS says that they have captured a seven-member terrorist
group that were planning to carry out suicide attacks in Kart-e Sakhi [a shrine
in Kabul] and other shrines. The three suicide attackers, who are brothers, are
members of the group. These brothers are between 16 and 19. The elder brother
was the organizer of the attack. These individuals are linked to the Haqqani
[terrorist] network.

[Unnamed terrorist speaking in Pashto] I have studied in the Mosahi Islamic
Darol-Olum seminary. Sayed Karim recruited me within the Taleban group.

[Mashal] The security forces foil ninety-one per cent of all terrorist attacks,
programmes and activities before they take place in Afghanistan. I am certainly
telling you. [Exactly], ninety-one per cent. The police, the national army also
play a role while the NDS provides information.

[Correspondent] In the meantime, the NDS speaks about the capture of two
organizers of suicide attacks in Spin Boldak [District] of southern Kandahar,
saying that these individuals also claimed responsibility for carrying out
attacks on Shayesta public bath in the bazaar of Spin Boldak. The NDS also
captured one of the organizers of the terrorist and suicide attacks in eastern
Nangarhar Province. The [captured] man's name is Orfanollah Sapan. The NDS says
the [terrorist] has worked as a reporter in some media outlets.

[Video shows spokesman for NDS, the captured terrorist speaking to camera,
archive video shows some scenes of terrorist group, police force, a number of
Taleban fighters]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 27 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                             March 28, 2011 Monday

Training For A Terror Attack On Tyneside

BYLINE: Dan Warburton

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 398 words


FIREFIGHTERS scour the wreckage of a mangled bus and search beneath the rubble
of an exploded train   this is the harrowing reconstruction of a terror attack
on Tyneside.

Buses were overturned, a Metro train was buried under debris and a blaze ripped
through a workshop as fire crews staged the devastating effects of a
co-ordinated terror strike.

In a three-day exercise, Tyne and Wear Fire and Rescue transformed their
Barmston Mere training headquarters, in Sunderland, into a scene of carnage to
simulate a series of explosions.

The operation, codenamed Exercise Genesis, gave emergency services vital
training in how to deal with the aftermath of four separate explosions.

And more than 150 emergency workers have battled around the clock in 10-hour
shifts for 52 hours to deal with the scenes of carnage since Friday morning.

The simulated attack included an explosive device hidden in a workshop, two car
bombs and a suicide bomber on a Metro train.

The detonations resulted in around 80 casualties, played by volunteers from the
Prince's Trust, ranging from the walking wounded to fatalities.

Area manager for community safety John Baines said: "Unfortunately, the threat
of major terrorist attacks has become increasingly likely so it is important the
emergency services are prepared.

"This exercise was not only a great test of our team's skills, but also
demonstrated the effective working of all the emergency services involved."

He added: "In this incident we are simulating a terrorist attack but it could
quite easily be a natural disaster.

"They are the types of scenarios  we rehearse to make sure our crews are
prepared for anything. The training is incredibly realistic."

Firefighters from across the country came to the North East to take part in the
training, with many recently returning from the scenes of devastation in New
Zealand and Japan.

Among those helping the unique Urban Search and Rescue Team (USAR) were four
search dogs, including Tyne and Wear's two-year-old springer spaniel, Spencer.

The training has taken more than 12 months to plan and over the past 12 weeks
the crews have sourced vehicles and rubble from scrapyards and building sites.

Trevor Tague, from the National Resilience Assurance Team (NRAT), said: "The
planning for this exercise began some time ago and a lot of thought and effort
has gone into creating the most realistic scenarios possible."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                             March 28, 2011 Monday

in This Incident We Are Simulating A Terrorist Attack, But It Could Quite Easily
Be A Natural Disaster Like In Japan, New Zealand Or Even Like The Flooding In
Cumbria'

BYLINE: Dan Warburton

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 603 words


FIREFIGHTERS were faced with their worst nightmares at the weekend during an
exercise that aimed to reconstruct a terror attack in the North East.

Buses were overturned, a Metro train was buried under debris and a blaze ripped
through a workshop as fire crews staged the devastating effects of a
co-ordinated terror strike.

In a three-day exercise, Tyne and Wear Fire and Rescue transformed their
Barmston Mere training headquarters in Sunderland into a scene of carnage to
simulate a series of explosions.

The operation, codenamed Exercise Genesis, gave emergency services vital
training in how to deal with the aftermath of four separate explosions.

More than 150 emergency workers have battled around the clock in 10-hour shifts
for 52 hours to deal with the scenes of carnage since Friday morning.

The simulated attack included an explosive device hidden in a workshop,  two car
bombs that damaged a laboratory, an accommodation block and a bus, as well as a
suicide bomber on a Metro train.

The detonations resulted in around 80 "casualties", played by volunteers from
the Prince's Trust, ranging from the walking wounded to fatalities.

Area manager for community safety John Baines said: "Unfortunately, the threat
of major terrorist attacks has become increasingly likely in recent years, so it
is important that the emergency services are prepared for the worst.

"This exercise was not only a great test of our team's skills, but also
demonstrated the effective working of all the emergency services involved."

He added: "In this incident we  are simulating a terrorist attack, but  it could
quite easily be a natural  disaster like in Japan, New Zealand or even like the
flooding they had in Cumbria.

"They are the types of scenarios that we rehearse to make sure our crews are
prepared for anything. The training is incredibly realistic."

Firefighters from across the country came to the North East to take part in the
training, with many recently returning from the scenes of devastation in New
Zealand and Japan.

Among those helping the unique Urban Search and Rescue Team (USAR) were four
specially-trained search dogs, including Tyne and Wear's two-year-old springer
spaniel, Spencer.

The training has taken more than 12 months to plan and over the past 12 weeks
the crews have sourced vehicles and rubble from scrap yards and building sites.

Mr Baines said: "The scale of  devastation faced by the USAR teams during this
weekend's operation can also be seen at large scale incidents or natural
disasters, such as those that have occurred in other parts of the world
recently.

"That's why exercises like Genesis are invaluable, as they allow us to deploy
our specialist teams and put their skills and knowledge to the test under
realistic conditions.

"Working with national and regional emergency response teams ensures we share
vital lessons that improve our ability to deal with such situations should they
ever arise."

The exercise was organised and co-ordinated by Tyne and Wear Fire and Rescue
Service and the Fire Service's National Resilience Assurance Team.

The exercise was the   first to take place at Tyne and Wear's new USAR training
rigs.

Trevor Tague, from the National Resilience Assurance Team,  said: "The planning
for this exercise began some time ago and a lot of thought and effort has gone
into creating the most realistic scenarios possible.

"The result has been a real test for the USAR teams attending from around the
country, and everyone involved should be congratulated for their effort and
professionalism."

The threat of major  terrorist attacks has become increasingly likely in recent
years

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                             March 28, 2011 Monday

Emergency services prepare for terror attack

BYLINE: Gavin Havery

SECTION: NEWS:

LENGTH: 420 words


SCENES of devastation and carnage met emergency services dealing with a
simulated terrorist attack in the North-East.

The 'attack' involved four explosions, including a device hidden in a workshop,
two car bombs that damaged a laboratory, an accommodation block and a bus, as
well as a suicide bomber on a Metro train.

The detonations resulted in about 80 casualties, ranging from the walking
wounded to fatalities and those seriously injured.

Volunteers with realistic looking injuries lay among the wreckage and the
rubble, while rescuers and paramedics worked out the best way to deal with them.

The aim was to streamline procedures in case the emergency services ever need to
respond to such a situation for real.

John Baines, from Tyne and Wear Fire and Rescue Service, which organised the
exercise, said: "Unfortunately, the threat of major terrorist attacks has become
increasingly likely in recent years, so it is important that the emergency
services are prepared for the worst.

"This exercise was not only a great test of our team's skills, but also
demonstrated the effective working of all the emergency services involved."

Four specially-trained dogs, including Tyne and Wear's two-year-old springer
spaniel Spencer, were called in to sniff out people trapped in collapsed
buildings, including a visiting VIP and his staff.

Exercise Genesis also saw Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) teams from West
Yorkshire, Hereford and Worcester, Merseyside, Lincolnshire and Hampshire Fire
and Rescue Services join crews from Durham and Darlington Fire and Rescue
Service, members of Northumbria Police, the North East Ambulance Service and
government agencies to deal with the aftermath of the attacks.

More than 150 emergency responders worked round the clock, in 10-hour shifts,
for 52 hours from Friday morning until Sunday afternoon to deal with five
scenarios.

It was held at Tyne and Wear's new USAR training rigs at its headquarters, near
Washington Trevor Tague, from the National Resilience Assurance Team (NRAT),
said: "The planning for this exercise began some time ago and a lot of thought
and effort has gone into creating the most realistic scenarios possible.

"The result has been a real test for the USAR teams attending from around the
country, and everyone involved should be congratulated for their effort and
professionalism. "This exercise, like others before it, will be thoroughly
evaluated and any learning points will be taken forward to refine and enhance
the Urban Search and Rescue capability even further."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday

Russian official comments on claims of "Georgian trail" in terror attacks

LENGTH: 254 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 29 March: The Russian president's special representative for
international cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organized crime,
Anatoliy Safonov, has said that gunmen who left the North Caucasus for Georgia
could be a danger to Russia.

"Ask yourself this question: can you absolutely rule out [as received; should be
"guarantee" or a synonym] that some of the terrorist structures that went over
to Georgian territory have completely disarmed and will never pose a threat to
Russia? Of course, you will say no, you cannot guarantee that," Safonov said at
a news conference in Moscow on Tuesday [29 March].

He was commenting on statements by some Russian officials about a possible
"Georgian trail" in terrorist attacks on Russian territory.

"What I would agree with is that when we allow the term 'Georgian trail' [to be
used] - this already has a political dimension," Safonov said.

He said that the key problem was the lack of trust between Russia and Georgia
after the severing of relations. "Cooperation breeds one product, which is
called trust. The more of this product there is on the table we share, the more
fruitful the result appears. It was not us that suspended cooperation. It does
not exist anymore. The only way out is not to exchange recriminations, but to
allow practice to lead us to the same conclusions, precisely in order to prevent
provocations," Safonov said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1020 gmt 29 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday

Two traffic police officers injured in "terrorist attack" in Sanandaj

LENGTH: 118 words


Two traffic police officers were injured in a "terrorist attack" in Sanandaj,
Kordestan Province, on Monday night, 28 March, Mehr news agency reported on 29
March.

"No-one has been martyred in the terrorist attack which took place in Ghafur
District in Sanandaj on Monday night at 2230 [local time; 1800 gmt]," Mehr news
agency said, adding that the two police officers had been injured in their arms
and legs and their general health was "satisfactory".

No group has accepted responsibility for the attack, the agency said, adding
that last Thursday, two police officers were killed and two others were injured
in two separate attacks in Sanandaj.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 0811 gmt 29 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Dorset Echo

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday

Terror attack: Assault is condemned

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS (DE LOCAL NEWS)

LENGTH: 218 words


THE LOCAL community has condemned the latest violent incident in Fordington and
expressed their surprise at the recent spate of assaults.

Town councillor for Dorchester East Ward Mark Allwood said: "I'm not aware of
any particular increase in violence and I think it is fair to say Dorchester
generally is a fairly safe town to live and work in. "Fordington in particular
has a nice village feel to it so I think it's a great shame when something like
this happens and it causes understandable concern.

"I would just hate to see anything further happen that might cause people to
worry about their safety.

"I would encourage people to be vigilant if they are out and if anybody knows
anything about this incident to contact the police."

Fellow East Ward councillor Tony Lyall said he was 'concerned' by news of the
incident but said he was not aware of any significant problem in the Fordington
area and believed Dorchester was a relatively safe place to be at night.

He said: "I think Dorchester compared to the rest of the UK is a pretty safe
place.

"Probably that's why when something like this happens it's quite a surprise."

Church warden at St George's Church in Fordington Tim Bullick said he was
'surprised and appalled' by the assault.

He added that the area around the green was reasonably well lit at night.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday

My hell by nurse in blood attack terror ; My hell by nurse in blood attack
terror

BYLINE: Victim's HIV and hepatitis scare as casualty thug is jailed [ST02]
Victim's HIV and hepatitis scare as casualty thug is jailed

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 404 words


A NURSE has told of her nightmare after a drunken patient threw his blood in her
face as she treated him.

Casualty nurse Danielle Hesketh, 41, is still waiting to see if she has caught
HIV or hepatitis three months after being

attacked by the thug.

Less than a week after the attack, she fell seriously ill with viral meningitis
and doctors warned she may have caught it from the blood. Now the mum-of-two who
has not been able to work since has spoken of her ordeal after her attacker was
jailed for four months.

The senior staff nurse said James Michael Hudson who has refused to take a blood
test flew into a rage while she was treating him in A&E at the Royal Oldham
Hospital on New Year's Eve.

Hudson, 21, had been brought in by paramedics in an intoxicated' state, and had
a severe head wound. She was trying to dress it when he grabbed her arm, Oldham
magistrates' court heard.

Hudson then launched an abusive tirade at Ms Hesketh, swearing repeatedly before
throwing his blood-soaked dressing in her face. Police were called and he was
arrested. The aftermath was witnessed by Ms Hesketh's paramedic partner David
Mellor, 46, as he brought another patient into A&E.

Magistrates said that the offence was so   A NURSE has told of her nightmare
after a drunken patient threw his blood in her face as she treated him. Casualty
nurse Danielle Hesketh, 41, is still waiting to see if she has caught HIV or
hepatitis three months after being attacked by the thug. Less than a week after
the attack, she fell seriously ill with viral meningitis and doctors warned she
may have caught it from the blood. Now the mum-of-two who has not been able to
work since has spoken of her ordeal after her attacker was jailed for four
months. The senior staff nurse said James Michael Hudson who has refused to take
a blood test flew into a rage while she was treating him in A&E at the Royal
Oldham Hospital on New Year's Eve. Hudson, 21, had been brought in by paramedics
in an intoxicated' state, and had a severe head wound. She was trying to dress
it when he grabbed her arm, Oldham magistrates' court heard. Hudson then
launched an abusive tirade at Ms Hesketh, swearing repeatedly before throwing
his blood-soaked dressing in her face. Police were called and he was arrested.
The aftermath was witnessed by Ms Hesketh's paramedic partner David Mellor, 46,
as he brought another patient into A&E. Magistrates said that the offence was so

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ordeal Danielle with paramedic partner David
ordeal Danielle with paramedic partner David

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday

Blood attack terror of hospital nurse

BYLINE: Anthony Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 238 words


serious only a custodial sentence was appropriate and jailed Hudson, of Wood
Crescent, Holts, Oldham, for four months after he admitted battery.

Speaking after the case, Ms Hesketh, from Shaw, Oldham who has worked for the
NHS for 22 years, said she is still going through hell.

She said: I'm sure I speak for most NHS staff in saying that we should not have
to be subject to or tolerate any aggressive or abusive behaviour at work.

We are here to do a job, to care for and treat patients.

Obviously this incident and court case has been very upsetting for me and I'm
pleased it is now over and has been dealt

with properly and appropriately by the police and the

courts. A Crown Prosecution Service spokeswoman said: The CPS works with the
police to encourage priority action in those cases where violence and aggression
are shown to staff in the NHS, who are simply doing their job and serving the
public. Where there is sufficient evidence we will prosecute these cases
robustly.

Pennine Acute Trust, which runs the Royal Oldham Hospital, said: This case sends
a strong message that those who wilfully attack or abuse and display acts of
violence and aggression towards any NHS staff will not be tolerated. About six
NHS staff are assaulted every day in Greater Manchester.

In 2009-2010 2,413 health workers in Greater Manchester were attacked at work
but only 44 people have been prosecuted.

alice.mckeegan@men-news.co.uk

Comment:Page 8

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday

Algerian army on alert; AQIM terror attacks in capital feared

LENGTH: 699 words


Text of report by Neila B., headlined: "Algiers: Security agencies on alert:
threat of attacks" published by privately-owned Algerian newspaper Liberte
website on 30 March

During the day, the day before yesterday, the forces of the National People's
Army kicked off a huge search on the southern side of the capital which extended
to the airport area.

"These were preventive measures," a security source was content to confirm to
us, whereas reliable news reports are telling of the threat of the planning of
an explosives attack by the Salafi Group for Call and Combat [GSPC; the group
now known as Al-Qa'idah in the Lands of the Islamic Maghreb, or AQIM] in the
capital and its environs. Indeed, a new "amir" from the criminal organization of
the GSPC from the centre zone has reportedly been appointed in place of the
ex-"amir" who was slain early in March by the army's special units. He is the
man called Toufik Z., who took part in the lethal attack that targeted a convoy
in Timezert in Boumerdes which cost two education managers and eight elements
from the Judicial Police Mobile Brigade [BMPJ] their lives. It is a bloodthirsty
man who is the last card for Droukdel who, according to news reports supplied by
repentants, allegedly brought his "amirs" together to urge them to reactivate
terrorist acts, this in the face of the marked decline in terrorist activity in
the centre region and especially take advantage of the popular protests to
recruit young people.

So the security agencies have been instructed to exhibit more vigilance in order
to thwart any terrorist attack all the more so since intelligence supplied by
repentants is telling of the planning of a probable attack with a vehicle or a
motorcycle in the capital or in Boumerdes. "The new 'amir' wants to make a name
for himself through a dramatic attack all the more so since the organization is
currently experiencing a leadership war after the neutralization of its core,"
it was explained to us.

So the GSPC is trying to exploit the unrest and the popular protests in several
wilayas in the centre to return to the media and security scenes following the
heavy losses in its ranks and which have targeted the sponsors of criminal
attacks. Droukdel has allegedly instructed his elements to "take advantage of
the situation to reactive the sleeper cells and reconstitute the recruitment and
logistical support networks especially in the capital, where a suspicious
movement has been detected in recent days," a security source revealed to us,
who added that "the young people are talking about their social problems without
any ideology but there is the fear of influences on some young people, as has
been the case in the war in Iraq and in Chechnya; Islamist language no longer
has influence in the street but the GSPC could play that card."

Several terrorist attempts to infiltrate into the capital have also been
recorded in recent months, probably wanting to take advantage of the
mobilization of gendarmes and policemen charged with maintaining order. Also
added is the discontent of armed civilians charged with the fight against
terrorism, such as the elements from the municipal guard, Patriots [militia
group members], and Legitimate Defence Groups [GLD], who launched a huge protest
movement nationally to demand their rights and who had to leave their posts,
which has caused the vigilance to drop and the risk to increase.

According to a security report, attacks on property and people have experienced
a marked increase since the start of this year. "The calming measures do not
mean a lightening up in the fight against crime in all its forms," this was what
a top Gendarmerie official indicated at the end of a meeting with his managers.
Mobilization was on the agenda to preserve social peace and maintain the most
complete vigilance where the terrorist threat is concerned.

It has also been learned that the military operations are continuing in the
maquis, which, moreover, has allowed for the neutralization of several
terrorists in recent weeks. The searches have extended to the cities and even
the oueds to detect caches of explosives or blockhouses.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 30 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday

Turkey condemns "hateful terrorist attack" in Iraq

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 30 March: Turkey on Wednesday [30 March] condemned the bloody attack in
the Iraqi city of Tikrit that killed at least 70 people and wounded nearly 70
more.

"Turkey has full confidence that Iraqi people will foil plots designed by those
who want to fuel instability in Iraq," Turkish Foreign Ministry said in a
statement.

On Tuesday, a violent attack on a local government building killed at least 70
people, including three provincial council members, and injured nearly 70 more
in Tikrit.

"We strongly condemn this hateful terrorist attack aimed at creating disorder
and unrest in Iraq," the statement said.

Turkish Foreign Ministry also reaffirmed Turkey's support to Iraqi people to
ensure security, peace and stability in the country, saying, "Turkey is ready to
provide any kind of help for the injured people."

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1257 gmt 30 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

POWER GAMES: TWO NATIONS IN A SPIN OVER CRICKET;
India and Pakistan compete today for the first time since the Mumbai terror
attacks. Andrew Buncombe sees the political and cultural frenzy begin

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1166 words


At the closed ticket counter outside of Mohali's ochre-hued cricket stadium,
stubbornness blended with the smell of stale sweat.

The lifeless counter had not been open for two days, said a group of frustrated
fans, and yet still they hoped for a miracle. "We expect that it may open again
later today. There is no sign up saying 'House Full', so we think there are more
tickets," reasoned one of the group, Andaleep Singh, a student of mechanical
engineering.

Perhaps. Such is the frenzy ahead of today's World Cup semi-final clash between
India and Pakistan that there is not a hotel room available within a radius of
20 miles of the ground and the only tickets to be had are those offered by touts
asking a minimum of 20 times the face value.

And if this sporting contest did not already carry sufficient expectation, in
the days leading up to the match it has been suggested the game could even help
mend relations between the two embittered rivals. Last week, when it emerged
India were to meet Pakistan in the semi-finals, India's Prime Minister, Manmohan
Singh, decided he would attend the game and invited his Pakistani counter-part
to join him. Two days later, Pakistan announced that Yousaf Raza Gilani would
take up the invitation.

Since then, speculation has spread at a feverish pace about just what this
so-called cricket diplomacy may or may not achieve. Given that this is the first
time the teams have played each other in India since the Mumbai attacks of 2008,
the expectation may not perhaps be reflected in reality.

The long history of antagonism between the two nuclear-armed neighbours, who
have gone to war four times since Partition in 1947, has little need of further
rehearsal. Neither does the dark pit into which the already fraught relationship
fell after the 2008 attacks, carried out by Pakistani militants.

There are fewer places in the subcontinent where the painful dysfunction of the
relationship is more clearly viewed than here. Though the Indian state of Punjab
rubs up against the Pakistani province of Punjab, very few people have any
contact with their neighbours on the other side, even though in many cases they
speak the same language - Punjabi - and share similar customs. "As members of
the public, we don't have any differences. We are the same. It's just the
difference between politicians," suggested another fan, Vikash Bansal, who works
in IT.

Such a view was shared by the small number of Pakistani fans who have managed to
get hold of tickets. "It's good if the relationship between the two countries
can thaw," said Raza Sanuallah, a young man from Lahore, the city which was to
have hosted today's semi-final before Pakistan's role as a co-host of the
tournament was rescinded following an attack on a visiting Sri Lankan cricket
team in the spring of 2009.

Mr Singh and Mr Gilani have agreed to have dinner after today's match and
officials say there will be discussion on various issues. But aides have been
keen to play down any breakthrough on those hard issues still keeping the
countries at loggerheads, namely India's demand that Pakistan do more to bring
the perpetrators of the Mumbai attacks to justice and Pakistan's insistence that
Kashmir is a "disputed" territory.

"The prime minister's visit to India will help restore composite dialogue," said
Pakistan's information minister Firdous Ashiq Awan.

As it is, the meeting of Mr Gilani and Mr Singh has already received the boost
of quiet diplomatic progress. The preparation for today's clash has coincided
with talks between the home secretaries of the two countries on a range of
issues.

Pakistan's interior secretary Qamar Zaman and his Indian counterpart GK Pillai
have described their talks in Delhi as positive and yesterday they jointly
announced Pakistan had agreed to host Indian investigators looking into the
Mumbai attacks. While no details were immediately released on the level of
access India would receive, given the stalemate on this issue that has lasted
more than two years, it was seen as an important step and a starting point for
the two prime ministers.

Cricket diplomacy has been attempted before between the two countries and with
mixed results. In 1987, Pakistan's military ruler Gen Zia al-Haq attended a test
match between India and Pakistan in Jaipur, describing it as part of his
"cricket for peace initiative". It is claimed, however, that during the game the
general leaned forward to his host, the late Rajiv Gandhi, and told him that
Pakistan had acquired the nuclear bomb.

Cricket was more of a balm in 1999 when, for the first time in more than a
decade, the two countries played each other less than six months after exploding
their nuclear devices. Likewise in 2004 when India toured Pakistan, the
then-military ruler General Pervez Musharraf used the opportunity to tell Indian
prime minister Atal Vajpayee that Pakistan would no longer allow its territory
to be used for terrorist purposes. The following year, Mr Musharraf was invited
to a match in Delhi by Mr Vajpayee's successor, Manmohan Singh.

It is that example, perhaps, that those who place hope in the broader benefits
of today's game seek to remember. "The importance of cricket diplomacy is in the
curative effect it tends to have on people-to-people relationships even if it
does nothing for government-to-government equations," said MK Akbar, a veteran
commentator on India-Pakistan relations and author of a new study of India's
neighbour, Tinderbox: The Past and Future of Pakistan. "And cricket has dried
up. This match is an accident and all the more exciting for it. For a day at
least cricket will drain some of the poison in a toxic environment."

WHEN SPORT MEETS POLITICS

* The 'Football War'

In June 1969, immigration disputes between El Salvador and Honduras reached
breaking point at the same time as both countries' national football teams faced
each other in qualifying matches for the 1970 Fifa World Cup. Riots during the
games escalated and eventually led to a 100-hour-long battle known as the
'Football War', resulting in thousands of casualties.

* 'Ping-pong diplomacy'

In April 1971, the American ping pong team received an unlikely invitation for
an all-expenses-paid tour of Communist Chin, which prompted the coining of an
equally unlikely term: 'ping-pong diplomacy'. The team and its entourage were
the first group of US sports stars allowed to enter China since 1949, and the
tour is thought to have paved the way for the thaw in US-China relations which
saw President Richard Nixon make a historic state visit to China the following
year.

* Moscow 1980 Olympics

The British Olympics Association (BOA) sent athletes, including Seb Coe, above,
to compete in the 1980 Moscow Olympics, despite the government's calls for a
boycott over the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. The US stayed at home.
Sir Denis Follows, then-chairman of the BOA, said "sport should be a bridge, and
not a destroyer".

ENJOLI LISTON

Dominic Cork: Why cricket needs a Pakistan victory

Sport, page 49

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday

Georgia arrests two for plotting "terror attacks" in western town

LENGTH: 144 words


Georgian police have arrested two men on terrorism-related charges for having
attempted to stage explosions at two government buildings in the western town of
Kutaisi, Rustavi-2 TV reported on 31 March.

The channel said the men had planted explosives at the main and back entrances
of Kutaisi City hall and were arrested while trying to install an explosive
device at the Kutaisi Justice House, an office of the Georgian Justice Ministry.

Rustavi-2 said a "very large amount of explosives" had been found at City Hall
and showed footage of the building cordoned off and guarded by police special
forces staffers carrying assault rifles.

The channel added that, according to preliminary information, that the two
suspects in custody were natives of Zugdidi, a town near the borderline with
separatist Abkhazia.

Source: Rustavi-2 TV, Tbilisi, in Georgian 0800gmt 31 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday

Terrorists linked to Somali Islamists plotting attacks on Kenya

LENGTH: 495 words


Excerpt from report by Anthony Mwangi headlined "Terror group plot to hit key
installations" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The People on
31 March

Kenya is on a 24-hour terror watch after it emerged that terrorists with links
to Al-Shabab have laid out elaborate plans targeting key installations in the
country. Internal Security Minister Prof George Saitoti made this revelation
before a hushed parliament yesterday.

The minister did not specify which key installations the terrorists, who are
believed to be the same ones whose allies struck in downtown Nairobi last
December, were targeting. Such installations could include airports, important
and highly-populated buildings, power and water supply plants, oil refineries
and communication networks.

The importance of these facilities appear to lend weight to the minister's
concern and seem to justify the sort of national security mobilisation,
vigilance and preparedness he alluded to.

"We should take security matters seriously and politicising them will not help
the country in any way," Saitoti, who made the revelations, while making his
contributions during debate on supplementary estimates.

The minister said surveillance and patrols have been improved along the Somali
border in the wake of intelligence reports. The minister, while calling for more
funding to help the security forces fight the terror threat in the country,
however, said he did not want to scare Kenyans by naming the targeted
installations.

He noted: "As much as I would not like to scare Kenyans by giving more details
on the planned attacks by Al-Shabab, the information we are getting is that
(impending) terror activities in the country have been planned."

Saitoti disparaged Gichugu MP Martha Karua over her claims that much of the
10.1bn shillings [56m dollars] set aside for enhanced security in the
supplementary estimates was meant to assist the "Ocampo six", who are set to
appear at the International Criminal Court at The Hague, Netherlands, in early
April on suspicion that they could be bearing the greatest responsibility for
the Kenyan election violence that killed 1,133 people and uprooted over half a
million others.

Treasury, in its supplementary estimates, has allocated five billion shillings
to the police force and a further 5.1billion to pay for the adjusted salaries to
the forces. Yesterday, MPs also protested the 900m shillings allocated to the
National Security Intelligence Services (NSIS), saying the security minister had
failed to explain how the money is to be spent. [Passage omitted]

Terrorism activity has increased within Kenyan borders in recent months. Last
December, a mission to Kampala by terrorists alleged to be linked to Al-Shabab
aborted in downtown Nairobi after a parcel in which they were transporting
explosives fell and detonated, ripping off the front portion of the bus they
were just about to board. [Passage omitted]

Source: The People, Nairobi, in English 31 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday

Georgia says Russia behind thwarted "terror attacks" in western town

LENGTH: 207 words


Text of report by private Georgian news agency Kavkas-Press

Tbilisi, 31 March: The Russian special services were behind the [foiled]
terrorist attacks in Kutaisi today. According to a statement issued by the
Georgian Interior Ministry today, the two men detained on terrorism charges,
relatives Manuchar and Avto Dzadzua, admitted that this was the case in their
statements.

According to available reports, Manuchar Dzadzua lives in Gali, in occupied
Abkhazia and received the order to blow up two buildings in Kutaisi from the
Russian special services. He mentioned a certain Volodya, who introduced himself
as a military serviceman.

According to Manuchar Dzadzua, the man said that he would not help them if they
were detained and that he would kill members of the Dzadzua family if they
identified him.

The culprits were to use the hexogen for the blasts. This is the same explosive
substance used in several terrorist attacks perpetrated across the country last
year.

Let us recall that the plot to blow up the Kutaisi City Hall and the House of
Justice was uncovered today and that the terrorists also planned to blow up the
regional branch of the [opposition] Labour Party in Kutaisi.

Source: Kavkas-Press, Tbilisi, in Russian 1538gmt 31 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday

Terrorist attacks in Georgia "linked to each other" - president

LENGTH: 223 words


Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili has said that all terrorist attacks on
Georgian territory "are linked to each other".

Saakashvili made the statement at the start of the meeting of the Georgian
National Security Council summoned several hours after the Georgian Interior
Ministry announced on 31 March that it averted a terrorist attack in west
Georgian town of Kutaisi. The Georgian Imedi TV station showed Saakashvili
speaking at the council meeting on the same day.

"It is quite clear that all these are linked to each other. We are fully
informed on what is happening," Saakashvili said referring to a series of
explosions that took place in various Georgian regions and Tbilisi over the past
few years. "Therefore, we should continue working in order maintain the security
level we have in Georgia".

He praised the Georgian police for averting "a well-planned, well-organized, and
well-financed terrorist attack on civilian facilities in the town of Kutaisi",
but noted that "we nevertheless need to strengthen our activities tenfold" in
the face of "obvious attempts of external forces" to shatter stability in
Georgia.

The president also noted that previously, Russia carried out such attacks from
South Ossetia, but now did the same "from the occupied territory of Abkhazia".

Source: Imedi TV, Tbilisi, in Georgian 1600gmt 31 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 2, 2011 Saturday

Polish top prosecutor rules out terrorist attack on presidential plane in 2010

LENGTH: 234 words


Text of report in English by Polish national independent news agency PAP

Warsaw, 1 April: Poland's military prosecution has ruled out a terrorist attack
as the cause of the crash of a Polish presidential plane near Smolensk, Russia
on 10 April 2010, Poland's prosecutor-general Andrzej Seremet said on Friday [1
April].

Polish military prosecutors have concluded investigations into this aspect of
the case, Seremet added.

The inquiry into the air crash has been prolonged until 10 October, chief
military prosecutor Krzysztof Parulski said. The investigation was planned to
end on 10 April.

Poland's President Lech Kaczynski, his wife Maria, and 94 passengers of the
presidential plane were killed in the crash. The Polish delegation was on its
way to ceremonies marking the 70th anniversary of the 1940 Katyn Massacre in
which 22,000 Polish officers were executed by the Soviet NKVD.

At a press conference today military prosecutors said no attack on the Polish
government plane had taken place. They noted, however, that they still had no
clarity as to the actual causes of the disaster, mainly because of failing
documentation from Russian investigators of the accident.

Warsaw District Military Prosecution head Ireneusz Szelag said materials in the
prosecution's possession carried no indication of a terrorist attack as the
cause of the crash.

Source: PAP news agency, Warsaw, in English 1735 gmt 1 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                             April 2, 2011 Saturday
                                  1st Edition

HERO OAP STABBED 9TIMES;
Grandad relives chilling attack  STAB TERROR OF HERO OAP

BYLINE: GARETH LIGHTFOOT

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 332 words


A GRANDAD who was stabbed nine times as he bravely fought two would-be burglars
has told of the damage done to his life.

Proud Henry Westwood conquered cancer and weathered heart trouble, only to be
attacked while defending his home four days before his daughter's wedding day.

He said the assault by two men outside his

house sickened him and chilled him to the bone. Mr Westwood and his wife
Kathleen, both 66, spoke as one of the pair who tried to invade their home
begins a three-year prison sentence. Neil Robinson, inset, a prolific offender
with 102 offences in his criminal career since the age of 12, was locked up at
Teesside Crown Court yesterday. Former ICI contracts manager Mr Westwood awoke
to hear banging and saw someone trying to get into his home on Liverton
Crescent, Thornaby. He went out in his underwear and punched Robinson at about
2am on September 29 last year. He was then assaulted by Robinson and an
accomplice, who has never been brought to justice, and was stabbed with a
screwdriver. He suffered puncture wounds to his chin, left arm, side and
abdomen. Luckily none were deep and he needed one stitch in hospital

Mrs Westwood, a former shop assistant, said she was still frightened and the
incident continued to affect them and their family of three children, seven
grandchildren and one great-grandchild. The couple think Robinson should have
received a longer sentence but are consoled by the fact he is in jail. Robinson,
31, of Bath Lane, Stockton, previously admitted attempted burglary. He was
cleared of causing grievous bodily harm with intent but convicted of the lesser
charge of unlawful wounding. Sentencing judge Recorder Andrew Sutcliffe QC
accepted Robinson was the "secondary party". He told Robinson: "There is no
doubt at all your crimes have had a devastating impact, not just on Mr and Mrs
Westwood but on their entire family." Shaun Dryden, defending, said Robinson
stole to fund drug problems, but had very few convictions for violence.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  BRAVE: Henry Westwood, above, and some of the injuries he suffered,
above right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2011 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             April 2, 2011 Saturday

Nurse left in terror by patient's blood attack

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 425 words


A NURSE has told of her nightmare after a drunken patient threw his blood in her
face as she treated him.

Casualty nurse Danielle Hesketh, 41, of Shaw, is still waiting to see if she has
caught HIV or hepatitis three months after being attacked.

Less than a week after the attack, she fell seriously ill with viral meningitis
- and doctors warned she may have caught it from the blood.

The mum-of-two - who has not been able to work since - has spoken after her
attacker was jailed for four months.

The senior staff nurse said James Michael Hudson - who has refused to take a
blood test - flew into a rage while she was treating him in A&E at the Royal
Oldham Hospital on New Year's Eve.

Hudson, 21, had been brought in by paramedics in an 'intoxicated' state, and had
a severe head wound. She was trying to dress it when he grabbed her arm, Oldham
magistrates' court heard.

Hudson then launched an abusive tirade at Ms Hesketh, swearing repeatedly before
throwing his blood-soaked dressing in her face. Police were called and he was
arrested. The aftermath was witnessed by Ms Hesketh's paramedic partner David
Mellor, 46, as he brought another patient into A&E.

Magistrates said the offence was so serious only a custodial sentence was
appropriate and jailed Hudson, of Wood Crescent, Holts, Oldham, for four months
after he admitted battery.

Speaking after the case, Ms Hesketh, who has worked for the NHS for 22 years,
said she is still going through hell.

She said: I'm sure I speak for most NHS staff in saying we should not have to be
subject to or tolerate any aggressive or abusive behaviour at work. We are here
to do a job, to care for and treat patients.

Obviously this incident and court case has been very upsetting for me and I'm
pleased it is now over and has been dealt with properly and appropriately by the
police and the courts.

A Crown Prosecution Service spokesman said: The CPS works with the police to
encourage priority action in those cases where violence and aggression are shown
to staff in the NHS, who are simply doing their job and serving the public.
Where there is sufficient evidence we will prosecute these cases robustly.

Pennine Acute Trust, which runs the Royal Oldham, said: This case sends a strong
message that those who wilfully attack or abuse and display acts of violence and
aggression towards any NHS staff will not be tolerated.

About six NHS staff are assaulted every day in Greater Manchester. In 2009-2010
2,413 health workers in Greater Manchester were attacked at work - but only 44
people have been prosecuted.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: by Alice McKeegan
NIGHTMARE ... nurse Danielle Hesketh with paramedic husband David Mellor

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 3, 2011 Sunday

Perpetrators of "terrorist attacks" in west Iran linked to US, Israel - official

LENGTH: 223 words


Deputy interior minister for security affairs has said that the perpetrators of
the recent "terrorist attacks" in the western province of Kordestan are linked
to the American and Israeli intelligence agencies.

In an attack in an area bordering the Iraqi Kurdistan on 2 April, four Iranian
boarder guards were killed and three others injured. Ali Abdollahi, deputy
interior minister for security affairs, in an interview with Fars said that the
act was most probably the work of the PJAK group and said: "This terrorist
attack is different from the two recent terrorist attacks which took place in
Sanandaj [Kordestan Province] but PJAK has not accepted responsibility for this
terrorist attack yet."

"The American and Israeli intelligence agencies are active in the Iraqi
Kurdistan Region and are even officially publishing newspapers with an official
Zionist name", Abdollahi said.

Abdollahi added: "After arresting a few people who were linked with the
terrorist operations carried out inside the country, it has become clear that
the terrorists are being supported by the American and Israeli intelligence
agencies in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, therefore this matter has been relayed
to the officials of the Iraqi Kurdistan Region and the case will be followed
up."

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 0801 gmt 3 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 3, 2011 Sunday

Iran Kordish MP condemns "terrorist" attacks in western Iran

LENGTH: 199 words


Abdoljabbar Karami, the MP of Sanandaj, in the western province of Kordestan,
has condemned the recent terrorist attacks in the province and said that the
rights of the people should be achieved through the legal channels and that
these acts are the work of the enemies of the people of Kordestan and is
damaging to them.

Pointing out that such acts are aimed at creating insecurity in Kordestan,
Karami said that they will not bear any political achievement and will simply
increase the insecure atmosphere in the region.

Condemning the recent terrorist acts in Kordestan, the MP said: "We believe that
any one who fires a bullet in the name of the people of Kordestan, is damaging
the people of this region, as today the right of people can only be achieved
through the law."

He added: "Today the biggest enemies of Kordestan are people who use weapons and
prevent demands to be made through peaceful means."

[Monitor's report: In an attack in an area bordering the Iraqi Kurdistan on 2
April, four Iranian boarder guards were killed and three others injured.
Officials blame the anti-Iranian Kurdish rebel group PJAK for the attacks.]

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 0802 gmt 3 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 4, 2011 Monday

Ivorian TV says pro-Gbagbo troops thwart attack on station by rival "terrorists"

LENGTH: 183 words


Text of report by state-run Ivorian TV on 4 April

[Presenter] The national television, from where I am presenting this newscast,
was the target of terrorists. Intense fighting took place here and the Defence
and Security Forces [FDS] recovered the much coveted station. Guy Romain Brissi
has the report.

[Brissi, in middle of sentence] which the Ivorian Radio and Television went
through on 31 March and 1 April. Armed men loyal to Alassane Ouattara attacked
the national television. Their objective was to broadcast a message on behalf of
their boss. We have learned from military sources that for the occasion, the
rebels entered the television precincts accompanied by Guillaume Soro in person.
He was the one in charge of making the address that would announce the arrival
of Alassane Ouattara. But the joy of the rebels was very short-lived. Despite
numerous defections by several military officials, the reorganized FDS launched
an offensive and the national television is now free and rid of the invaders
sent by Alassane Ouattara.

Source: Television Ivoirienne, Abidjan, in French 1314 gmt 4 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                              April 4, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

Two years of attacks as dissidents wage campaign of terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 327 words


Timeline of dissident republican activity:

e April 2011 -- PSNI Constable Ronan Kerr killed by under car booby-trap device.

e March 2011 -- Substantial bomb left outside courthouse in Londonderry.

e January 2011 -- Bomb alert on Belfast's Antrim Road lasts several days. A
secondary device is found on a child's bike.

e December 2010 -- Policeman finds unexploded grenade outside his Co Fermanagh
home.

e October 2010 -- Car bomb explodes near the Ulster Bank on Derry's Culmore
Road.

e August 2010 -- Three children suffer minor injuries when a bomb explodes on
Lurgan's North Street.

e August 2010 -- Booby trap device partially explodes under the car of a former
policeman.

e August 2010 -- Bomb planted under the car of a female police officer in
Kilkeel. Device fell off before being discovered.

e August 2010 -- Booby trap bomb is found under soldier's car in Bangor.

e July 2010 -- Shots fired at Crossmaglen PSNI station.

e April 2010 -- Car bomb explodes outside Newtownhamilton PSNI station.

e April 2010 -- Bomb explodes outside MI5 headquarters in Palace Barracks in
Holywood.

e February 2010 -- Real IRA man Kieran Doherty found shot dead in Derry. RIRA
said they killed him.

e February 2010 -- Bomb explodes outside Newry courthouse.

e January 2010 -- Constable Peadar Heffron (33) is seriously injured when an
under car bomb explodes about a mile from his home in Randalstown.

e October 2009 -- Police officer's partner injured when a bomb explodes under
her car in east Belfast.

e October 2009 -- Bomb explodes outside Territorial Army base in north Belfast.

e September 2009 -- 600lb bomb discovered and defused at Forkhill, Co Armagh.

e August 2009 -- Dissident republicans stage an illegal checkpoint in Meigh,
south Armagh.

e March 2009 -- Constable Stephen Carroll shot dead by CIRA while responding to
a call in Craigavon, Co Armagh.

e March 2009 -- Two soldiers, Sappers Patrick Azimkar and Mark Qunisey, are
gunned down outside Massereene Army barracks in Antrim.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              April 4, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A history of barbarity;
Libya and the IRA The terrorist attacks using Semtex supplied by the Gaddafi
regime

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 210 words


Harrods bomb

December 17, 1983

Six people including three police officers killed as bomb goes off in run-up to
Christmas in London department store

Enniskillen attack

November 8,1987

Bomb explodes during a Remembrance Sunday service in County Fermanagh, killing
11 people

Ballygawley bus bombing

August 20, 1988

Blair Bishop and Peter Bullock, right, among eight British soldiers killed in
attack on bus in Ballygawley, County Tyrone

Downing Street attack

February 7, 1991

Three Semtex mortar rounds fired at PM's London residence in attempt to wipe out
John Major's Cabinet, injuring four people

Warrington bomb

March 20, 1993

Tim Parry, 12, and Johnathan Ball, three, right, killed in a huge bomb blast the
day before Mothering Sunday in a busy shopping street

Aldwych bus bomb

February 18, 1996

Three people, including one terrorist, killed when a bomb goes off early on a
bus in central London

Manchester bomb

June 15,1996

Two hundred people injured as a bomb explodes outside the Arndale Centre in
Manchester

Omagh bombing

August 15, 1998 29

people die as bomb goes off in the County Tyrone town, including woman pregnant
with twins

Lisnaskea rocket attack

August 16, 2008

Two police officers narrowly escape death or injury in a Semtex rocket attack in
the border town of Lisnaskea

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday

Premier Meles accuses Eritrea of planning terror attacks in Ethiopia

LENGTH: 1299 words


Excerpt from statement by Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi in an address to
parliament on 5 April broadcast live by state-owned Ethiopian TV on 5 April;
subheadings inserted editorially

Regarding the Eritrean government, the [Ethiopian] government had said that it
will make a policy change. Regarding the said policy change, some quarters have
started saying that the Ethiopian government will start war [against Eritrea].
So I think it is appropriate to briefly explain what a policy change means and
what it is needed for. As it is evident to all, after the [two years] war, the
Eritrean government policy was one and it was clear, and its policy was that the
EPRDF [Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front, ruling coalition]
government be removed. It has a policy which it has declared officially and
repeatedly.

Direct aggression

In order to implement the said policy, at the beginning some 10 years ago, it
said it was making preparations to go to war by rebuilding its weakened army.
However, when it discovered that the Ethiopian government had made the necessary
preparations to contain its plan, and when it realized that it was not possible
to launch direct aggression, it was forced to stop that plan. As an alternate
plan, it opened a destructive front and mobilized Al-Shabab to control Somalia
and from there these forces, together with the armed anti-peace Ethiopian
forces, were going to launch an extensive attack in eastern and southeastern
part of our country, and at the same time create an uprising in on the mainland.
In such a scenario, it was to launch a final attack on Ethiopia when the
Ethiopian defence forces capability are stretched and dispersed in various parts
of the country. It had planned a well coordinated offensive.

However, this issue was raised, discussed and a stand taken in the past
[Ethiopian] parliament. Ethiopia managed to foil the plot by destroying the
[Union of ] Islamic Courts. Since then, all the narrow minded and boastful armed
groups are assembled in Asmara. The line-up is beautiful now because all
[Ethiopian oppositions and Eritrean government] are in one camp. Even if their
stands are different, but their hatred [against the EPRDF regime] have brought
them together in one camp. The remnants of the Dergue regime, the sha'biyyah
[Eritrean government], the OLF [Oromo Liberation Front], the ONLF [Ogaden
National Liberation Front]; all of them are in one camp. These forces could not
go far in guerrilla warfare. It was the ONLF which made its last attempt and
even this war is drying up. Therefore, their main focus now is to create
disturbances in the city.

Terror attacks

In the past, the focus of the terrorists was on government installations and
government officials. But now, according to our investigations, the terrorists'
strategy is different. It is not aimed at government installations. It is aimed
at public places where many people gather. It is very difficult to guard or
protect such places. Their plan is to massacre people in such public places.
This is the same strategy being used by Al-Qa'idah in Iraq. They are not
targeting government installations, but their targets are public places such as
markets, the transport sector or even bath houses. The objective, according to
those who are under custody [presumably members of the Ethiopian opposition], is
to make Addis Ababa another Baghdad. They were given clear instructions by
sha'biyyah and this is the objectives of those destructive forces.

We can guess what sha'biyyah can benefit from this. But it is not clear what the
OLF or the ONLF will benefit from this objective. It is not clear what all the
destructive forces can benefit by making Addis Ababa another Baghdad. So the
current strategy is a very dangerous strategy. As we are all following it, over
the past few weeks, sha'biyyah has been planning to coordinate the said terror
attacks with popular uprising.

So the sha'biyyah strategy and policy are very clear from the beginning. Its
objectives are to bring about government change in Ethiopia and then
disintegrate the country. This was its officially declared policy; to bring
regime change in the country. But its implementation strategies have been
changing with time. However, the current strategy which targets public places
makes it difficult to provide protection. In the past, it was aimed at
government installations and the government could protect itself. So the
Eritrean government's tactics have changed, but its strategy has not changed, it
is the same old one. But the tactics have changed.

In the past, the Ethiopian government policy was to annihilate the sha'biyyah
mercenaries and curb the sha'biyyah capability to carry out direct aggression
against the country. So, in short, Ethiopia's policy was defensive. In other
words, it was a passive defensive policy. Our focus was on development. We do
not have any reason to waste our time trying to change the Eritrean government
or its policy. This was our position.

Now, it is difficult to contain the Eritrean government policy with our
defensive policy, because we can not protect Merkato [market place in Addis
Ababa] at all hours of the day. Thousands of people roam around Merkato. It is
possible to protect the airport. So since sha'biyyah has come out with a new
tactic, we cannot protect it [Merkato] with a passive defensive system, because
it is very difficult to safeguard it [Merkato]. Thus the only option is to
pressurize the Eritrean government to change its destructive policy or to
facilitate regime change by supporting the Eritrean people's efforts to change
the government. This was, therefore, the main reason for us to change our
fundamental strategy. What we are saying is that we will try to put pressure on
the Eritrean government to change its destructive policy, but if this does not
succeed we have no intention nor a stance of trying to enter another country and
oust its government.

Support for government change in Eritrea

The Eritrean people are bitter with the government, they want to change their
government. So we can support the Eritrean people to change their government. So
our policy is to pressurize the government to change its destructive policy. If
that is not possible, then we will work to bring about regime change by
supporting the Eritrean peoples' struggle. So in order to achieve this our first
tactic will be diplomacy. We will carry out extensive diplomatic and political
campaigns in order to exert pressure. The second one will be an economic
struggle. Stage by stage and with our capability, we will try our best to dry up
the regime's economic resources which helps it to carry out its destructive
actions.

The third way is by giving an appropriate response to every sha'biyyah attack.
Here, the fundamental principle is the word appropriate. It will not be
appropriate to respond with a tank to a one who hits you in the head with bare
knuckles. Even the international norm does not allow that. The international law
underlines a country's right to self defence, but it does not allow a country to
take inappropriate action in the name of self-defence.

In the past, when sha'biyyah was sending its mercenaries, we were focusing on
holding the mercenaries. Now what we are saying is that we will not only focus
on picking the mercenaries, but also take appropriate actions against the one
who sent the mercenaries. This is what we are saying. This is the change [in
policy]. In other words, if sha'biyyah declares an all out war on our country,
then we will take an all out counter-offensive. If sha'biyyah carries out a
squad attack, we will give a squad response. Neither today nor in the future
will we declare war on Eritrea or any other country.

Source: Ethiopian TV, Addis Ababa, in Amharic 0750 gmt 5 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Case studies: what it's like to live with the risk of terrorist attack;
'Worrying every day is no way to live'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1323 words


Catholic policewoman (30) from the south Down area

"I joined the PSNI three years ago and do not regret my decision. I wanted to be
part of the new police force. I try not to think about the threat against me and
my colleagues. That is not to say I am not cautious, I know we have to be very
careful and it is always there in the back of your mind. But worrying every day
is no way to live.

"I suppose I always thought that nothing like that would happen to me, but after
I heard about Ronan's death I realised that it very easily could have been me.
It has shaken me up but I won't let his murderers leave me living in fear. One
thing that has been helping me and my colleagues is the amount of public support
there has been for the police since Ronan died.

"My family worries a lot about me and that can upset me. I don't like to think
that I have brought them worry. But they are also very proud of me. I want to
make a difference. I like knowing that I am helping to keep people safe. There
is no way I am giving up my job because of this. In fact, it has made me more
determined and I know that my colleagues feel the same. We do not see ourselves
as Catholic or Protestant. We are friends and colleagues standing together to do
our job as best we can."

'THIS TRAGEDY WILL NOT PUT ME OFF'

An officer in his 20s from a republican estate serving in the greater Belfast
area

"I have been in the police for four-and-a-half years. I come from a
working-class republican area where there was definitely a hatred towards the
police when I was growing up. I would have been becoming an adult when the
Patton Report was published and thought it was very, very positive in that he
wanted a police service rather than a police force.

"I joined because I thought a working- class person from a working-class area
could only bring positive things to the community. I have never looked back.
"The tragedy that happened at the weekend with Ronan Kerr will not put me off.
In fact it will make me more determined and stronger in my resolve to serve my
community.

"I do go back home but, obviously I make sure not to set patterns or routines by
going back on the same day or at the same time. I check under my car religiously
everyday. At the start I was apprehensive about getting down on my knees in case
people saw but, I'd rather my neighbours knew I was a police officer that had
them attend my funeral."

'THINGS SEEM TO BE GOING BACKWARDS'

The aunt of a Co Antrim recruit

"A lot of Catholics look to the police force as being a good career with a good
prospects and a good pension. And, a lot of young people in this area are
leaving jobs to go into the police.

"I believe people like those behind the bomb attack on Ronan Kerr make the
officers more determined -- certainly the ones that I would be aware of.

"I would take the same line as Mrs Kerr in 'don't let these people win' and I
would encourage all young Catholics to still consider the police.

"My nephew didn't tell anyone when he was joining the police. And, when he
graduated he only told close friends and immediate family. Now, a few more
people know what he does but he doesn't really advertise the fact.

"I wouldn't say he's on-edge all the time but he is very security aware and he
always checks below his car, doesn't set patterns.

"It's very sad that things seem to be going backwards."

'I AM VERY PROUD OF MY HUSBAND'

The wife of a Belfast-based detective

"I am the wife of a serving police officer and in January I received a phonecall
from my husband at work telling me not to let anyone into the house because they
had information that our car had been recognised and where we live had been
compromised. He had obviously been followed home from work by so-called
dissident republicans. And, within a day and a half we were moved out. That
morning I had to tell my son. He was getting ready for school.

"We packed the house up. Half of my house is in storage and we moved and we
changed our car. Everyday my husband goes to work and I kiss him goodbye and I
nag him and say please check under your car because you just don't know.

"I am very proud of my husband. He has five commendations. The sad thing is
those people wouldn't hesitate to put a bullet in my husband's head but if they
were in trouble my husband would still be professional and he still would be a
police officer.

"The dissidents are achieving nothing. Why do you want a united Ireland? Why do
you want to go to a country that's bankrupt?

"Is it so bad to be part of the United Kingdom in 2011? Is it really worth
killing someone?"

'MY HUSBAND TRAINED ALONGSIDE RONAN'

The wife of a Catholic police constable

"My husband trained alongside Ronan Kerr. So, he knew him. He's a Catholic
police officer too.

We live in fear every day. We have three young children and I live in fear that
maybe they'll get caught in the crossfire as well.

"He was a lovely fella. I haven't really talked much about it. It's been a shock
to me. Every time I hear on the radio I just want to cry. My husband wouldn't
want to annoy or scare me about anything so he probably tells me very little.

"I am absolutely proud. If Catholics don't join the police now then the
dissidents will have won. They are a minority and they don't have the support of
the Irish people. It's just shocking."

'I LIVE AS THOUGH IT IS GOING TO BE ME NEXT'

An officer in his 30s serving in the greater Belfast area

"I have been a response officer for about six years now and the threat against
the police is extremely high and it has got worse over the years. We receive
emails everyday telling us about threats and warning us to take precautions.

"I am very conscious about the threat both at work and on a personal level but I
don't feel that all police take the threat seriously enough. It appears that a
very small percentage do and I get angry when I see officers being so open about
their job. It is quite simply irresponsible towards them and their family.

"I am not one of those people who thinks it couldn't be me. In fact, I live as
though it is me next and do everything I can to counter that threat and I
believe that is what will help to keep me alive. There have been occasions over
the past 12 months where I and some of my colleagues have genuinely feared that
we were going to be shot at, or a bomb will explode.

"I think it is going to get worse before it gets better. The biggest problem is
the police playing this down to the public. This is nothing like the Provisional
IRA threat but it is by no means a handful of people and I don't think we're
doing anyone any favours by saying it is. We're asking the public to accept that
we need £245m to deal with a problem that is allegedly a handful of people."

'WE FIND IT VERY HARD TO SOCIALISE NORMALLY'

The partner of a constable who is stationed in the greater Belfast area

"I am proud of the job my partner does and I hate that we have to be so
secretive about such a big part of our lives.

"When I first met him I thought he was paranoid about his security but as time
has gone on I have realised that the threat to police is far more serious than
the public realises.

"We find it very hard to socialise because of concerns about his personal
safety. We have had to leave bars and restaurants on more than one occasion
because he has been spotted by a dissident republican. "When we go shopping and
I point out a nice outfit in a window I know he is looking in the reflection of
the glass to see who is walking past instead of looking at the clothes. I feel
like he is always looking over his shoulder

"There are times when it is worse than others. I know the threat level is high
when he brings his gun to bed. He is very vigilant about the cars and checks
both our cars every morning. I'm not allowed out of the house until he does.

"To be honest I worry more about him when he's at work, especially after what
happened to Stephen Carroll, which shows that no matter how many precautions you
take you are still at risk."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 6, 2011 Wednesday

Terrorist attacks prevented, police building fired in Russia's N Caucasus

LENGTH: 565 words


A series of terrorist attacks have been prevented, an interior department
building have been fired, and 10 out of 19 militants killed in a recent
large-scale operation have been identified in separate incidents in Russia's
North Caucasus, news agencies reported on 6 April.

Kabarda-Balkaria

The detention of three members of an illegal armed group has made it possible to
prevent terrorist attacks in Kabarda-Balkaria, Interfax has said, citing the
National Antiterrorism Committee (NAK).

"An active member of the bandit underground and his two cohorts were detained in
Kabarda-Balkaria on 5 April," the NAK was quoted as saying. "Hand-made explosive
devices seized from the criminals were ready for further planting and use. Due
to this fact one can say that the subdivisions of the republic's FSB [Federal
Security Service] and Interior Ministry managed to prevent terrorist attacks and
their consequences," the NAK said.

Detained Akhmat Ulbashev, born in 1984, a resident of the town of Chegem, is an
active member of Shamiyev' terrorist group which is acting in Chegemskiy
District. One F-1 grenade and an unidentified explosive device equivalent to 1
kg of TNT were seized from him. He is suspected of attacking a community police
office in the village of Shalushka and killing law-enforcement officers in
December 2010, the report said

The second detained, Ibragim Assanov, born in Nalchik in 1990, had been
providing bandits with foodstuffs and medicines. One F-1 grenade and cartridges
of various calibre were seized from his car, the report added.

Three improvised explosive devices equivalent to 2 kg of TNT, one RGD-5 and one
F-1 grenades, and ammunitions were seized from the third detained, a resident of
Cherekskiy District, Rustam Kertiyev, born in 1986. Kertiyev was an active
cohort of Dzhapuyev's religious extremist group. He was in charge of ensuring
safe movements of militants and contacts between bandit groups, the report said.

In a separate incident, police officers have detained two militant cohorts in
the republic's town of Chegem, Interfax reported earlier on the same day, citing
a source in the law-enforcement agencies.

Two unemployed local residents have been detained. Three grenades, 33 cartridges
of various calibre and four improvised explosive devices have been seized from
them, the source said.

Dagestan

Unknown people fired at the building of the Kizlyarskiy District Interior
Department in Dagestan on the night of 6 April, RIA Novosti reported on the same
day, quoting a source in the district's law-enforcement agencies.

At around 0200 local time unknown people opened fire on the building with
assault rifles and a grenade launcher. The attackers escaped from the scene. No
casualties have been reported, the source said.

Ingushetia

Nineteen members of illegal armed formations were killed as a result of a
large-scale operation carried out in the village of Verkhniy Alkun in
Sunzhenskiy District on 28 March, Interfax-South has said, citing the republic's
prosecutor, Yuriy Turygin. The identities of ten militants have been
established, Turygin said at a meeting with EU representatives in Magas on 6
April.

Earlier reports said that 17 militants have been killed in the operation,
Interfax-South added.

Sources: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0718, 0444 and 0819 gmt 6 Apr
11; RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0536 gmt 6 Apr 11;

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday

Kyrgyz deputy PM warns of possible terror attacks in south

LENGTH: 422 words


Excerpt from report by Ivan Donis entitled "Shamil Atakhanov: In Kyrgyzstan
there is a growing threat of attacks by the IMU" published in Kyrgyzstan edition
of Russian newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda on 18 March

[Deputy Prime Minister] Shamil Atakhanov says that the IMU [Islamic Movement of
Uzbekistan] plans are connected to Al-Qa'idah ideology. It's being openly said
not only by our authorities but also by CSTO [Collective Security Treaty
Organization] and SCO [Shanghai Cooperation Organization] officials.

Yesterday, Shamil Atakhanov who is in charge of the power-wielding agencies,
made a sensational statement: the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan "is trying to
shake up the [southern] Osh Region".

According to him, the IMU together with Al-Qa'idah might in the nearest future
disrupt the already fragile peace in the south by stirring up inter-ethnic
discord.

"If they manage to block one [mountain] pass, the region will be cut off from
the rest of the country," the deputy prime minister warned. "Any incursion by
large bands will plunge the country into a terrible situation."

Apart from the current regional instability, Atakhanov recognizes the potential
of the terrorists ready to rush into Kyrgyzstan. He does not rule out that
technically Kyrgyzstan is weaker than its neighbours in Central Asia, while the
militants are equipped with satellite communication and night vision devices.
However, this shortcoming can be removed with Russia's help as it has expressed
readiness to support Kyrgyzstan by providing modern equipment.

Another problem is that Kyrgyz citizens themselves are going out to join the
ranks of the radicals who are threatening our country. For example, a Kyrgyz
citizen has been detained in Afghanistan who was an IMU member specialized in
mines and explosives. After the detention, extremists from his group admitted
that they intended to "break through into the post-Soviet Central Asia".

[Passage omitted: concerns about possible attacks from Afghan territory have
been expressed by Tajik authorities and CSTO and SCO officials]

But the leadership of Kyrgyzstan is taking its own preventive measures. In
particular, the Kyrgyz budget for this year has 364m soms [the rate is about 47
som to one dollar] earmarked for fighting crime and terrorism. Apart from that,
at the recent meetings of the heads of the Central Asian Security Councils a
possibility was discussed of holding joint exercises in May-June in Batken and
Osh regions.

Source: Komsomolskaya Pravda v Kyrgyzstane, Bishkek, in Russian 18 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 8, 2011 Friday

Al-Da'wah Party figure killed in "terrorist attack" in Iraqi capital

LENGTH: 60 words


Iraqi government-controlled Al-Iraqiyah TV at 0743 gmt on 8 April carries the
following "breaking news" screen caption: "Taha al-Alawi, a leading figure in
the Islamic Da'wah Party -Iraq Organization and the Al-Masar Channel manager,
was martyred as a result of a terrorist attack in southern Baghdad."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 0743 gmt 8 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 8, 2011 Friday

Pakistan police fail to indict terrorists suspected of attacking Sri Lankan team

LENGTH: 284 words


Text of report headlined "Terrorists remanded as police fail to submit challan"
published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 8 April

Lahore: An anti-terrorism court on Thursday [7 April] adjourned the hearing of
the attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team case as the police failed to submit
challan against the six terror accused. The court adjourned the hearing till 14
April, directing the police to submit the challan of the case on the next
hearing.

Earlier, the court had granted to the police 10-day physical remand of
Ubaidullah alias Zubair and Amanullah alias Asadullah allegedly involved in the
attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team.

The court also handed over to police four other accused, namely Mohsin Rasheed,
Muhammad Javed Anwar alias Chaudhry alias Waqas alias Umar, Qari Muhammad Ishfaq
and Ubaidur Rehman Qamar alias Zubair alias Khalid Zubair, for identification.

As per the case details, the CIA Police had arrested the accused for involvement
in the attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team. During the attack, six Sri Lankan
players, namely Captain Mahela Jayawaredene, Kumar Sangakkara, Ajantha Mendis,
Thilan Samaraweera, Tharanga Paranavitana and Chaminda Vaas, had sustained
injuries. Six escorting policemen were also killed in the attack.

Earlier, the police had arrested Abdul Wahab alias Umer and Zubair alias Naik
Muhammad. As per the police investigation report, the terror suspects had a plan
to take the cricket team hostage to get the arrested terrorists of the TTP
released. The latest arrests have taken place on a tip-off provided by the
already arrested terrorists Zubair alias Naik Muhammad and Abdul Wahab.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 08 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              April 8, 2011 Friday

US terrorist attack warnings to be made on Twitter and Facebook

BYLINE: Josh Hallidayguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 370 words

ABSTRACT

Alert system implemented after 9/11 to be scrapped with warnings now having two
levels - elevated and imminent. By Josh Halliday

FULL TEXT

The terror alert system brought in by the US government after the 9/11 attacks
is to be scrapped and replaced with warnings on Twitter and Facebook.

Under a new system set to be introduced on 27 April, US terror alerts will have
just two levels - elevated and imminent - and sometimes be broadcast on social
networking websites.

The  introduced almost 10 years ago will be phased out in the move - a big
departure for security officials who have struggled with how much information to
reveal about terror plots.

A 19-page Homeland Security document outlining the plans was obtained by the
Associated Press. It describes the behind-the-scenes process when the US comes
under attack.

Terror alerts may be broadcast on Twitter and Facebook only "when appropriate",
according to the hitherto top-secret document. Terror threats are made public
only when members of Congress, various counter-terrorism officials, governors
and mayors have been informed. The document even specifies how many minutes US
officials can wait before organising urgent conference calls to discuss pending
threats.

The new advisory system is designed to be easier to understand and more
specific. The present warning levels have been lampooned by comedians and
criticised by TV broadcasters for being too vague and open to interpretation.

According to the draft plan, the Homeland Security unit will issue targeted
warnings based on the threat. For example, if there is a specific threat that
terrorists are looking to hide explosives in US airports, the government might
issue a public warning that would be announced in airports telling travellers to
be extra vigilant and report any suspicious activity.

Under the new system, an "elevated" alert would warn of a credible threat
against the US. It would likely not specify timing nor targets, but it could
reveal terrorist trends that intelligence officials believe should be shared in
order to prevent an attack.

An "imminent" alert would warn about a credible, specific and impending
terrorist threat or an ongoing attack against the US.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              April 8, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terrorist attacks feared on 30th anniversary of Bobby Sands death

BYLINE: Sean O'Neil ;Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 278 words


Dissident republican groups in Northern Ireland are feared to be planning a
spate of attacks to coincide with the 30th anniversary of the death of the IRA
hunger striker Bobby Sands.

Security agencies believe the dissidents want to step up terrorist activity
around May 5, which is not just the anniversary of Sands's death, but also the
date of the Northern Ireland Assembly elections.

To the dissidents, the prospect of their former comrades in Sinn Fein becoming
the largest party in the government of Northern Ireland is the ultimate betrayal
of Sands's death in the Maze prison and the republican ideal of a united
Ireland.

"Frankly, they could have picked a better day for an election," said one
security source.

The warning came as a second man was arrested in connection with the murder of
PC Ronan Kerr, who was killed in a car-bomb booby trap on Saturday.

A house in Dublin was searched as the scope of the investigation widened but no
one was arrested.

The Police Service of Northern Island released a photograph showing a 5-year-old
girl watching a race just 20 metres from the bomb, two hours before it exploded.

In the latest arrest, a 40-year-old man was intercepted in a car early yesterday
between Omagh and Ballygawley, Co Tyrone. He was taken to Antrim to be
questioned along with a 26-year-old man arrested in Scotland on Wednesday.

Police said the arrests were connected not only to PC Kerr's murder but to arms
and explosives found in Coalisland, Co Tyrone. Police are investigating whether
they were supplied to the terrorists by Libya. However a source said it was more
important to find whether the explosive was recently sourced within Northern
Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 11, 2011 Monday

MP says gas pipeline blast in Iran's Qom was "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 227 words


Text of report in English by Iranian news channel Press TV website on 10 April

10 April: Iranian lawmaker Hoseyn Naqavi-Hoseyni says the explosion that ripped
through three main gas pipelines in the province of Qom was a terrorist attack.

An explosion occurred at the three 56-inch (142-centimeter) diameter gas
pipelines on Friday [8 April] near the town of Delijan in Qom Province.

"Based on investigations, the explosion in Qom gas pipeline was a terrorist
attack," Fars News Agency quoted Naqavi-Hoseyni as saying on Sunday [10 April].

Naqavi-Hoseyni said Iran's enemies are trying to create insecurity in the
country to divert public attention from the crimes committed in the region.

"The enemies of the revolution do not know that Iran observed the international
situation during (eight years of Iraq) imposed war, and today they cannot break
Iran's focus on the region through terrorist measures."

The Iranian lawmaker called on the country's security and intelligence apparatus
to give more importance to the security of gas pipelines.

The blast temporarily disrupted gas delivery from refineries in southern Iran to
the north and northwest.

Earlier on Sunday Chairman of Iran's Gas Transportation Company Reza Almasi said
the National Iranian Gas Company experts have repaired the pipelines.

Source: Press TV website, Tehran, in English 1417 gmt 10 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 11, 2011 Monday

Dozens killed, wounded in "terrorist attacks" in Iraqi city; update

LENGTH: 369 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Television in Arabic, in its morning newscasts on 11 April,
reports on the National Alliance's periodic meeting held to discuss the latest
developments of the security ministers' file, the terrorist attack that took
place in Al-Fallujah City this morning, and the arrest of the military commander
of the Ansar Al-Sunnah Group and a number of terrorists from Arab nationalities.

Political Developments:

Within its 0500 GMT newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-  "In its periodic meeting, the National Alliance has discussed the latest
developments of the security ministers' file and the role of the parliament. In
its meeting, headed by Ibrahim al-Ja'fari and attended by Prime Minister Nuri
al-Maliki and the representatives of the alliance's components, the party
touched upon the latest developments of the security ministries' file and the
necessity of settling them within the next few days. They also discussed
activating the parliament's role in endorsing important laws and reinforcing its
relation with the government on the basis of integration in order to achieve
goals and fulfil aspirations on the service level."

Security Developments:

Within its 0900 GMT newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-  "Dozens of citizens were martyred and wounded in the Al-Fallujah City this
morning as a result of three terrorist attacks. A source in the Al-Fallujah
Operations Command said that two booby-trapped cars were detonated near the old
Al-Fallujah Cemetery, explaining that one of the cars blew up as elements from
the Anti-Explosives Department tried to defuse the bomb, killing two of them.
The source added that an explosive charge was detonated near the Al-Fallujah
High School for Girls, which led to the fall of security and civilian victims."

-  "Staff General Muhammad Sabri, the commander of the third battalion of the
National Police, has announced the arrest of the military commander of the Ansar
Al-Sunnah Group in an intelligence operation carried out in cooperation with the
citizens. Staff General Sabri also revealed that a number of terrorists from
Arab nationalities were arrested."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 0500-0900 gmt 11 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday

Ukraine condemns "terrorist attack" in Belarus

LENGTH: 199 words


Ukraine hopes that those who organized and carried out a blast in the Minsk
metro will be found and punished, the private news-based 5 Kanal TV channel
reported on 12 April, quoting the director of the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry's
information policy department, Oleh Voloshyn, as saying.

"Ukraine decisively condemns this terrorist attack. We hope that those who
organized and executed it will be found soon and punished. We believe that
terrorist activity, regardless of justifications, cannot be accepted in the
modern world. It is always a crime," Voloshyn was shown saying.

There were no Ukrainians among the blast victims, Voloshyn added.

At 0932 gmt, UNIAN quoted Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych as expressing
his condolences to the blast victims. "Together with brotherly Belarusian
people, we share the pain of those who have lost their relatives and close
ones," Yanukovych said.

The Ukrainian news agency UNIAN reported at 1051 gmt the same day that the
Ukrainian police was put on alert after the Minsk blast.

Sources: 5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1100 gmt 12 Apr 11; UNIAN news agency,
Kiev, in Ukrainian 1051 gmt 12 Apr 11; UNIAN news agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian
0932 gmt 12 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday

Pakistan article condemns terror attacks on Sufi shrines

LENGTH: 1267 words


Text of article by S Iftikhar Murshed headlined "Sufism and the terrorist
scourge" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 12 April

The long night of terrorist violence in Pakistan was far from over when tragedy
visited the country yet again on April 3. Two suicide bombers detonated
themselves outside the shrine of celebrated Sufi saint Syed Ahmad Sakhi Sarwar
near Dera Ghazi Khan. The attacks, within 20 minutes of each other, resulted in
50 fatalities, with more than a hundred devotees seriously injured. The
devastation could have been even more horrific had the two other suicide
terrorists in the area not been apprehended before they could carry out their
deadly mission. As was to be expected, the Tehrik-e-Taleban Pakistan (TTP)
claimed responsibility.

After the carnage, an editorial in an English newspaper of Lahore commented that
the attacks on Sufi holy places signified a desperate attempt "to spread a
stringent interpretation of a medieval brand of Islam, more in tune with Pakhtun
tribal traditions wedded to a rigid jihadi doctrine." But the assumption that
"tribal Pakhtun traditions" are "wedded to a rigid jihadi doctrine" is
erroneous.

Since May 22, 2006, when the shrine of Pir Syed Shah Bukhari in Hub in
Balochistan was bombed, there have been 24 terrorist attacks on Sufi holy
places. Seventeen were in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, nine of which occurred in the
tribal areas. The most recent incident was the bomb explosion at Musa Neeka's
shrine in Angoor Adda, South Waziristan, on Jan 3. This was a day before the
assassination of Punjab governor Salmaan Taseer because of his opposition to
Ziaul Haq's blasphemy laws.

However, the inescapable reality is that Pakhtuns, regardless of whether they
are from the tribal or settled regions, are as influenced by Sufi traditions as
are their compatriots in any other part of Pakistan. Tribal Pakhtuns do not
exclusively adhere to the narrow and aggressive Wahhabi worldview in which good
and evil are so sharply defined in line with the literalist interpretation of
Islamic doctrine. This becomes all the more apparent when the sizeable presence
of jihadi outfits in southern Punjab is factored in. Even worse, the PML-N and
PPP politicians in the province have sought the support of the Sipah-e-Sahaba
leader Maulana Ahmad Ludhianvi during elections, a fact I mentioned in my
article, "Not just the clerics" (Jan 16).

In September 2008, Owais Ghani, who was then governor of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa,
stated publicly that southern Punjab had become a fertile breeding ground for
extremist groups and suicide bombers. Banned outfits with fanciful Islamic names
continued to thrive in the area, although it was widely known that
Lashkar-e-Jhangvi had become an extension of Al-Qa'idah, as had Jaish-e-Muhammad
in Swat. Nothing was done to stop clerics preaching extremist venom from mosques
and no effort was made to counter the rapid spread of the rejectionist Wahhabi
mindset.

A far more troubling aspect of religion-motivated terrorist violence is the
extent to which Pakistani society has been radicalised. How else would one
explain the mammoth demonstrations held by the religious right in support of
Salmaan Taseer's assassin Mumtaz Hussain Qadri. It is ironical that the leader
of the JUI-F, Maulana Fazlur Rehman, who was in the forefront of these
demonstrations, narrowly escaped two suicide-bomb attacks. He has to learn that
religious extremism is a double-edged sword.

The targeting of shrines represents an assault on the Sufi culture which, over
the centuries, became part of the fabric of South Asian Islam. It also
reinforces the false narrative that Islam was spread by the sword; that Muslim
armies plundered, wreaked havoc and destroyed; that vast multitudes were
subjugated; that the edifice of the religion was built on the ruins and ashes of
towns, cities and human settlements cruelly razed to the ground. Though this is
far removed from the actual teachings of the Koran, which prohibits aggression
and permits war only in self-defence, it is also undeniable that the early years
of Muslim ascendancy saw military conquest; but this was certainly not
indiscriminate and brutal, as it has bee n made out to be.

An army may be able of capturing territory and subjugating people for a while,
but never over an extended period. Yet, with the exception of Europe, Islam
remained wherever it went. This was because of the early Sufis. Their message
was not of hate, it was of compassion. It was not violence that they preached,
it was peace. Perhaps Islam did not remain in Europe because no savants
accompanied its generals and captains to the doorsteps of the Hapsburg Empire
and the sword failed in its mission. The early Muslims, no doubt, established an
empire, but those parts of it which were not inspired by the inclusive Sufi
philosophy of tolerance and fellow-feeling withered away.

The experience of South Asia is particularly instructive. Those who had lasting
impact were not persons such as Mahmud of Ghazni. Between 1001 and 1026 AD, he
invaded the subcontinent 17 times. It was the Sufis who altered the course of
South Asian history. They remained when the armies had gone, and lived and died
among the local people. They taught and explained the message of Islam,
dispensed charity, tended the sick and brought solace to a people who lived
under the rigid system of Hindu caste distinction. When Islam came to South
Asia, multitudes, and in particular low-caste Hindus, converted to the faith, if
only to escape the inequities of the hierarchical class structure. It was the
Sufis, with their emphasis on love and equality, who hastened the process.

It is this spirit of compassion and tolerance that the extremist groups have
targeted. Admittedly, the number of attacks on Sufi shrines is small, especially
when compared to the countrywide terrorist incidents which last year alone
totalled a staggering 2,113. They nevertheless reflect nervousness among
terrorist outfits because Sufism poses a formidable challenge to the ideology of
extremist violence.

Despite the relentless terrorist attacks in the country, there is still a
hesitation to recognise that these attacks have been perpetrated by Pakistanis.
As far back as Sept 8, 2008, Interior Minister Rehman Malik declared that all
suicide bombers and their handlers were Pakistan nationals and were being
financed from within the country. He also said that the TTP and Al-Qa'idah were
hand-in-glove.

The storyline during the Musharraf era had been, and a storyline is precisely
what it was, that the TTP and Al-Qa'idah were different entities. Thus, the
military effort in the tribal areas was focused on the latter while little was
done to rein in the Taleban. In time, the TTP leader, Baitullah Mehsud, was to
become "Pakistan's enemy number one" and his elimination through a drone attack
was widely welcomed, despite the ongoing clamour against such strikes.

With each terrorist attack, the president and the prime minister merely proclaim
that the government will not be intimidated by the terrorists, who kill, maim
and destroy in the name of religion. This was precisely what they again affirmed
after the suicide bombers wreaked havoc in Dera Ghazi Khan. Yet, a
well-thought-through counterterrorism strategy is not even on the anvil and the
madressah reforms pledged by the prime minister in March 2008 are still in the
drawing-board stage. So long as the government remains a passive bystander
terrorist attacks will keep taking place.

The writer publishes the Criterion quarterly.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 12 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      April 12, 2011 Tuesday 07:22 AM GMT

Belarus station blast 'was terror attack', 12 dead

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 519 words


A rush-hour explosion which tore through an underground station in Belarus'
capital Minsk, killing 12 people and wounding 126, was a terrorist act, an
official said.

The domestic security agency, which still goes under the Soviet-era name KGB,
said it had identified a suspected bomber and was searching for him, but gave no
further details.

President Alexander Lukashenko did not say what caused yesterday's explosion at
Oktyabrskaya station, but suggested outside forces could be behind it.

"I do not rule out that this gift could have been brought from outside," Mr
Lukashenko said. The authoritarian leader, under strong pressure from the West
over his suppression of the opposition, has frequently alleged outside forces
seek to destabilise his regime.

Deputy prosecutor-general Andrei Shved said the blast was a terrorist act, but
did not give further details.

Several witnesses said the explosion hit as passengers were stepping off a train
at about 6pm.

Oktyabrskaya station, where Minsk's two underground lines intersect, was crowded
with passengers at the end of the working day.

The station is within 100 yards of the presidential administration building and
the Palace of the Republic, a concert hall often used for government ceremonies.

Mr Lukashenko visited the site about two hours after the blast and left without
comment. He later ordered that the country's feared police to "call in all
forces and turn everything inside-out" to investigate the blast.

About five hours after the blast, health minister Vasily Zharko said 11 people
were killed and 126 people wounded, 22 of them severely.

One witness, Alexei Kiklevich, said at least part of the station's ceiling
collapsed after the explosion.

Igor Tumash, 52, was getting off a train when "there was a large flash, an
explosion and heavy smoke. I fell on my knees and crawled ... bodies were piled
on each other".

He said he saw a man with a severed leg and rushed to help him. "But then I saw
he was dead," Mr Tumash said.

Political tensions have been rising in Belarus since December, when a massive
demonstration against a disputed presidential election sparked a harsh crackdown
by police in which more than 700 people were arrested, including seven
presidential candidates.

The opposition Belarusian Popular Front issued a statement last night calling on
authoriites "to refrain from using this incident as grounds for a new wave of
political represssion", Interfax news agency reported.

Mr Lukashenko, who was declared the overwhelming winner of the disputed December
19 election, has run Belarus, a former Soviet republic, with an iron fist since
1994. He exercises overwhelming control over the politics, industry and media in
this nation of 10 million, which borders Russia, Ukraine, Poland and the Baltic
nations.

Belarus' beleaguered opposition has been largely peaceful for years, with only a
few clashes with police.

In July 2008, a bomb blast at a concert attended by Mr Lukashenko injured about
50 people in Minsk. No arrests in the case were reported but Mr Lukashenko said
yesterday that the station blast could have been connected to that bombing.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday

Belarus terror attack fear as 11 die in blast at tube station

BYLINE: Tom Parfitt Moscow

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 442 words


At least 11 people were killed and 126 injured in an explosion last night in a
metro station in Minsk, the capital of Belarus.

The explosion took place at the Oktyabrskaya station in the centre of the city
just before 6pm as commuters travelled home from work.

Video recorded by witnesses on mobile phones showed survivors reeling across a
smoke-filled platform where a woman with a damaged leg sat propped against a
wall.

In other images, a tide of frightened people rushed out through exit doors into
an underpass as men with stretchers descended into the station. At street level,
on Minsk's Independence Avenue, emergency workers tended to more than a dozen
seriously injured victims in shredded clothes, lying in pools of blood. Some had
severed limbs. A young woman wailed "Mum, I'm alive! I'm alive!" into her

telephone, while at least two bodies lay under a sheet of plastic.

The Oktyabrskaya station is near the residence of Alexander Lukashenko, the
president of Belarus. Lukashenko, a Soviet-style dictator, sent in security
forces to crush an opposition rally after disputed presidential elections in
December.

Several opposition candidates were arrested and are awaiting trial on charges of
"organising mass public disturbances".

There is likely to be speculation that the blast could play into the hands of
the hardline regime, which may use it as an excuse to crack down on the
opposition.

News agencies said Lukashenko visited the metro station and laid flowers. "I
can't exclude that this gift was brought to us from outside, but we need to look
at ourselves," he told his defence minister, Yury Zhadobin, at an emergency
government meeting. "You must check all the warehouses to see if ammunition and
explosives are in place."

Lukashenko said the explosion could be connected to an unsolved incident in July
2008 when a bomb exploded in a park in Minsk, injuring about 50 people. "Maybe
it's a link in the same chain," he said.

Security sources said it was most likely a terrorist attack, but it was unclear
who might have detonated the blast. There appeared to be no suicide bomber and
Belarus has no history of confrontation with Islamists.

Witnesses described the moments after the device went off. "It happened between
the second and third carriages of the train on the Moscow line," one man told
reporters. "There were a lot of people covered in blood. I carried six young
people out of there."

Another man told Interfax: "I heard a muffled sound, like someone opening a
champagne bottle, then the wave from the blast blew out the windows in the
carriage. There was a great deal of smoke; we even became afraid that we might
choke to death."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

HAMMER THUGS TRY TO MURDER MAN;
Victim suffers head injuries during attack  Terror as hammer thugs in murder bid

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 503 words


A MAN was seriously ill in hospital yesterday after two thugs tried to kill him
with a hammer in a busy Paisley street.

The 27-year-old victim suffered horrific wounds to his head, as well as internal
injuries, and was left lying in a pool of blood.

He was rushed to Paisley's Royal Alexandra Hospital, where he went through
life-saving surgery.

Police are treating the brutal attack, which took place in Broomlands Street, as
attempted murder.

An ambulance crew raced to the West End of town after being told a man had been
attacked by two yobs.

When medics arrived at the scene, the victim was lying on the ground and blood
was splattered on the pavement and on the front of the Hippy Chippy take-away
food shop.

One source told the Paisley Daily Express: "The guy who was attacked looked to
be in a really bad way.

"The medics worked on him as he was lying on the ground and it might well be the
case that they saved his life.

"It would appear that he was attacked by two men - one armed with a hammer and
the other carrying a blade.

"The attack went on for some time and, when it was over, there was a lot of
blood on the pavement and on the front of one of the businesses in Turn to Page
3

From Page One Broomlands Street."

Police have said the murder bid took place at around 3am on Sunday, when a
number of late night revellers are thought to have been in the West End area.

Within minutes of arriving at the scene, officers had cordoned off part of
Broomlands Street and begun taking statements from possible witnesses.

Police also carried out doorto-door inquiries and forensic officers arrived to
hunt for clues.

Yesterday, detectives were at the victim's bedside in hospital in the hope of
interviewing him.

They are trying to piece together exactly what happened and to establish the
motive behind the attack.

One Broomlands Street resident said: "I'm a very heavy sleeper and I didn't know
the attack had happened until I woke up on Sunday and saw the police standing
guard outside.

"They had taped off an area outside the Hippy Chippy and some of them were
knocking on doors to speak to people in case they had seen anything.

"One of my neighbours has told me that he didn't see the attack taking place but
he heard a commotion and, when he looked outside, he could see a man lying
semi-conscious in the street with blood pouring from wounds on his head and
face.

"I've lived in the West End for years and it used to be a nice part of town but
it can be like theWildWest down here some weekends."

Police have revealed that two men - aged 24 and 27 - have been arrested in
connection with an incident in the Broomlands Street area and they are expected
to appear at Paisley Sheriff Court in the near future.

In an appeal for witnesses, a police spokesman said: "We want to hear from
anyone who has information which might help with our investigation. They can
call Paisley Police Office on 0141 532 5900 or ring Crimestoppers on 0800 555
111."

From Page One Broomlands Street." [...]

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PROBE: Police are treating an attack in this Paisley street as
attempted murder SCENE: A bloodstained wall and pavement

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Citizen

                            April 13, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Woman held down in sex attack terror

BYLINE: Sarah Webb

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 300 words


A WOMAN was sexually assaulted as she was walking through Tuffley after a night
out.

The 37-year-old was walking in Southern Avenue between 11.55pm on Friday, April
8 and 12.20am on Saturday, April 9 after leaving friends.

Police said she was walking home when she was approached by a man who knocked
her over and held her to the ground.

She kicked at the man, who is described as white, in his 20s, and wearing a grey
hooded top.

He then stood up and ran off. But the attack has shocked the people of Tuffley.

Councillor Colin Organ (Con, Tuffley) said: "This is very, very rare
particularly within my ward.

"That is why it is such a shock really. "It is very unfortunate." Mr Organ also
advised people to take care and not walk alone at night.

He added: "I would just urge people that wherever they are going to please be
careful and not walk alone if they can possibly help it."

This comes after a number of other sexual assaults in Gloucester in the last
year.

Shocked In January a 16-year-old girl was subjected to a serious sexual assault
in Weston Road, Gloucester, just before midnight.

The man approached her in Brunswick Road after she had a row with a girl friend
and walked off on her own.

Last June, a 20-year-old woman was allegedly attacked in a small car park
between the Independence Trust drugs advice building and Julian Rodgers
Mechanics on Kingsbarton Road.

It also happened after a night out between 5am and 5.30am.

Samantha Hall, 22, from Gloucester, said: "It is getting scary to go out when
things like this happen. It is so shocking."

Anyone who witnessed suspicious activity in the Southern Avenue area or with any
information about the incident should call Gloucestershire Police on 0845 090
1234.

Alternatively call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111, quoting incident
38 of April 9.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CIT


                           Copyright 2011 The Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            April 13, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Belarus explosion 'was terror attack';
WORLDBULLETINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 112 words


A RUSH-HOUR explosion which tore through an underground station in Belarus'
capital Minsk, killing 11 people and wounding 126, is said to be a terrorist
act.

Deputy prosecutorgeneral Andrei Shved said the blast at Oktyabrskaya station was
a terrorist act but did not give details.

The station is within 100 yards of the presidential building.

Witnesses said the explosion hit as passengers stepped off a train at 6pm on
Monday.

President Alexander Lukashenko said outside forces could be behind it.

Political tensions have been rising in Belarus since December, after a massive
demonstration against a disputed presidential election sparked a harsh crackdown
by police.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Echo (NewsQuest)

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday

Terror when attackers burst into man's home

SECTION: BASILDON NEWS (BASILDON NEWS)

LENGTH: 244 words


A MAN was pinned up against the wall in his own home during a terrifying
early-morning attack.

The 25-year-old man was at his home in Rectory Road, Pitsea when two men forced
their way in.

Having shoved their way past the front door, the pair pinned the man against the
wall in front of his terrified girlfriend, but the would-be robbers fled
empty-handed, leaving their victim shaken, but uninjured.

Detectives probing the attack are appealing for any witnesses to come forward.

Investigating officer Det Con Daryl Fryatt, of Basildon CID, said: "There may
have been a few passers-by at the time on their way to work.

"We are keen to speak to anyone in the area and may have seen these men.

"Their help could help us catch those responsible and bring them to justice."

One of the men was white and aged between 20 and 24. He was skinny with dark,
untidy hair and a mole on his face.

He wore a dark jumper, black Adidas jogging bottoms and loafers.

His accomplice was 5ft 8ins tall, stocky, aged between 21 and 25 with strawberry
blonde hair. He wore a white T-shirt and blue denim jeans.

Witnesses to the attempted robbery, which happened at about 7.30am on Friday,
April 8, can contact Det Con Fryatt at the Basildon CID target team, on 0300
3334444, or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

l Two men, aged 33 and 30, both from Basildon, were arrested on Monday suspicion
of robbery in connection with the incident.

Both were questioned, but later released without charge.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            April 16, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Baggott fears Queen's visit terror attack

BYLINE: DAVID YOUNG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 300 words


IT would be naive not to plan for a possible dissident republican terror attack
during the Queen's visit to Ireland, the PSNI Chief Constable has said.

Police must also be wary that the violent extremists may attempt a symbolic
strike to coincide with the Royal wedding, according to Matt Baggott.

Officers are ramping up security in Northern Ireland around these key dates in a
bid to thwart a headline-grabbing action by the renegades opposed to the peace
process.

The Queen will arrive in the Republic of Ireland on May 17 for her historic
four-day trip -- the first by a British monarch in a century.

While Irish police are launching a massive security operation south of the
border, in Northern Ireland officers are mindful that dissidents may launch an
attack in their jurisdiction.

Security is already tight following the murder of Catholic policeman Ronan Kerr
in Omagh, Co Tyrone, almost a fortnight ago and ahead of May's Stormont Assembly
elections.

Three men remain in police custody over the murder of PC Kerr. "It would be
naive not to prepare for key events that are coming up," Mr Baggott said.

"We've got elections, we've got weddings, we've got the Olympics coming beyond
that so we are always very mindful of events."

Mr Baggott noted that dissidents may also wish to mark the upcoming 30th
anniversaries of republican hunger striker deaths.

The main representative body for Irish police has expressed concern that most of
the Garda's annual budget will be spent policing the visits of first the Queen
and then US President Obama in May.

All leave for Garda officers is set to be cancelled for the security operations
with millions of euros spent on overtime.

The Garda Representative Association (GRA) has questioned whether there will be
enough money left for regular policing in the Republic.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 17, 2011 Sunday

Pundits say Afghan government weak to prevent terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 342 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 16 April

[Presenter] The armed opponents of the government have targeted military centres
by carrying out suicide attacks in recent days. A number of analysts say it is
due to the weakness of the government, adding that tens of thousands of foreign
and Afghan military forces are stationed in Afghanistan to ensure security, but
the armed opponents of the government can target anything they want.

[Correspondent] The remarks are made at a time when the armed opponents of the
government targeted military centres lately by carrying out suicide attacks in
Kabul, Kandahar, Konar, Paktia and Laghman provinces. A number of analysts
believe that the government is unable to ensure security.

[Nurollhaq Olumi, military analyst, captioned] These are due to our weakness.
Although hundreds of thousands of foreign and Afghan forces are stationed in the
country, we do not pay attention to our weak points.

[General Amrollah Aman, military analyst, captioned] How could they develop from
a zero point to a central point and carry out their operations and then either
they retreat or inflict casualties that they had already planned.

[Correspondent] In the meantime, the spokesman for the Ministry of National
Defence says the armed opponents of the government are under serious military
pressure.

[General Zaher Azimi, spokesman for Ministry of National Defence, captioned, in
Dari] Whenever military pressures increase and the enemy's military activities
become weak, they further focus on carrying out explosions including suicide
attacks.

[Correspondent] General David Petraeus, NATO senior commander in Afghanistan,
previously spoke of increase in the number of attacks by the armed opponents of
the government in the current year.

[Video shows spokesman for Ministry of National Defence, some analysts speaking
to camera, a scene of terrorist attack, some Taleban insurgents in some areas of
Afghanistan, NATO top commander along with a number of foreign forces.]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 16 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             April 17, 2011 Sunday

FOX MOVES INTO GOVERNMENT FLAT OVER TERROR ATTACK FEARS

BYLINE: MAIL ON SUNDAY REPORTER

LENGTH: 269 words


DEFENCE Secretary Dr Liam Fox has moved out of his London flat to a
grace-and-favour Government apartment over fears of a possible terrorist attack.

The Cabinet Minister Z in charge of RAF air strikes on Libya and the war in
Afghanistan Z has also been provided with a 6150,000 chauffeur-driven,
bomb-proof, armour-plated BMW 7 Series limousine.

Scotland Yard first raised concerns over Dr Fox's security arrangements when his
6500,000 Central London flat was burgled nearly a year ago.

When a second flat in the same gated block suffered the same fate later in the
year, the Met advised Dr Fox to move to a more secure London location.

A senior source said: 'A security assessment of the Defence Secretary's home has
raised serious concerns over his protection. Despite wanting to stay where he
was and the freedom of his own home Z where he has lived for the past decade Z
he has had to move out.'

Dr Fox moved the last of his belongings into a two-bedroomed apartment at
Admiralty House in Whitehall last week.

He is currently the only Minister living at the historic 225-year-old building.
Sources close to him said he would now sell his old flat Z and would return any
capital gains to parliamentary authorities when the sale went through.

The Minister also plans to stop claiming his MP's second-home allowance for the
old flat.

The Defence Secretary's apartment at Admiralty House costs the Government
695,000-a-year to run, whether it is occupied or not.

If Dr Fox had stayed put, sources said it would have cost taxpayers
6350,000-a-year to upgrade security measures and to post armed police outside 24
hours a day.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 18, 2011 Monday

Alleged Russian Wahhabi suspected of terrorist attack in Minsk

LENGTH: 219 words


Russian special agencies have found a Caucasus link to the explosion on the
Minsk, Belarus metro on 11 April, Russian Gazprom-owned, editorially independent
radio station Ekho Moskvy reported on 18 April, quoting a popular Russian news
website Lifenews.Viktor Dvorakovskiy, a resident of Russia's Stavropol
Territory, is alleged to have been involved in the terrorist attack in Belarus,
Lifenews says. The 23-year-old man, whom North Caucasus law-enforcers refer to
as the most notorious Russian Wahhabi, has been on the wanted list on suspicion
of terrorist activities since the beginning of March, the report says. The
Federal Security Service (FSB) started investigating his possible involvement in
the attack in Minsk just hours after the explosion. FSB officers visited the
man's mother and the Spiritual Directorate of the Muslims of Stavropol
Territory, trying to find out where Dvorakovskiy might be, Lifenews said.

Meanwhile, Russian news agency RIA Novosti quoted the official spokesman for the
Belarusian Prosecutor-General's Office, Pyotr Kiselyow, as saying that they did
not take this version seriously. "What Wahhabis? We have enough of our own
[bandits]," he was quoted as saying.

Sources: Ekho Moskvy radio, Moscow, in Russian 0500 gmt 18 Apr 11; RIA Novosti
news agency, in Russian 0652 gmt 18 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 18, 2011 Monday

Death toll of terrorist attack on Algerian army post rises, paper

LENGTH: 425 words


Excerpt from report by Samir Leslous headlined: "It was conducted by more than
150 terrorists .The death toll against the people's national army in Azazga gets
heavier", published by privately-owned Algerian newspaper Liberté website on 18
April.

The death toll of the attack perpetrated last Friday [15 April] at 20:00h
against an outpost of the people's national army forces at the outskirts of the
town of Azazga towards Yakouren, proved yesterday [17 April] to be heavier than
the one announced the day before yesterday [16 April].

According to well- informed sources, the death toll of the attack, without
doubt, the deadliest since the beginning of terrorism in the province of Tizi
Ouzou had risen to 17 soldiers killed and 16 wounded and weapons missed.

Other security sources spoke of more than 20 dead. According to the  same
sources, most of the soldiers died from their injuries after the attack
perpetrated by an important terrorist group at a time when the president of the
republic, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, was delivering his speech to the nation,
focusing on the return of peace thanks to his project of national
reconciliation.

According to sources close to the security situation in the region, the attack
on the military post in Azazga was undertaken by more than 150 terrorists
between those who directly participated in the assault and those who took up
positions in the vicinity to watch in places blocked with stolen vehicles and
trunks of trees the arrival of military reinforcements.

It goes without saying that this number is likely to give a cold sweat in the
back even if the security services are aware of the fact that to gather such a
number of terrorists, the organizers of the operation had to mobilize most of
their battalions operating in the region.

In the eyes of the security services, beyond their number, the problem is
primarily their ability to organize and especially to move in the region. As for
the population, it remains convinced that terrorism in Kabylie is still not
defeated.

[Passage omitted: the concern of the local population, the previous terrorist
attacks and the number of terrorists eliminated in the region].

The attack of last Friday [15 April], by its magnitude, the number of its
authors and its death toll, legitimately raises the debate on the issue of
insecurity in the region.

It is the official discourse of "controlling the security situation in Kabylie",
presented as the last stronghold of terrorism in Algeria, which took a hit.

Source: Liberte, website, Algiers, in French 18 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 18, 2011 Monday

Algerian Amir, five terrorists, slain in Azzazga attack

LENGTH: 211 words


Text of report by Algerian electronic daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on 16
April

The toll from the attack that was perpetrated on Friday evening against a convoy
from the army between Azazga and Yakouren, east of Tizi Ouzou, has risen.
Thirteen soldiers were killed and 10 or so wounded while two others were still
reported missing late in the afternoon on Saturday, a security source indicated
to Tout sur l'Algerie. A previous toll supplied to Tout sur l'Algerie in the
early morning by a security source had told of 10 dead and several wounded among
the soldiers (read our article [hyperlink provided in the source language
text]).

The operation that was kicked off by the soldiers after this attack made it
possible to kill six terrorists, among them the amir from the Yakouren seriat of
the ex-Salafi Group for Call and Combat [GSPC], which has become Al-Qa'ida in
the Lands of the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM). The six terrorists were killed on
Friday evening, at about 2300 hours, according to the same source. Four homemade
bombs were also defused.

The attack on the army convoy occurred on Friday at about 1900 hours. The
terrorists lying in ambush in the forest exploded a bomb as the military convoy
drove past.

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website, in French 16 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                             April 18, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fears of terror attack forces MP to flee flat;
Recent burglaries spark safety concerns

BYLINE: Trudi Bird

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 340 words


NORTH Somerset MP Liam Fox has reportedly been forced to flee his London flat
over fears of a possible terrorist attack.

Dr Fox has also been provided with a £150,000 armour-plated BMW 7-series
limousine, according to national newspaper reports at the weekend.

It is believed he moved the last of his belongings into a two-bedroom government
apartment at Admiralty House in Whitehall last week.

Dr Fox is currently the only minister living at the historic 225-year-old
building.

Scotland Yard raised concerns over Dr Fox's security arrangements when his
£500,000 central London flat was burgled almost a year ago.

He was advised to move to a more secure location in the capital after a second
flat in the same gated block was also burgled later in the year.

But he initially said he wanted the freedom of his own home.

Since then he has overseen the recent air strikes in Libya.

A senior source told the Daily Mail: "A security assessment of the Defence
Secretary's home has raised serious concerns over his protection. Despite
wanting to stay where he was and have the freedom of his own home - where he has
lived for the past decade - he has had to move out."

The source claimed Dr Fox will now sell his old flat - and would return any
capital gains to Parliamentary authorities when the sale went through.

It costs the Government £95,000 a year to run Dr Fox's apartment at Admiralty
House, whether it is occupied or not. Taxpayers would have had to pay £350,000 a
year to upgrade security measures and post armed police outside 24 hours a day
if he had stayed put in his existing flat.

Dr Fox, who has been the MP for North Somerset since 1992 and received his
highest number of votes since being elected in last May's General Election, was
also confirmed as Defence Secretary, taking on the cabinet post he shadowed for
more than four years in opposition.

Before politics, he was a civilian army medical officer, worked as a divisional
surgeon for St John Ambulance and a GP in Buckinghamshire and Somerset.

He was unavailable for comment yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Moved: North Somerset MP Liam Fox, who has been advised to move to a
more secure location in the capital

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EPB


                    Copyright 2011 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             April 19, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Court bollards to curb terror attacks

BYLINE: DONNA DEENEY AND GEORGE JACKSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 378 words


MORE than 130 security bollards are being erected around the courthouse in
Londonderry three weeks after an attempted dissident republican car bomb attack
on the building.

The move has disappointed tourism chiefs and politicians who feel it is sending
out the wrong message about the city.

Thirty-six gas activated pop-up pillars and 90 fixed bollards are being
installed outside the building. The barriers run from just inside the city's
historic walls to St Columb's Court, a distance of about 50 metres.

The move follows the discovery of a car bomb in a car park opposite the
courthouse last month.

The device contained 200lbs of explosives and was defused by Army bomb disposal
experts following a number of controlled explosions.

The alert caused widespread disruption for several hours on March 28 when the
elderly residents of a sheltered housing development had to be evacuated to a
nearby hotel and choirboys rehearsing for the opera Tosca in St Columb's
Cathedral were told to leave for their own safety.

At the time, PSNI chief Steven Martin said that had the device exploded it would
have caused "considerable devastation".

Tour guide and city centre businessman Martin McCrossan described the
installation of the bollards as a backward step, while laying responsibility for
the move firmly at the feet of dissident republicans.

Speaking to the North West Telegraph, Mr McCrossan said: "I asked the Northern
Ireland Office not to do this because it would send out all the wrong messages,
but I appreciate that the police have a duty to protect life and limb and that
the fault for this lies with the dissidents.

"I fully understand and respect their decision and I would hate to think that
something would happen because the bollards were not there, but we are living in
largely peaceful times and I am confident that people will not be deterred from
coming to Derry."

MP for Foyle, Mark Durkan, whose constituency office is just a few metres from
the courthouse, was equally critical.

"While the bollards are not too obtrusive, they will detract from the
streetscape on an important part of the tourist trail in The Walled City," he
said.

"This diversion of resources is just one more example of the disruptive impact
of the violent efforts of so-called dissident groups."

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 20, 2011 Wednesday

Philippine military warns of possible terrorist attack during holy week

LENGTH: 499 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Philippine Star website on
20 April

[Report by Aurea Calica: "AFP Warns of Possible Abu Sayyaf Attack"]

Manila, Philippines -The military warned yesterday that the Abu Sayyaf could
attack tourist spots and other crowded areas during the Holy Week.

Maj. Gen. Emmanuel Bautista, Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) deputy chief
of staff for operations, gave the warning during a meeting presided over by
President Aquino in Malacanang [presidential palace].

"The observance of Lenten season will provide the opportunity for the Abu Sayyaf
Group to launch terror attacks in places where people gather for celebration and
vacation," he said.

The AFP deputy chief of staff for intelligence was directed to intensify
intelligence operations and monitoring not only of the Abu Sayyaf, but also
other threat groups, Bautista said.

During the briefing, authorities from the Department of Transportation and
Communications, the AFP, Philippine National Police (PNP), Department of the
Interior and Local Government, Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA), Manila
International Airport Authority, Office of the Civil Defence (OCD) and National
Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) presented to Aquino
plans on how to keep the country safe and secure during the Holy Week.

Officials said about 180,000 vehicles are expected to hit the South Luzon
Expressway today and tomorrow. Some 60,000 to 70,000 are expected at the North
Luzon Expressway, officials added.

In airports, some 170,000 passengers from the usual 70,000 are expected as
travelling peaks during the Holy Week.

The MMDA said the number coding scheme had been suspended starting yesterday,
except in Makati, as people would be starting to go to provinces and other spots
in the country for Holy Week traditions.

MMDA personnel will manage traffic in the metropolis during Holy Week, according
to MMDA chairman Francis Tolentino.

Authorities said they were guarding against terror attacks, crime incidents and
accidents and would beef up security in airports, ports, beach resorts,
churches, terminals and other areas where people converge for religious
activities.

The major services of the AFP were also advised to provide the National Capital
Region Command additional explosive and ordnance division and K9 teams.

OCD administrator and NDRRMC executive director Benito Ramos said the PNP would
manage critical areas and choke points and increase police visibility and avert
acts of terrorism.

The AFP will back the PNP in maintaining peace and order and ensuring safety in
places of worship, vital installations and tourists spots, he added.

Ramos said the Coast Guard has established passenger assistance centres in
anticipation of the influx of seagoing passengers.

The Department of Health would keep hospitals in a high state of readiness and
activate the health emergency assistance management services, he added.

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 20 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            April 20, 2011 Wednesday

Terror of teenager kicked and punched in attack

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 361 words


A TEENAGER and her two friends were attacked by a gang of girls as they made
their way home.

Jae Doran, 13, had gone to the shop in The Strand, Kirkholt, with two friends
when they became involved in an argument with two girls.

The girls left the scene but returned with a group of friends who followed Jae
to her home in Ruskin Road before grabbing her from behind and launching the
attack.

Jae was kicked and punched to the head and body by at least eight girls as her
friends frantically attempted to drag her away.

The attack happened at about 10pm last Wednesday.

Jae's mum Sarah Doran, was alerted to the incident after one of the friends came
running to the house.

She said: I ran down the street. There was just blood all over Jae and she was
screaming.

Her friends were crying.

The gang just ran at her, they grabbed her from behind and pushed her to the
floor. There must have been about eight of them kicking her in the head.

She was in shock and shaking.

Mrs Doran took her daughter and friends home and rang 999.

An ambulance arrived at 10.26pm. A police officer didn't visit immediately, but
made an appointment to see the family at another time.

Mrs Doran added: I didn't know what to do because she been kicked about the face
and head.

I was angry and upset that the police hadn't arrived, but my focus was on the
girls.

I waited up until after 2am and the police still hadn't arrived, they said it
was because they didn't have enough patrol cars.

They said they would come later, so I just went along with it, but my husband is
really angry.

Sergeant Shoheb Chowdhury, of the Rochdale South Neighbourhood Policing Team,
said: The assault was reported about 20 minutes after the incident when the
victim was already safely at home.

We always strive to deliver the best possible service but work to a graded
response system, meaning that incidents where there is an immediate threat to
life are given a higher priority than other calls.

An appointment has been made to speak to the victim and we have already made
inquiries in relation to CCTV in the area.

We take all reports of assaults very seriously and will do all we can to
identify offenders and bring them to justice.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INJURED ... Jae Doran shows the scars of the attack on her
by Katie Storey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 21, 2011 Thursday

Philippine military, police work to prevent terror attacks during holy week

LENGTH: 449 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper Philippine Daily Inquirer
website on 21 April

[Report by Dona Pazzibugan: "AFP Works With PNP in Preventing Terror Attacks
During Holy Week"]

Manila, Philippines - The Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) has taken steps
to be extra-vigilant this Holy Week to protect the public from all security
threats.

The AFP said it has coordinated with the Philippine National Police (PNP) to
undertake measures to secure vital installations against any terrorist attack.

In a security guidance issued last week, all military units were told to
intensify monitoring and intelligence operations against traditional threat
groups.

Field commanders were also ordered to activate at all levels the joint peace and
security coordination centres with their counterparts from the Philippine
National Police to support the latter's security measures.

"The Armed Forces of the Philippines will continually support the PNP and other
law agencies as we heighten our alert status to counter any insurgencies. This
is in part of our commitment to sustain peace and stability to assure the
public's safety while observing the Holy Week," AFP Chief of Staff Eduardo Oban
Jr said in a statement.

During Holy Week each year, Filipino Catholics commemorate the suffering, death
and resurrection of Christ on Easter Sunday.

Many go to churches and many more go home to the provinces or go on outings in
the country's many beach resorts and tourist destinations.

Last April 15, the AFP general headquarters issued an operational directive to
the six unified commands to be extra vigilant and to prepare for security
contingencies during the Lenten Season.

In turn, the six unified commands issued directives to their operating units to
take active security measures against threat groups and to support the PNP's
security preparations.

The six unified commands are the Northern Luzon Command (Nolcom) based in Tarlac
City, Southern Luzon Command (Solcom) in Lucena City, Central Command (Cencom)
in Cebu City, Western Command (Wescom) in Puerto Princesa City, Eastern Mindanao
Command (Eastmincom) in Davao City and Western Mindanao Command (Westmincom)
based in Zamboanga City.

The AFP said its soldiers have augmented the forces of the PNP and civilian
authorities during the Holy Week through manpower, intelligence, explosive and
ordnance disposal and K9 capability support.

The National Capital Region Command said it has deployed five officers and 125
enlisted personnel to assist the National Capital Region Police Office in
securing public mass transports, power utilities and other vital installations
in the capital.

Source: Philippine Daily Inquirer website, in English 21 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 21, 2011 Thursday

Majority of Russian facilities vulnerable to terrorist attacks - prosecutor

LENGTH: 260 words


Vitally important facilities in Russia are vulnerable to terrorist attacks,
Russian Prosecutor-General Yuriy Chayka said in a report which was submitted to
the Russian Federation Council for consideration on 21 April, Russian news
agency Interfax reported on the same day.

"Despite a significant amount of work that is being done, law-enforcement
agencies still do not have sufficient operational possibilities for monitoring
and timely elimination of sources of financing of terrorism. Last year, only
three such crimes were investigated," the report said.

"We are especially concerned about the antiterrorist protection of social
facilities, the housing sector, facilities that pose addition threat and large
transport hubs," Chayka said in the report. Prosecutors found numerous
violations in these areas during checks carried out in 2010, he added.

"The main reason for the situation is that some managers did not pay due
attention to ensuring security at enterprises for several years, neglecting the
security, life and health of people. To a large extent, this is caused by the
striving of owners to save on antiterrorist protection," Chayka said.

He went on to say that the majority of such facilities were vulnerable to
subversive-terrorist attacks as they lacked alarm systems, means of
communication or video observation facilities and protection was ensured there
by unarmed elderly guards, which made it impossible to take appropriate measures
if a threat of a terrorist attack emerged.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1034 gmt 21 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            April 23, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

On the terrorist attacks on Celtic manager Neil Lennon ...

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 164 words


On the terrorist attacks on Celtic manager Neil Lennon

??? Neil Lennon at times can be his own worst enemy, for example getting into it
with students at the grocers and a fight developing, however managing a football
squad in no ways justifies sending a man bullets or parcel bombs. The unruly
seeds involved on both

sides of the divide need squashed.

Colin1219

??? As an Englishman I am glad to see the veil being lifted on Rangers Football
Club and all that it stands for. The sectarianism at its cancerous core feeds
off the entrenched bigotry that pervades the backward parts from which it draws
'support'. Support which claims an allegiance to Britain. Not my Britain. Your
values are not welcome in my land.

mortimer077

??? I'm not a Celtic fan and I'm certainly not a Lennon fan, but this kind of
behaviour is completely unacceptable. I hope they are caught and jailed asap.
Pure scum.

Lisburn_Dave

??? There are some real nutjobs out there...its a game of football, grow up.

sausagesupper

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                 April 24, 2011

Police warn of UK threat by new Irish terror groups: Dissidents capable of
mainland attack Fears of 'Easter offensive' in Ulster: ON OTHER PAGES

BYLINE: Mark Townsend and Henry MacDonald

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 839 words


Dissident republicans have developed the capability to mount an attack on the
British mainland, according to the latest security assessment. Senior counter-

terrorism sources confirmed the threat from dissidents attacking the mainland
"now goes beyond an aspiration" and that they now possess the means to mount an
attack across the Irish Sea.

Amid rising tension in the province and fears of an "Easter offensive" by
dissident groups, police in Northern Ireland last night also warned that
anti-ceasefire republicans were plotting to kill more police officers.

The increased threat from republican dissidents is certain to heighten security
concerns during this week's build-up to the royal wedding on Friday, although
there is no intelligence suggesting a specific plot related to the event.

On Friday another dissident grouping, styling itself "the IRA", issued a public
statement claiming responsibility for the murder of PC Ronan Kerr in Omagh this
month. The group, comprising former members of the Provisional IRA, vowed to
embark on a bombing campaign. It is understood that the new group includes
veteran paramilitaries who were involved in transporting and later detonating
the bomb that exploded at London's Canary Wharf in 1996.

Intelligence officials monitoring dissident activity point to a growing
sophistication in bomb-making techniques and a widening range of attack
techniques as evidence of expanding capability. A senior intelligence source
told the Observer: "We feel there is capability to attempt some form of an
attack on Britain. Based on our assessment, it goes beyond an aspiration."
Dissident groups have recently deployed command-wire explosive devices,
van-mounted weaponry, car bombs and vehicle booby traps, as well as more
orthodox military equipment such as hand-grenades. Several individuals are
believed to be under surveillance.

The mainland has not experienced an Irish republican attack since car bombs
exploded at the BBC Television Centre and Ealing Broadway station in London in
2001. The head of MI5, Jonathan Evans, said last September, however, that
dissidents posed a "real and increasing security challenge in Northern Ireland"
and could be planning attacks elsewhere. According to MI5's Joint Terrorism
Analysis Centre, the official threat level is "substantial", meaning an attack
is a "strong possibility".

Yesterday a man appeared in court facing charges in connection with the murder
of Kerr. Gavin Coyle, 33, from Omagh was charged with possession of explosives,
firearms and articles likely to be of use to terrorists. He was remanded in
custody. The court heard he was linked to a footprint found at a major dissident
republican arms dump in Coalisland during investigations into Kerr's murder.
Police have also revealed details of a substantial haul of guns and ammunition
found in a vehicle stopped by officers in Keady, near the Irish border, on
Friday.

Attention has concentrated upon the Real IRA and the smaller but technically
able Oglaigh na hEireann, which has improved its explosives technology over the
past two years. Analysis suggests that the explosives material being used by
dissidents may have originated from a onetime Provisional IRA stockpile whose
whereabouts were known by former quartermaster general Michael McKevitt - who
formed the Real IRA.

Police in Northern Ireland said yesterday that fresh violence was expected.
"Dissident terrorist groups are continuing to identify officers and target them
with the single objective of killing them," a spokesman said.

In further evidence of growing confidence among extremist republican groups, a
leading figure in one of the dissident groups' political wings announced that
the Queen should be considered a "legitimate target" during her visit to Ireland
next month. The general secretary of the hardline Republican Sinn Fein party,
Josephine Hayden, said she would have no problem with a sniper targeting the
Queen. "You might say that she is just a little old grandmother," said Hayden,
"but it is what she represents, what she symbolises that counts. She is a
legitimate target."

The Observer has learned that a radical republican group known as Eirigi: for a
Socialist Republic is planning to occupy Dublin's Garden of Remembrance 48 hours
before the Queen is scheduled to attend a reconciliation ceremony there.

Republicans in Dublin say the splinter group plans to establish a tented camp on
the Sunday prior to the visit, creating the possibility that the Garda Siochana
will have to forcibly remove protesters before the royal tour begins on 17 May.

On 5 May, Northern Ireland is braced for trouble to mark assembly elections and
the 30th anniversary of the death of IRA hunger striker Bobby Sands. Future
trouble could depend on the reaction from the loyalist community, described by
sources as "relatively restrained" until now. A 40-year-old Belfast man was,
however, arrested yesterday in connection with loyalist terrorist activity.

For hardcore dissidents, the Queen is a legitimate target, Special report, 8-9


LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 25, 2011 Monday

Punjab chief says US drone attacks promoting terrorism in Pakistan

LENGTH: 210 words


Text of Daily Times monitor headlined "Shahbaz calls for making Karachi a
province" published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 25 April

Lahore: Punjab Chief Minister (CM) Shahbaz Sharif on Sunday [24 April] called
for the creation of new provinces in Sindh as being demanded in Punjab, adding
that Karachi be made a province, a private news channel reported.

Addressing a ceremony at the laying of foundation stone of a school's building,
the CM termed those killed in North Waziristan in US drone attacks as his
brothers.

Shahbaz said US drone attacks were promoting terrorism in Pakistan. "This
government cannot stop missile attacks because they are earning dollars in
exchange for these attacks," he alleged.

Giving advice to the government, he said the way to live an honourable life was
only possible by breaking the begging-bowl. "Being beggars and nuclear power at
the same time are two different facts, which could not run
shoulder-to-shoulder," he said.

Declining to comment on the party's leader, Makhdoom Javaid Hashmi's statement,
Shahbaz prayed for his long life. "Not only should new provinces be formed in
south Punjab, but Karachi should also be made a new province, he reiterated.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 25 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             April 25, 2011 Monday
                                   1 Edition

More arms found as police fear Easter terror attack

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 277 words


A SECOND haul of suspected bomb-making equipment has been discovered by police
investigating dissident republican activities in Northern Ireland.

The find in south Armagh late on Saturday came hours after officers uncovered a
large quantity of bomb-making materials in the same county.

Twenty-four hours before that, police recovered a weapons cache in a vehicle
they stopped in Keady, south Armagh.

Three men arrested in relation to the guns and ammunition haul found near the
Irish border on Friday remained in custody yesterday.

There have been no further arrests and police have not said where the
bomb-making equipment was found.

The significant seizures over the weekend came as police remained on high alert
across Northern Ireland amid fears of a terror attack to mark traditional
republican Easter commemorations.

Increased patrols and checkpoints were being mounted.

Just three weeks after the murder of Constable Ronan Kerr in Omagh, Co Tyrone
police warned terrorist groups could be intent on trying to kill more officers
in the coming days and weeks.

A 33-year-old man arrested by detectives investigating the policeman s murder
appeared in court in Dungannon on Saturday on arms and explosive charges.

A police spokesman said:  Dissident terrorist groups are continuing to identify
officers and target them with the single objective of killing them.

The spokesman added:  We are taking these steps to keep communities and officers
safe. We would not do this unless it was not absolutely necessary to protect
life.

A 26-year-old man arrested in Renton, West Dunbartonshire, earlier this month
over Constable Kerr s death was released without charge last week.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             April 25, 2011 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

KIDNAP ATTACK TERROR FOR TWO;
Police believe assaults were linked

BYLINE: LAURA JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 242 words


TWO men were bundled into cars, and beaten and slashed in separate attacks,
within an hour of each other.

The 23-year-old and 26-year-old were both abducted in Walton on Friday night, in
what Merseyside police detectives called linked and targeted attacks.

At about 10pm, the younger victim was forced into a silver vehicle in Utting
Avenue, near to the Asda super market.

He was then beaten up before being released from the vehicle nearby with minor
injuries.

An hour later, at about 11pm, the 26-year-old man was forced into a black
hackney cab near to the junction of Carisbrooke Road and Newark Street.

He was attacked in the taxi and left with injuries, lacerations and puncture
wounds to his body and legs and suspected fractures to both hands.

Detective Chief Inspector Tracy Hayes, of Merseyside police, said: "At this
point, we are investigating a number of lines of inquiry around these targeted
attacks.

"The second assault was particularly violent and I am keen to talk to anyone who
may have seen anything suspicious that could be linked to either of these
incidents.

"A number of scenes have been forensically examined, house-to-house inquiries
are under way, and patrols were increased in the areas concer ned.

"Police believe that the two incidents are linked and the individuals were
targeted."

Anyone with information is urged to contact detectives at St Anne Street CID on
0151-777 4065 or call Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SCENE: Carisbrooke Road, in Walton, where one of the men was abducted
in a black hackney cab

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 25, 2011 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

TERROR ATTACK IS 'LIKELY';
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: DAVID COLLINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 424 words


MI5 has warned senior Government figures that an attack by Irish terror groups
is "highly likely" on the day of the royal wedding.

The intelligence service believes a bomb attack may occur in Belfast or
Londonderry in a bid to disrupt the celebrations.

It is thought resurgent dissident republican groups - which include the Real
IRA, the Oglaigh na hEireann and "the IRA" - are not ready to launch an attack
on London.

But latest intelligence reports from MI5 to the Home Office suggest an attack
could take place elsewhere on Friday.

A source said: "Recent intelligence points to a terror attack in Northern
Ireland on the day of the wedding. This is a very real threat and described as
being highly likely.

"It is not believed the groups yet have the capability to launch an attack on
London, which on Friday would cause chaos.

"However an attack would send out a clear message that there is a gathering and
substantial threat from dissident republican groups in Northern Ireland and
Ireland."

On Friday the dissident group styling itself "the IRA" issued a statement
claiming responsibility for the murder of PC Ronan Kerr in Omagh this month.

MI5 understands that the group, which has also vowed to embark on a bombing
campaign, includes veteran paramilitary figures who have the know-how to carry
out such attacks. Dissident groups have recently deployed command-wire explosive
devices, van-mounted weaponry, car bombs and vehicle booby traps. Several
suspected terrorists are thought to be under surveillance by MI5.

Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness, the deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland,
warned yesterday that the terror groups could never help reunite Ireland. He
said: "No act of violence will advance the cause of reunification by one
millimetre. Those who believe Ireland can be reunited without the support of the
Irish people are living in a fool's paradise."

The UK mainland has not experienced an Irish republican attack since 2001, when
car bombs exploded at the BBC TV Centre and Ealing Broadway station in London.

The increased threat is certain to heighten security concerns during this week's
buildup to the wedding.

Hundreds of police have already been summoned to a top-level Scotland Yard
briefing on royal wedding security.

Senior officers were told in what is described as "strong terms" to shoot to
kill anyone who reveals themselves to be a serious threat to security.

A source said: "The briefing was to make sure everybody is on the same page
about the action that should be taken should any potential threats be
identified."

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING McGuinness BOMB Real IRA attack on Ulster Bank in Londonderry
last year

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

SLASH ATTACK THUG & PAL IN STREET TERROR

BYLINE: CHLOE GRIFFITHS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 283 words


A THUG who attacked a man with a machete in the street was jailed.

Thomas Connolly, 21, armed himself with the weapon before hunting down Lee
Holland and repeatedly slashing him.

Liverpool crown court heard Connolly launched the attack because his girlfriend
had argued with Holland earlier that evening in a pub.

But jailing Connolly for three years, Judge Brian Lewis told him: "He is as
entitled to anybody else in this room to the protection of the law when this
kind of unjustified and excessive violence is used."

Ian Harris, prosecuting, said on the evening of June 27 last year, Mr Holland
was in The Boot pub, Liscard, when he was confronted by Connolly's partner and
they argued.

Later that evening Mr Holland was walking home along Mount Road, Wallasey, when
he was approached by Connolly and his accomplice Robert Bougourd, 22. JAIL:
Connolly The men chased after him and eventually cornered him in Gorsehill Road.

Judge Lewis said Mr Holland suffered "almost surgical" cuts to his arms as he
tried to protect his head from the sword.

He added: "If he had not done this and the weapon had connected with his head,
his face or his neck, the outcome could have been very much worse."

Connolly, of Prospect Vale, and Bougourd, of Lansdowne Road, both Wallasey,
initially claimed they had an alibi, but later admitted wounding.

Desmond Lennon, defending Connolly, who also admitted having an offensive
weapon, said he was now sorry for his actions and "regretted taking the law into
his own hands".

Judge Lewis suspended a 50-week prison sentence for two years with 12 months
supervision for Bougourd and ordered him to do 180 hours unpaid work and
complete a probation programme.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday

Pakistan Navy says Karachi attack aimed to dampen resolve to fight terror

LENGTH: 253 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Karachi, 28 April: Another cowardly incident of terrorism struck Pakistan when a
naval bus was hit by a bomb explosion, leaving four sailors martyred and five
injured. This was stated in an ISPR [Inter-Services Public Relations] press
release issued here on Thursday [28 April].

It said that being one of the armed forces, Pakistan Navy [PN] has been
attempted on by ill-minded elements, whose nefarious motives aim at deterring
the resolve of the nation to fight menace of terrorism.

The ISPR Navy statement further pointed out that Karachi being predominantly a
naval city, has been the focus of acts of terrorism in the past few days. A
large number of personnel are serving in Pakistan Navy at Karachi.
Establishments and units of Pakistan Navy are located in various parts of the
city, which involve operational movements in line of duty. The navy has
stringent security measures in place. In today's incident, the improvised device
was hidden in a manhole right next to the main artery of Shahrah-e-Faisal.

Chief of the naval staff has strongly condemned this act of terrorism and
reaffirmed the resolve of Pakistan Navy to continue its fight against this
cancer. The naval chief said that through these acts, the determination of
Pakistan Navy officers, sailors and civilians cannot be deterred and PN stands
firm with the nation in fight against extremism.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1111gmt
28 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday

Five security guards said killed in "terrorist attack" in western Algeria

LENGTH: 83 words


Five communal guards [state-sponsored armed militias] have been killed and four
wounded in a bomb blast in western Algeria, the privately-owned French-language
daily newspaper El Watan said on its website on 28 April.

The paper quoted "authorised sources" as saying that the "terrorist attack" had
taken place on the same day at about 1030 (0930 gmt) in Oued Djemaa
Municipality, in the Western Province of Ain Defla, some 120 km west of Algiers.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 28 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday

Syria security forces injured in Homs, Dar'a "terrorist" attacks - state TV

LENGTH: 378 words


Text of report by Syrian TV on 28 April

An official source at the Interior Ministry has affirmed that extremist
terrorist groups have attacked members of Internal Security Forces in Dar'a,
wounding Lt-Col Ammar Sufan and Policeman Ahmad Birtawi. The source said that an
extremist terrorist group attacked a security forces' post in the Tall Kalakh
area in Homs last night, leading to the martyrdom of Adjutant Hasan Abd-al-Karim
Abbas and Policeman Yusuf Khalil Hammud as they sustained gunshot wounds in the
waist and the neck, consecutively. This is in addition to the wounding of five
members of the security forces and the police.

The source added that the armed groups opened heavy fire on security forces in
Homs, hitting them in the upper left part of the body. This indicates that the
gunmen have experience in shooting. The source noted that the wounded where
transferred to the Al-Husn Hospital.

As for the wounded, they are: Ghassan Muhammad Hammud, Mahmud Murshid Isa,
Hikmat Kamil Ahmad, Nabil Muhammad, and William Wannus.

In statements to SANA, some of the wounded said that while fulfilling their
duty, they came under heavy gunfire from nearby rooftops, causing them to
sustain various gunshot wounds. They added that during the past few days, these
extremist terrorist groups attacked several posts that belong to the security
forces, noting that the security forces confronted them.

Meanwhile, the National Centre for Forensic Medicine said that most civilians
and military personnel who were martyred in the acts of sabotage, from which the
country is suffering, died from a gunshot to the head or the neck. In a
statement, the centre added that the victims were shot from a long distance and
that the direction of shooting came from elevated place and from different
angles, suggesting that it took place from rooftops. The centre noted that it
would like to draw the public opinion's attention, especially the local one,
that most of the exit wounds are different from the wounds familiar to gunshot
wounds caused by guns and rifles that legally exist in our country, adding that
the gunshot wounds are caused by using sophisticated snipers' weapons with
high-speed shooting.

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 1430 gmt 28 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday

Man Tells Of Machete Gang Attack Terror

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 659 words


A MAN has told of the terrifying moment seven machete-wielding raiders burst
into his home and attacked his pal.

The 25-year-old hid in his bedroom as the gang tried to batter down the door
with the knives and get to him at the property on Tamworth Road in Arthurs Hill,
Newcastle.

And while he was struggling to keep the door shut, the masked men turned-on his
35-year-old friend, slashing his hand as he tried to hide in the next  room.

Today the man, who the Chronicle has agreed not to name, told of the harrowing
ordeal.

Still stricken with fear, he said: "I thought they were going to kill us.

"They were shouting and screaming, but I couldn't make out what they were
saying.

"I was asleep in the bedroom when I heard loud bangs at the front door then
these guys came in out of nowhere and were shouting. There was a bang on my
bedroom door then I heard them go into the living room.

"I jumped up and opened the bedroom door to come out, but they were outside and
took a swipe at me with a knife. I shut the door as quickly as I could, but they
were pushing, kicking on it and banging on it with their knives. They were
trying to get in, but I managed to lock it.

"I thought they were trying to kill us and steal from us. I didn't know who they
were or what they wanted or why they had come to attack us. I was so frightened.

"It all happened quite quickly, but it seemed to last for ages. I couldn't
understand what was going on.

"I didn't know what to do, I thought it wouldn't take long for them to knock the
door down, so I pretended to ring the police. I said loudly  Hello, is that the
police? Can you please help me? Someone is trying to kill me'.

"That's when they ran away and got into their black cars."

It was only when the 25-year-old, who is originally from Nigeria, came out of
his room that he realised his pal, also from Nigeria, had been attacked.

"My friend had been in the living room," he said. "After they cut his hand and
came running to my bedroom door he managed to run out through the back door and
phone the police.

"Both of us are frightened to be in the house. There is too much of a risk that
they will come back. My friend has gone away for a few days and I'm going to go
home.

"I've told my wife there has been an incident, but I didn't tell her the whole
story. I don't want to frighten her.

"I can't understand why it happened. My friend's OK, but he's still in shock."

Police arrived at the scene and found the 35-year-old occupier soaked in blood
and in need of hospital treatment.

The gang fled empty-handed in two cars after the late-night assault.

Today, those living in the area spoke of their shock after the close-knit
community became the subject of a huge police investigation.

Paul Hutton, 24, who lives just doors away from the attack, said: "They circled
round and then came back round to the front of the house.

"Five of them jumped out of one car and two jumped out the other. You couldn't
hear them when they were in the house, but they kicked in the door and it was
crazy."

Detectives swooped on the small residential street following the attack at
around 10.15pm on Monday.

The attackers fled the scene in a black BMW convertible, with tinted windows,
and a black Astra, both of which headed along Studley Terrace.

Det Insp Dave Culverwell, of Newcastle Area Command, said: "We are carrying out
extensive inquiries to identify these offenders.

"Neighbourhood officers are carrying out extra patrols in the area to reassure
local residents.

"Thankfully, the victim's injuries turned out not to be too serious. However, he
was obviously very shocked."

All of the offenders were white males, aged in their 20s and 30s.

A police spokesman said: "At around 10.15pm on Monday officers received a report
of a 35-year-old man being attacked by men.

"The men wore black masks and were armed with machetes. The victim suffered an
injury to his hand which required hospital treatment."

Anyone with information should call 03456 043 043.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday

1st anniversary of Pakistani national convicted over Mumbai terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 102 words


1st anniversary of Pakistani national Mohammed Ajmal Kasab convicted of murder
and waging war against India for his role in the Nov 2008 terror attacks on
Mumbai, which killed 166 over three days. During the atrocity ten young men
stormed two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre and the main CST train station, where
21-year-old Kasab was photographed carrying an assault rifle. Nine gunmen were
killed and India has blamed the Pakistan-based militant group, Lashkar-e-Taiba.
Kasab was sentenced to death three days later, but his execution has yet to be
carried out

Event Start Date: 2011-05-03

Event End Date: 2011-05-03

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2011 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday
                                  Eire Edition

DARK WARNING;
PIPELINE TERROR ATTACK COULD CAUSE BLACKOUT

BYLINE: RORY TEVLIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 398 words


IRELAND could be left in the dark by a terrorist strike that could cut off all
energy supplies into the country, it was warned yesterday.

Dr John Fitzgerald of the Economic and Social Research Institute claimed we
could be left with little or no electricity if the natural gas pipeline from
Scotland was taken out.

The State imports natural gas through the UK and this fuels more than half of
the country's power stations.

Dr Fitzgerald has urged the Government to either bring the controversial Corrib
gas ashore or splash out on a second interconnector from Scotland.

He said: "There are three pipelines across the Irish Sea but all of these feed
into one pipeline in Scotland.

"If anyone blew it up or if anything happened to it we would have no gas.

"As the bulk of our electricity comes from gas, unless that pipeline is fixed
quickly we could find ourselves with no electricity, which would be extremely
serious.

"There are different ways to deal with this, you could pay to put in a second
pipeline in Scotland or the alternative is to bring onshore the Corrib field.

"It is wrong for the State to leave consumers exposed in the way that they are
at the moment." The ESRI also called for subsidies for offshore wind and wave
power installations to be slashed.

The institute said energy needs have dropped here due to the recession and
investment in the area should be cut.

But the Irish Wind Energy Association slammed the proposals and claimed we are
over-reliant on other countries for our energy needs.

Dr Michael Walsh of the IWEA said any reduction in supports would cost jobs and
undermine foreign investment here.

He added: "A reduction in supports would most definitely be a major setback for
a sector that is more than justifying these same supports but is going to
deliver savings to the consumer and create export revenue for Ireland in the
future as well.

"This ESRI report, if anything, reaffirms that we are way too dependent on
external sources of energy, with approximately 89% of our energy requirement
being imported, and justifies the need for accelerating our wind energy
programme.

"Ultimately, Dr Fitzgerald overwhelmingly endorses the value of wind energy, not
least as it will hedge against significant price increases from these
international sources.

"We also believe that within the wind energy mix there is significant potential
for offshore and onshore wind projects."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALTERNATIVE Wind farms are encouraged

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             April 29, 2011 Friday

Front: Terrorist attack on Marrakech tourist cafe leaves 15 dead

BYLINE: Angelique Chrisafis, Paris

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 798 words


A suspected suicide attack blew apart a well-known tourist cafe in the Moroccan
city of Marrakech yesterday killing at least 15 people, including 11 tourists,
and injuring at least 20 more. There were unconfirmed reports last night that
one of the dead was a British tourist.

If the bombing is the work of Islamists, it will be their first major attack in
Morocco since 2003, when a spate of suicide bombings in the commercial capital,
Casablanca, killed more than 45 people.

At around 11.50am yesterday the blast ripped through the second story of a cafe
overlooking Marrakech's Jamaa-el-Fnaa square, the most popular tourist spot in
the old imperial city at the foot of the Atlas mountains.

The Argana cafe, lauded in guidebooks for its panoramic view, was blown apart by
the force of the explosion, its second storey reduced to mangled wreckage.
Witnesses described the blast sending people flying from their chairs.

The square, normally full of tourists and local vendors and storytellers, was
swept up in panic as ambulance crews recovered dismembered bodies from the
debris. A photographer described "shredded bodies" being pulled from the cafe.
There were gruesome injuries at the city's main hospital, where at least 20
wounded were being treated.

Boris Thiolay, a journalist for the French weekly L'Express who was in the
square at the time, described a deafening explosion. "We all jumped, then we saw
a plume of black smoke rise above the restaurant and the souk."

A local hotel worker told France-Info she heard a great boom and everything in
the square suddenly went grey.

There were conflicting accounts of how the attack took place. One witness who
escaped unharmed told Agence France Presse that a man had entered the cafe and
ordered an orange juice before blowing himself up minutes later. Others said a
bomber dropped a suitcase before walking out of the building.

"I heard a massive blast. The first and second floors of the building were
destroyed," one local woman told Reuters. "Some witnesses said they had seen a
man carrying a bag entering the cafe before the blast occurred."

The Moroccan interior ministry said early evidence collected from the scene
confirmed it was a bomb attack. Other local officials said indications were of a
suicide attack and traces of nails were found in one of the bodies at the
hospital. Initially, within moments of the explosion, officials had blamed a gas
canister catching fire.

Eleven of the dead were believed to be tourists, around half were women and at
least six were French, according to Moroccan television. The Elysee confirmed
that many of the dead and injured were French.

President Nicolas Sarkozy condemned a "hateful, cruel and cowardly attack".

An unconfirmed report on Le Figaro's website claimed a couple from Marseille
were among the dead, as well as one Briton.

Marrakech is Morocco's top city-break destination and the blast came during
French school holidays and at the start of the UK's extended bank holiday.

"You can't find a more emblematic target than Jamaa-el-Fnaa square," said one
restaurant owner in the city.

"With this attack and amid the worrying unrest in the region, tourism will hit
the doldrums."

The Moroccan government did not say whether the attack was thought to have been
carried out by Islamists. In January, the Moroccan interior ministry said 27
suspected terrorists recently arrested in the south of the country had links to
al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb, a regional offshoot of the group. Last week,
men claiming to be Moroccan members of al-Qaida's north African wing appeared in
a video posted on YouTube threatening to attack Moroccan interests.

Two weeks ago the king, Mohammed VI, pardoned or cut the sentences of 190
detainees, including Islamists and Sahrawi political prisoners, as part of his
promised concessions on rights and judicial independence.

Last month he announced political changes and promised constitutional reform in
an attempt to stave off a knock-on effect from the Arab popular uprisings that
have overthrown Tunisia's dictator and Egypt's autocratic regime.

Since 20 February, there have been three nationwide mass demonstrations for
democracy and equality in Morocco, which is plagued by massive social injustice
and a growing gap between the rich and the very poor.

The Marrakech blast is likely to hurt Morocco's tourist trade, a major source of
revenue, which is already struggling to recover from the effects of the global
downturn.

Morocco's main stock exchange, the Casablanca bourse, was down 3.3% by early
afternoon.

"People are panicking," said a trader on the bourse. "This is a terrorist act
and it will affect the economy and tarnish the country's image. Local investors
are selling."

Captions:

The Marrakech cafe targeted yesterday in a suspected suicide bomb attack

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                             April 29, 2011 Friday

British Tourists Caught Up In  terrorist Attack'

SECTION: A; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 191 words


BRITISH tourists were last night being treated in hospital after a suspected
terrorist attack which killed 15 people in the Moroccan city of Marrakech.

At least 11 foreign citizens and three Moroccans were killed in the bombing in
the Djemma el-Fna square just before noon yesterday.

Moroccans, French, Canadian and British citizens were among 13 people being
treated at Marrakech's main Tofail Hospital, emergency room chief Hicham Nejmi
said.

But there was no official indication from the Moroccan authorities to verify a
report that one Briton was among the dead.

And last night  officials said the deadliest attack in the country in eight
years   which also wounded 23 people   was the act of terrorists.

Morocco has been the target of several plots by the North African branch of al
Qaida, and is also home to local militant groups. But Government spokesman
Khalid Naciri said it was too soon to say who was behind the attack.

The explosion  tore the facade off the two-story terracotta-coloured Argana
cafe, leaving awnings dangling.  Panicked passers-by dragged away bodies and
tried to put out flames with fire extinguishers, witnesses said.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                       April 29, 2011 Friday 2:50 PM GMT

Morocco blames bomb attack on terrorists

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 257 words



HIGHLIGHT: Morocco's interior ministry said a bomb that killed at least 14
people in its busiest tourist destination was a terrorist act.


Morocco has said a bomb that killed at least 14 people, including 10 foreigners,
in its busiest tourist destination was a terrorist act.

The blast ripped through a cafe overlooking Marrakesh's Jamaa el-Fnaa square, a
spot often packed with foreign tourists.

Interior Minister Taieb Cherkaoui said 14 people were killed and 23 wounded in
the deadliest attack Morocco has seen since 12 suicide bombers killed 33 members
of the public in coordinated strikes on the business hub Casablanca eight years
ago.

'Preliminary investigation...suggests that this was a terrorist act caused by an
explosive device,' the official MAP news agency quoted Cherkaoui as saying.

Security experts said the attack bore all the hallmarks of a plot by Islamist
militants.

'The majority of plots are detected in their early stages because Moroccan
authorities retain a very effective network of informants right down to street
level,' said Anna Murison of Exclusive Analysis, a consultancy.

'However, the regular recurrence of plots...mean it is likely that a few will
slip through the net,' she said.

State-run 2M television put the death toll at 15 and said they were six French
nationals, five Moroccans and four foreigners whose nationality it did not give.

Two Marrakesh residents who were near the square told Reuters the explosion was
carried out by a suicide bomber, but there was no immediate claim of
responsibility.

If confirmed as the work of Islamist militants, the attack would be the first
such major attack in Morocco since the Casablanca suicide bombings of 2003.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2011 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             April 29, 2011 Friday
                                 First Edition

'Terrorist attack' on tourist cafe kills 14

BYLINE: JOE CHURCHER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 655 words


TERRORISTS are responsible for a massive blast which killed 14 people in a
popular tourist cafe in the Moroccan city of Marrakech, officials said last
night.

Twenty other people were injured.

The dead included foreigners.

The blast in the Djemma el-Fna square was Morocco's deadliest attack in eight
years.

Morocco has been the target of several plots by the North African branch of
al-Qaeda, and is also home to local militant groups.

Government spokesman Khalid Naciri said it was too soon to say who was behind
what he called a terrorist attack.

The explosion just before noon yesterday tore the facade off the two-storey
terracottacoloured Argana cafe, leaving awnings dangling. Panicked passers-by
dragged away bodies and tried to put out flames with fire extinguishers,
witnesses said.

The square, a Unesco World Heritage site, is a focal point for the hordes of
western tourists who visit the central city of Marrakech seeking a taste of the
exotic in the Muslim kingdom on the Atlantic Ocean. The square is known for its
snake charmers, fire breathers and old town, or medina.

Naciri said the 14 dead people came from several countries but he did not say
which ones.

"We worked for more than an hour, maybe less, on the hypothesis that this could
eventually be accidental. But initial results of the investigation confirm that
we are confronted with a true criminal act," Naciri told France-24 television.

He said that more about the bombers' methods should be known within hours.

"There was a huge bang, and lots of smoke went up, there was debris raining down
from the sky. Hundreds of people were running in panic, some towards the cafe,
some away from the square. The whole front of the cafe is blown away," witness
Andy Birnie, of north London, told AP by telephone.

"It was lunchtime so the square was very busy. We had just walked into the
square, but were shielded by some stalls," honeymooner Birnie said.

King Mohamed VI offered condolences to victims and ordered the interior and
justice ministers to ensure an investigation "to determine the causes, the
reasons and the goals of this criminal explosion," MAP reported, quoting a
statement from the Royal Cabinet.

At least two French were among victims of the attack, judicial officials in
Paris said, and the Paris prosecutor's office opened an investigation. It was
not immediately clear whether the French were among the dead or injured.

France is the former colonial ruler of Morocco, a magnet for tourists from
around Europe.

The nationalities of the victims were not immediately clear. Morocco is largely
calm but was hit by terrorist bombings in Casablanca in 2003 that killed 45
people, including the suicide bombers. Moroccan authorities have regularly
rounded up terror suspects since then and have been on alert for terrorist
activity.

The Moroccan Islamic Combatant Group, or GICM, a militant group was believed
linked to those attacks. The GICM has also been implicated in the deadly attacks
in Madrid in March 2004.

Al-Qaeda has an affiliate operating in North Africa that stages regular attacks
and kidnappings in neighbouring Algeria. Morocco has said in the past that it
has dismantled several al-Qaeda plots.

Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb holds four Frenchmen hostage after kidnapping
them in Niger last year, and recently released new images and audio recordings
of their voices.

Portuguese tourist Alexandre Carvalho, 34, said: "I had just arrived at the
square, the area where most cafes are located. Suddenly I heard this massive
explosion, I had my back turned to it, I turned around to see it the explosion
had happened on the veranda of a cafe.

"There were at least 10 injured people, lots of debris, things flying up in the
air. I saw people in a panic running towards the area with fire extinguishers,
some people being carried away. I believe the injured were mostly tourists,
judging by what they were wearing."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ A police officer outside a cordoned-off building after the explosion
at a cafe in the Moroccan city of Marrakech yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 30, 2011 Saturday

Four Syrian officers killed in "terrorist group" attacks

LENGTH: 186 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

(SANA) -An official military source stated the following: An armed terrorist
group attacked in huge numbers the residential areas of military personnel
families in the towns of Seda and Tafas in Dar'a countryside, and opened fire on
the residents, prompting the areas' guards and residents to respond.

The confrontation led to the martyring of one lieutenant and two soldiers, while
dozens of the attackers were wounded or killed. 156 members of the terrorist
group were arrested, and 50 bikes and 3 cars they were using were confiscated.

Another terrorist group attacked an army checkpoint in the town of Sheikh Miskin
near Dar'a and was repelled by the stationed army personnel, leading to the
death of three members of the group.

Yet another terrorist group attempted to cut off the Homs-Hama highway near the
towns of Talbisa and al-Rastan but the army confronted them, leading to the
martyring of three army members and injuring and killing a number of the
attacking terrorist group.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 29 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 30, 2011 Saturday

Syrian soldier reportedly killed in attack by terrorist group

LENGTH: 196 words


Text of report by Syrian TV on 30 April

A military source has made the following statement:

A terrorist armed group made up of a large number attacked yesterday the
residences of military personnel in the towns of Sida and Tafas in Rif Dar'a.
The armed group opened fire heavily on the people, prompting the guards of the
residences as well as the residents to stand up to the attack, which led to the
martyrdom of a sergeant and the wounding of two soldiers. The attack also
resulted in killing and wounding scores of attackers, arresting 156 elements,
and seizing 50 motorcycles and three cars.

Moreover, a terrorist group attacked an army checkpoint in the city of Al-Shaykh
Miskin near Dar'a, prompting the army personnel manning the checkpoint to
confront them. The attack resulted in the killing of three members of the
terrorist group. Another terrorist group tried to block the main road of
Hims-Hamah near the towns of Talbisah and Al-Rastan, but army personnel
confronted it, causing the martyrdom of three army personnel and the killing and
wounding of a number of the assaulting terrorist group.

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 1430 gmt 30 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            April 30, 2011 Saturday

Terror as 999 man attacked by thugs ; X Factor gran a Cookie who won't crumble

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 371 words


PAGE 11 PIC STORY SAT

GRAN Ann Cook is hoping to wow X Factor judges with her sultry tones and big

personality.

The 70-year-old who goes by the stage name Cookie has already impressed

producers with her version of Louis Armstrong's What a Wonderful World at the
Manchester auditions.

She said: I went to Old Trafford for the first round of auditions and

there were thousands of people waiting to perform.

I had to go inside a little pod to sing to one of the employees who

said he really liked me.

And the grandma of four, of Gaskell Rise, Sholver, added: It seemed to go really
well so fingers crossed I'm through to the next round where I'll get to sing in
front of the judges.

But whatever happens the retired nursing home worker will always have an

array of fans in her home town where she is well known for her performances.

Cookie has entered the Age Concern talent show every year since it began

in 2002.

She said: I've never won it but I'll keep entering because it's the

taking part that counts.

It's a fabulous day where you'll meet some wonderful people and have a

lot of fun.

Silver Stars takes place on July 19 at the Coliseum and Age Concern

Oldham are looking for over a dozen talented acts to take part.   GRAN Ann Cook
is hoping to wow X Factor judges with her sultry tones and big personality. The
70-year-old, who goes by the stage name Cookie, has already impressed producers
with her version of Louis Armstrong's What A Wonderful World, at the Manchester
auditions. She said: I went to Old Trafford for the first round of auditions and
there were thousands of people waiting to perform. I had to go inside a little
pod to sing to one of the employees who said he really liked me. And the
grandma-of-four, of Gaskell Rise, Shover, Oldham, added: It seemed to go really
well so fingers crossed I'm through to the next round where I'll get to sing in
front of the judges. But whatever happens the retired nursing home worker will
always have an array of fans in her home town where she is well known for her
performances. Cookie has entered the Age Concern talent show every year since it
began in 2002 n Silver Stars takes place on July 19 at the Coliseum and Age
Concern Oldham is looking for over a dozen talented acts.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: big voice Ann Cookie' Cook

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            April 30, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Teens charged over knife kidnap attack;
COUPLE TERRORISED IN OWN HOME

BYLINE: GARY MENEELY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 302 words


TWO teenage boys appeared in court yesterday after five louts stormed a house
and robbed the occupants.

A 21-year-old man and his girlfriend were woken from their sleep as armed thugs
ransacked the home.

The man was then taken at knifepoint to his car, driven to two nearby ATMs and
forced to withdraw cash.

He later managed to escape uninjured.

A 16-year-old boy, who cannot be named because he is a juvenile, and an
18-year-old were brought before Dublin Children's Court yesterday.

They were charged with stealing an iPod, a DVD player, speakers and a mobile
phone in the raid in Glasnevin, Dublin, on Wednesday night.

Judge Eamon O'Brien heard the pair made "no reply" to charge after caution.

The 16-year-old, from north Dublin, applied for bail.

But Judge O'Brien noted there was a Garda objection due to the seriousness of
the case and refused bail. The 18-year-old, from Kilkenny, did not seek bail.

Both lads were remanded in custody to appear again at the Children's Court next
week.

Legal aid was granted to both of them.

File A 15-year-old, who had been arrested over the home invasion, was released
from custody without charge and a file has been prepared for the DPP.

Gardai made a fourth arrest yesterday - another boy also aged 15 - over the
robbery.

Cops are seeking help in locating the victim's car, a '07 blue Opel Corsa, which
was still missing last night.

Anyone with information is asked to call the Garda confidential line on 1800 666
111. Meanwhile, residents are angry that a care home for troubled teens opened
in the built-up area before Christmas.

A source told the Irish Sun: "This care home sprung up in a residential area
with no consultation with local people. "The children have carers but there is
no control outside the house. Local families are very upset about it all."

gary.meneely@the-sun.ie

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Two charged ... Children's Court

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 2, 2011 Monday

Lithuanian analyst says Bin-Ladin's death to increase threat of terrorist attack

LENGTH: 483 words


The following is the text of a report by Vytene Stasaityte "Racius says it is
naive to think jihad to end with Usamah Bin-Ladin's death" posted on the
Lithuanian news website Delfi on 2 May:

The killing of America's biggest enemy Usamah Bin-Ladin, leader of the
Al-Qa'idah, symbolically is a big achievement, but it will not root out
terrorism. It can actually produce more turmoil as the US operation on the soil
of the sovereign state showed complete disrespect for the government of
Pakistan. Therefore, one should wait for a response. This was said by Egdunas
Racius, the head of the Asian and African Studies Centre of Vilnius University's
International Relations and Political Science Institute.

The political analyst assessed the elimination of Bin-Ladin on several levels -
symbolic, real, on the level of consequences and on the level of destroying
conspiracy theories.

"From the US perspective, this is a huge achievement, because the most wanted
and the most hated man in America is dead. On the other hand, this is what
Bin-Ladin wanted. He did not die from disease and was not captured. He died
during an "honourable" fight. Therefore, such a death is symbolically acceptable
to his jihad followers," he told Delfi.

Talking about the level of real politics, Racius emphasized that for some time
Bin-Ladin had not been the real leader of the jihad - Muslims' war against
infidels. He did not head any activities of the jihad followers and no longer
had direct influence upon the development of the jihad. "Therefore it would be
naive to think that the jihad will end with his death," he said, and presented
the example of Shamil Basayev, leader of the Chechen fighters, who, unlike
Bin-Laden, was a chief at the moment of his death.

According to the political analyst, we should see consequences shortly - it is
likely that the jihad followers will become more active and will try to repay
the Americans. Therefore, the threat of terrorism attacks will only increase.

According to Racius, it is very important how Pakistan will react to the actions
of the Americans: "The US operation next to the capital city of the sovereign
country revealed the US Government's disrespect and complete mistrust in the
government of Pakistan. Therefore, it will be interesting to watch the reaction
of the government of Pakistan and the reaction of Pakistani citizens (Pakistan
has almost 200m citizens), which will definitely not be calm."

After the killing of Bin-Ladin, another important message is sent to the
spreaders of myths. "The killing of Bin-Ladin takes away trump cards from the
proponents of conspiracy theories, who think the United States was still
protecting Bin-Ladin and did not destroy him for a decade intentionally, so that
they could justify the meddling in the domestic politics of Muslim nations," the
political analyst said.

Source: Delfi website, Vilnius, in Lithuanian 2 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 2, 2011 Monday

Bosnia capable of responding to terrorist attacks - security minister

LENGTH: 245 words


Text of report in English by Croatian state news agency HINA

Mostar-Sarajevo, 2 May: Commenting on the news of Usamah Bin-Ladin's death,
Bosnia's Security Minister Sadik Ahmetovic said on Monday [2 May] the Bosnian
authorities were capable of responding to any threat, including that of
terrorist attacks.

In a written statement, Ahmetovic said that one was relieved to hear about the
killing of "the leader of the Al-Qa'idah terrorist network Usamah Bin-Ladin, who
is responsible for the terrorist attack of 11 September 2001, as well as for
other attacks around the world, which have claimed the lives of thousands of
people."

"Terrorism is an evil of the modern world whose victims are mostly innocent
civilians, and we must fight it with all means possible. Bosnia-Hercegovina has
the capacity to respond to any kind of threat to the security of its citizens,"
the minister said.

A number of terrorist attacks have happened in Bosnia-Hercegovina since the end
of the 1992-95 war and most of them are believed to have been carried out by
radical Islamic groups. In 2010, an explosive device was activated in the centre
of Bugojno, killing a police officer. A number of attacks were carried out in
central Bosnia and in Mostar, in the south of the country.

Bosnian security forces last year said that there were 3,000 potentially
dangerous persons in the country, believed to be capable of terrorist attacks.

Source: HINA news agency, Zagreb, in English 1431 gmt 2 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                               May 2, 2011 Monday
                                 Derry Edition

osama dead;
US special forces kill man who plotted 9/11 terror attacks

BYLINE: ANDREW BUNCOMBE AND OMAR WARAICH IN ISLAMABAD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 125 words


OSAMA bin Laden, mastermind of the 9/11 terror attacks and the world's most
wanted man, has been killed by US special forces in a firefight.

Jubilant crowds gathered outside the White House in Washington and at ground
zero in New York as word spread late at night.

"Justice has been done," US president Barack Obama said.

A small team of Americans killed bin Laden in the town of Abbottabad, about 60
miles north of the Pakistani capital Islamabad. The team took custody of his
remains and American officials said they were being handled in accordance with
Islamic tradition.

Three men were also killed in the helicopter raid, including one of bin Laden's
sons, whom officials did not name. One of bin Laden's sons, Hamza, is a senior
member of al-Qaida.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               May 2, 2011 Monday
                                   1 Edition

New wave of terrorist attacks in Afghanistan

BYLINE: KABUL

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 208 words


TALIBAN-LED insurgents, including a child bomber, killed at least 11 people
across Afghanistan in a renewed springtime offensive yesterday despite a huge
security clampdown, hours after the UN pleaded for all sides to avoid civilian
casualties.

The hardline Islamists have warned civilians to stay away from public
gatherings, military bases and convoys, as well as government offices, because
those sites would be the target of a wave of attacks.

The attacks began early yesterday with what appeared to be a startling and rare
tactic   the use of a child bomber in the southeastern province of Paktika.

The bomber, thought to be 12 years old, killed four civilians and wounded 12, a
government spokesman said.

In Ghazni, two policemen and two civilians were killed in a gunfight after
insurgents opened fire on a passing patrol vehicle in the province s main city,
police said. A bomb planted on a bicycle near Ghazni police headquarters wounded
13.

Gunmen on a motorbike killed an Afghan soldier in Kandahar. In Logar, south of
Kabul, two members of a community police unit were killed by a roadside bomb,
police officials said.

Senior military officials say recent intelligence reports indicate the fresh
campaign of violence will last about a week.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                               May 2, 2011 Monday

Family's terror in pipe bomb attack on home

BYLINE: Yakub Qureshi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 331 words


A FAMILY have described their terror after a pipe bomb was pushed through their
door.

Kara and Clive Lloyd were asleep upstairs with their two children when the
home-made device exploded in their hallway.

The family, from Salford, fear they were victims of mistaken identity and say
they can think of no-one with a grudge against them.

Police say the makeshift explosive was filled with shrapnel and marble-sized
ball bearings.

The blast sent shrapnel flying around the home on Westminster Street, Swinton.

The Lloyds have lived there for the last 11 years. Mum Kara, 38, a post office
worker, said: I heard the letter box go and I was thinking about going
downstairs. But there was a huge explosion and the whole house shook.

It is just completely out of the blue. Someone has done this to us but we have
no idea why.

Detectives brought in Army bomb disposal experts, who

confirmed it was made from a length of metal piping.

Dad Clive, 61, a retired postman, said: The shrapnel went everywhere and the
letter box was blown clean into our living room.

If it wasn't for the fact that it's a good door, the damage could have been much
worst.

The couple, whose 12-year-old Â­daughter and 20-year-old son were also asleep
upstairs, say they get on well with neighbours and have no disputes with anyone.
Moments before the blast the couple's son was woken by footsteps in the garden
and saw a hooded man.

He was white, slim, with light blue jeans and a black hooded top.

Det Con Andrew Quinn urged anyone with information on the attack, at 11.45pm on
Saturday, April 23, to contact him.

He said: Whoever committed this terrible attack constructed an improvised
explosive device.

They had clearly gone to a lot of trouble to build this pipe bomb, which makes
it an extremely serious crime.

At this stage we do not know why this family were targeted in such a way but our
paramount concern is to find this dangerous offender and lock him up.

Â» Phone 0161 856 5360 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 3, 2011 Tuesday

Three terrorists arrested in connection with attack on NATO tankers in Pakistan

LENGTH: 247 words


Text of report by staff correspondent headlined "Attack on NATO trucks in Pindi
Ghaib; 3 terrorists held, weapons seized in Chakwal" published by Pakistani
newspaper The News website on 3 May

Three terrorists, who attacked NATO oil tankers in Pindi Ghaib and killed five
police officials, were arrested after a three-hour encounter with the Chakwal
police on Sunday night.

After the attack, DPO Syed Ali Mohsin declared high alert in the district. The
terrorists were asked to stop at Dhok Pathan police check-post, but they opened
fire at the police and sped away. The terrorists later entered the Nila police
area. A police party led by Sub-Inspector Muhammad Akram, ASIs Sikandar Hayat
and Badar Munir intercepted them.

The terrorists also opened fire at them and lobbed three hand grenades on the
police party. Later, the DPO with other policemen reached the spot and exchanged
fire with the terrorists. The police arrested three terrorists and recovered the
van used by them and a huge quantity of illicit arms and hand grenades recovered
from the van.

However, the police are reluctant to confirm the arrest of the terrorists. The
people of Bhagwal village confirmed that they had heard the firing between the
police and terrorists for three hours. When contacted, DPO Syed Ali Mohsin
confirmed the encounter and recovery of vehicle used by terrorists. He said that
he was confident that the terrorists would be arrested soon.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 03 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 3, 2011 Tuesday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack in Morocco

LENGTH: 165 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 3 May: Turkey has condemned the terrorist attack in Morocco on 28 April.

Turkey's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement on Tuesday, "As a
country which has suffered much from terrorism, Turkey will do its utmost to
help Morocco in its fight against terrorism. Acts of terror targeting innocent
civilians are totally unacceptable whatever their reasons are."

"We strongly condemn the terrorist attack in Marrakesh on 28 April which claimed
lives of a number of people including foreigners. We commiserate with those who
lost their beloved ones in such a heinous attack," it added.

A bomb attack at a cafe in the main square of the Moroccan city of Marrakesh
killed 15 people, including 12 foreign tourists from France, Canada and the
Netherlands on 28 April. Some 20 people were also injured in the attack in
Marrakesh's popular tourist spot.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1334 gmt 3 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 3, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Osama bin Laden;
Obituaries The world's most infamous terrorist leader and architect of the 9/11
attacks on the United States that killed nearly 3,000 people

SECTION: FEATURES; OBITUARIES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 3684 words


OSAMA BIN LADEN, who was killed by American forces yesterday aged 54, was the
world's most wanted international terrorist and the presumed architect of the
shocking events of September 11 2001, when hijacked jets ploughed into the twin
towers of the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon in Washington,
killing thousands of people.

Bin Laden became the poster boy for Islamist anti-Western militancy, yet he had
not always been seen as an enemy of the West. During the war to drive the Soviet
Union out of Afghanistan, he and his allies in the mujahideen were feted as
freedom fighters against communist repression. His organisation, al-Qaeda, a
loose coalition of militant Islamists and jihadist groups founded in the dying
days of that conflict, had initially set its sights on fomenting jihad in
"ungodly" Muslim states.

Until bin Laden emerged on the scene, terror networks had usually been run by
"rogue" states such as Libya or had been agents of such states. The bin Laden
enterprise was all the more deadly because it followed its own fanatical agenda
while sharing the deadly operational capability of state-sponsored outfits.

Bin Laden's initial aim was to bring all Muslim lands and holy places into a
"Caliphate" under strict Sharia (Islamic law), and in the 1990s extremists
trained in al-Qaeda camps became a destabilising factor throughout the Middle
East. In Algeria they led the Armed Islamic Group in the vicious civil war that
broke out in 1992. In Egypt they led the struggle to overthrow the
American-backed government of Hosni Mubarak and were behind the massacre of
tourists at Luxor in 1997. They fought in Bosnia, Chechnya, Tajikistan, Kashmir
and even the Philippines.

The road to 9/11 began in 1990 when an 800,000-strong American-led force arrived
in Saudi Arabia following the invasion of Kuwait by the Iraqi dictator Saddam
Hussein. To bin Laden, America's presence represented a violation of Islam's
holiest sanctuaries and proof of the irredeemable corruption of the ruling Al
Saud dynasty. As a result he vowed to "liberate the Holy Places" in a jihad
against the American superpower and its acolytes in the region.

In the run-up to 9/11, al-Qaeda terrorists were held responsible for a series of
attacks on American targets, including the killing in 1996 of 19 American
soldiers in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia; the bombings in 1998 of the American
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, which killed more than 250 people and injured
more than 5,500; and the bombing in 2000 of the US Navy destroyer Cole during a
brief refuelling stop in Aden, which killed 17 US servicemen.

There was nothing inevitable about 9/11. Al-Qaeda's previous attacks had left a
trail of clues that could have been followed up - but were not. For the story of
Osama bin Laden is also a story of bureaucratic bungling in the American
intelligence services, and of tactical miscalculation and political failure at
the highest reaches of the American administration.

Osama bin Mohammed bin Laden was born in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, on March 10 1957.
His father, Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden, had started out as an illiterate
dockside labourer in Yemen before buying a place on a camel caravan to the newly
created kingdom of Saudi Arabia. There he worked as a porter, saved money, and
founded a construction company. During the 1950s he underbid other contractors
to work on the palaces of King Abdel-Aziz al Saud.

He became close to the king, who granted him an exclusive contract to transform
Mecca and Medina and (at least in theory) the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem. He
also became close to Crown Prince Faisal, who would replace Abdel-Aziz as king
in 1964. As a result, Mohammed and his family grew extremely rich even by Saudi
standards, and the family construction company opened businesses and
subsidiaries across the Middle East, often forged by ties of marriage. Mohammed
notched up a total of 22 wives, though by process of divorce he contrived to
have only four at any one time - in line with Muslim law.

Osama (which means "young lion" in Arabic) was the 17th of Mohammed's 52 (or 53)
children. His Syrian-born mother, Alia Ghanem, was Mohammed's 10th wife and the
least favoured of his four wives at that time (a claim bolstered by the fact
that Osama was their only child). Osama was said to have resented living in the
shadow of his older halfbrothers and to being referred to by some of his
relatives as "son of a slave".

When he was four or five his father divorced his mother and awarded her to one
of his company executives, Mohammad al-Attas, by whom she had several more
children. Soon afterwards Mohammed bin Laden died in a plane crash on his way to
marry his 23rd wife. His estate passed to his children in the form of shares in
the family company.

Estimates of Osama's share range from $35 million (the figure given by sources
close to the family) to $250 million, as cited by American officials in 1991.

While most of Osama's siblings were sent to Lebanon to be educated, Osama
remained in Jeddah and enrolled at al-Thager, Jeddah's best school. He was shy,
immature and not particularly bright, but at the age of 14 seems to have
experienced some sort of religious awakening, possibly influenced by a
charismatic Syrian gym teacher who belonged to the Muslim Brotherhood. As a
result he stopped watching the Western films he loved and refused to wear
Western dress outside school.

His religious views hardened at King Abdel Aziz University in Jeddah, where he
studied Economics and Public Administration during the late 1970s. There he was
inspired by the writings of Sayyid Qutb, a major figure in the Muslim
Brotherhood and in radical Islam. Qutb, who was executed by the Egyptian
authorities in 1966, argued that modern societies, including most Muslim ones,
are in "Jahiliyyah", the state of ignorance that existed in pre-Islamic Arabia
before the perfect revelations of the Koran. True Muslims, Qutb said, must free
themselves from the "clutches of jahili society" by jihad.

Bin Laden dropped out of university early to work for the family company, but in
1979 he found the cause that was to change his life when the Soviet Union
launched an invasion of Afghanistan. "I was enraged and went there at once," he
claimed, though some accounts suggest that he did not go there until 1984.

The key figure in his involvement was Abdullah Azzam, a charismatic Palestinian
theologian who had taught at King Abdel Aziz University. Immediately after the
Soviet invasion, Azzam issued a fatwa (religious edict) declaring that both the
Afghan and Palestinian struggles were jihads in which it was every Muslim's duty
to join. Soon afterwards he moved to Peshawar, Pakistan, where bin Laden joined
him.

In 1984 they established the Maktab al-Khadamat (Services Office) to organise
guesthouses in Peshawar and paramilitary training camps in Afghanistan for
international recruits for the Afghan war front. The bin Laden group became a
pipeline for radicals who wanted to fight in Afghanistan, and Osama bin Laden
emerged as a talented fund-raiser, persuading wealthy individuals, including
members of the Saudi royal family, to contribute to the cause. He brought in
equipment from his family's firm to build tunnels, camps and hideaways in the
mountains. In 1986 he established his own training camp for Persian Gulf Arabs
called al-Masadah, or the Lion's Den.

Arab mythology holds that the "Arab Afghans" played a decisive role in the
struggle against the Soviet Union. In fact there were never more than about
2,000 Arabs fighting at any one time - compared with about 250,000 Afghan
fighters and 125,000 Soviet troops. They were a ragbag, ranging from disaffected
radicals and suicidal zealots to rich kids looking for adventure. Journalists
covering the conflict saw them as a curious sideshow, set apart from the other
players in the conflict by their obsession with martyrdom and their
indiscipline. Many Afghan fighters regarded them with barely concealed contempt.

After a series of humiliations (during one fracas in 1986, the Afghans asked bin
Laden to withdraw because his forces were more of a hindrance than a help), in
the dying days of the war in 1987 bin Laden helped lead the Arab Afghans in
defending the Lion's Den against attack by Soviet troops. From the Soviet
perspective the battle was a small episode in their retreat from Afghanistan,
but for bin Laden and his followers it was divine proof that they had crushed
the mighty Soviets.

By this time bin Laden's politics had moved in a more radical direction. In
around 1986 he had met Ayman al-Zawahiri, a trained surgeon from a notable
Egyptian family and, as a member of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, a long-time opponent
of the secular regime of Hosni Mubarak. Zawahiri had moved to Peshawar after
spending several years in a Cairo jail, from which he had emerged embittered,
determined and short of cash. Bin Laden was exactly what he had been looking
for.

The main obstacle to Zawahiri's ambitions was bin Laden's mentor Azzam. Unlike
the other Arab volunteers, Zawahiri did not pledge himself to Azzam when he
arrived in Afghanistan. From the start he concentrated his efforts on getting
close to bin Laden. He soon succeeded in placing trusted members of Islamic
Jihad in key positions in bin Laden's entourage while making himself
indispensable to the man himself. Bin Laden suffered from low blood pressure,
and Zawahiri provided him with personal medical care.

Bin Laden's final break with Azzam came in a dispute over the scope of jihad.
Under Zawahiri's influence bin Laden envisioned an all-Arab legion which would
eventually wage jihad in Saudi Arabia and Egypt; Azzam strongly opposed making
war against fellow-Muslims, limiting his ambitions to ousting the Soviets from
Afghanistan. When, on November 24 1989, Azzam and two of his sons were killed in
a car bomb as they were driving to a mosque in Peshawar, there were suspicions
that either bin Laden or Zawahiri had ordered the attack, though there was never
any definite proof.

In 1988, with the Soviets in full retreat, a meeting took place in the Afghan
town of Khost at which it was agreed to establish a new organisation that would
wage jihad beyond the borders of Afghanistan. The organisation came to be called
al-Qaeda ("the Base") and was conceived as a loose affiliation among individual
mujahideen and jihadist groups dominated by Zawahiri's Islamic Jihad. The
ultimate leader, however, was Osama bin Laden, who held the purse strings.

In March 1989 bin Laden's forces were involved in the siege of Jalalabad, an
episode billed as the beginning of the collapse of the Afghan Marxist government
following the Soviet withdrawal. As the siege began to take effect, government
forces in Jalalabad began negotiating the terms of surrender with the native
Afghan mujahideen. Negotiations were suspended, however, when bin Laden's
followers executed some 60 surrendering communists, cutting their corpses into
small pieces and sending the remains back to the city in a truck.

Despite apologies and assurances of safety from Afghan resistance leaders, the
communists suspended negotiations, broke the siege and won the first major
government victory in years. Thanks largely to bin Laden, the communists renewed
their determination to fight on, and the government survived three more years.

Yet when bin Laden returned to Jeddah and to the family business in autumn 1989,
he was hailed as the conquering hero who had humbled a mighty superpower. Hoping
to build on his celebrity, he approached Prince Turki Al Faisal, then head of
Saudi Intelligence, with a plan to overthrow the Marxist regime in Yemen. The
Saudi government refused and was worried enough to withdraw bin Laden's
passport.

But it was America's involvement in the Gulf War that turned bin Laden into an
implacable opponent of the Saudi royal family. The Saudis were not disposed to
tolerate his calls to insurrection, and quickly acted against him. In 1991 he
was expelled from the country, and in 1994 his citizenship was revoked for
"irresponsible behaviour".

Together with his family and a large band of followers, bin Laden moved to
Khartoum in Sudan, where he was joined by Zawahiri and his followers in Islamic
Jihad. The Sudanese Islamist regime of Hassan al-Turabi regarded bin Laden as a
godsend. He began building roads, for which he was paid in farms and factories,
which provided work for unemployed mujahideen. He grew peanuts and watermelons;
imported trucks from Russia, bicycles from Azerbaijan and tanned leather for the
luxury Italian market.

In the early 1990s al-Qaeda-trained fighters were involved in a number of
attacks around the world, including the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. But by
the mid-1990s very little had come of them; there had been a series of
high-profile defections and, as most of his business ventures lost money, for
the first time in his life bin Laden found himself short of cash. Though his
hatred for America remained undiminished, he reportedly told friends that he was
thinking of quitting al-Qaeda to become a farmer.

Matters were taken out of his hands by Zawahiri, who had been using Sudan as a
base to launch attacks on Egyptian targets around the world. This had led to
some disagreement over priorities. Bin Laden, reportedly, did not approve of the
1995 Islamic Jihad suicide bombing of the Egyptian embassy in Islamabad, which
killed 17 people and wounded 60 others, fearing the political consequences. He
was right to be worried. The attack caused outrage throughout the Muslim world,
and eventually the Sudanese authorities yielded to Saudi and American pressure
to expel the two men and their followers.

In May 1996 bin Laden chartered a private jet and returned to Afghanistan, where
he was greeted by a delegation sent by the Taliban's leader Mullah Omar. The
Taliban gave bin Laden a house in Kandahar, a force of bodyguards and the title
"Sheikh", though he was not a cleric. Working through faxes, satellite
telephones and the internet, he kept in touch with an unknown number of
followers all over the Arab world, as well as in Europe, the United States and
Canada.

From then on, bin Laden began to lay out his case against America in a series of
fatwas faxed to the outside world. These began in August 1996 with "The
Declaration of Jihad on the Americans Occupying the Country of the Two Sacred
Places" and culminated in 1998 with a fatwa issued jointly with Zawahiri, who
had rejoined him the previous year. Under the title "World Islamic Front Against
Jews and Crusaders", the fatwa ordered Muslims to kill American civilians
anywhere in the world. The two men began to appear together in numerous video
broadcasts.

In Islamic law, fatwas are formal legal opinions issued by a recognised
religious legal authority. As neither man had any religious authority, they
based their claim to legitimacy on the concept of Takfir (the practice of
declaring a Muslim to be a non-believer, or Kaffir) as reinterpreted by Sayyid
Qutb, who had claimed that Islam was "extinct" and therefore those who claimed
to be Muslims, with the exception of Qutb's self-appointed Islamic vanguard,
were heretics.

The fatwa appeared initially in the Arabic-language London newspaper Al-Quds
Al-Arabi, but received little attention until August 1998, when hundreds of
people were killed in simultaneous car bomb explosions at the American embassies
in Dar es Salaam and Nairobi. The attacks, linked to local members of the
Egyptian Islamic Jihad, brought bin Laden and Zawahiri to American attention for
the first time, and resulted in the FBI placing bin Laden on its 10 Most Wanted
list.

News of the attacks reached the White House three days after President Clinton
had been forced into a humiliating apology to the nation for lying over his
affair with a White House intern, Monica Lewinsky. In retaliation for the
attacks, Clinton ordered a series of military strikes. The Americans fired some
100 cruise missiles at bin Laden's guerrilla bases in Afghanistan and, through
faulty intelligence, a pharmaceutical factory in Sudan.

Though around 20 casualties were inflicted, most of the missiles missed their
intended targets and none of al-Qaeda's leaders was harmed. The effect was to
expose the inadequacy of US intelligence, while establishing bin Laden as a
heroic symbol of resistance to the American superpower. As a result, donations
began to pour in, and recruits - disaffected young men from the Muslim world and
Muslim enclaves in the West - began to flock to al-Qaeda training camps.

The Taliban refused to hand bin Laden over to the Americans despite punitive
sanctions imposed by the UN; but with a $5 million reward on his head, bin Laden
could not afford to take chances. He led a peripatetic life, moving frequently
between several bases in Afghanistan. Three attempts on his life were reportedly
made, but all ended with the deaths of his would-be assassins.

The three years between the embassy attacks and 9/11 were notable for a series
of bureaucratic and diplomatic blunders by those whose business it was to
prevent another outrage. From phone tapping activities, the CIA knew that
high-level al-Qaeda operatives had held a meeting in Malaysia in January 2000,
and, later, that two of them had entered the United States. Both men turned out
to be part of the team that hijacked the planes on 9/11, yet the CIA failed to
inform the FBI, which might have been able to locate the men and break up the
plot, until it was too late.

Following the suicide bomb attack on the USS Cole on October 12 2000, the FBI's
New York chief of counterterrorism went out to Yemen hoping to interview
suspects who had been arrested by the Yemeni security services. Gun-toting,
brash and undiplomatic, he so enraged his hosts that the US ambassador in Yemen
was driven to demand that he be recalled. The failure in Yemen - a major
communications hub for al-Qaeda - may have blocked off lines of investigation
that could have led directly to the terrorists preparing for September 11.

Bin Laden's goal in striking the American embassies and bombing Cole in 2000 was
to lure the Americans into that same trap the Soviets had fallen into:
Afghanistan. When these attacks failed to provoke the massive retaliation he
craved, he set to work to create an outrage that no one could ignore.
Immediately after the 9/11 attacks, US government officials named bin Laden and
the al-Qaeda organisation as the prime suspects and offered a reward of $25
million for information leading to his capture or death.

A month after the attacks, the United States and its allies launched an invasion
of Afghanistan with the stated purpose of capturing bin Laden, destroying
al-Qaeda and removing the Taliban regime which had given them sanctuary.

The initial attack removed the Taliban from power, but was less successful in
locating bin Laden. In December, anti-Taliban tribal militia, backed by American
and British air power, launched an attack on caves in the mountain region of
Tora Bora, where bin Laden was thought to be hiding. When US ground troops
arrived 14 days later they discovered more than 100 bodies, and they were able
to identify 18 of them as top al-Qaeda lieutenants. But of Zawahiri and bin
Laden there was no sign.

For some time it looked as if the core of al-Qaeda had been destroyed as a
genuine physical presence. But a mystery remained over bin Laden's whereabouts.
Over the next few years various claims were made as to his location, though none
was definitely proved and some placed bin Laden in different places during
overlapping time periods.

The consensus among experts was that he and his followers had slipped away into
the tribal areas along the rugged border between Afghanistan and Pakistan. And
it was here that they began to regroup as the US-led coalition became bogged
down in a war against a resurgent Taliban and in Iraq. The July 7 bomb attacks
in London in 2005 and the discovery of a plot in August 2006 to blow up 10
aircraft en route from Britain to the US provided incontrovertible evidence that
al-Qaeda was back, and that it was prepared to go after hard targets.

Zawahiri was the mastermind behind this process, and by 2006 he was reported to
have taken over operational command of al-Qaeda, leaving bin Laden as the
organisation's charismatic figurehead. Zawahiri reformed the group around a core
of some 100 Arab trainers - experts in explosives, finances, communications,
military training, urban warfare and propaganda.

In 2006 Afghanistan saw 139 suicide bombings, compared with 27 in 2005.

On September 17 2001 President Bush had publicly proclaimed that he wanted Osama
bin Laden brought to justice "dead or alive". There were several rumours of bin
Laden's death. Some had him among the 73,000 victims of the Pakistan earthquake
in 2005. In 2006 a French newspaper reported that he might have died of typhoid
in Pakistan. There were suggestions at various times that he might have died of
kidney failure (Western intelligence reports claimed that he was on a dialysis
machine after suffering kidney damage, possibly as the result of an attempt to
poison him).

But when Bush left office in 2009, bin Laden was still at large and still
dangerous. Bush's successor Barack Obama had a vivid reminder of that fact when,
shortly after his inauguration, an audio message was posted on an Islamic
website in which bin Laden could be heard warning the new president that he had
inherited "a long guerrilla war against a patient, stubborn adversary" that was
looking to open new fronts.

In the event it was President Obama who, in the early hours of May 2, announced
bin Laden's death at the hands of US forces in a targeted attack on a compound
35 miles from the Pakistani capital Islamabad.

Bin Laden seldom referred to his own family, but it is widely believed that he
married his first cousin when he was 17 and later married four other women. He
is believed to have fathered at least 13 children.

"He is thought to have been influenced by a charismatic Syrian gym teacher at
school

"At one stage bin Laden considered abandoning terrorism for farming

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Osama bin Laden: his terrorist enterprise was all the more deadly
because it followed its own fanatical agenda while sharing the operational
capability of state-sponsored outfits
REX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              May 3, 2011 Tuesday

Obituary: Osama bin Laden: Leader of al-Qaida and the mastermind behind the 9/11
terrorist attacks, he became the world's most wanted man

BYLINE: Jason Burke and Lawrence Joffe

SECTION: GUARDIAN OBITUARIES PAGES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 4055 words


To his enemies, whatever colour or creed, he was a religious fanatic, a
terrorist with the blood of thousands on his hands, a man who had brought war
and suffering to a broad swath of the Islamic world and come close to provoking
a global conflagration on a scale not seen for decades. To his supporters, whose
numbers peaked in the few years after the attacks of 11 September 2001 in
America that he masterminded, he was a visionary leader fighting both western
aggression against Muslims and his co-religionists' lack of faith and rigour.
For both, Osama bin Laden, who has been killed at the age of 54 by US special
forces at a compound near Abbottabad, a town about 50 miles north-east of
Pakistan's capital, Islamabad, was one of those rare figures whose actions
changed the course of history.

His life was one of extremes and of contradictions. Born to great wealth, he
lived in relative poverty. A graduate of civil engineering, he assumed the
mantle of a religious scholar. A gifted propagandist who had little real
experience of battle, he projected himself as a mujahid, a holy warrior. A man
who called for a return to the values and social systems of the seventh century
as a means of restoring a just order in today's world, he justified the use of
advanced modern technology to kill thousands through a rigorous and
anachronistic interpretation of Islamic law. One of the most notorious people on
the planet, Bin Laden lived for years in obscurity, his public presence limited
to intermittent appearances in videos on the internet. A man who professed to
have sacrificed all for others and to care nothing for himself, he was fiercely
conscious of posterity.

Bin Laden's story started in the remote, poor, deeply conservative Hadramawt
region of south-east Yemen, from where his father, Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden,
set out for the Saudi city of Jeddah to seek his fortune around 1930. By the
time Osama was born there, the 17th of 52 children, his father was a rich
construction magnate. His connections to Saudi Arabia's ruling family, the
al-Sauds, won him lucrative contracts to build palaces in Riyadh and the highway
from Medina to Jeddah. The crowning achievement of the family firm, the Saudi
Binladen Group, was reconstructing Islam's holiest mosque in Mecca.

Osama's father was an austere patriarch; his mother, a beautiful, educated young
woman from Syria who shunned the veil in favour of Chanel suits. Because of her
foreign origin and as the 10th wife, her prestige in the household was low.
Raised in a palace in Jeddah, Osama grew up polite, courteous, diligent and,
from an early age, pious. His father died in a helicopter crash when he was 11.

Stories of teenage revelry are unfounded. While his siblings studied and, often,
partied overseas, the tall, painfully shy teenager chose to stay in Saudi
Arabia. In 1974, he married the 14-year-old Najwa Ghanem, his mother's niece,
and enrolled in the economics and management faculty of the King Abdulaziz
University, Jeddah. Though he eventually graduated in civil engineering and
spent a short time in the family company, his true interests lay elsewhere.

In the late 1970s, universities across the Arab world were torn by fierce
ideological struggle. In Egypt, leftists battled, both physically and
intellectually, against the increasing number of supporters of Islamist
doctrines. Though circulating in the region since the 1930s, they had been
re-energised by the failures of Arab armies against Israel in 1967 and 1973 and
by the apparent inability of secular pan-Arab, nationalist or socialist ideas to
bring any social or economic improvement to the lives of hundreds of millions.
At university, Bin Laden, who had been raised in the strict tradition of Saudi
"Salafist" Islamic practice known outside the kingdom as Wahhabism, was exposed
to newer, more politicised and often anti-clerical religious doctrines.

It was the fusion of the two, particularly by charismatic preachers such as the
Jordanian-Palestinian Abdullah Azzam, that laid the foundation of the young
man's own thinking. The year of Bin Laden's graduation, 1979, was a tumultuous
one in the Islamic world. In February, Ayatollah Khomeini created the Islamic
republic in Iran. Then, in November, rebels took over the mosques in Mecca and
demanded a return to true Islamic rule. When soldiers eventually broke their
siege and killed the ringleaders, Bin Laden was seething. He saw the assault as
an atrocity committed on the holiest soil in Islam. To him, the rebels were
martyrs. A month later came the third defining event of the year: the invasion
of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union.

Despite his later boasts, Bin Laden did not immediately travel to Peshawar, the
Pakistani frontier town 20 miles from Afghanistan that had been at the centre of
activism, covert or otherwise, against the Afghan Marxist government for several
years, and had now acquired a new strategic significance as a key forward base
in the cold war. Arriving in early 1981, he was to spend the next few years
making trips between the city and Saudi Arabia before basing himself there from
around 1986.

Bin Laden's role in the war against the Soviets in Afghanistan in the 1980s has
been grossly exaggerated. His military contribution was negligible. The "foreign
legion" never numbered more than a few thousand, of whom most never saw combat
but ran charities caring for refugees or wounded Afghan fighters. It was to the
seven Afghan mujahideen groups, and only to them, that the Pakistanis disbursed
American and Saudi aid. Likewise, it was only the Afghans who received training.
Bin Laden was not, despite later claims, created by the CIA, who had no contact
with such people.

He spent most of the first half of the 1980s as a fundraiser and aide to senior
figures among the Arabs in Peshawar, including Azzam. Bin Laden also used his
knowledge of construction and the resources of his company, with the blessing of
the Saudi royal family, to build roads, bunkers and encampments for the Afghan
fighters.

In 1987, now aged 30, Bin Laden took part in a battle in the hills around the
small Afghan town of Jaji. Though heavily mythologised subsequently, the action
saw determined fighting between Afghan mujahideen, backed by some units of
Arabs, and Soviet troops. Now relatively well-known among the Peshawar-based
militants, Bin Laden also began playing a role as a broker between competing
Afghan and Arab factions as well as continuing to fund a radical newspaper and
organising medical care for wounded fighters. It was during this period too that
he began co-operating more closely with an older and more experienced Egyptian
militant, a former doctor called Ayman al-Zawahiri. However, the two were not
close. Together with Azzam, Bin Laden also ran a logistical centre dealing with
the volunteers arriving from the Arab world to take part in the "jihad".
Witnesses also remember seeing Bin Laden at the battle of Jalalabad, an
ill-fated and costly bid to capture the eastern Afghan city from forces loyal to
the communist Afghan government in 1989, six months after the Soviet withdrawal.

A year earlier, al-Qaida had been founded by Bin Laden, al-Zawahiri and 14
associates in a series of meetings at a rented house in a western suburb of
Peshawar. The meetings had stretched into the small hours as discussions ranged
over the aims of the group, its composition and hierarchy. Little thought
appears to have been given to its name, but it was an appropriate and useful one
nonetheless. "Al-Qaida" was a commonly used word in Arabic and, though often
simply translated as "the base", has a range of other meanings too. This variety
and consequent flexibility, itself a departure from the style of names adopted
previously by militant groups, was to prove key in the coming years.

Al-Qaida also differed from the multitude of other militant groups active across
the Islamic world at the time in its avowed internationalism. Its founders' aim
was to unite the disparate groups of militants who were fighting against the
Soviets to focus their energies on new targets. Its campaign would take two main
forms: guerrilla wars such as that in Afghanistan and a series of spectacular
and violent actions that would radicalise and mobilise all those who had
hitherto shunned the call to arms, eventually provoking a mass uprising that
would lead to a new era for the world's Muslims. The two strategies would be
mutually reinforcing.

Azzam, who had been a huge influence on Bin Laden, was killed in a mysterious
bomb blast in late 1989. With the Soviets leaving Afghanistan and the
internecine squabbling between factions getting worse, Bin Laden returned to
Saudi Arabia. Expecting to be feted as a hero, he, like many other returning
mujahideen, was shocked to find a frosty welcome from authorities in the
kingdom. Though increasingly critical, however, Bin Laden had yet to turn fully
against the rulers of his native land. In August 1990, when Iraq annexed Kuwait
and threatened Saudi security, he offered to raise an army of Arab Afghan
veterans to fight the "godless" Saddam. His offer was rejected and the house of
al-Saud sought US help instead.

By January 1991, some 300,000 foreign troops were stationed on Saudi territory.
Bin Laden accused the Americans of "desecrating holy Arab soil", and cited
Qur'anic verses forbidding the presence of two religions in Arabia. He also
criticised the Saudi grand mufti, Abdul Aziz bin Baz, and other senior clerics
for approving the decision. Placed under house arrest, Bin Laden slipped out of
Saudi Arabia, eventually reaching the Sudanese capital of Khartoum, where the
leading Islamist ideologue Hassan Turabi had recently taken power and was
offering protection and facilities to a wide variety of Islamic militant groups.

For the next five years, Bin Laden tried to make progress with the al-Qaida
project. He cultivated contacts with militants in Yemen and was linked to a bomb
explosion there in 1992. He sent observers, though no fighters, to Somalia
during the ill-fated international intervention there in 1993. Other operations
in the Balkans or the Caucasus brought limited success. Several attempts to
reach out to other groups were rebuffed. There was a strong sense that Bin Laden
had lost his way.

Certainly the focus of the new militancy that the war in Afghanistan had spawned
was elsewhere: in Algeria and in Egypt, where local groups such as al-Zawahiri's
Islamic Jihad were taking on governments and their security services in bloody
insurgencies; in the Balkans; in America, where a bid to bring down the twin
towers narrowly failed. In Sudan, Bin Laden set up a tannery, farmed, built a
road as a goodwill gesture and rode horses, a favourite pastime, while followers
amused themselves playing football or swimming in the Nile.

Nonetheless, Bin Laden was now on the radar of security services, albeit if his
name was often misspelt and his role described as "financier". In April 1994,
the Saudi government stripped Bin Laden of his citizenship and his family
disowned his actions. Eventually, in 1996, Sudan succumbed to US pressure and
expelled its controversial guest.

In need of a new sanctuary, Bin Laden accepted an offer of protection from three
anti-Taliban Afghan warlords and flew to Jalalabad. The next years finally saw
al-Qaida, already the vanguard, become the "base" or "foundation" too, as
originally envisaged. Working with a growing group of experienced collaborators,
Bin Laden and al-Zawahiri set up or appropriated dozens of training camps,
guesthouses and other facilities that provided them with a pool of ready
volunteers for various projects.

At the same time they launched a sophisticated outreach programme, sending
emissaries to groups throughout the Islamic world offering cash and technical
help in return for a degree of fealty. Such bids were often unsuccessful, with
groups in Algeria, Indonesia, Chechnya, Uzbekistan and elsewhere jealously
guarding their independence, but they were accepted frequently enough for a
"network of networks" to begin to emerge. The basic strategy remained the same:
a series of spectacular violent actions to radicalise potential recruits, to
weaken the enemy economically and morally, and eventually to provoke a mass
uprising that would lead to the establishment of a new caliphate.

Bin Laden's now keen eye for public relations - and an understanding of the
potential of the still new technology of satellite television - led to exclusive
interviews with select journalists. He also began to issue his own "fatwas". The
first, in August 1996, stuck to familiar themes: promising to drive US troops
out of the Gulf, overthrow the Saudi government and liberate Muslim shrines in
Palestine. In February 1998, as he announced an alliance between al-Qaida and
four other groups from Bangladesh, Egypt and Pakistan called The World Islamic
Front for Jihad against Jews and Crusaders, Bin Laden issued a second fatwa,
which called on all Muslims to "obey God's order" and kill Americans, including
civilians, "wherever you find them".

Pursuing his strategy of propaganda by deed, Bin Laden organised a successful
attack on US embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam in August 1998. These killed
224, all but 12 of them African staff or bystanders. The US president Bill
Clinton retaliated with cruise missile raids on alleged Bin Laden facilities in
Sudan and Afghanistan. Several Pakistani and Algerian allies were killed,
although Bin Laden himself escaped unscathed.

In their aftermath a Saudi deal with the Taliban for the expulsion of Bin Laden
fell through. In July 1999, the US imposed sanctions on the Taliban.

The idea for the 11 September 2001 attacks came from Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, an
experienced and capable Kuwait-born Pakistani militant who travelled to seek out
Bin Laden shortly after the latter's arrival in Afghanistan. Building on schemes
he had tried to implement in the far east, Mohammed's ambitious plans for
hijacking dozens of aircraft to strike US targets was initially rejected by Bin
Laden, but then dusted off, revised and finally accepted after a series of
heated meetings of al-Qaida's leadership in the spring of 1999. They were
controversial, with many militants fearing a backlash or an overwhelming
American reaction. Bin Laden, convinced the US was a nation of decadent cowards,
pressed ahead. The volunteers for the plan were found simply by scouring the
various training camps, either those offering basic training for foreigners
arriving to fight with the Taliban or those for more advanced candidates who
were being trained by al-Qaida instructors in techniques of urban terrorism.

The CIA, which was now running a Bin Laden unit, placed a $5m bounty on the
fugitive's head and worked up a series of plans to kill or capture him. These
became more urgent in October 2000 when a dinghy charged with explosives was
driven into an American warship off the Yemeni port of Aden, killing its own
crew and 17 sailors. But targeting Bin Laden was difficult. American agencies
squabbled among themselves. The military distrusted the plans concocted by
civilians or the CIA. The raw intelligence did not exist.

Though his relationship with the Taliban was complex, with much suspicion on
both sides, Bin Laden had been able to graft much of his own internationalised
ideology on to that of Afghans such as Mullah Mohammed Omar, the Taliban's
leader. Bin Laden had been forced to implement a charm offensive after the
Taliban expelled his previous protectors in the autumn of 1996, and over the
years financial help and the military assistance provided by his Chechen, Arab,
Pakistani and Uzbekistani recruits led to the formation of elite units attached
mainly to the Pashtun Taliban forces.

Bin Laden, aware of the constant threat to his life, moved often between Kabul
and Kandahar as well as a base near the Tora Bora mountain range in eastern
Afghanistan, south of Jalalabad. On 9 September 2001, two men run by al-Zawahiri
killed the legendary Afghan leader Ahmed Shah Massoud.

Two days later, Bin Laden was in the hills of eastern Logar province, not far
from where he had fought almost 15 years before. Listening to a shortwave radio,
he learned of the success of the attacks in the US. The co-ordination of four
simultaneously hijacked airliners; the origins of the terrorists and their
"martyrdom"; the choice of targets all pointed to one group: al-Qaida. Such an
attack had been signalled, if vaguely, by intelligence over the summer.

Within hours, President George Bush had blamed Bin Laden and begun planning a
major campaign that aimed to deter what were seen to be the states giving
terrorists safe havens, and rooting out the terrorists themselves through
aggressive military action. This was to be the "global war on terror".

Faced with an ultimatum, the Taliban again refused to surrender Bin Laden, who
initially denied involvement, and an American-led aerial bombing campaign
followed. When matched with action on the ground by anti-Taliban forces within
Afghanistan aided by small groups of US special forces, the regime crumbled
fast. In November, Kabul's liberated residents expressed their loathing for "the
foreigners" - not the British or Americans, but the Arabs, Pakistanis and
Chechens.

During the campaign of 2001, many leading al-Qaida figures were killed and the
group's physical "base" destroyed. By mid-December, American planes were
pounding the slopes above Tora Bora, where Bin Laden and al-Zawahiri were
thought to be. They also released the "smoking gun" video, in which Bin Laden
spoke of how he had planned the 11 September operation. This did little to allay
the conspiracy theories that were already circulating widely.

The 2001 campaign was inconclusive, however, as al-Qaida's leaders escaped from
Tora Bora. The venality of the Afghan auxiliaries hired by the Americans as
"beaters" to flush out Bin Laden, his local contacts, the half-hearted nature of
Pakistani efforts and a sense of Islamic solidarity among local people was
enough to allow them to slip away to the south. Bin Laden appeared gaunt and
apparently wounded in a video. A new chapter began.

Along with a physical "base", the word al-Qaida can mean a vanguard - al-Qaida
al-Sulbah. Another meaning is a maxim or a methodology, something much more
ephemeral. If, in the early 1990s, Bin Laden's organisation had been a vanguard
and in the latter part of the decade it had been a base, in the coming years it
would be more an ideology, a worldview, a way of doing things.

Bin Laden found a new base in the restive and semi-autonomous Pakistani tribal
agencies, just across the border from Afghanistan. Here he and his associates
tried to rebuild what they had lost in terms of infrastructure. Using the cash
they were still able to obtain from donors in the Gulf and elsewhere, they paid
protection money to local Pashtun elders and, increasingly, militants. A
grassroots militant movement was setting the area afire and Bin Laden, as he had
done elsewhere, was able to graft his own global struggle on to the local one of
the tribes of places such as Waziristan.

Intermittent videos gave little clue as to his whereabouts but, broadcast by
mainstream TV channels, repeated his call to arms to the Muslim masses. For some
years, though he himself was in much more physical danger than at any previous
time, it appeared than al-Qaida, by triggering a global confrontation with the
west, might achieve its aims.

Through 2002 and 2003, in part, but not only, provoked by the invasion of Iraq,
a wave of radicalisation surged through the Islamic world, and there were major
bomb attacks in Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey, elsewhere in the Middle East, in
Africa and in the far east. Many were perpetrated by individuals commissioned
and trained in the al-Qaida camps in the late 1990s. But new volunteers were
often recruited with little difficulty. In 2004 came an attack in Madrid, which,
though it did not have a direct link with al-Qaida, appeared to indicate that
its ideology was having an impact everywhere, provoking the kind of generalised
violence that Bin Laden had hoped for many years before.

Another dynamic that did implicate al-Qaida more directly was the training and
direction of young British men who found their way to Pakistan. These were
responsible for a string of attacks - including those of 7 July 2005 in London.
If the reasons that motivated these volunteers to seek out al-Qaida were their
own, the group played a significant role in turning individuals with diffuse
desires to participate in "jihad" into focused terrorist operatives with some,
though luckily frequently insufficient, technical skills.

Bin Laden's ability to exploit the media was also still very evident. His
address to the American people on the eve of Bush's re-election in November 2004
received massive coverage. In it, the Saudi ideologue and propagandist appeared
in statesmanlike robes rather than the more customary combat vest. In Iraq,
where American and British forces were in great trouble, local Islamic militants
had sworn allegiance to al-Qaida. In Saudi Arabia itself there was a storm of
violence, again by people professing loyalty to Bin Laden and undoubtedly
influenced by him.

Yet in retrospect, the period of 2005-06 was a peak. One thing was still
lacking: any evidence of mass radicalisation. The militants were still very much
in a minority and evidence from polls proved the growing disgust that many in
the Islamic world felt for the extremists, particularly when they could see at
first hand what their tactics meant in terms of shattered bodies and shattered
lives.

In Iraq, the globalised ideology of al-Qaida, stripped of any local cultural
specificity other than the claim of Muslim solidarity, was increasingly rejected
by the tribes in the western provinces that had led the insurgency up to then.
In the Maghreb, militants remained reviled. The wave of support of three or four
years earlier in the far east had fallen away, leaving radical groups isolated.
Only in Pakistan and Afghanistan was headway being made in the great struggle
against "crusader-Zionists".

Criticism too had begun to come from within the militant movement, where key
former associates spoke of how Bin Laden's thinking, tactics and strategy were
all wrong. The number of Muslim casualties in al-Qaida's attacks was going up.
Bin Laden's associates were being picked off by the now intense missile strikes
from unmanned drones over the tribal areas, and his communications were clearly
difficult. One senior lieutenant made a plaintive call for funds.

However, al-Qaida retained some capacity, as a series of abortive attempts to
strike in Europe and elsewhere made clear. The ideology remained strong enough
to attract aspirant militants, misfits, the angry and the alienated in
sufficient numbers for the group to survive - the basic aim of any clandestine
extremist organisation. The hunt for Bin Laden also suffered from huge
structural problems, not least the need to rely on Pakistani assistance, and an
inability to gather intelligence on the ground. Despite attempts to exploit new
issues such as climate change or to deploy younger spokesmen, there was a sense
that Bin Laden, and with him al-Qaida, was drifting away from the principal
position he had once occupied in the landscape of contemporary Islamic
militancy. The events of this year's Arab spring merely emphasised that apparent
marginalisation.

Bin Laden's ideology had been a response to the failure of many previous utopic
projects in the Islamic world. It had held a brief attraction for some, not
least because of the actions taken in a bid to counter it. But most Muslims
always knew something essential was missing: the notion of Allah al-rahman
w'al-rakhim - God the merciful and beneficent. Bin Laden once claimed: "It is
our duty to bring light to the world." Yet behind his rhetoric of righteousness,
divine justice and retribution, there was nothing but darkness.

He had four wives and 19 children. One of his sons was killed alongside him.

Jason Burke and Lawrence Joffe

Osama bin Laden, terrorist leader, born 10 March 1957; died 1 May 2011

Captions:

Bin Laden in 1998, the year he issued a fatwa calling on all Muslims to 'obey
God's orders' and kill Americans 'wherever you find them' AP

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                              May 3, 2011 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Airport attack brought terror to Scotland

BYLINE: ALISON CAMPSIE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 250 words


IT was the case that shook Scotland out of complacency about the Islamic
extremist terrorist threat.

The attack on Glasgow Airport in June 2007 by a blazing Jeep laden with homemade
bombs came as around 4000 passengers were gathering to leave  the city as the
Glasgow  Fair Fortnight got under way.

The Glasgow strike was the second leg of a failed bombing bid on UK soil by Dr
Bilal Abdulla, an Iraqi neurosurgeon working at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in
Paisley, and Kafeel Ahmed, who turned a rented house in Houston, Renfrewshire,
into their bomb-making HQ.

The attack was motivated by the opposition of Abdulla to the British invasion of
Iraq. Later, the leader of al Qaeda in Iraq seemingly claimed responsibility for
the attack.

London was the doctors  first target, with two cars stacked with gas cylinders,
petrol and nails left in the Piccadilly area of the city. The bombs failed
because of loose connections in the phone detonators and the smothering effect
of petrol and gas fumes in the vehicle.

The pair fled and returned to Scotland that night. Police put the house in
Houston under surveillance, arriving less than an hour after the pair left the
property on the day of the airport attack.

Hours later, a burning Jeep was driven into the main doors of the airport.

Abdulla was arrested after throwing petrol bombs and fighting with police while
Ahmed doused himself in petrol and set himself alight.

Ahmed was severely burned and died of his injuries. Abdulla was sentenced to 32
years in jail.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                              May 3, 2011 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

REPRISALS FEAR OVER DEATH OF BIN LADEN;
Man behind terror attacks killed by American special forces

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 705 words


AMERICA and its allies were today braced for violent reprisals from al Qaida
after Osama bin Laden was killed in a dramatic raid by US special forces.

The world's most notorious terrorist, who inspired numerous atrocities from the
9/11 attacks in America to the July 7 bombings in London, was shot dead in a
brief firefight outside the Pakistani capital, Islamabad.

His body was swiftly buried at sea, with US officials acknowledging it would
have been difficult to find a country prepared to accept the remains of such an
infamous figure.

Officials said that his identity was confirmed with "99.9% confidence" by DNA
testing after he was killed by a shot to the head.

It marked the end of an international manhunt lasting more than a decade for the
elusive figurehead behind a campaign of Islamist violence which has sparked wars
in Afghanistan and Iraq and claimed thousands of lives around the world. While
it had long been suspected that he had been hiding in Pakistan, there was
surprise that he was finally tracked down to a comfortable mansion complex close
to a leading military academy.

The discovery he had been living in the garrison town of Abbottabad, rather than
the lawless tribal areas of the North West frontier, prompted fresh suspicions
that he was being protected by Pakistan's intelligence services.

The announcement of his death sparked jubilant celebrations in America, with
crowds gathering outside the White House and at Ground Zero where the Twin
Towers had stood in New York.

US president Barack Obama said the operation had been carried out by a "small
team of Americans" acting with "extraordinary courage and capability".

"On nights like this one, we can say to those families who have lost loved ones
to al Qaida's terror: justice has been done," he said.

"The cause of securing our country is not complete. But tonight, we are once
again reminded that America can do whatever we set our mind to."

David Cameron, who was telephoned by Mr Obama in the early hours to be told the
news, said it was "a massive step forward" which would be welcomed throughout
the UK.

"Of course, nothing will bring back those loved ones that families have lost to
terror. But at least they know the man who was responsible for these appalling
acts is no more," he said.

The euphoria that greeted bin Laden's death was accompanied by warnings that his
followers would almost certainly attempt to extract revenge in bloody terrorist
reprisals.

"Though bin Laden is dead, al Qaida is not," said CIA director Leon Panetta.
"The terrorists almost certainly will attempt to avenge him, and we must - and
will - remain vigilant and resolute."

Britain followed the US in placing its embassies, diplomatic missions and
military bases around the world on a heightened state of alert.

Foreign Secretary William Hague said that elements within al Qaida and its
affiliates would want to show that they were still "in business".

"This is a very serious blow to al Qaida but, like any organisation that has
suffered a serious blow, they will want to show in some way that they are still
able to operate," he said.

"We will still have to be vigilant - even more vigilant - in the coming days
about the international terrorist threat."

Pakistan's High Commissioner in London, Wajid Shamsul Hasan, insisted that his
country's authorities had not known of bin Laden's whereabouts prior to the
attack.

"Nobody knew that Osama bin Laden was there - no security agency, no Pakistani
authorities knew about it. Had we known it we would have done it ourselves."

However the discovery he had apparently been living in a large, purpose-built
complex in a busy urban area raised fresh questions about the role played by the
Pakistani ISI intelligence agency - elements of which have long been seen as
sympathetic to al Qaida. Nigel Inkster, a former assistant chief of MI6, said
they may have judged it "better to keep Osama bin Laden safe rather than risk
the opprobrium that might attach to being in some way responsible for his death
or capture".

US officials said as well as bin Laden, three other men including his adult son
and two suspected al Qaida couriers and a woman being used as a human shield,
died in the raid.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ TRACKED DOWN: A Pakistani soldier stands near a compound where it is
believed bin Laden, main picture, lived in Abbottabad. Pakistani soldiers are
seen patrolling in the vicinity, right. Barack Obama, far right, who announced
the terrorist's death

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 3, 2011 Tuesday 12:06 AM GMT

Patrick Cockburn: Can we ever be truly safe from terrorism?;
Of course, there will be jihadi groups who will want to restore the balance of
terror by making new attacks, but none is likely to have the same impact as 9/11

SECTION: COMMENTATORS

LENGTH: 1586 words


Al-Qa'ida is the most successful terrorist organisation in history. By
destroying the World Trade Centre in New York in 2001 it provoked the US into
launching wars damaging to itself in Afghanistan and Iraq. Al-Qa'ida aimed to
destroy the status quo in the Middle East and it succeeded beyond its wildest
dreams.

Its success has not been all its own doing. Ayman al-Zawahiri, al-Qa'ida's
number two and chief strategist, wrote at the time of 9/11 that the aim of   the
group was to lure the US into an over-reaction in which it would "wage   battle
against the Muslims". Once the US was committed to a ground war,   and no longer
exercised its power primarily through local surrogates, the   way would be open
for Muslims to launch a jihad against America. By   over-reacting President
Bush, aided by Tony Blair, responded to 9/11 very   much as al-Qa'ida would have
wished.

In the decade since the attack on the Twin Towers "terrorist experts"   and
governments have frequently portrayed al-Qa'ida as a tightly organised   group
located in north-west Pakistan. From some secret headquarters its   tentacles
reach out across the world, feeding recruits, expertise and money   to different
battlefronts.

Al-Qa'ida has never operated like that. The closest it came to being a sort of
Islamic Comintern was when it had several hundred militants based in the   Tora
Bora mountains of Afghanistan in 1996 to 2001. Even at that time, when   it
could operate more or less freely in the Afghan mountains, its numbers   were so
small that it would hire local tribesmen by the day to be filmed   forpropaganda
videos showing its men marching and training.

Many of the most important al-Qa'ida leaders from that era have since been
detained or killed. But the organisation has proved so hard to eradicate
because it exists primarily as a set of ideas and methods for fighting holy
war. Osama bin Laden's target was primarily the US and its Western allies,
though this has not always been true of local franchises. Civilians were   fair
game because they had chosen or tolerated evil rulers. In its   fundamentalist
religious beliefs al-Qa'ida is little different from   Wahhabism, the
puritanical and intolerant version of Sunni Islam that is   dominant in Saudi
Arabia.

Suicide bombing became the preferred method for al-Qa'ida to wage war. It was
tactically effective because it meant that untrained but fanatical recruits
willing to die could be deployed as a lethal weapon capable of killing many
enemies. Moreover, the public-self sacrifice of the bomber as a   demonstration
of Islamic faith was an important part of a successful   operation.

The CIA and other intelligence agencies were criticised after 9/11 for failing
to pick up on the threat posed by al-Qa'ida early in the 1990s, but in
practice it barely existed before 1996 when Bin Laden moved to Afghanistan
from Sudan and, even then, he was only one among several players leading
Islamic Jihadi groups.

Since 2001 al-Qa'da has continued to exist organisationally mainly as a series
of local franchises. In Iraq, for instance, al-Qa'ida in Mesopotamia was led
by a Jordanian, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, who had previously opposed Osama bin
Laden in Afghanistan. Expanding rapidly among the defeated Iraqi Sunni after
the overthrow of Saddam Hussein in 2003, it mounted a ferocious war of   suicide
bombings, primarily directed against the newly dominant Shia Iraqis   rather
than Americans. The US itself played a role in the expansion of   al-Qa'ida. In
Iraq the US army spokesman in Baghdad attributed all armed   attacks to
al-Qa'ida regardless of who carried them out. He hoped to   discredit the
insurgents in the eyes of Shia Iraqis and the outside world.   But within Iraq
this only added to the high profile of the organisation   among those hostile to
the new order of things, while abroad it made it much   easier for al-Qa'ida to
raise money. The wave of anti-Americanism that swept   the Muslim world after
the invasion of Iraq also benefited the group.

One vicious aspect of al-Qa'ida activities is under-reported in the Western
media: it has always killed more Shia Muslims than it did Americans. The   group
was sectarian before it was nationalist. The Shia were seen as   heretics as
worthy of death as an American or British soldier. Again and   again its suicide
bombers would target Shia day labourers as they waited for   work in public
squares in the early morning in Baghdad or massive bombs   would be detonated as
Shia worshippers left their mosques. Likewise in   Pakistan, the Pakistan
Taliban, ideologically linked to al- Qa'ida, has   shown equal enthusiasm for
slaughtering Shia where ever they can be   targeted.

Al-Qa'ida had the advantage post 9/11 that it did not have to do much to have
an impact in the US. It had entered US demonology to a degree that any   action
by it, however ineffectual or trivial, had a disproportionate effect:   a
Nigerian student, who had received training from al-Qa'ida in Yemen,   failed to
blow up an aircraft over Detroit using explosives hidden in his   underpants; a
Pakistani man living in the US was unable to detonate   explosives in a car in
Times Square in New York. But, as al-Qa'ida in Yemen   gleefully pointed out in
a statement, such failures had almost the same   effect as a successful bombing
in terms of the disruption and dismay caused.

No US government can afford to have another 9/11 take place without
devastating retaliation from the voters. Washington had to be seen to be   doing
something successful to restore American confidence in its own   strength. One
of the reasons why Mr Bush's administration had invaded   Afghanistan and Iraq,
rather than devoting all efforts to hunting down Bin   Laden, was that the first
two options seemed easy and the third was not.   Saddam Hussein was easy to puff
up as a threat and eliminate in a way that   was not true of the leader of
al-Qa'ida.

Mr Bush set up a special cell to find Bin Laden and Zawahiri. At his morning
briefings during his final months in office he would ask plaintively: "How   are
you getting on getting number one and number two?" In the   presidential
election of 2008 the Democrats made the damaging, though   somewhat spurious
charge, that the White House had taken its eye off the   ball in the pursuit of
Bin Laden in Afghanistan in order to invade Iraq.

The claim that Bin Laden was operationally ineffective also missed the point
that he remained a potent symbol. This had been true since 9/11; all he had   to
do was to go on surviving for his survival to be a further sign that the   will
of the US could be frustrated. This is why Bin Laden's killing by US   forces
has such importance, regardless of how far he master-minded different   plots or
was behind more recent attacks on the US.

His demise will have some impact on al-Qa'ida itself, in so far as it exists
as an organisation, but its main impact will be on American self-   confidence.
Of course, there will be jihadi groups who will want to restore   the balance of
terror by making new attacks, but none is likely to have the   same impact as
9/11. The psychological effect was so great not just because   so many were
killed but because of the uniquely public nature of the attack:   the planes
crashing into the World Trade Centre and the slow crumbling of   the two towers.

Will al-Qa'ida attacks be easier to carry out this year than in the past
because of the fall or disruption of so many police states such as Egypt,
Tunisia and Libya? The "strongmen" in the Arab world, like Hosni   Mubarak or
Ali Abdullah Saleh of Yemen, had post 9/11 been swift to   manipulate Washington
to support their despotic regimes in return for their   clamping down on Islamic
fundamentalists. Sometimes the repression, as in   Yemen, was less effective
than it looked, but in Pakistan the authorities   were prepared to locate and
hand over al-Qa'ida members to the US while   being careful to shield the Afghan
Taliban.

But the collapse of the old order in the Arab world may play against
al-Qa'ida: it will no longer be the beneficiary to the extent it was in the
past of the hatred felt towards local dictators allied to or tolerated by   the
US. Other ways of ending an intolerable political and social status quo   have
been demonstrated. Mr Mubarak effectively allied himself with Israel   and the
US during Israel's war in Lebanon in 2006 and in Gaza in 2009. This   created
anger among many Egyptians which benefited fundamentalist Islamic   groups, but
it is difficult to envisage future, more- democratic Egyptian   governments
being on such friendly terms with Israel. Al-Qa'ida's appeal   will be diluted.
But already its significance was confined mainly to the   world of perceptions
rather than real threats. This is why it is of such   real importance that Bin
Laden, the symbol of so many American fears, is   dead.

Bin Laden's lieutenants

Ayman al-Zawahiri

The Egyptian-born eye surgeon has been Bin Laden's second-in-command for a
long time and theoretically will succeed him.

Khalid Sheikh Mohammed

The mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, he is in detention in Guantanamo Bay where
he will face a military trial.

Abdul Ghani

Once an important leader of the insurgency in Afghanistan, this Saudi Arabian
was reportedly killed by US forces a week ago.

Sa'ad bin Abi Waqas

Killed in the same Nato air strike as Ghani, he was considered a dangerous
regional commander, who specialised in training.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        May 3, 2011 Tuesday 12:01 AM GMT

Osama bin Laden;
Leader of the al-Qaeda terrorist group whose most monstrous act was the attack
on the World Trade Centre in New York in 2001

BYLINE: Hannah Mills

SECTION: IPAD REGISTER

LENGTH: 2377 words


On September 11, 2001, the Saudi-born Islamic fundamentalist Osama bin Laden
propelled international terrorism into a new and terrible dimension when a
series of suicide attacks on the United States, sponsored by him, caused
colossal damage to property in New York and Washington and cost thousands of
lives. In New York, the twin symbols of American economic domination of the
globe, the towers of the World Trade Centre, were utterly destroyed after two
large Boeing jet airliners, laden with fuel, were crashed into them in a
kamikaze attack. Made at a time shortly after most staff would have entered the
building to begin work, they were timed to cause the maximum loss of life,
besides killing the hapless passengers who were on board when they were
hijacked. This was compounded when, after an interval of about an hour, the
towers collapsed, killing all those who had failed by then to escape from them,
as well as hundreds of firefighters, police and rescue workers in the streets
below.

An assault unprecedented in the two-and-a-quarter centuries of America's history
as an independent state, the New York attack was also a huge blow to the
national psyche, destroying, as it did, the country's most famous city skyline.
In the meantime, a similar kamikaze attack on the Pentagon, again by an airliner
whose passengers were forced to share in the terrorists' self-immolation, struck
at the very heart of America's defence establishment, causing great damage and
loss of life. A fourth aircraft crashed in a field in Pennsylvania after a
struggle between the passengers and their hijackers. The shock of the attacks,
in which more than 3,000 people died, swiftly spread round the world, drawing
sympathy for the victims and condemnation of the terrorists from friend and foe
alike.

The son of a self-made Saudi billionaire from whose businesses he inherited a
considerable fortune, Osama bin Laden had, long before this, become one of the
world's most notorious sponsors of international terrorism and one of the
world's most wanted men. Since his career began in the early 1980s he had been
blamed for atrocities ranging from the explosion at the World Trade Centre in
New York in 1993 to the bombing of American Embassies in Nairobi and Dar es
Salaam which killed 224 people five years later.

The first targets of bin Laden's campaigns of bombing were the Armed Forces and
agencies of the Soviet Union, which attracted his attention when the Red Army
invaded Afghanistan in 1979. A man thoroughly disillusioned with what he saw as
the materialistic rottenness of the oil-rich Arab kingdoms of the Middle East,
exemplified par excellence by his native Saudi Arabia, he went to Afghanistan
and threw in his lot with the Mujahidin in their jihad against the Soviet
oppressor.

The Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan within ten years left him, momentarily,
without an object for his hatreds. One was soon to present itself. When, after
the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990, Saudi Arabia put both its territory and
its Armed Forces at the disposal of the US-led coalition which fought the Gulf
War, the humiliation of America became his prime object. From then on all his
efforts were directed against the destruction of American property, life and
prestige, wherever in the world he could strike at them.

His activities, which put a price tag of up to $25 million on his head in the
US, made him a hero in Peshawar and the mountain villages of the AfghanPakistan
border where Islamic fundamentalist terrorists are trained. There he achieved
cult status as a kind of Islamic Che Guevara, and a picture of him, clutching a
Kalashnikov AK-47 rifle adorned many a wall.

Although with his tall stature, fine features and piercing eyes, he could never
have hidden in a crowd, bin Laden remained nevertheless a somewhat shadowy
figure. It was not until after the attacks on New York that his image became
familiar to the world, through video footage of him released by his
organisation.

He seemed, too, to emerge to the world through a thicket of myth. An affluent
background yielded no key to his undoubtedly strong hatreds, and there seemed no
reason why the erstwhile playboy should have turned mass murderer. He liked to
pose as an Islamic warrior but, unlike other Mujahidin warlords, there were no
military feats that could actually be ascribed to him. Yet, he undoubtedly acted
as a powerful magnet to disaffected Muslims everywhere. And, to the end, the
mechanism of his feats as an enabler of terrorism remained a secret.

Osama bin Muhammad bin Laden was born in Riyadh in ( most sources say) 1957, the
17th child (of more than 50) of Muhammad bin Laden, a self-made construction
billionaire from Yemen. A close friend of the late King Faisal of Saudi Arabia,
Muhammad bin Laden and his company had prospered through huge contracts to
renovate the mosques of Mecca and Medina and to build the greater part of Saudi
Arabia's road network. At his death in 1968, in a helicopter crash while
inspecting a construction site, his son Osama inherited a considerable fortune.

Although brought up in an atmosphere of conventional, though by no means
excessive, Sunni Muslim piety, the children of the bin Laden family were also
exposed to Western influences. Photographs exist of some of them on holiday at
Oxford and in Sweden. Contemporaries recall Osama behaving no differently from
the average rich Arab playboy as a young man.

As if intending to follow in his father's footsteps, Osama bin Laden studied
engineering at the University of Riyadh after which he embarked on a master's
degree in business administration at King Abdul Aziz University in Jeddah. The
Lebanese civil war appears to have set him thinking about the effects of
commercialism on the purity of Islamic tenets, and he soon abandoned his
master's for a course in Islamic studies, falling under the influence of the
extremist Islamic thinker Abdullah Azzam.

When the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan and set up a puppet socialist
government, bin Laden went out to Peshawar and threw in his lot with the Afghan
Islamic militias being trained there by Pakistan and funded by Saudi Arabia and
- ironically in view of what happened later - the United States. His record as a
guerrilla fighter is a matter of some dispute. He liked to model himself on the
great medieval Muslim leader Saladin, and adopted the nom de guerre Ubu
Abdullah. But undoubtedly his greatest use to the Mujahidin lay in the large
sums of money he could both contribute and raise in Saudi Arabia for the cause.

When the struggle against the Soviet Union came to an end with the latter's
withdrawal from Afghanistan in 1989, bin Laden set up al-Qaeda - "the base" - a
support network for veterans from all over the Islamic world who had volunteered
and fought against Soviet domination, and their families. He also promoted
Wahhabism, the strictly conservative brand of Islam practised in Saudi Arabia.

But he soon became disillusioned by the inability of the various Afghan
groupings to settle their differences, and returned to Saudi Arabia. There, the
invasion of Kuwait by Iraq and the permission given by his native country to
permit its territory to be used by a Western military coalition against another
Arab state gave him a much clearer target for his activities. The US and Israel
became the focus of his hostility and he began to plan and organise attacks
against the former. At the same time, appalled by the presence of American
soldiers and their accompanying culture of immodest dress, pin-ups and sexually
suggestive music and dancing, he vociferously castigated the Saudi royal family
for what it had allowed to happen in what he called "the land of the two holy
places".

For his criticisms, and for accusations by the governments of Egypt, Yemen and
Algeria that he had funded militant movements in their countries, he was
eventually stripped of his citizenship and expelled from the country in 1994.
Thereafter he operated for a while from Sudan before Khartoum came under US
pressure to expel him. After that, he returned to Afghanistan to live in
Kandahar, where he set up terrorist "universities" whose students were trained
in guerrilla tactics.

The first atrocity to be reliably linked to him was in December 1992 when a bomb
exploded in a hotel in Yemen which had only recently been vacated by American
troops. The following year he was regarded as having provided the financial
support behind the bombing of the World Trade Centre. Seven people were killed
and 700 injured when an explosion ripped through three levels of the parking
garage and started a fire whose smoke ascended through the 110 storeys of the
twin-towered complex. Later that year the deaths of 18 US troops in a failed
raid in Somalia was also ascribed to his having organised the armed opposition.

In 1995 he was linked with an assassination attempt on President Mubarak of
Egypt and he renewed his calls for guerrilla attacks on American forces
stationed in Saudi Arabia. In the following year President Clinton called - in
vain - for the use of "any and all means" to destroy bin Laden's network. But by
that time he seemed secure in his mountain fastness in Afghanistan, apparently a
more than welcome guest of the country's Taleban regime.

Then, in 1998, came bin Laden's most spectacular atrocity to that date, when two
bombs, planted in the US Embassies in the capitals of Tanzania and Kenya, killed
more than 250 people and injured many more. Bin Laden's stated aim had been to
kill Americans, but in the event most of the dead and injured were Africans. By
that time President Clinton had put a $5 million bounty on his head, but bin
Laden continued to demonstrate his ability to attack American targets with
impunity. In October 2000 an American guided missile destroyer, USS Cole, was
severely damaged while refuelling in Aden when she was rammed by a rubber boat
packed with explosives. Seventeen sailors were killed and at least 40 injured.

In the meantime, the majority of Islamic states disowned bin Laden's activities,
and he was a wanted man in several of them. In many of the countries whose
leaders condemned him, however, he retained a considerable popular following, as
he did - perhaps to an even greater degree - among Islamic militants in the
West.

After the attacks of September 11, 2001, as he became the principal focus and
target of President George W. Bush's "War on Terror", bin Laden was increasingly
transformed from an active sponsor and director of specific acts of terror into
Islamist terrorism's almost mythical global inspiration.

Acts of terror conducted in the name of al-Qaeda in these years included the
failed attempt by the "shoe bomber" Richard Reid to blow up an aircraft en route
from Paris to Miami in December 2001, the bombings on the island of Bali in
October 2002 in which 202 people were killed and 240 injured, the Madrid train
bombings in March 2004 in which 191 people were killed and some 1,800 injured,
and the suicide bomb attacks in London in July 2005 in which 52 people were
killed and some 700 injured on three Underground trains and a bus.

For a decade after the September 11 attacks, despite a concerted manhunt and a
substantial bounty on his head, there was little concrete news of bin Laden.
Hiding - or presumed to be hiding - in the remote and almost impenetrable tribal
regions between Afghanistan and Pakistan, he and his cohorts were targeted by US
attacks. There were early Allied successes, such as the killing of Mohammed
Atef, al-Qaeda's military chief, in November 2001, and the hunt for bin Laden
gathered momentum in 2003 with the capture in Pakistan of Khalid Sheikh
Mohammed, the head of al-Qaeda's operations and thought to be the mastermind
behind the attack on the World Trade Centre in 2001. But bin Laden himself
remained elusive.

For much of the time, indeed, it was impossible - at least for anyone not privy
to the most secret intelligence - to say with any certainty whether he was alive
or dead. He released occasional messages on video or on audiotape, applauding
some new atrocity perpetrated in his name. But there were few clues as to where
or when such messages had been recorded, and they were never enough in
themselves to dispel suggestions that he might have succumbed to ill health or
to wounds. In this atmosphere of confusion, mystery and escalating rhetoric, bin
Laden's significance to the world came in the last decade of his life to reside
less in his own murderous actions than in his role as a terrible symbol.
Condemned by Western governments and commentators as the embodiment of an "axis
of evil" threatening everything they held dear and responsible for the murders
of thousands, he became in turn for rootless, disaffected Islamist militants
around the world the absent patron of a holy war against the infidel, an
inspiration in what they saw as the defence of Islamic purity against the
decadence and corruption of the modern West.

In this way, his name, and that of the organisation he had founded, came
gradually to stand as a kind of shorthand, cited with equal passion by opponents
and supporters to account for atrocities to which bin Laden's direct personal
connection, from his hideaway in Afghanistan or Pakistan (or wherever it was),
may have been remote. Whether all that will come to an end with his death, or
whether the process will now acquire new momentum, remains to be seen.

Located after an intelligence operation which involved tracking one of the
network of couriers he used to communicate with his followers in the outside
world, bin Laden was killed in an attack by American special forces on the
fortified compound where he had been living at least for several months - a
compound sited, extraordinarily, a matter of a few hundred yards from the
Pakistan Military Academy, in a pleasant residential area on the outskirts of
the town of Abbottabad in northwest Pakistan. It was announced that his body had
been buried at sea.

Osama bin Laden is known to have married at least four times and may have
fathered more than a dozen children. One of his daughters married the Taleban
leader Mullah Omar.

Osama bin Laden, terrorist, was born in 1957. He died on May 1, 2011, aged 54

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2011 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 3, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Osama bin Laden;
Leader of the al-Qaeda terrorist group whose most monstrous act was the attack
on the World Trade Centre in New York in 2001 Obituaries

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 49,50

LENGTH: 2389 words


On September 11, 2001, the Saudi-born Islamic fundamentalist Osama bin Laden
propelled international terrorism into a new and terrible dimension when a
series of suicide attacks on the United States, sponsored by him, caused
colossal damage to property in New York and Washington and cost thousands of
lives. In New York, the twin symbols of American economic domination of the
globe, the towers of the World Trade Centre, were utterly destroyed after two
large Boeing jet airliners, laden with fuel, were crashed into them in a
kamikaze attack. Made at a time shortly after most staff would have entered the
building to begin work, they were timed to cause the maximum loss of life,
besides killing the hapless passengers who were on board when they were
hijacked. This was compounded when, after an interval of about an hour, the
towers collapsed, killing all those who had failed by then to escape from them,
as well as hundreds of firefighters, police and rescue workers in the streets
below.

; An assault unprecedented in the two-and-a-quarter centuries of America's
history as an independent state, the New York attack was also a huge blow to the
national psyche, destroying, as it did, the country's most famous city skyline.
In the meantime, a similar kamikaze attack on the Pentagon, again by an airliner
whose passengers were forced to share in the terrorists' self-immolation, struck
at the very heart of America's defence establishment, causing great damage and
loss of life. A fourth aircraft crashed in a field in Pennsylvania after a
struggle between the passengers and their hijackers. The shock of the attacks,
in which more than 3,000 people died, swiftly spread round the world, drawing
sympathy for the victims and condemnation of the terrorists from friend and foe
alike.

; The son of a self-made Saudi billionaire from whose businesses he inherited a
considerable fortune, Osama bin Laden had, long before this, become one of the
world's most notorious sponsors of international terrorism and one of the
world's most wanted men. Since his career began in the early 1980s he had been
blamed for atrocities ranging from the explosion at the World Trade Centre in
New York in 1993 to the bombing of American Embassies in Nairobi and Dar es
Salaam which killed 224 people five years later.

; The first targets of bin Laden's campaigns of bombing were the Armed Forces
and agencies of the Soviet Union, which attracted his attention when the Red
Army invaded Afghanistan in 1979. A man thoroughly disillusioned with what he
saw as the materialistic rottenness of the oil-rich Arab kingdoms of the Middle
East, exemplified par excellence by his native Saudi Arabia, he went to
Afghanistan and threw in his lot with the Mujahidin in their jihad against the
Soviet oppressor.

; The Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan within ten years left him, momentarily,
without an object for his hatreds. One was soon to present itself. When, after
the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990, Saudi Arabia put both its territory and
its Armed Forces at the disposal of the US-led coalition which fought the Gulf
War, the humiliation of America became his prime object. From then on all his
efforts were directed against the destruction of American property, life and
prestige, wherever in the world he could strike at them.

; His activities, which put a price tag of up to $25 million on his head in the
US, made him a hero in Peshawar and the mountain villages of the Afghan-Pakistan
border where Islamic fundamentalist terrorists are trained. There he achieved
cult status as a kind of Islamic Che Guevara, and a picture of him, clutching a
Kalashnikov AK-47 rifle adorned many a wall.

; Although with his tall stature, fine features and piercing eyes, he could
never have hidden in a crowd, bin Laden remained nevertheless a somewhat shadowy
figure. It was not until after the attacks on New York that his image became
familiar to the world, through video footage of him released by his
organisation.

; He seemed, too, to emerge to the world through a thicket of myth. An affluent
background yielded no key to his undoubtedly strong hatreds, and there seemed no
reason why the erstwhile playboy should have turned mass murderer. He liked to
pose as an Islamic warrior but, unlike other Mujahidin warlords, there were no
military feats that could actually be ascribed to him. Yet, he undoubtedly acted
as a powerful magnet to disaffected Muslims everywhere. And, to the end, the
mechanism of his feats as an enabler of terrorism remained a secret.

; Osama bin Muhammad bin Laden was born in Riyadh in (most sources say) 1957,
the 17th child (of more than 50) of Muhammad bin Laden, a selfmade construction
billionaire from Yemen. A close friend of the late King Faisal of Saudi Arabia,
Muhammad bin Laden and his company had prospered through huge contracts to
renovate the mosques of Mecca and Medina and to build the greater part of Saudi
Arabia's road network. At his death in 1968, in a helicopter crash while
inspecting a construction site, his son Osama inherited a considerable fortune.

; Although brought up in an atmosphere of conventional, though by no means
excessive, Sunni Muslim piety, the children of the bin Laden family were also
exposed to Western influences.

; Photographs exist of some of them on holiday at Oxford and in Sweden.
Contemporaries recall Osama behaving no differently from the average rich Arab
playboy as a young man.

; As if intending to follow in his father's footsteps, Osama bin Laden studied
engineering at the University of Riyadh after which he embarked on a master's
degree in business administration at King Abdul Aziz University in Jeddah. The
Lebanese civil war appears to have set him thinking about the effects of
commercialism on the purity of Islamic tenets, and he soon abandoned his
master's for a course in Islamic studies, falling under the influence of the
extremist Islamic thinker Abdullah Azzam.

; When the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan and set up a puppet socialist
government, bin Laden went out to Peshawar and threw in his lot with the Afghan
Islamic militias being trained there by Pakistan and funded by Saudi Arabia and
- ironically in view of what happened later - the United States. His record as a
guerrilla fighter is a matter of some dispute. He liked to model himself on the
great medieval Muslim leader Saladin, and adopted the nom de guerre Ubu
Abdullah. But undoubtedly his greatest use to the Mujahidin lay in the large
sums of money he could both contribute and raise in Saudi Arabia for the cause.

; When the struggle against the Soviet Union came to an end with the latter's
withdrawal from Afghanistan in 1989, bin Laden set up al-Qaeda - "the base" - a
support network for veterans from all over the Islamic world who had volunteered
and fought against Soviet domination, and their families. He also promoted
Wahhabism, the strictly conservative brand of Islam practised in Saudi Arabia.

; But he soon became disillusioned by the inability of the various Afghan
groupings to settle their differences, and returned to Saudi Arabia. There, the
invasion of Kuwait by Iraq and the permission given by his native country to
permit its territory to be used by a Western military coalition against another
Arab state gave him a much clearer target for his activities. The US and Israel
became the focus of his hostility and he began to plan and organise attacks
against the former. At the same time, appalled by the presence of American
soldiers and their accompanying culture of immodest dress, pin-ups and sexually
suggestive music and dancing, he vociferously castigated the Saudi royal family
for what it had allowed to happen in what he called "the land of the two holy
places".

; For his criticisms, and for accusations by the governments of Egypt, Yemen and
Algeria that he had funded militant movements in their countries, he was
eventually stripped of his citizenship and expelled from the country in 1994.
Thereafter he operated for a while from Sudan before Khartoum came under US
pressure to expel him. After that, he returned to Afghanistan to live in
Kandahar, where he set up terrorist "universities" whose students were trained
in guerrilla tactics.

; The first atrocity to be reliably linked to him was in December 1992 when a
bomb exploded in a hotel in Yemen which had only recently been vacated by
American troops. The following year he was regarded as having provided the
financial support behind the bombing of the World Trade Centre. Seven people
were killed and 700 injured when an explosion ripped through three levels of the
parking garage and started a fire whose smoke ascended through the 110 storeys
of the twin-towered complex. Later that year the deaths of 18 US troops in a
failed raid in Somalia was also ascribed to his having organised the armed
opposition.

; In 1995 he was linked with an assassination attempt on President Mubarak of
Egypt and he renewed his calls for guerrilla attacks on American forces
stationed in Saudi Arabia. In the following year President Clinton called - in
vain - for the use of "any and all means" to destroy bin Laden's network. But by
that time he seemed secure in his mountain fastness in Afghanistan, apparently a
more than welcome guest of the country's Taleban regime.

; Then, in 1998, came bin Laden's most spectacular atrocity to that date, when
two bombs, planted in the US Embassies in the capitals of Tanzania and Kenya,
killed more than 250 people and injured many more. Bin Laden's stated aim had
been to kill Americans, but in the event most of the dead and injured were
Africans. By that time President Clinton had put a $5 million bounty on his
head, but bin Laden continued to demonstrate his ability to attack American
targets with impunity. In October 2000 an American guided missile destroyer, USS
Cole, was severely damaged while refuelling in Aden when she was rammed by a
rubber boat packed with explosives. Seventeen sailors were killed and at least
40 injured.

; In the meantime, the majority of Islamic states disowned bin Laden's
activities, and he was a wanted man in several of them. In many of the countries
whose leaders condemned him, however, he retained a considerable popular
following, as he did - perhaps to an even greater degree - among Islamic
militants in the West.

; After the attacks of September 11, 2001, as he became the principal focus and
target of President George W. Bush's "War on Terror", bin Laden was increasingly
transformed from an active sponsor and director of specific acts of terror into
Islamist terrorism's almost mythical global inspiration.

; Acts of terror conducted in the name of al-Qaeda in these years included the
failed attempt by the "shoe bomber" Richard Reid to blow up an aircraft en route
from Paris to Miami in December 2001, the bombings on the island of Bali in
October 2002 in which 202 people were killed and 240 injured, the Madrid train
bombings in March 2004 in which 191 people were killed and some 1,800 injured,
and the suicide bomb attacks in London in July 2005 in which 52 people were
killed and some 700 injured on three Underground trains and a bus.

; For a decade after the September 11 attacks, despite a concerted manhunt and a
substantial bounty on his head, there was little concrete news of bin Laden.
Hiding - or presumed to be hiding - in the remote and almost impenetrable tribal
regions between Afghanistan and Pakistan, he and his cohorts were targeted by US
attacks. There were early Allied successes, such as the killing of Mohammed
Atef, al-Qaeda's military chief, in November 2001, and the hunt for bin Laden
gathered momentum in 2003 with the capture in Pakistan of Khalid Sheikh
Mohammed, the head of al-Qaeda's operations and thought to be the mastermind
behind the attack on the World Trade Centre in 2001. But bin Laden himself
remained elusive.

; For much of the time, indeed, it was impossible - at least for anyone not
privy to the most secret intelligence - to say with any certainty whether he was
alive or dead. He released occasional messages on video or on audiotape,
applauding some new atrocity perpetrated in his name. But there were few clues
as to where or when such messages had been recorded, and they were never enough
in themselves to dispel suggestions that he might have succumbed to ill health
or to wounds. In this atmosphere of confusion, mystery and escalating rhetoric,
bin Laden's significance to the world came in the last decade of his life to
reside less in his own murderous actions than in his role as a terrible symbol.
Condemned by Western governments and commentators as the embodiment of an "axis
of evil" threatening everything they held dear and responsible for the murders
of thousands, he became in turn for rootless, disaffected Islamist militants
around the world the absent patron of a holy war against the infidel, an
inspiration in what they saw as the defence of Islamic purity against the
decadence and corruption of the modern West.

; In this way, his name, and that of the organisation he had founded, came
gradually to stand as a kind of shorthand, cited with equal passion by opponents
and supporters to account for atrocities to which bin Laden's direct personal
connection, from his hideaway in Afghanistan or Pakistan (or wherever it was),
may have been remote. Whether all that will come to an end with his death, or
whether the process will now acquire new momentum, remains to be seen.

; Located after an intelligence operation which involved tracking one of the
network of couriers he used to communicate with his followers in the outside
world, bin Laden was killed in an attack by American special forces on the
fortified compound where he had been living at least for several months - a
compound sited, extraordinarily, a matter of a few hundred yards from the
Pakistan Military Academy, in a pleasant residential area on the outskirts of
the town of Abbottabad in northwest Pakistan. It was announced that his body had
been buried at sea.

; Osama bin Laden is known to have married at least four times and may have
fathered more than a dozen children. One of his daughters married the Taleban
leader Mullah Omar.

; Osama bin Laden, terrorist, was born in 1957. He died on May 1, 2011, aged 54

He became an almost mythical inspiration for global terrorism

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bin Laden: the humiliation of the US was his prime object and he
determined to destroy American life and prestige
AFP /GETTY IMAGES
Pakistani demonstrators in Peshawar with a placard of bin Laden proclaiming his
"holy war" against America, in September 2001, days after the destruction of the
World Trade Centre
POLARIS /EYEVINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday

Provincial anti-terror chief killed in armed attack in Afghan west

LENGTH: 189 words


Text of report by private Pakistan-based Afghan Islamic Press news agency

Herat, 3 May: The head of Ghowr Province security command's anti-terrorism
branch has been killed.

According to details, the Ghowr Province security command's anti-terrorism
branch was killed together with his brother, and two others, including his son,
were wounded as a result of an armed attack on Tuesday afternoon [3 May].

The Ghowr Province security command's intelligence chief, Col Abdorrashid
Bashar, has told Afghan Islamic Press [AIP] that unidentified armed men who
riding a motorcycle opened fire at the car of the head of the Ghowr Province
security command's anti-terrorism branch, Gholam Yahya Khan, in an area in
Cheghcheran, the capital of Ghowr Province, this afternoon, and he was killed in
the attack. He added that a brother of Yahya Khan was also killed in the attack
and his son and a security guard wounded. Col Abdorrashid Bashar said the
attackers had managed to escape, but police forces launched a hunt to detain
them.

The Taleban have not commented on it yet.

Source: Afghan Islamic Press news agency, Peshawar, in Pashto 1443 gmt 3 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday

CIS drills in Kyrgyz south practise response to terror attacks

LENGTH: 319 words


Text of report by privately-owned online news agency Kyrgyz Telegraph Agency
(KyrTAg)

Osh, 4 May: A total of 100 mock "terrorists" were killed as a result of
operations conducted during command and staff exercises codenamed Yug-Antiterror
2011 [South-Antiterror 2011] which are taking place in Osh on 3-4 May, a Kyrtag
news agency correspondent reported from Osh.

According to the scenario of the exercises, a group of 25 terrorists carries out
an attack on the Karamyk frontier post, another group moves in the direction of
Osh city in order to mine the territory of a petroleum storage depot, a third
group of terrorists is going to infiltrate into the Ak-Terek residential area to
seize the Papan reservoir.

Fighters of the special force unit Alfa and servicemen of the Defence Ministry
holds negotiations with the terrorists, and then the command of the national
operations team makes a decision to carry out an airborne assault and air attack
on the positions of the terrorists.

A total of 100 terrorists are killed as a result of the operation.

Fighters of the special force unit Alfa of the State National Security Committee
of Kyrgyzstan have been involved in the exercises. In all, 60 servicemen of the
southwestern regional command of the Kyrgyz Defence Ministry, sniper groups,
sappers, using aviation and other military hardware, have provided fire cover.

Kyrgyz President Roza Otunbayeva has observed the course of the exercises.
Representatives of special forces of member countries of [the CIS]
anti-terrorist centre and of the Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure of the
Shanghai Cooperation Organization, have taken part in the exercises.

The Kyrgyz side has also been represented by a deputy prime minister, Shamil
Atakhanov, the head of the Kyrgyz State National Security Committee, Keneshbek
Duyshebayev, and Kyrgyz Defence Minister Abibilla Kudayberdiyev.

Source: KyrTAg, Bishkek, in Russian 0414 gmt 4 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday

Experts, imam doubt Macedonia to face terrorist attacks after Bin-Ladin's death

LENGTH: 576 words


Text of report by Macedonian newspaper Nova Makedonija on 4 May

[Report by Radmila Zarevska: "We Are Not Target of Terrorist Attacks"]

The state's security level should be enhanced, although Macedonia is the least
important potential target of retaliatory attacks following Usamah Bin-Ladin's
liquidation. This is the recommendation of the state analysts on security
issues, who believe that we should not lose focus in this situation because the
Al-Qa'idah cells will regenerate fast.

"Macedonia is part of the global anti-terrorism coalition. It is well known that
when organizations such as Al-Qa'idah suffer damage they respond with radical
attacks. Our army's inclusion in the peacekeeping missions in Afghanistan and
Iraq has increased the risk of being involved in potential terrorist attacks.
Nor can we rule out the possibility that there will be a spread of Wahhabism,
too, which is an introduction to terrorism, since it transforms religious
beliefs into a militant movement," explains Vladimir Pivovarov, the former
military intelligence head and current professor at FON's [School of Social
Sciences] Detection and Security Faculty.

He mentions the attacks in Spain, which only took part in the peacekeeping
missions, as a recommendation for enhanced security.

Ramadan Ramadani, an Isa Beg Mosque imam and chief initiator of the construction
of the Burmali Mosque in Skopje's city square, doubts that the overall situation
will have any particular effect on Macedonian developments as well.

"Macedonia is a small state with local problems. We are outside these trends and
Bin Ladin's revolution," Ramadani says.

Members of the Islamic Religious Community, which officially confirmed the
existence of Islamic radicals in Macedonia half a year ago, refused to comment
on the potential terrorist threats because, in their view, Bin Ladin was a
person trained by the Western states and working against Islam.

Biljana Vankovska, professor at the Defence and Peacetime Studies Institute,
believes that the security situation in Macedonia or the world in general will
not change either with or without Usama.

"The danger remains the same. Even if there is a surge of terrorist or radical
movements, they will be more focused on the United States and the United
Kingdom, rather than on us. Macedonia is merely the transit zone for these
groups," Vankovska stresses.

The Interior Ministry has announced that it will continue to cooperate with its
international partners in the fight against terrorism and regarding the risks to
the state's security, adding that it acts in compliance with Interpol's
recommendations on revenge attacks.

"We have increased the level of vigilance at the US Embassy in Skopje, but there
are no serious indicators of threats and diminished security there thus far,"
ministry officials say.

Usamah Bin-Ladin has not visited Macedonia, but in the 1990s he visited the
Balkans on two occasions. He first visited Bosnia-Hercegovina and then Albania.
Both of these documented visits date from 1994.

Bin Ladin visited Zagreb and Belgrade, too, as early as in 1986, while,
according to the Croatian newspaper Jutarnji List, the Croatian cell of
Al-Qa'idah has been active ever since 1991. At that time Usama was waging war
against the Soviet Union over its occupation of Afghanistan as a US ally. In
Zagreb and Belgrade he tried to arrange the procurement of arms for the Taleban.

Source: Nova Makedonija, Skopje, in Macedonian 4 May 11 pp 2-3

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

'Lone wolf' terrorist attack a threat - PM

BYLINE: John Higginson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 291 words


THE death of Osama bin Laden offered a 'unique opportunity' to make a decisive
break from the 'poisonous ideology' of al-Qaeda, David Cameron told MPs
yesterday.

His shooting was a 'strike at the heart' of international terrorism, the prime
minister said in a Commons statement.

'I hope there is some sense of justice for the victims' families,' he said, but
added: 'While bin Laden is gone, the threat of al-Qaeda remains.' Al-Qaeda and
its affiliates in Yemen could launch an operation to demonstrate their continued
ability to operate, or a 'lone wolf' radical could launch a solo attack, he
warned. 'We must be more vigilant than ever and we must maintain that vigilance
for some time,' Mr Cameron said.

The prime minister said bin Laden's ability to live in a large house so close to
one of Pakistan's biggest military bases showed he had an 'extensive support
network' in the country and it was right to ask 'searching questions' about
that.

Mr Cameron added that, despite bin Laden and Col Muammar Gaddafi being said to
have 'hated' each other, 'there was a common thread running between them'. 'They
both feared the idea that democracy and civil rights could take hold in the Arab
world,' he added.

Conservative backbencher Philip Davies said the discovery of the terror chief
raised questions over the £650million aid package for Pakistan announced last
month.

'Why on earth we would want to be giving billions of pounds to them when there
are suspicions they knew about Osama bin Laden's whereabouts for years, God only
knows,' he said.

'It is not a country I think we should be giving money to,' he told Mail Online.

Earlier yesterday, the cabinet and chief of the defence staff Sir David Richards
attended a security briefing at Downing Street.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Meeting: Sir David Richards
Anger: Supporters of Jamaat-ud-Dawa, an Islamic charity organisation linked to
banned group Lashkar-e-Taiba, protest against the US in Karachi, Pakistan,
yesterday Picture: EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTRscot


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

CAM'S LONE WOLF TERROR ATTACK FEAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 149 words


BRITAIN faces the threat of "lone wolf" attacks after Osama bin Laden's death,
David Cameron warned yesterday.

Embassies have been ordered to urgently review security and travellers should be
on their guard, the PM said.

He told MPs: "There is a risk al-Qaeda and affiliates in places like Yemen and
the Maghreb will want to demonstrate they can operate.

"And, of course, there is always the risk of a radicalised individual acting
alone, a so-called lone wolf attack."

MPs queued up to grill the PM on a British pounds 650million aid package for
Pakistan as they questioned its commitment to fighting terror.

Conservative Kris Hopkins said "something stinks about where bin Laden was
found" adding that Pakistan needed to "come clean" if it wanted to continue to
receive British support.

Meanwhile, the PM hinted yesterday that bin Laden's death may hasten British
troops' withdrawal from Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING Cameron addresses MPs yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday

Yemeni agency says Abyan attack by "terrorist elements"

LENGTH: 120 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

["Seven Yemenis Killed in Terrorist Act in Abyan" - SABA Headline]

(YEMEN NEWS AGENCY) -[04/May/2011] ABYAN, May 4 (Saba)-An explosive device
exploded on Wednesday near a police vehicle at a crowded market in Abyan
province, killing four soldiers and three civilians and injuring 17 others, a
source in the local authority has said. Speaking to Saba, the source said that
terrorist elements had planted an explosive device near a police vehicle at a
market in Abyan. "In this terrorist act, four soldiers and three citizens were
killed and 17 others injured", the source added.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 2050 gmt 4 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday

Afghan governor urges coalition forces to attack terrorist bases in Pakistan

LENGTH: 384 words


Text of report by Afghan privately-owned Shamshad TV on 4 May

[Presenter] The governor of eastern Konar Province, Fazlollah Wahedi, has
seriously called on the foreign forces to stop killing civilians in the name of
militants in this province. He also said that the foreign forces should
dismantle terrorist nests on the other side of the Afghan border.

[Correspondent] He said at a security session that civilians should not be
killed in the name of Al-Qa'idah members and terrorists in this province as now
the address of terrorist hideouts is clear and the international community
should attack them.

He added that killing of innocent Afghan civilians, searching and destroying
their houses in the name of pursuing terrorists were not acceptable.

[Fazlollah Wahedi, captioned, Konar governor, speaking at a session] From today,
they should understand that they should not search and destroy Afghans' houses.
They should not bomb their houses and kill them because excuses will no longer
be accepted. The address of terrorists is clear now.

[Correspondent] The international forces have inflected huge life and material
losses on innocent civilians in Konar Province and they should compensate them
through launching development projects there.

[Wahedi] Repetition of mistakes is regarded as a crime. Clashes have been
erupted and innocent people killed here. May God forgive them, but they should
launch development projects in the province. They should assist these people
considerably to change the history somehow. Now, everybody says our people were
killed here, but Usamah was there.

[Correspondent] The governor also called on security officials to pay adequate
attention to highways and border areas and ensure security there to prevent
terrorist groups from entering the province from other side of the border.

National army and border commanders gave assurances that they would ensure
security on highways and protect border areas.

Provincial officials called on the international forces to stop operations in
Konar Province and ensure security there at a time when people complain about
insecurity in this province.

Fazel Wahid Afkari, Shamshad TV, Konar.

[Video shows governor speaking at a session attended by Afghan and foreign
military officials]

Source: Shamshad TV, Kabul, in Pashto 1430 gmt 4 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday

Georgia submits information on terrorist attacks to NATO

LENGTH: 198 words


Text of report by Georgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on 5 May
headlined "Information on the meeting of the NATO-Georgia Commission held on 5
May 2011 on terrorist attacks that took place in Georgia"

A meeting of the NATO-Georgia Commission at the level of the Political and
Partnership Committee was held at the NATO headquarters on 5 May 2011.

Shota Utiashvili, the head of the Georgian Interior Ministry Information and
Analytical Department, submitted to allies detailed information on the
circumstances uncovered as a result of the investigation of terrorist attacks
carried out in Georgia over the past two years.

It was stressed at the meeting that evidence obtained as a result of the
investigation of the terrorist attacks directly points to the fact that
Georgia's territories occupied [by Russia - Abkhazia and South Ossetia -] were
used to prepare and carry out the aforementioned terrorist attacks.

It was also noted that the struggle against terrorism is the sphere, where it is
important to deepen cooperation between Georgia and NATO.

[Date:] 5 May 2001

[Signed:] Press and Information Department

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Tbilisi, in Georgian 05 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Met chief urges vigilance as he warns terror attack on UK is 'highly likely'

BYLINE: WESLEY JOHNSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 451 words


Met chief urges vigilance as he warns terror attack on UK is 'highly likely'

An attack on the UK is highly likely and could occur without warning at any
time, Britain's most senior police officer has warned.

Sir Paul Stephenson said it was vital that communities remained vigilant and
urged members of the public to "trust their instincts" and report "any
suspicious behaviour which may be terrorist-related".

"Vigilance should be our watchword," the Metropolitan Police commissioner added.

In his first speech since returning to work after a second operation that
followed the removal of a pre-cancerous tumour from his femur, Sir Paul said the
"severe" threat from international terrorism was "not a bureaucratic
description, but rather a factual assessment of the reality of the threat we
face".

He added: "To be blunt it means that an attack is highly likely and could occur
without warning at any time.

"As Government, the police and the security service assess the impact and
consequences of the death of Osama bin Laden, it is clear that there can be no
let up in our vigilance.

"Osama bin Laden led an organisation which is responsible for the injury and
death of thousands of people worldwide in the name of an extreme and perverted
ideology, committed to the use of terror and murder to achieve their aims.

"However, one man's death does not mark the end of an ideology and we must
remain alert to the continuing threat from al-Qaida, its affiliates and those
acting alone.

"The police and security services will continue to work locally, nationally and
with our international partners to do everything possible to counter the
terrorist threat.

"But we cannot do this alone, we need the help of the public to protect the
country from the threat of terrorism."

He added: "All communities across the United Kingdom have a vital role to play.

"As they go about their daily business, whether work, leisure or otherwise,
vigilance should be our watchword. My message is a simple one, public awareness
can provide an essential edge.

"Members of the public should trust their instincts and engage with us,
reporting any suspicious behaviour which may be terrorist-related."

Sir Paul also warned about the dangers of transferring counter-terrorism (CT)
responsibilities from Scotland Yard to a new National Crime Agency.

"The CT infrastructure, integrated within local policing and communities, has
enjoyed real success and we should be careful only to dismantle it with good
cause. We should be conscious of adding further complexity and of the effects on
key intelligence relationships, by the creation of any additional organisational
tiers within the counter-terrorism landscape."

CAPTION: Warning: Sir Paul Stephenson

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Attack by terrorists is highly likely, says Met chief;
THE DEATH OF BIN LADEN Repercussions

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 385 words


THE death of Osama bin Laden does not mark the end of the terrorism threat to
Britain and an attack could occur at any time, the head of the Metropolitan
Police has warned.

Sir Paul Stephenson said the threat of a terrorist attack remained "severe" and
added: "To be blunt it means that an attack is highly likely and could occur
without warning at any time."

"As government, the police and the security service assess the impact and
consequences of the death of Osama bin Laden, it is clear that there can be no
let-up in our vigilance," the Scotland Yard Commissioner said in a speech at the
Policy Exchange think tank in central London.

He said that al-Qaeda was responsible for the injury and death of thousands of
people worldwide and was committed to the use of terrorism and murder to achieve
their aims.

"One man's death does not mark the end of an ideology and we must remain alert
to the continuing threat from al-Qaeda, its affiliates and those acting alone,"
he added.

He called on all communities across the country to play a role as they go about
their daily business.

"Vigilance should be our watchword," he said. "My message is a simple one:
public awareness can provide an essential edge. Members of the public should
trust their instincts and engage with us, reporting any suspicious behaviour
which may be terrorist-related."

The head of Scotland Yard, who was delivering the John Creaney lecture in memory
of the Northern Ireland terrorism prosecutor, took the opportunity to defend
counter-terrorism policing. He said the formation of the current network - which
involves local counter-terrorism officers in each force feeding intelligence
into four regional hubs - had taken "considerable time, effort and, frankly,
sweat to develop" and that it should only be dismantled with good cause.

It has been proposed that counter-terrorism policing becomes part of the new
National Crime Agency. But Sir Paul said the existing structure had "seen real
success" in the fight against terrorism and that introducing further complexity
could be counter-productive.

"It is critically important that we avoid any unnecessary distractions as we
both prepare for the Olympics and maintain our current level of operational
activity," he said.

'We considered releasing our holiday photos, but they're a bit too gruesome'

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                 Mersey Edition

Terror attack in UK 'highly likely', Met chief warns

BYLINE: Wesley Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 430 words


AN ATTACK on the UK is highly likely and could occur without warning at any
time, Britain's most senior police officer warned last night.

Sir Paul Stephenson said it was vital that communities remained vigilant and
urged members of the public to "trust their instincts" and report "any
suspicious behaviour which may be terrorist-related". "Vigilance should be our
watchword," the Metropolitan Police commissioner added.

In his first speech since returning to work after surgery, Sir Paul said the
"severe" threat from international terrorism was "not a bureaucratic
description, but rather a factual assessment of the reality of the threat we
face".

"To be blunt, it means that an attack is highly likely and could occur without
warning at any time. ldp FOR News, Sport and Business on your phone "As
government, the police and the security service assess the impact and
consequences of the death of Osama bin Laden, it is clear that there can be no
let-up in our vigilance."

Sir Paul said: "Osama bin Laden led an organisation which is responsible for the
injury and death of thousands of people worldwide in the name of an extreme and
perverted ideology, committed to the use of terror and murder to achieve their
aims.

"However, one man's death does not mark the end of an ideology and we must
remain alert to the continuing threat from al-Qaida, its affiliates and those
acting alone.

"The police and security services will continue to work locally, nationally and
with our international partners to do everything possible to counter the
terrorist threat.

"But we cannot do this alone, we need the help of the public to protect the
country from the threat of terrorism."

He went on: "All communities across the United Kingdom have a vital role to
play.

"As they go about their daily business, whether work, leisure or otherwise,
vigilance should be our watchword.

"My message is a simple one, mobile public awareness can provide an essential
edge.

"Members of the public should trust their instincts and engage with us,
reporting any suspicious behaviour which may be terrorist-related."

Earlier, five men arrested under the Terrorism Act outside the Sellafield
nuclear plant in Cumbria on Monday were released without charge.

A Greater Manchester Police spokesman said: "Officers have conducted a thorough
investigation and a decision has been made to release the five men without
charge."

The arrests were made hours after it was revealed that Osama bin Laden had been
assassinated in a US raid in Pakistan.

ldp mobile FOR News, Sport and Business on your phone

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terrorist attack 'highly likely' says police chief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 268 words


A TERRORIST attack on the UK is highly likely and could occur without warning at
any time, Britain's most senior police officer has warned.

Sir Paul Stephenson, Metropolitan Police commissioner, made the comments in the
wake of the death of Osama bin Laden.

He said it was vital that communities remained vigilant and urged members of the
public to "trust their instincts" and report "any suspicious behaviour which may
be terrorist-related".

He said: "As the Government, the police and the security service assess the
impact and consequences of the death of Osama bin Laden, it is clear that there
can be no let up in our vigilance.

"Osama bin Laden led an organisation which is responsible for the injury and
death of thousands of people worldwide in the name of an extreme and perverted
ideology, committed to the use of terror and murder to achieve their aims.
However, one man's death does no mark the end of an ideology and we must remain
alert to the continuing threat from al-Qaeda, its affiliates and those acting
alone."

Meanwhile US President Barack Obama last night announced that the White House
would not release a photograph of Osama bin Laden's body.

President Obama made the remarks during an interview with CBS television's "60
Minutes." The White House had been weighing up the release of a picture, in part
to offer proof that bin Laden was killed during a raid on his compound early on
Monday. However, officials had cautioned that the photo was gruesome and could
be inflammatory.

US forces stormed the compound in Pakistan where bin Laden was hiding, then shot
and killed the al-Qaeda leader.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DET


                     Copyright 2011 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Police chief cautions UK terror attack highly likely

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: NWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 215 words


AN attack on the UK is highly likely and could occur without warning at any
time, Britain s most senior police officer warned last night.

Metropolitan Police commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson said it was vital
communities remained vigilant and urged members of the public to  trust their
instincts  and report  any suspicious behaviour which may be terrorist-related .

Vigilance should be our watchword.

In his first speech since returning to work after surgery, Sir Paul said the
severe  threat from international terrorism was  not a bureaucratic description,
but rather a factual assessment of the reality of the threat we face .

To be blunt it means that an attack is highly likely and could occur without
warning at any time.

As Government, the police and the security services assess the impact and
consequences of the death of Osama bin Laden, it is clear that there can be no
let up in our vigilance.

He added:  Osama bin Laden led an organisation which is responsible for the
injury and death of thousands of people worldwide in the name of an extreme and
perverted ideology, committed to the use of terror and murder to achieve their
aims.

However, one man s death does not mark the end of an ideology and we must remain
alert to the continuing threat of al Qaeda and its affiliates.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday

you can count on us... ; Catch the thief? I've got an app for that ; Terror for
jogger as knife attacker pounces ; Man charged over gang fight'

BYLINE: Pamela Welsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 131 words


STALYBRIDGE A jogger was attacked with a knife as she ran down a dirt track.

The 35-year-old was close to Brushes Road when she noticed a man walking towards
her.

She tried to jog round him but he grabbed her and threw her into bushes.

The man then pulled out a Stanley knife and demanded valuables.

The victim told him she did not have any and he cut her arm and stomach before
running off towards Copley. Det Chief Insp Denise Worth from Tameside CID said:
The victim has been left shaken by her ordeal.

The attack happened at 10.10am on Monday. The attacker is white, in his 20s and
had a local accent. He wore a grey hooded top, green camouflage trousers, black
army-style boots and black gloves.

Anyone with information should call police on 0161 856 9250 or Crimestoppers on
0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEMOCRACYINACTION Ballot boxes are sorted at Manchester town hall ahead
of today's twin votes

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        May 5, 2011 Thursday 2:47 AM BST

MET CHIEF WARNS ON TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Wesley Johnson, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1379 words


An attack on the UK is highly likely and could occur without warning at any
time, Britain's most senior police officer has warned.

Sir Paul Stephenson said it was vital that communities remained vigilant and
urged members of the public to ``trust their instincts'' and report ``any
suspicious behaviour which may be terrorist-related''.

``Vigilance should be our watchword,'' the Metropolitan Police commissioner
added.

In his first speech since returning to work after surgery, Sir Paul said the
``severe'' threat from international terrorism was ``not a bureaucratic
description, but rather a factual assessment of the reality of the threat we
face''.

``To be blunt it means that an attack is highly likely and could occur without
warning at any time.

``As Government, the police and the security service assess the impact and
consequences of the death of Osama bin Laden, it is clear that there can be no
let up in our vigilance.''

Sir Paul said: ``Osama bin Laden led an organisation which is responsible for
the injury and death of thousands of people worldwide in the name of an extreme
and perverted ideology, committed to the use of terror and murder to achieve
their aims.

``However, one man's death does not mark the end of an ideology and we must
remain alert to the continuing threat from al Qaida, its affiliates and those
acting alone.

``The police and security services will continue to work locally, nationally and
with our international partners to do everything possible to counter the
terrorist threat.

``But we cannot do this alone, we need the help of the public to protect the
country from the threat of terrorism.''

He went on: ``All communities across the United Kingdom have a vital role to
play.

``As they go about their daily business, whether work, leisure or otherwise,
vigilance should be our watchword.

``My message is a simple one, public awareness can provide an essential edge.

``Members of the public should trust their instincts and engage with us,
reporting any suspicious behaviour which may be terrorist-related.''

Sir Paul also warned about the dangers of transferring counter-terrorism (CT)
responsibilities from Scotland Yard to a new National Crime Agency.

``The CT infrastructure, integrated within local policing and communities, has
enjoyed real success, is highly regarded worldwide and we should be careful only
to dismantle it with good cause.''

Delivering the John Creaney memorial lecture at the Policy Exchange think-tank
in central London yesterday, he added: ``We should be conscious of adding
further complexity and of the effects on key intelligence relationships, by the
creation of any additional organisational tiers within the counter-terrorism
landscape.

``Perhaps of some relevance here are the conclusions of the '9/11 Commission
Report' in the US when commenting on agencies' abilities to 'connect the
dots'.''

Sir Paul returned to work in time for last month's royal wedding after
undergoing an emergency operation in January.

Surgeons successfully removed a pre-cancerous tumour from his femur in an
operation before Christmas, but the growth caused further damage to the bone,
which led to a fracture and a second ``lengthy and complex'' operation.

Sir Paul said: ``Osama bin Laden led an organisation which is responsible for
the injury and death of thousands of people worldwide in the name of an extreme
and perverted ideology, committed to the use of terror and murder to achieve
their aims.

``However, one man's death does not mark the end of an ideology and we must
remain alert to the continuing threat from al Qaida, its affiliates and those
acting alone.

``The police and security services will continue to work locally, nationally and
with our international partners to do everything possible to counter the
terrorist threat.

``But we cannot do this alone, we need the help of the public to protect the
country from the threat of terrorism.''

He went on: ``All communities across the United Kingdom have a vital role to
play.

``As they go about their daily business, whether work, leisure or otherwise,
vigilance should be our watchword.

``My message is a simple one, public awareness can provide an essential edge.

``Members of the public should trust their instincts and engage with us,
reporting any suspicious behaviour which may be terrorist-related.''

Sir Paul also warned about the dangers of transferring counter-terrorism (CT)
responsibilities from Scotland Yard to a new National Crime Agency.

``The CT infrastructure, integrated within local policing and communities, has
enjoyed real success, is highly regarded worldwide and we should be careful only
to dismantle it with good cause.''

Delivering the John Creaney memorial lecture at the Policy Exchange think-tank
in central London, he added: ``We should be conscious of adding further
complexity and of the effects on key intelligence relationships, by the creation
of any additional organisational tiers within the counter-terrorism landscape.

``Perhaps of some relevance here are the conclusions of the ''9/11 Commission
Report`` in the US when commenting on agencies' abilities to 'connect the
dots'''.

Sir Paul also warned of the need to be careful of the timing of any debate of
the UK's counter-terrorism structure.

``It is critically important that those discussions are timely, that we avoid
any unnecessary distractions as both prepare for the Olympics and maintain our
current level of operational activity, and that any conclusions are drawn on the
best analysis and experience.''

Sir Paul returned to work in time for last month's royal wedding after
undergoing an emergency operation in January.

Surgeons successfully removed a pre-cancerous tumour from his femur in an
operation before Christmas, but the growth caused further damage to the bone,
which led to a fracture and a second ``lengthy and complex'' operation.

Linking counter-terrorism operations with serious and organised crime in a
National Crime Agency could lead to tensions, Sir Paul said.

``We must be aware, as I most certainly am from my professional perspective, of
the potential resourcing tensions of any organisational linking of
counter-terrorism with serious and organised crime.''

Sir Paul added he was ``entirely comfortable'' with Home Secretary Theresa May's
position on the future of counter-terrorism operations.

He said his concerns over stripping away the Met's lead role in
counter-terrorism operations were not a result of territorial self-interest.

``I, as Commissioner of the Met, can state quite unequivocally, that territorial
and organisational self-interest would be deeply unattractive as a basis for
both me, and many of my colleagues, for considering what should be the
appropriate structures for responding to the terrorist threat we face.

``Frankly, I am proud we are better than that.

``National security is simply too important to be determined by such shallow
motives, just as the protection of our citizens must be based on more than mere
structural convenience.''

Turning to the controversial issue of policing protests, Sir Paul said society
has a ``right to expect individuals to behave lawfully''.

``There will be occasions when it is simply not possible or practical to prevent
some offences of violence occurring he said.

``Suggestions that the answer lies solely in better intelligence is frankly
naive.''

Referring to the occupation of the Ritz and shops in Oxford Street during the
TUC march in central London, he said he regretted the violence and disruption
caused by a significant minority.

``But perhaps this needs to be set against international comparison, for example
in Greece and France, where we have seen protests involving buildings and cars
set alight - way beyond what we have experienced, thankfully - petrol bombs
thrown and cities brought to a standstill.''

And he repeated the Met's ``deep regret'' that the actions of one of its
officers, Pc Simon Harwood, ``have been found to have caused the death of a
member of the public''.

Lord Carlile, the former independent reviewer of counter-terrorism powers, asked
Sir Paul if he thought his officers would have found bin Laden quicker if he had
been hiding in a newly-built compound in Rugeley's ``Abbots Bromley rather than
Abbottabad''.

``I would like to think we would,'' the commissioner replied.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2011 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        May 5, 2011 Thursday 2:46 AM BST

TERROR ATTACKS TOOK 52 LIVES

BYLINE: Sam Marsden, Katie Hodge and John Fahey, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 3269 words


These are the 52 victims of the July 7 2005 terrorist attacks on London.

Seven died in the bombing at Aldgate on the Circle Line:

Lee Baisden, 34, an accountant for the London Fire Brigade, from Romford, in
Essex.

Mr Baisden had to grow up quickly. He became the man of the house after his
father Patrick died in 1992 and spent much of his time caring for his mother,
who has multiple sclerosis.

He had hoped to marry his partner Paul Groman before he was killed.

Benedetta Ciaccia, 30, an IT business analyst from Norwich who worked for a
publishing company.

Born in Rome, she was brought up in Italy but a passion for languages and travel
led her to move to England at the age of 19.

She was two months away from marrying her fiance Fiaz Bhatti when she died.

Richard Ellery, 21, a shop worker for photographic chain Jessops from Ipswich,
Suffolk.

The eldest of three children, Mr Ellery was born and raised in Southampton, left
school at 18 and moved in with friends in Ipswich shortly before he died.

Jessops closed all its 280 stores to mark a national two-minute silence a week
after the bombings.

Richard Gray, 41, a tax manager from Ipswich, Suffolk.

Mr Gray was born in Bradford-on-Avon, Wiltshire, and met his wife Louise in 1987
when she started a part-time job at the Ipswich hotel owned by his parents. They
went on to have two children, Adam and Ruby.

He qualified as a chartered accountant specialising in tax and commuted every
day from Ipswich to his job with FW Smith Riches and Company in Pall Mall,
central London.

Anne Moffat, 48, head of marketing and communications for Girlguiding UK, from
Old Harlow, Essex.

Miss Moffat studied art in Hull before moving to London but she returned to the
family home in Old Harlow to look after her ailing mother, who died in 2002.

She was committed to helping others, and a ``Make Poverty History'' booklet was
found in her handbag when her body was recovered.

Fiona Stevenson, 29, a solicitor living in central London, originally from
Little Baddow, Essex.

Miss Stevenson had dreamed of becoming a lawyer as a teenager when at school in
Chelmsford and went on to Sussex University before fulfilling her ambition.

She joined specialist criminal law firm Reynolds Dawson but died just two weeks
after buying a new flat in central London.

Carrie Taylor, 24, a finance officer at the Royal Society of Arts, from
Billericay, Essex.

Miss Taylor, who was born in Sidcup, Kent, and grew up in Billericay, discovered
a passion for drama at a young age and went on to study it at Royal Holloway,
University of London.

Her ambition was to work behind the scenes in the arts and she was given a
permanent job at the Royal Society of Arts three days before her death.

Six died in the bombing at Edgware Road on the Circle Line:

Michael Stanley Brewster, 52, a civil engineer and father-of-two from Swanwick,
Derbyshire.

Mr Brewster, who was known as Stan, was a senior project manager for Derbyshire
County Council, where his main interests were the design and structure of
bridges.

A keen cyclist who rode 12 miles to work every day, he also played football and
golf and took part in triathlons to raise money for a local hospital.

Jonathan Downey, 34, from Milton Keynes, an HR systems development officer.

The Liverpool FC fan, who was brought up in Corby, Northamptonshire, was
planning to move to Ireland with his wife Veronica.

Kensington and Chelsea Council, where he worked, placed a bench outside the town
hall in his memory.

David Foulkes, 22, a newspaper sales manager from Oldham, Greater Manchester.

Mr Foulkes was educated at Hulme Grammar School, where he became a member of the
team that won the Greater Manchester under-16 squash championship.

He had just begun a new job with The Guardian newspaper and travelled to London
on July 7 for a work meeting.

Jennifer Nicholson, 24, from Reading, Berkshire, who worked for a music company.

Born in Bristol, she underwent major surgery to correct a curvature of the spine
while at school before studying music and English at Reading University.

The opera fan planned to do a PhD, marry her soulmate James White and had spoken
of her hopes of becoming a mother.

Colin Morley, 52, from Finchley, north London, who worked in advertising and
marketing.

The father-of-three grew up in Coulsdon in Surrey, Leeds and Liverpool before
going to university in London, where he met his wife Ros.

He was responsible for the popular mobile phone campaign: ``Who would you like
to have a one to one with?''

Laura Webb, 29, from Islington, north London, who worked as a personal assistant
for an advertising firm in Paddington.

Miss Webb, who was brought up in Kingston Vale, Surrey, was a passionate
globetrotter who spent nearly a year travelling through Thailand, Australia and
South America with her boyfriend, Chris Driver, before they cut their trip short
after the 9/11 attacks.

She and Mr Driver planned to spend the rest of their lives together and were
intending to buy a home, marry and have a family.

Twenty-six died in the bombing between King's Cross and Russell Square on the
Piccadilly line:

James Adams, 32, a mortgage broker from Peterborough, Cambridgeshire.

Mr Adams was born in Chester and educated at the King's School in Peterborough,
where he shared bunk beds with Labour MP David Lammy.

He was a committed Christian who served as a deacon at his church for three
years. An orphanage he supported in southern India erected a building in his
memory.

Samantha Badham, 35, an internet designer who lived in Tottenham, north London.

Hereford-born Miss Badham was head girl at the John Masefield High School in
Ledbury, Herefordshire, before studying history at Birmingham University.

She and her long-term partner Lee Harris were killed together after they changed
their normal routine and took the Tube because they were planning to meet
friends after work.

Philip Beer, 22, a hair stylist from Borehamwood, Hertfordshire.

Mr Beer started work at a salon after leaving school at 16 and dreamed of
travelling the world as a well-known hairdresser.

His friend and colleague Patrick Barnes, who was travelling with him on the
train targeted by suicide bomber Jermaine Lindsay, said Mr Beer's last words to
him after the attack were: ``Everything's going to be fine.''

Anna Brandt, 42, a Polish national living in Wood Green, north London, who
worked as a cleaner.

The mother-of-two ran her own restaurant in Poland before coming to the UK in
2002.

On the day she was killed, her daughter Natalie had arrived to visit her in
London but they missed each other before the tragedy.

Ciaran Cassidy, 22, a shop assistant from Upper Holloway, north London.

The passionate Arsenal fan came from a large Irish family and worked for a legal
and stationery firm in Chancery Lane.

At the time of his death he had been saving up to go to Australia, and his
family had expected him to move there permanently because the lifestyle would
have suited his laid-back personality.

Rachelle Chung For Yuen, 27, an accountant from Mill Hill, north London, who was
originally from Mauritius.

The devout Roman Catholic grew up on Mauritius, the eldest of three sisters, and
worked to pay her own way through her accountancy studies.

She came to Britain in 2000 to complete her training and married her husband
Billy in London in May 2004.

Elizabeth Daplyn, 26, a hospital administrator from Highgate, north London.

Leicester-born Miss Daplyn was a talented artist and musician who graduated from
Oxford University in 2001 with a degree in fine art.

She lived in a variety of places, including Pakistan and Nigeria, before moving
into a flat with her boyfriend, Rob Brennan, several months before her death.

Arthur Frederick, 60, a museum security guard from Seven Sisters, north London,
who was originally from the Caribbean.

Born in Grenada, Mr Frederick moved to Montserrat as a young man and worked
there as a policeman for nearly 32 years as well as recording a calypso song
called Signs of Christmas that is still popular on the island.

He moved to London after becoming worried about the eruption of Montserrat's
Soufriere Hills volcano in the late 1990s.

Karolina Gluck, 29, a Polish national living in Finsbury Park, north London, who
worked at a private postgraduate college.

Miss Gluck was born in the town of Chorzow in Poland and followed her twin
sister Magda to London in 2002.

At the time of her death she and her sister were planning to return to Poland
the next month to introduce their boyfriends to their family.

Gamze Gunoral, 24, a Turkish national staying in Totteridge, north London, while
she studied English.

Istanbul-born Miss Gunoral, an only child who was brought up by her mother after
her parents divorced when she was five, excelled at school and graduated from
university as an actuary in 2003.

The ambitious businesswoman came to Britain after deciding to take a year's
break from her job with Turkey's largest export company to improve her English.

Lee Harris, 30, an architect who lived in Tottenham, north London.

Mr Harris, who grew up in Hereford, worked for architecture firm 3DReid on
projects including Heathrow Airport's central bus station and the Terminal 1
international departures lounge.

He died alongside his partner Miss Badham, whom he met at Hereford Lads Club
some 14 years before the attacks.

Ojara Ikeagwu, 55, a social worker from Luton.

Mrs Ikeagwu was born in Nigeria and came to Britain in 1976 with her husband and
their three young children.

She was devoted to her family and a generous supporter of children in her home
village in Nigeria, which following her death made her a chief and named its
primary school after her.

Emily Jenkins, 24, a PA for a project management company, who lived in Peckham,
south-east London.

Miss Jenkins, who grew up in Kew, south-west London, travelled widely. She lived
in South America, Spain and Australia before returning to Britain and setting
her heart on becoming a midwife.

Adrian Johnson, 37, a married father-of-two and product technical manager from
Sutton-in-Ashfield, Nottinghamshire.

His work for luxury fashion house Burberry took him all over Europe, including a
lot of time in Italy and the company's base in Haymarket in London.

Mr Johnson met his future wife Catherine at school when they were 15, and his
ambition was to see his family comfortable and his children grow up.

Helen Jones, 28, an accountant living in Holloway, north London.

Miss Jones was born in Edinburgh but grew up in Templand near Lockerbie. She
moved to London in November 2001 and worked for Phoenix Equity Partners.

Accountant colleagues called her ``Sherlock Jones'' because she was so good at
sniffing out mistakes.

Susan Levy, 53, a mother-of-two from the village of Newgate Street, near
Cuffley, Hertfordshire, who worked as a legal secretary.

She married husband Harry in 1976 and they set up home in Ilford where they
lived for 24 years before moving to Hertfordshire.

Her eldest son, Daniel, lived in Australia but said the important part of his
day was switching on his computer in the morning to find a message from his
mother waiting for him.

Shelley Mather, 26, a tour guide from New Zealand who had been living in London
for three years.

Miss Mather, the only New Zealander to die in the bombings, left her country in
2002 for a tour of Europe and enjoyed the lifestyle so much she qualified as a
travel guide.

Such was her love of travel that her ambition was to ``circumnavigate the
universe''.

Mike Minh Matsushita, 37, a Vietnamese-American who had just moved to Islington,
north London and started a new job in IT recruitment.

He was born in My Tho, south Vietnam, five months before his father was shot
dead by a drunken soldier.

Mr Matsushita later moved to New York with his mother and grew up in the Bronx
but had only been in London a month after moving to be with his girlfriend Rosie
Cowan.

James Mayes, 28, an analyst for the Healthcare Commission from Islington, north
London.

With a keen intellect and love of debate, he attended City of London School then
studied politics at the University of Warwick.

He normally would not have been on the Piccadilly line train but was going to a
seminar in Holborn in central London on July 7.

Behnaz Mozakka, 47, a biomedical officer at Great Ormond Street Hospital from
Finchley, north London.

Mrs Mozakka was born in Shiraz, Iran, before moving to the capital Tehran, where
she met her husband Naber, with whom she had a son, Saeed, and daughter, Saba.

Her family were at one point wrongly told she had survived the blast for up to
45 minutes, but in fact she died instantly.

Mihaela Otto, 46, a dental technician from Mill Hill, north London.

Miss Otto was brought up in Romania and moved to London in 1984, following in
the footsteps of her sister Dania.

Arriving in England she worked in a series of jobs, including as a Burberry
sales assistant and in publishing, before qualifying in dentistry.

Atique Sharifi, 24, an Afghan national living in Hounslow, west London, who was
studying English and IT at college.

He arrived in England in 2002 fearing for his life and having fled extremists in
his homeland after both his parents were killed in the Kabul war.

Mr Sharifi dreamed of becoming a doctor, but in his spare time he worked in a
pizza take-away so he could send money back to his sister in Afghanistan.

Ihab Slimane, 24, a waiter who lived in Finsbury Park, north London.

Mr Slimane was born in Lyon, France, but was of Tunisian descent.

The IT engineering graduate had been living in the capital for just three weeks
when he was killed, but had already made new friends and impressed work
colleagues.

Christian Small, 28, an advertising sales worker from Walthamstow, east London.

The keen sportsman and Luton Town FC fan was drawn to West Africa, particularly
Ghana and Senegal, because the region was his ancestral home.

To reflect his West African roots he changed his name by deed poll shortly
before he died to Christian Njoya Diawara, meaning a man of determination and
strong spirit.

Monika Suchocka, 23, a trainee accountant from Poland, who was living in
Archway, north London.

Ms Suchocka's ambition to work as a translator took her to Italy, France, United
States, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Germany.

She only moved to London three months before the attacks and was considering
whether to move back to Poland after her job finished in October 2005.

Mala Trivedi, 51, a radiographer at Great Ormond Street Hospital from Wembley,
north-west London.

She was born in Nairobi, Kenya, and moved to London to study at Lambeth
Hospital. She married her husband Ashock in 1975 and had one son, Kunaal.

Her colleagues said she had the potential to attain a senior role at Great
Ormond Street.

Thirteen died in the bombing on the number 30 bus in Tavistock Square:

Anthony Fatayi-Williams, 26, an oil executive from Hendon, north-west London.

Mr Fatayi-Williams was educated in Nigeria, France and the UK before joining
multinational engineering firm Amec.

On the morning of July 7 2005, he set off as usual for his office in Old Street,
central London, but his journey was disrupted by the chaos caused by the earlier
bombings on three Tube trains and he helped point other commuters in the right
direction before getting on the number 30 bus.

Jamie Gordon, 30, a City worker from Enfield, north London.

Born in south London, he moved to Zimbabwe with his family as a small child
before later returning to the UK where he achieved well at school and then in
his career.

We was killed on July 7 after taking a different route to the office from usual
after spending the night with a friend from work.

Giles Hart, 55, a BT engineer from Hornchurch, Essex.

Born in Sudan to English parents, Mr Hart moved to the UK at the age of five. He
was passionate about literature and cinema history, and devoted much time to
campaigning for justice and liberty.

He was heavily involved in the Polish solidarity movement, through which he met
his wife Danuta, with whom he had two children. After his death he was awarded
one of Poland's most prestigious honours for his services to democracy.

Marie Hartley, 34, from Oswaldtwistle, Lancashire, worked for a greetings card
firm.

She and her husband David were described as ``soul mates'' who lived ``totally''
for their sons Liam and Aiden.

A talented artist, Mrs Hartley was in London on the morning of 7/7 to attend an
exhibition in Islington, north London, with a colleague.

Miriam Hyman, 31, a picture researcher from Barnet, north London.

She was born at London's University College Hospital, graduated from University
College London and lost her life in Tavistock Square - all within about one
square mile.

Before her death, she was planning to set up her own greeting card company
called Mimento, a play on her nickname ``Mim''.

Shahara Islam, 20, a bank cashier from Plaistow, east London.

The East Ender was a Londoner and British but ``above all a true Muslim and
proud to be so'', her relatives said.

Following travel disruption on the morning of July 7, she boarded the number 30
bus with a colleague, Emma Plunkett, who survived the blast.

Neetu Jain, 37, a computer analyst from Hendon, north London.

Born in New Delhi in India, she moved to the UK with her family in 1968.

At the time of her death she had recently started a new job with an IT firm
called TXT4 based in Hoxton Square, east London, and was about to marry her
partner.

Sam Ly, 28, a computer technician from Melbourne, Australia.

Born in Vietnam, My Ly moved with his family to Melbourne, Australia, as a
refugee when he was a toddler.

He proposed to his girlfriend, Mandy Ha, at the age of five when they were at
primary school together, and they went on to become a couple at university
before moving to London in 2003.

Shyanuja Niroshini Parathasangary, 30, a post office worker from Kensal Rise,
north London.

Born in Colombo, Sri Lanka, she came to London with her family aged just 19
months and went on to graduate from London's South Bank University with a degree
in business studies and administration.

Ms Parathasangary was especially close to her sister, and the two women were
refurbishing a house with a view to moving in together at the time of her death.

Anat Rosenberg, 39, an Israeli charity worker who was living in Finsbury Park,
north London.

Born in Israel, she moved to London where she enjoyed going out almost every
night to ballet, contemporary dance, theatre, opera and concerts.

She was also an obsessive buyer of shoes, costume jewellery and quirky handbags.
After her death, the sale of her ``vast'' collection raised a huge amount of
money for Wizo, the international Jewish women's organisation.

Philip Russell, 28, a financier from Kennington, south London.

Mr Russell grew up in Kent and graduated from Kingston University with a degree
in business studies.

He then followed his passion for travelling with a solo trip to South Africa,
Australia and New Zealand before finding work in the City of London. After
joining JP Morgan Asset Management, he was promoted twice in the 20 months
before his death.

William Wise, 54, an IT specialist from Notting Hill, west London.

The son of a GP, Mr Wise grew up in Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire, and went on to
marry his wife Christine in 1976.

Although the pair separated in 1997, they got back together two years before he
was killed in the Tavistock Square bombing.

Gladys Wundowa, 50, from Ilford, Essex, who worked as a cleaner at University
College London.

Born in Ghana to a poor cocoa farming family, she moved to London in 1983 as the
maid of a Lebanese family. She met her husband, Emmanuel, in 1986 and they had a
son and a daughter.

She was planning to return to her homeland with her husband when she was
murdered.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2011 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Sevenoaks Chronicle

                                  May 5, 2011

Student's terror of costumed attackers

BYLINE: Alice Hemmings and Bradley Bowman reporters@sevenoaks-chronicle.co.uk

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 325 words


As the giant furry dolphin lumbered across the street towards her, Sharnie
Christie felt certain she was about to be attacked.

Shaking, heart racing and finding it difficult to breathe, she ran down a side
street to escape the huge aquatic mammal.

The 19-year-old said it was then she realised her phobia of people in fancy
dress was out of control.

Miss Christie, of Watercress Close, Seal, first became frightened of humans in
costumes when she was nine years old and on a ghost train in France.

She said: "Someone in a Scream costume was behind me as part of the ride.

"They were touching my hair and undoing my hair clip. I just started sobbing.

"Since then, I've been scared but it wasn't until the dolphin that it dawned on
me how much it affects my life."

The teenager, who works at Coral bookmakers in London Road, Sevenoaks, was in
Maidstone when she saw someone dressed up as the sea creature promoting a
product.

She added: "It could have been anybody in that costume and that's what gets me.

"When someone is in fancy dress, you don't know who it is and I'm convinced
they're going to attack me."

Miss Christie is a drama student at K College in Tonbridge and admitted her fear
has caused problems in her studies.

She said: "People think it's quite funny that I'm studying something that means
I'm around people in costume all the time.

"I have to watch people get dressed in costume to  reassure myself that I know
who they are.

"But I went to see the Billy Elliot musical and there was a bit with people
dressed up as coat hangers and clothes.

"I didn't want to make a scene in a crowded theatre so I couldn't run out but it
was horrible, I just sat and cried and tried not to look at them.

"My friends and family think it's funny and always point people in fancy dress
out to me or try to make me go up to them.

"But I'm terrified and I can't help it."

Do you have any strange phobias? Let us know on 01732 228000 or at
reporters@sevenoaks-chronicle.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 103


                       Copyright 2011 Sevenoaks Chronicle
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday

Terror attack 'highly likely' - police chief

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (SWA NEWS)

LENGTH: 275 words


AN attack on the UK is highly likely and could occur without warning at any time
following the death of Osama bin Laden, Britain's most senior police officer has
warned.

Sir Paul Stephenson said it was vital that communities remained vigilant and
urged members of the public to "trust their instincts" and report "any
suspicious behaviour which may be terrorist-related".

"Vigilance should be our watchword," the Metropolitan Police commissioner added.

In his first speech since returning to work after surgery, Sir Paul said the
"severe" threat from international terrorism was "not a bureaucratic
description, but rather a factual assessment of the reality of the threat we
face".

"To be blunt it means that an attack is highly likely and could occur without
warning at any time.

"As Government, the police and the security service assess the impact and
consequences of the death of Osama bin Laden, it is clear that there can be no
let up in our vigilance."

Sir Paul said: "Osama bin Laden led an organisation which is responsible for the
injury and death of thousands of people worldwide in the name of an extreme and
perverted ideology, committed to the use of terror and murder to achieve their
aims.

"However, one man's death does not mark the end of an ideology and we must
remain alert to the continuing threat from al Qaida, its affiliates and those
acting alone.

"The police and security services will continue to work locally, nationally and
with our international partners to do everything possible to counter the
terrorist threat.

"But we cannot do this alone, we need the help of the public to protect the
country from the threat of terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 6, 2011 Friday

Iraqi premier orders investigation into Babil "terrorist" attack; roundup 6 May

LENGTH: 247 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Television in Arabic, in its morning newscasts on 6 May,
reports on Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's instructions to form an investigative
committee to uncover the accompanying circumstances of the terrorist attack that
targeted a police vehicles' garage in Babil and Foreign Minister Hoshyar
Zebari's visit to Germany.

Political developments

Within its 0900 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-  "Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari's visit to Germany has led to a number of
agreements and preparations, on top of which are the preparations for Prime
Minister Nuri al-Maliki's visit to Berlin. Furthermore, with his German
counterpart, Zebari agreed on expanding the investment agreements and handing
over the stolen Iraqi monuments."

Security developments

Within its 0500 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-  "Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has instructed the formation of an
investigative committee to uncover the accompanying circumstances of the
terrorist attack that targeted a police vehicles' garage in Babil. Al-Maliki
also ordered that the victims be compensated. As a result of the terrorist
attack that took place yesterday morning at central Al-Hillah, 16 policemen were
martyred and over 65 were injured. The Al-Iraqiyah Television correspondent
explained that a booby-trapped car driven by a terrorist targeted the police
vehicles' garage in Street 40."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 0500 gmt 6 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                               May 6, 2011 Friday

G2: Seven lessons from 7/7: Today, the coroner will deliver verdicts on the
victims of the deadly 2005 terrorist attacks on London. Esther Addley considers
what the inquests have taught us

BYLINE: Esther Addley

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2831 words


- 1 -

The line between life and death is very thin, and very arbitrary

Patrick Barnes and Philip Beer travelled together from Borehamwood every
morning, but on 7 July 2005, the service was slow and they got to the Piccadilly
line 15 minutes later than usual. They were standing face to face, holding on to
a bar, when Barnes felt as if he had been hit on the head with a brick. It was a
moment or two until he came round to hear the screams. Barnes shouted through
the smoke for his friend, whom he couldn't see: "Are we going to die?" "No,"
said Beer, "everything's going to be fine."

In the smoke and confusion, Barnes was able to stagger from the scene, but he
couldn't find his friend. Beer, wedged tightly against him when the bomb
exploded, died in the carriage.

Again and again, the shattering testimonies of the witnesses to 7 July have
underlined how very thin the line was between life and death, and the apparent
arbitrariness of who survived and who did not.

Catherine al-Wafai, sitting five feet from the suicide bomber Mohammad Sidique
Khan on the Edgware Road train, walked off the tube in a daze and made it all
the way home, wearing only one shoe. Philip Duckworth, standing next to Shehzad
Tanweer near Aldgate, was blown from the carriage and staggered from the scene,
with just a small piece of the bomber's shin bone in his eye. Others who were
further away from the bomb sites, however, did not make it.

In some cases survival depended on the chance intervention of others. Martine
Wright and Andrew Brown both lost legs in the Aldgate bomb but their lives were
saved because they were sitting near the carriage door, and because Elizabeth
Kenworthy, an off-duty police officer who climbed into the carriage, was able to
reach them, tie tourniquets around their limbs and keep them calm. The young man
rolling on the floor a little further into the carriage appeared much less badly
injured, so she was "very, very upset" to learn that Richard Ellery had died.

Others made it thanks to reserves of will that they probably had no idea they
had. Philip Patsalos, a university professor, recalled feeling his leg after the
King's Cross blast and finding it "rather mushy". "I started thinking to myself,
I've got to stay alive, I'm going to die here." He concentrated on counting his
breaths in and out, keeping himself calm. When the emergency services arrived,
he was so still they walked past him, thinking that he too was dead.

"I said, 'Sir, help me, I'm dying,'" he told the inquests. "Did he respond?"
asked the lawyer. "Yes."

- 2 -

7 July was a global atrocity

For much of the past five months, a number of news organisations have reported
the 7 July inquest largely in their London news bulletins, as if only the
capital had been attacked. But it is not merely the fact that this was the
biggest terrorist assault in British history, barring Lockerbie, that makes 7/7
an atrocity against the entire country - and much further afield. The timing and
location of the bombs, attacking commuters at rush hour on London's socially
levelling transport network, meant that they killed both bankers and students,
cleaners and consultants, many from far beyond the capital.

Ellery, a shop assistant at Jessops in Ipswich, was visiting for a one-day
course. Michael "Stan" Brewster worked for Derbyshire county council and was in
the capital for a conference. Jennifer Nicholson commuted from Reading, James
Adams from Peterborough, Adrian Johnson from Nottinghamshire. Marie Hartley died
on a day trip from Lancashire.

The attacks also acutely illustrated London's status as a global microcosm in
which, with brutal irony, different cultures habitually live, work and travel
together in peace, side by side. The dead of 7 July had origins in at least 23
countries: Montserrat and Mauritius, Kenya and Poland, Sri Lanka and New Zealand
and Ghana.

Sam Ly's family had had fled Vietnam for Australia as refugees in the 1970s; he
had travelled to London on a working holiday. Atique Sharifi's parents were
killed by the Taliban when he was a child; he came to Britain in 2002, unable to
speak any English, to earn money to support his younger sister in Afghanistan.
Gladys Wundowa had worked in a salt mine as a child in her native Ghana to raise
money for her siblings; she became a maid for a Lebanese family, moved to
London, found work as a cleaner and had embarked on a course in housing
management when she died. Two thousand people attended her funeral in her home
village in Ghana.

It wasn't only London that mourned.

- 3 -

Crises turn some people into heroes

How would you react if the railway carriage or bus in which you were travelling
was destroyed by a suicide bomb? Would you flee, mindful of your family and your
own survival? Would you dare walk down a tube tunnel towards a loud bang, not
knowing whether the line's electric current was off? Would you climb into a
smoke-filled carriage filled with scenes of unspeakable carnage? For those
following the inquests, those questions have been unspoken but ever present.

It is not easy to predict what makes a hero. Certainly many of those who risked
their lives to help on 7 July had experience, or some professional training, in
trauma situations. Adrian Heili, whose intervention almost certainly helped to
save the life of Danny Biddle, who lost both legs, an eye and his spleen in the
Edgware Road blast, had served with the Austrian army in Kosovo. Group Captain
Craig Staniforth, an RAF wing commander, smashed a window in his undamaged
train, which had pulled up alongside the bombed Edgware Road carriage, and swung
from the handrails to climb into the wreckage to help desperately injured
survivors. He talked to John Tulloch, who had serious head injuries, telling him
about his daughter's university applications in a desperate bid to stop him
going to sleep.

Others, however, were not professionals. Events organiser Steven Desborough was
being evacuated from the Aldgate train, when he turned - "I don't know why" -
and climbed into the wrecked carriage. He cradled 24-year-old Carrie Taylor in
the moments before she died.

"There were people that walked on and I don't blame them," Desborough was
careful to say, and of course many of those who left may have calculated,
rightly, that they were unable to help and would only be in the way. Others were
in profound shock. It is difficult to explain the impulse that prompted a number
of passengers at Aldgate to pause to take photographs of the scene even as Dr
Gerardine Quaghebeur was fighting to save lives; they may not now be able to
explain it themselves. But given the scale of the atrocity, and the challenges
facing the emergency services in arriving at the bomb sites, there is no
question that some, perhaps many, passengers' lives were saved directly because
of the actions of their fellow commuters.

"I don't think you can sum up my debt of gratitude," Wright has said of
Kenworthy. "People like that don't come around that often, and if it wasn't for
her I would be dead."

- 4 -

The bombers were ordinary, silly young men, as well as evil murderers

Shortly before 1am on 6 July, Jermaine Lindsay, who the following day would
murder 26 people on the Piccadilly line train, received a text message from
Khan, the plot's ringleader. The message, though menacing in retrospect, is
almost comical in its content. The pair, their texts showed, had taken to
referring to each other as characters from the 1980s television programme The A
Team, and riffing on tough guy BA Baracus's fear of flying.

"Yo BA big nackers," texted Khan, "you on dat plane or wat. fool."

Lindsay replied: "I ain't getting on no plane fool."

Khan may not have known at the time that Lindsay, who was married with a young
child, had invited his 17-year-old girlfriend to spend the evening of 6 July in
a hotel with him in London, where he promised her they would "spend some quality
time together and . . . have some bad boy room service".

The pair had met at a boxing club in their home town of Aylesbury after he
winked at her. They had been on a handful of dates, going for a drive to a
nearby lake in his Fiat Brava, or to Milton Keynes to wander round a shopping
centre. On that occasion he asked her if she knew how to get hold of a gun,
since he was going to London with some mates "to teach some people a lesson".

Throughout the inquest a vivid and unsettling picture has emerged of the four
bombers, who - as well as being murderous plotters directed by phonecalls from
an as-yet unidentified terrorist mastermind in Pakistan - were also banal,
sometimes silly, often very ordinary young men.

Tanweer also had a secret girlfriend whom he had met as a teenager, and courted
by taking for late-night drives in his car. She knew of his obsession with
cricket and jiu-jitsu, but thought he wasn't particularly religious. They had
moved apart but stayed in contact, and got together again in early 2005. She
felt he loved her, she said, and they made plans for the future, though she was
puzzled by the blond tones in the hair on his head and arms - in fact, they had
been bleached by the hydrogen peroxide he had been preparing in the bomb
factory. The night before the bombings he played cricket with friends in a
nearby park.

Khan, too, was a complicated character, greatly respected in the primary school
where he was a learning mentor, though teachers had expressed concerns about his
hardline views. The man regarded as a father figure was at the same time using
his position to try to convert children as young as 11 to his brand of radical
Islam.

Shortly after the 9/11 attacks, the inquests heard, when he was still a young
teenager, Hasib Hussain had passed a note to his fellow school pupils which
read: "You're next."

Hussain, 18 when he died, had told his teachers that he wanted to go to
university, but dropped out of school a week before it was due to finish at the
end of June 2005. A week after that he murdered 13 people on the number 30 bus.

- 5 -

Though many individuals were heroic, the emergency response fell short

PC Dave Hill, normally employed as a diplomatic protection officer for the
Metropolitan police, was driving with colleagues along the Thames when they
heard reports of unexplained explosions at Edgware Road. They raced to the scene
where Hill entered the tunnel and climbed into the mangled carriage - "because I
was there". The officer, who wept while recalling the scenes he had witnessed,
may have directly saved a number of lives through his actions; he was far from
alone among emergency-service professionals in acting without a second thought
to save others.

But, however inspiring the individual acts of heroism preformed by police
officers, firefighters and paramedics, the uncomfortable truth is that the
emergency services' response to 7 July was hampered by delays, communication
failures, tactical confusion and a jobsworth adherence to protocol that at times
defied common sense.

Again and again, survivors spoke of the appalling wait for rescuers, even as
they felt themselves slipping ever closer to death. Fire crews did not arrive at
Edgware Road until an hour after the attacks. The first paramedic on the scene
called urgently for ambulances; he learned later that ambulances from two
stations nearby had not been dispatched. Paramedics intended for Russell Square
were sent to the wrong location, meaning they also arrived almost an hour after
the attack.

Firefighters arrived at King's Cross station at 9.13am but did not go to the
scene of the blast until 9.42am because of communication protocols. Police and
firefighters were forced to use runners between tunnels and station concourses
because their radio system at the time did not work underground.

Most worrying, perhaps, was what emerged at the inquest about the "Gold" command
centre at London Ambulance Service headquarters. This was a scene of barely
contained chaos, in which staff could not log on to computers, messages were
scribbled on pieces of paper and subsequently lost, and a single operator was
handling every 999 call and radio message relating to the four bomb sites. Three
hours after the first attacks, the inquest heard, those in charge of the
ambulance response were still unclear about how many bombs had exploded and
where. Ambulances were not even dispatched to Tavistock Square, scene of the bus
bomb, until 52 minutes after the blast.

The ambulance service was also forced to admit that it "did not provide a
complete picture" to a London Assembly inquiry in 2006 into the emergency
response, giving an account which suggested a speedier and more efficient
response than had actually taken place. "There was no intent to deceive,"
insisted an ambulance spokesman.

- 6 -

We may never know how much MI5 knew before July 7

One of the most dramatic images to emerge from the inquests was not an image of
a bomb scene, but a grainy, black-and-white surveillance photograph of Aldgate
bomber Tanweer, which MI5 sent to US secret services in the months before the
attacks to be shown to a key al-Qaida informant. The informant, Mohammed Junaid
Babar, had not identified the image as being significant, it emerged in evidence
- perhaps unsurprisingly since the original, which very clearly showed the
bomber with Mohammed Sidique Khan, had been cropped so badly as to render
Tanweer unrecognisable and cut out Khan altogether. Babar had been involved in
training Khan in a terrorist camp in Afghanistan.

MI5 had no explanation for the poor quality of the image. "One of my children,"
tartly noted inquest counsel Hugo Keith, "could have done a better job."

Witness G, the security service spokesman giving evidence anonymously,
acknowledged in court that MI5 had allowed a committee of MPs to be misled over
its classification of suspects, and had not told the MPs about the original,
good-quality picture.

But if the spokesman, under cross-examination, did shed some light on MI5's
involvement, to many of the bereaved families his evidence was distinguished
more by what it did not reveal. It was known before the inquest, for example,
that Khan came onto MI5's radar on at least eight occasions before the bombings,
dating back as early as 2001. The witness cited limited resources,
unsophisticated computer systems, even Khan's common name, as explanations of
why the dots had not been joined. Repeatedly, he said the service had improved
its systems since the attacks and would be unlikely to miss such connections
again. But he did not elaborate how and why.

At one point, almost as an aside, Witness G told the court that he was confident
Khan could have been identified as a trained jihadist in March 2005, four months
before the bombings, had agents chosen to investigate a major lead. They did
not, he said, for a "proportionate and reasonable" reason. However, he was
unable to disclose what that was, he said, "for national security reasons".

- 7 -

Inquests have their limits

After a process of more than six months, during which more than 300 people have
given evidence in person and a futher 200 by statement, 1,173 pieces of evidence
have been disclosed and at least 16 separate legal teams have had their say, all
involved will hope that the coroner will have made significant strides towards
uncovering the full story of 7 July.

But however admirable, in the minds of many bereaved families, Lady Justice
Hallett's management of the inquest process has been, questions are certain to
remain even after she delivers her verdicts. Legal rules tightly circumscribe
the powers of coroners, whose principal role, of course, is to rule on cause of
death. It is not yet absolutely certain how much scope she will consider she has
under "rule 43" to make recommendations to prevent further deaths.

Some of the bereaved families believe that the end of the inquest should
represent the close of the period of inquiry. But others have pressing questions
that they insist still have to be answered. A number of family members feel that
the security services were allowed to sidestep important questions during the
inquest process, and that the witness who gave evidence on MI5's behalf was not
pushed by the coroner or her barrister to give full answers.

Some relatives question Witness G's assertion that the failure to follow up
intelligence about the 7 July bombers was due to limited resources, or question
why Babar, who remains the only person to be convicted in relation to the
bombings, served only four years in a US prison before being released.

Some years ago lawyers representing survivors and the bereaved families launched
legal action to force the government to hold an independent inquiry into the
attacks. Those proceedings were stayed while the inquest process was ongoing;
they could be reactivated, dependent on the coroner's findings and potential
recommendations. It may not be over yet.

Captions:

Survivors from the bombed bus in Tavistock Square

A commuter's mobile phone image following the

Edgware Road blast

Rescue workers outside King's Cross station

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 6, 2011
                                 First Edition

Top policeman warns attack in UK is highly likely;
TERRORISM

BYLINE: Rob Hastings

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 185 words


A terrorist attack on the UK is highly likely and could occur at any time, the
Metropolitan Police commissioner, Sir Paul Stephenson, has warned.

Sir Paul was speaking in public for the first time since taking time away from
the job in December to undergo two operations to remove a pre-cancerous tumour
from his leg. In the first official comments following the death of Osama Bin
Laden, he said that there could be "no let up in our vigilance". The threat to
Britain from international terrorist cells is classed as severe, a term that Sir
Paul said was "not a bureaucratic description, but rather a factual assessment
of the reality of the threat we face".

He added: "One man's death does not mark the end of an ideology and we must
remain alert to the continuing threat from al Qa'ida, its affiliates and those
acting alone.

"The police and security services will continue to work locally, nationally and
with our international partners to do everything possible to counter the
terrorist threat.

"But we cannot do this alone. We need the help of the public to protect the
country from the threat of terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                               May 6, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Police chief: revenge terror attack a 'severe threat'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 234 words


An attack on the UK is highly likely and could occur without warning at any
time, Britain's most senior police officer warned last night.

Sir Paul Stephenson said it was vital that communities remained vigilant and
urged members of the public to "trust their instincts" and report "any
suspicious behaviour which may be terroristrelated".

"Vigilance should be our watchword," the Metropolitan Police commissioner added.

In his first speech since returning to work after surgery, Sir Paul said the
"severe" threat from international terrorism was "not a bureaucratic
description, but rather a factual assessment of the reality of the threat we
face". "To be blunt it means that an attack is highly likely and could occur
without warning at any time.

"As Government, the police and the security service assess the impact and
consequences of the death of Osama bin Laden, it is clear that there can be no
let up in our vigilance."

Sir Paul said: "Osama bin Laden led an organisation which is responsible for the
injury and death of thousands of people worldwide in the name of an extreme and
perverted ideology, committed to the use of terror and murder to achieve their
aims.

"However, one man's death does not mark the end of an ideology and we must
remain alert to the continuing threat from al Qaida, its affiliates and those
acting alone.

"All communities across the United Kingdom have a vital role to play."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2011 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Capital 'is not ready for Olympics terror attack'

BYLINE: Gordon Rayner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 351 words


LONDON is "woefully" unprepared for a terrorist attack on the 2012 Olympics
because of a chronic shortage of air ambulance crews and other fast response
teams, Lady Justice Hallett warned in her report into the July 7, 2005,
terrorist attacks.

The coroner expressed "grave concern" about the patchy provision for medical
staff at major incidents, which is hugely reliant on volunteers and charity
donations. She suggested that lives would be lost unnecessarily in any future
incident unless the issue was urgently addressed.

By "pure chance" the London Air Ambulance had 27 doctors and paramedics
available on the day of the bombings, because it was holding a conference that
day.

On any other day, only a two-man team would have been on duty, the coroner said.

"I am concerned that London, host to the Olympics in 2012 and a prime terrorist
target, should find itself dependent on corporate funding and charitable
donations, and upon professional volunteers giving up their free time," she
said.

In her report, Lady Justice Hallett said emergency workers must be given more
training to prevent a repeat of the "confusion and chaos" that delayed 999 crews
and prolonged the suffering of victims.

Poor communication between the emergency services and transport workers led to
delays of up to 50 minutes in sending ambulances to the bomb sites.

Lady Justice Hallett said plain English should be used by emergency workers, who
were "bedevilled by jargon".

She told of her "frustration" that communication between 999 crews and transport
workers was hampered by terms that "tended to confuse rather than clarify".

She said that in the emergency services "easily recognisable and understood
names or titles are changed, for no obvious reason, into ones which are not".

The coroner added: "In a life-threatening situation everyone should be able to
understand what everyone else is saying and trying to do."

She asked whether another service would understand if it were told a "management
conference demountable unit [a portable incident room] is on the way from the
management resource centre".

Gordon Rayner, Chief Reporter

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 8, 2011 Sunday

Philippine authorities arrest Abu Sayyaf member over Mindanao terror attacks

LENGTH: 1184 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Philippine Star website on
7 May

[Report by Cecille Suerte Felipe, Delon Porcalla, John Unson, Perseus
Echeminada, Non Alquitran and Jose Rodel Clapano: "Sayyaf man Nabbed in Taguig"]

Manila, Philippines -Joint police and military operatives arrested yesterday a
suspected member of terror group Abu Sayyaf outside a Taguig City hotel where he
was working as a security officer.

Arrested was Imam Arabani Jakiran who was wanted for involvement in several high
profile kidnappings and terrorist attacks in 2001 in Mindanao.

He was nabbed in front of the Pacific Plaza Tower hotel on 4th Avenue, Global
City, Taguig at around 6 a.m.

Senior Superintendent Joel Napoleon Coronel, chief of the National Capital
Region Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (NCR-CIDG), said Jakiran's
presence in Metro Manila didn't mean there was an imminent threat of terror
attack in the metropolis. He said the suspect might be merely trying to evade
prosecution.

"We are investigating that (possible plan to carry out attack) nonetheless. His
arrest was part of the preventive actions of the PNP against criminal groups,"
Coronel told The STAR.

CIDG director Chief Superintendent Samuel Pagdilao Jr said that Jakiran has a
standing warrant of arrest for kidnapping for ransom issued by Isabela, Basilan
Judge Danilo Buloy. Jakiran carried a P350,000 reward on his head.

Jakiran, alias Abdurahim Gustaham Arabani, 39, was a native of Asturias, Jolo,
Sulu, and a resident of 103 Mujahedeen St., Salam Compound, Brgy. Culiat,
Tandang Sora, Quezon City.

Philippine National Police (PNP) chief Director General Raul Bacalzo said that
the arrest of Jakiran was an offshoot of the intensified manhunt against members
of the al-Qaeda-linked Abu Sayyaf and Jemaah Islamiyah (JI).

The two terror groups are suspected of possibly carrying out retaliatory attacks
in the wake of the death of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.

"Jakiran's arrest indicates the readiness of the PNP to proactively deal with
terrorist threats by focusing its operations more on preemptive campaign and
aggressive manhunt against wanted terrorists and other most wanted persons,"
Bacalzo added.

Coronel said Jakiran was part of Abu Sayyaf leader Sahiron Hapilon's group
during the siege of Dr Jose Maria Torres Memorial Hospital in Lamitan, Basilan
on June 2, 2001 during which the terrorists abducted hospital employee Joel
Guillo and other hospital staff and patients.

He was also involved in the Golden Harvest Plantation hostage taking incident in
Barangay Tairan, Lantawan, Basilan on June 11, 2001.

Guillo was taken to the mountainous part of Tuburan, Basilan where kidnapping
victims from Dos Palmas Beach Resort were being kept.

Guillo escaped four months later on Oct. 14, 2001 during a military offensive
against the terror group.

Deserving of punishment

As police stopped yesterday a group of Muslim Filipinos from marching to the US
embassy to protest what they considered the improper handling of bin Laden's
remains, Malacanang called on the Muslim community to denounce the slain
terrorist and not to honour him as a martyr.

"It's a war against terrorism and a warrior of terrorism is no respecter of
persons. Bin Laden should pay for his misdeeds," presidential spokesman Edwin
Lacierda told reporters in a briefing.

"I appeal to our Muslim brothers and sisters to look at the consequences of bin
Laden's actions and not at his being a Muslim," he said.

"This terrorism affects our country as well and the entire globe," he said.

"They should not base their judgment on his being a Muslim. Bin Laden had
inflicted terrible suffering on the world," he said in Filipino.

Some members of the Muslim community in Quiapo gathered yesterday to offer
prayers for bin Laden as well as for a son and grandchildren of Libyan leader
Moammar Gaddafi, who were killed during a NATO air strike. The group marched to
the US embassy but was stopped by policemen several meters from the embassy
compound.

The protesters said it was "immoral" and "disrespectful" of the American s to
bury bin Laden's remains at sea. The group wants the US government to retrieve
the body and give it to either the Pakistani government or to his family for
proper burial.

The group also wants the NATO-led air strikes in Libya stopped.

Protest leader and Islamic cleric Alim Jamil Yahya said that while many Muslims
did not agree with bin Laden's methods, they still revered him as a martyr
because he fought the "satanic US hegemony."

Alert up vs Arabs

In Cotabato City, key members of the regional peace and order council of the
Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao want security forces to be extra alert for
five Arabs in the groups of Abu Sayyaf leader Puruji Indama and former Moro
Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) commander Ameril Ombra Kato. The Arabs -three in
Indama's group and two in Kato's -are believed to be close followers of bin
Laden.

Two of the three Arabs in Indama's group were identified as Sayeed Moktar
Al-Bedouri and Manshur Mohammed Zainy. But authorities said they might just be
aliases.

Lamitan City Mayor Roderick Furigay survived two attempts by Purudji's group to
kill him using roadside bombs.

Furigay, in a text message, said all barangay officials in his jurisdiction were
on high alert.

"Lamitan City has been their easy target. We're not taking chances. The Basilan
provincial police and the military are helping us now deter any attack," Furigay
said.

Kato, a former MILF commander, now leads a separatist group he calls Bangsamoro
Islamic Freedom Fighters.

Kato, a former preacher who studied Islamic theology in Saudi Arabia, reportedly
has links to extremist groups in the Middle East, Pakistan and Indonesia.

ARMM police director Chief Supt. Bienvenido Latag said undercover operatives
were searching for Indama and Kato in Maguindanao.

Indama is wanted for a string of kidnappings and bomb attacks in Basilan while
Kato has a P10-million bounty on his head for the deadly attacks on farming
communities in North Cotabato and Maguindanao after the signing of the
memorandum of agreement on ancestral domain or MOA-AD between the government and
the MILF was aborted on Aug. 5, 2008.

Terror threat high

As officials across the globe try to assess the impact of bin Laden's death, a
leftist congressman called yesterday for the immediate revocation of the
Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) to spare the country from retaliatory attacks
from terrorist groups.

"The presence of American troops is nothing but a magnet for terror attack"
Bayan Muna Rep. Neri Colmenares told reporters during the weekly Balitaan sa
Rembrandt Hotel in Quezon City.

"The termination of the VFA is the best option to remove the presence of US
troops in the country," he said. He said scrapping the VFA makes more sense than
making public statements about preparations for possible terrorist attacks.

He also said that the VFA is an infringement on Philippine sovereignty and that
the way the US carried out its operation to track down and kill bin Laden might
spawn more terror attacks.

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 7 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                        May 8, 2011 Sunday 11:06 PM GMT

CUMMING ESCAPED DEATH IN MOROCCO TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: MOVIE

LENGTH: 213 words


Scottish actor ALAN CUMMING was left shaken after terrorists blew up a cafe in
Morocco last month (Apr11) just hours after he dined there.

The X2 star was enjoying a vacation with his partner Grant Shaffer in Marrakesh,
where they visited Cafe Argana in the town's main square, Jemaa el-Fnaa, the
night before it was bombed on 28 April (11).

In a post on his blog, Cumming writes, "After checking into our hotel last
Wednesday, Grant and I went for a walk and ate dinner at the Cafe Argana. We
awoke late the next day with a start, jetlagged. Again we walked into the main
square. There, we saw the Cafe Argana had been blown up by a bomb. That's what
had woken us.

"The whole front of the restaurant was gone and we could see exactly where we
had been sitting the night before, where we would have been killed had we been
there when the blast happened."

And Cumming admits the experience has given him a new found appreciation for
life, adding: "There's something very sobering and chilling and also galvanising
about a lucky escape like that. I think I live in the moment, treat every day as
though it were my last, all that sort of stuff.

"But this very real and very violent reminder of what a thin string our lives
can hang on has made me more determined to appreciate what I have."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2011 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 9, 2011 Monday

Afghan analysts call on USA to attack terrorist hideouts in Pakistan

LENGTH: 458 words


Text of report by Afghan privately-owned Shamshad TV on 8 May

[Presenter] Analysts have said that the USA should change the war on terror
geography following Usamah's death in Pakistan and stressed that if Pakistan
does not play an honest role in the war on terror, the USA may launch its third
war in Pakistan. Meanwhile, US officials also hinted at terrorist hideouts in
Pakistan and stressed the need to make serious efforts against them.

[Correspondent] Following the killing of Usamah Bin-Ladin in Pakistan, observers
said that the Afghan government's armed opponents had sanctuaries in Pakistan,
but Pakistani officials have always rejected the existence of militant hideouts
and training centres in Pakistan. Analysts said that the security situation
would worsen not only in Afghanistan and region, but in the world, unless the
international community attack terrorist bases in Pakistan.

An analyst, Ajmal Shinwari, said that the US had recently changed its strategy
on Pakistan and now Pakistan is in a risky stage and the USA may launch its
third war in Pakistan, unless Pakistan changes its current policy.

[Ajmal Shinwari, an analyst, captioned] Second, the killing of Usamah Bin-Ladin
in Abbottabad is a warning to Pakistan. Pakistan has to take steps in line with
the international community in the region, otherwise, Pakistan is coming close
to risk with every passing day. It is said that Petraeus would launch his third
war in Pakistan.

[Correspondent] Military analyst Gen Hakgol Solemankhel said that not only the
international community, but Pakistan also acknowledged that terrorist groups
had hideouts and bases in Pakistan. And serious efforts should be made to
destroy them.

He added that the USA could not launch an operation in Pakistan, but it could
increase the number of drone attacks on Pakistan.

[Gen Haigol Solemankhel, military analyst, captioned] Usamah was killed in
Pakistan. The Defence Ministry and senators have said that terrorists have
hideouts in Pakistan. If they want to ensure security in Afghanistan, they
should destroy these hideouts and bases in Pakistan. However, I am not sure
whether the US dispatches infantry to Pakistan to attack these hideouts and
bases.

[Correspondent] A Pentagon report says Al-Qa'idah and Taleban hideouts and bases
are in Pakistan and stresses the need to make serious efforts to destroy the
Taleban and Al-Qa'idah training centres and hideouts in Pakistan.

Meanwhile, a US senator said that senior Pakistani officials not only knew about
the presence of Usamah, but they had information about Mullah Omar and other key
terrorists.

[Video shows interviews, footage of armed men in Pakistan; Usamah, a view of US
Senate session]

Source: Shamshad TV, Kabul, in Pashto 1430 gmt 8 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 9, 2011 Monday

Former official slams Afghan forces for being unable to foil terror attacks

LENGTH: 401 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 8 May

[Presenter] A number of analysts have accused Afghan security bodies of being
unable to prevent Taleban attacks in southern Kandahar Province. They warn that
if the government does not take a serious decision, Kandahar Province will be
changed into a safe base for the Taleban. In the meantime, the Ministry of
Interior speaks about new measures to improve security situation in Kandahar
Province.

[Correspondent] Kandahar Province recently saw more security incidents. It is
said that the armed opponents of the government in the province have constantly
tried to target public places. Meanwhile, a number of analysts say President
Karzai should have allowed the launch of military operations in Kandahar
Province. According to them, the intelligence agency of Pakistan [Inter-Services
Intelligence, ISI] is involved in fuelling insecurity in the province.

[General Abdolhadi Khaled, former deputy minister of interior for security,
captioned, in Dari] Now the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior,
National Directorate of Security's forces and civil and foreign forces operate
separately. Thus, these forces cannot do anything. Among them, the coordinated
forces of the enemy are the winners in Kandahar.

[Correspondent] Although the spokesman for the Ministry of Interior admitted
that there are threats by the armed opponents of the government in Kandahar
Province, he stressed that the Afghan forces were ready to confront the Taleban
operation under the name of Badr.

[Spokesman for Ministry of Interior Zmaray Bashari, captioned, in Dari] Kandahar
Province has a common and a very close border with Pakistan. It is also the
province where security problems are real over the past many years. Thus, first,
the enemy directly focuses on the provinces that are important. Second, these
are seen as big provinces of Afghanistan. Third, these are the provinces that
play important role in terms of political and strategic issues. Fourth, they
[Taleban] can launch a psychological campaign somehow.

[Correspondent] In the meantime, he says the reasons behind their slow operation
in Kandahar Province are not to harm the public and civilian places.

[Video shows former deputy minister of interior for security affairs speaking,
spokesman for Ministry of Interior at a news conference, Afghan forces]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 8 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 9, 2011 Monday

Afghan interior ministry warns of increase in terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 276 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 8 May

[Presenter] The Ministry of Interior has reported on possible increase of
attacks by the armed opponents of the government in the future. The Ministry of
Interior said that it had captured four Taleban fighters yesterday [7 May]
during the Kandahar attack, saying the Taleban are the inmates that had escaped
from the Kandahar jail.

[Correspondent] The Ministry of Interior said that 22 civilians were killed and
62 others wounded in the past one week across the country. Meanwhile, the
ministry reported on the killing of 62 armed opponents of the government and the
capture of 182 others [Taleban rebels].

[Zmaray Bashari, spokesman for Ministry of Interior, captioned] In general,
security forces are in good condition in terms of averting [terrorist attacks].
As it is spring, undoubtedly, attacks would be carried out and more attacks
would be launched in the future.

[Correspondent] In the meantime, the ministry says police casualties have been
more than other Afghan and foreign security forces' casualties.

[Bashari] Afghan police forces sustain more casualties with every passing day
than other Afghan security forces and even the international forces.

[Correspondent] The Ministry of Interior reports on the launch of biometric
programme, saying that at first specifications of security forces and of
civilians are given in the programme. The programme will be effective to
recognize individuals.

[Video shows spokesman for the Ministry of Interior speaking at a news
conference in Kabul, footage of some terrorist incidents in some areas of
Afghanistan]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 8 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday

Terror attack in Afghan north foiled - governor

LENGTH: 481 words


Text of report by privately-owned Noor TV on 9 May

[Presenter] Following the end of a two-day armed clash in the southern city of
Kandahar, provincial officials in northern Balkh Province have said they have
foiled a massive attack by the government's armed opponents in northern Mazar-e
Sharif city. Balkh Governor Ata Mohammad Nur said that a group of terrorists,
armed with light and heavy weapons, had organized a plan to launch attacks on
military and civilian bodies in Mazar-e Sharif city, but their plan was foiled
by security officials in Balkh Province.

Hasib Ahmad Hajati reports:

[Correspondent] While speaking at a press conference in Mazar-e Sharif city on
Monday [9 May], the Balkh governor said that security officials in Balkh
Province managed to foil a terror attack organized by a group of terrorists on
some military and civilian facilities in Mazar-e Sharif city Sunday night [8
May]. He also said that security officials had managed to foil the attack with
people's cooperation. According to the Balkh governor, security officials have
detained three terrorists and seized some 80 light and heavy weapons in
connection with the case.

[Ata Mohammad Nur, captioned as Balkh governor] We received the information at
night that some terrorists were carrying some 80 guns inside Mazar-e Sharif city
and wanted to launch attacks as they did in Kandahar city, and soon after the
information was received, all security officials of Balkh Province begun to find
out about the incident. In fact, it was a tough work because as soon as security
officials received the information, they succeeded in foiling the plan and
confiscating the guns. As you know, the armed clash in Kandahar city continued
for almost three days, so we were worried that how many more guns have
terrorists already placed in Mazar-e Sharif city when they were carrying some 80
guns now.

[Correspondent] Gen Daud Daud, the commander of Pamir police zone No 303 in the
north of Afghanistan, said that the terrorists, who wanted to launch attacks in
Mazar-e Sharif city, had been brought to Balkh Province from Baghlan Province.

[Gen Daud Daud, commander of Pamir police zone No 303, captioned] As a result of
their efforts, the police managed to detain a terrorist group who were smuggling
arms from Pakistan to Afghanistan. In fact, we have confiscated some 4,000
different kinds of bullets, some 49 different kinds of modern weapons, some
equipment, drugs, explosives etc.

[Correspondent] This comes at a time when a group of suicide bombers launched a
massive attack on important government bodies, including the governor's office,
in southern Kandahar city over the past two days.

[Video shows Balkh governor and the commander of Pamir police zone No 303
speaking; archive footage of Afghan security forces; some confiscated weapons
and a military helicopter]

Source: Noor TV, Kabul, in Dari 1300 gmt 9 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday

''Terrorists confess'' to planning attack on Syrian army

LENGTH: 990 words


Text of report by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website; ellipses as
published; subheading inserted editorially

[''Syrian TV Broadcasts Confessions of Terrorist Group in Daraa'' SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - Syrian Television on Saturday [7 May] broadcast confessions
of the terrorist group that attacked the military families' residences in the
town of Saida, Dar'a, on 29 April, with the aim of killing people, stealing
weapons and raping women.

Members of the group confessed that they had received money and bought weapons
from external sides. They tried to exploit the protests to attack the army and
the security forces.

Ahmad Mohammad Ayyash, leader of a terrorist group, born in Dar'a in 1976 and
has a BA in Islamic Law, said: "We had a grocery shop until I finished my study.
Then I travelled to Saudi Arabia three months ago to apply for a teaching job in
one of the Saudi private schools. During that I met a man called Saud
al-Otaibi... He asked me about the reason of my visit... I told him that I came
to teach".

Ayyash added: "Otaibi briefed me on a scheme... He is an educated man... He
allured me by saying that we are planning to destroy the Syrian regime because
it fights the religion and the religious men. Otaibi told me that we should
fight and eliminate all who stand in the face of this scheme at any cost and by
all possible means... He said that we have to fight men of this regime and take
their women and children as hostages. Otaibi promised me a lot of money if I
help him... So I went back to my country and began to receive the money in
payments... He sent me SYP 500,000 [10,277 US dollars] in the form of
remittances... He sent SYP 100,000 via the Al-Waseet Office and SYP 200,000
transferred via the Al-Fouad Office and SYP 200,000 transferred through the
Al-Hanafyya Office," he confessed.

Ayyash said: "I used to tear the receipt... I bought the needed weapons...
Later, I and five other persons formed a group... Otaibi promised us he will
send more money to buy more weapons".

"In Friday, We went to the eastern villages in Dar'a to implement the scheme. No
one knew what we were up to..... My group was armed with Russian weapons that we
had bought earlier from arms dealers... Our mission was to open heavy fire on
the guards in the beginning of the attack... The rest of the armed groups were
set to come later and carry on with the scheme," he added.

Ayyash went on saying: "When we reached the military residences, the guards
thought we were unarmed.... Later, one of our group, named 'Samir Ahmad al-Ali',
opened fire on the guards.... The rest of the group then started to shoot. The
guards didn't think we had weapons and they were surprised when they knew that
there were several armed groups which are trained to use machine guns and
grenades.

"The weapons we have are military rifles and pistols... The other groups have
BKC machine guns and grenades... The aim of the attack was to kill as many
army's officers as possible and seize their weapons to carry on with the
scheme... We wanted to capture their women and children to take them as
hostages," he said.

He said that the terrorist group continued its mission, killing many people,
pointing out that the members committed a real massacre in Saida Compound.

Ayyash added: "After the members fulfilled their mission they fled away while
other terrorist groups came to the compound, clashed with the guards and opened
fire on them."

Ayyash estimated the number of protesters at 'thousands' and the number of the
armed groups at more than ten with 4 to 5 members in each group, adding that
every armed group has its leader who organized its activities. "Members of one
group didn't know the members of any other group... Leaders of the groups
coordinate and agree on a mechanism to make the attack.... Later every leader
informs his group's members on their new task".

Ayyash said we were pretending walking peacefully in front of people and
security men for not raising doubts about what we are implementing of
operations.

Abdullah Sami al-Yabrudi

Abdullah Sami al-Yabrudi, a member of the terrorist armed group, who was born in
1985 and a resident in Umm Weld, said: " On Thursday, Imam of the Great Mosque
in Umm Weld Shaykh Suror al-Rifai called on some young people for meeting in the
afternoon and convinced them of the need to attack the military families'
residences to seize weapons of the guards there."

Al-Yabrudi added some people refused to do that, so al-Rifai gave them money as
he gave me SYP 2,000 and a pistol. In the second day during the Friday prayers,
Shaykh al-Rifai called for the demonstration, claiming it would be peaceful
demonstration for mobilizing the biggest number to ensure coverage to each
other, then we went towards the military residences.

Al-Yabrudi, who holds a BA degree in trade and economy, said my group included
Muhammad al-Balkhi was carrying an RPG launcher, four bombs; Ismail al-Balkhi
was carrying a hunting rifle, three grenades and other five young men with
pistols, their names are Emad, Rami and Abdel-Moneim.

Walid Qasim al-Owdat, a member of the terrorist group, was born in Bosra al-Sham
in 1989. He said that Shaykh Ismail Ibrahim al-Baraghtheh ordered us to attack
Saida military residential compound to steal the guards' weapons and to rape
women.

Al-Owdat said that: "Al-Baraghtheh made a fatwa that this act is lawful and not
forbidden, and the army soldiers are Jewish. He distributed weapons and gave SYP
6,000 for each one, asking us to attack the compound after Friday's prayers.

''Abdullah Khalid al-Kezizy was carrying a sniper, Essam al-Turk, was carrying a
pump-action, Muhammad Hasan al-Tarbush was holding a machine gun and the rest
were carrying knives.

''When we came near the compound, the gunmen opened fire on the guards and a
clash took place resulting in killing and injuring some of the group armed
members.''

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in Arabic 8 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday

Pakistani intelligence bodies fear possible terror attacks in Islamabad - paper

LENGTH: 439 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Usamah Bin-Ladin's killing: Islamabad's
red zone on terrorists' hit list" published by Pakistan newspaper Ausaf on 8
May.

Islamabad: The Interior Ministry and the security agencies have warned the
elected representatives of people that strong reaction over the killing of
Usamah Bin-Ladinis expected at any time and the residences and offices of
important government figures in the red zone of Islamabad are the targets of
terrorists. The terrorists could carry out their activity in any form, they
stated.

The government sources said on 7 May that in the meeting presided over by Acting
Chairman of Senate Jan Muhammad Jamali and National Assembly Acting Speaking
Faisal Karim Kundi, the Interior Ministry and the security agencies expressed
the fear that extremely serious reaction might be shown by the terrorists over
the killing of Usamah Bin-Ladin, and that the presidency, prime minister's
house, prime minister's secretariat, parliament house, parliament lodges,
ministers' enclave and other key installations located in the red zone were on
the hit list of the terrorists. They said that the existing security
arrangements were inadequate to avert any such happening.

These agencies said that a danger was already looming in the red zone, but this
danger had expanded after Usamah Bin-Ladin's killing in Pakistan and the
terrorists would come into action with full planning. Therefore, extraordinary
measures were needed in this regard, he stated.

The sources said that the vehicles of Senate chairman, National Assembly
speaker, deputy chairman Senate, deputy speaker of the National Assembly, and
the federal ministers would also be checked for the Senate and National Assembly
sessions beginning from 9 May. MPs are not allowed to bring guests with them
without special cards and the all-out responsibility of the guests would rest
with the concerned member, they informed. Rush of vehicles on entrance and exit
gates of parliament would not be allowed, while the presence of Frontier
Constabulary, rangers and police would be enhanced, they added.

The sources said that the Senate chairman, acting speaker, and above all, the
security agencies themselves were not satisfied with the existing security
measures in the red zone. Its main reason was the absence of modern detective
equipment and technology with the police, sources stated.

Meanwhile, the intelligence agencies could not succeed to trace the Sudanese
national who had entered the parliamentary lodges. He had approached a lodge
allotted to a parliamentarian from tribal areas.

Source: Ausaf, Islamabad, in Urdu 08 May 11, pp 1, 6

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

President will alert every phone to a terror attack

BYLINE: Alex Spillius

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 273 words


EVERY mobile phone in the United States will receive a text message from the
president to warn of an imminent terrorist attack or natural disaster, under
plans announced yesterday.

From next year, new phones and other hand-held devices will be required to be
fitted with special chips to receive alerts from the White House and other state
and local authorities.

Users will be able to opt out of every type of alert except those from the
president, said the Federal Communications Commission.

The system will include alerts about missing children and will override all
other phone traffic to avoid delays.

President Barack Obama, who has been nicknamed the "texter-in-chief" thanks to
his devotion to his BlackBerry and heavy use of text messages during his 2008
campaign, could face criticism from libertarians for the compulsory nature of
the presidential alerts.

But officials see the system, known as Personal Localized Alerting Network
(Plan), as a logical progression from alerting the public via radio and
television.

"The lesson that was reinforced on 9/11 was the importance of getting clear and
accurate information to the public during a crisis," said Michael Bloomberg, the
mayor of New York, where the scheme will be deployed next year. It will then
move to Washington and most other large cities. He called the alerts a "quantum
leap forward in using technology to help keep people safe".

The warnings will have a unique signal and vibration, said officials from the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.

The announcement of the emergency alert system follows the death of Osama bin
Laden's and a subsequent rise in security concerns.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

SECURITY BLANKET;
COPS' NEW GEAR TO FEND OFF TERROR STREET ATTACK

BYLINE: TOM PETTIFOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 201 words


ARMED police are to be issued with bullet-proof and bombresistant blankets amid
fears of street battles with terrorists.

They remain on high alert of a revenge attack following the assassination of
Osama bin Laden.

And security chiefs warn there would not be time to scramble the SAS for a
Mumbai-style assault here, leaving police in the line of fire.

Made of Kevlar, a high-strength material originally used as a replacement for
steel in motor-racing wheels, the blankets can be thrown over car windows or
doorways. They would protect against explosions "from a large variety of bombs"
and are light enough to be carried by one man.

A police insider said: "The Mumbai gunmen just wanted to kill as many people as
possible and there will be a grave danger of losing police officers within
seconds of an attack commencing. This gear will give them extra flexibility to
move in while providing some protection. It can allow officers to shut off
streets to contain the threat."

Firearms squads will also be given ballistic shields that can withstand gunfire
from an AK47.

The Met Police's specialist CO19 unit, similar to the SWAT teams in the US, is
arranging for the new equipment to be available to all UK forces.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT Mumbai gunman and, left, armoured blanket

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Mum's terror over crowbar gang attack;
THUGS RAID GARAGE

BYLINE: JOANNE McELGUNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 136 words


A SHOPKEEPER was recovering yesterday after being attacked by four masked thugs
who stormed her house.

Terrified Shirley Bergin, 50, raced to lock a patio door when she saw the gang -
armed with crowbars - jump the back wall of her Co Laois home.

But despite her desperate efforts, they forced their way in, dragged her to the
garage shop next door, and made her hand over tens of thousands in cash and a
haul of cigarettes. The thugs then bundled the mum-of-one back home and locked
her in a bathroom, where she was later discovered by husband Paschal, below.

Gardai suspect the gang had been watching the Bergins' Cullahill home for some
time, and waited until Paschal leftbefore swooping at 11pm on Monday.

A source said: "Shirley is absolutely traumatised.

It was a terrible ordeal for her."

joanne.mcelgunn@the-sun.ie

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Raid ... shop

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday

Afghan intelligence agency arrests terrorists intending to attack famous MP

LENGTH: 363 words


Text of report by state-owned National Afghanistan TV on 11 May

[Presenter] The National Directorate of Security has reported that it arrested
several groups that masterminded terrorist and suicide attacks in five separate
operations in Kabul. Mohammad Rafiq Kamapuri has more details.

[Correspondent] Lotfollah Mashal, spokesman for the National Directorate of
Security, has said that as a result of day and night efforts, national security
officers have recently succeeded in arresting several groups that masterminded
terrorist and suicide attacks before they achieved their malicious targets.

National security officers identified and arrested a four-member gang, who
masterminded terrorist and suicide attacks and intended to kill Ustad Abdorrab
Rasul Sayyaf, a jihadi leader and MP, with the use of three methods. They
confessed to their crimes during the preliminary investigations and said they
had received instructions from the other side of the border to assassinate MP
Ustad Sayyaf. Moreover, this group played an active role in 15 terrorist
attacks.

In a separate operation, the directorate also arrested a five-member terrorist
gang, including three masterminds of suicide attacks and two suicide attackers,
who intended to carry out a terrorist attack in Nangarhar Province similar to
the Kabul Bank attack. The arrested confessed to their crimes and said they had
undergone training in Peshawar of Pakistan for two weeks.

Mashal also said that separately they had arrested two terrorists who intended
to assassinate the Indian consul in Jalalabad city under an order by an
intelligence body. Also, the directorate arrested one Pakistani and one Nepalese
citizens on charges of espionage in [southern] Helmand Province. Separately, the
directorate arrested another man who transferred suicide bombers from Miramshah
of Pakistan [to Afghanistan].

All the suspects confessed to their crimes in a preliminary investigation and
said they had been involved in several terrorist attacks and mine blasts.

[Video shows an indoor meeting; suspects speaking to camera; the NDS spokesman
speaking at a news conference]

Source: National Afghanistan TV, Kabul, in Dari 1530 gmt 11 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday

Drug trafficking results in terrorist attacks - Russian official

LENGTH: 198 words


Text of report by Russian Defence Ministry-controlled Zvezda TV on 12 May

[Presenter] Drug trafficking from Afghanistan has been recognized as a global
threat. This decision was made at the G8 ministerial meeting in Paris.

The amount of Afghan drugs sold in Europe is growing, head of the Russian
Federal Drug Control Service (FKSN) Viktor Ivanov has said. One-fifth of the
drugs are sold in Russia. Ivanov called on his foreign colleagues to consolidate
efforts and work out new agreements on the fight against supplies of banned
substances.

[Ivanov] Drug trafficking [channels], which have been operating for a long time,
result in terrorist attacks, which means that they give rise to terrorism on
their way.

Taking into account globalization processes in the world and the fact that the
financial system via virtual money transfers has become global, this phenomenon
may spread across the planet very quickly.

[Presenter] At the meeting in Paris, representatives of G8 member states managed
to agree on a joint fight against drug trafficking. New proposals on this issue
will also be discussed at the upcoming G8 summit in Deauville.

Source: Zvezda TV, Moscow, in Russian 0500 gmt 12 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday

Saudi expresses confidence in Pakistan authorities after "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 173 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

[Spa headline: "karachi-based Saudi consulate comes under terrorist attack"]

Riyadh, jumada ii 8, 1432, may 11, 2011, spa - Prince Khalid Bin-Sa'ud
Bin-Khalid, assistant minister of foreign affairs, pointed out here today that
Karachi-based Saudi consulate general has come under a terrorist attack, when
two unidentified persons hurled two grenades at the consulate, but lead to no
injuries.

This criminal assault resulted in minor damages to the premises which are being
repaired now. The authorities in Pakistan began investigation, gather evidences
and chase the criminals.

Prince Khalid stated that the government of the kingdom of Saudi Arabia has full
confidence in the competence and capability of Pakistani government bodies to
find the criminals and bring them to justice, and to provide the needed
protection for the Saudi mission, in Pakistan, a matter currently undergoing a
coordination.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 11 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday

Danger of high-profile terrorist attacks persists in Russia's south - minister

LENGTH: 301 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Pyatigorsk, 12 May: Russian Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev has said that
the threat of high-profile terrorist attacks persists in the North Caucasus.

"Incoming operational information allows us to conclude that the implementation
of bandits' extremist plans will be followed by further preparations for
committing high-profile terrorist attacks," he said at an operational meeting in
Pyatigorsk today.

He said that "they will be aimed at disrupting the activities of law-enforcement
structures and local government agencies". "Terrorist attacks will target
government authorities and law-enforcement employees and will be aimed at
committing the crimes that may result in numerous human losses," Nurgaliyev
said. He called this tendency very dangerous. "We have to do our best to thwart
these plans," he stressed.

Nurgaliyev said that lately militants had been choosing the tactics of
"individual terror aimed against interior ministry's employees who are involved
in eliminating the bandit underground, and leaders of local governments, public
and religious figures who have an active position towards combating terrorism
and extremism".

The Interior Ministry and the Federal Security Service in a close cooperation
with and under the command of the National Antiterrorist Committee have
conducted a series of operations to liquidate militants and their cohorts. As a
result, several odious bandits were killed, including leaders of the bandit
underground in the North Caucasus, Nurgaliyev said.

He added that the North Caucasus region "is deluged with a large number of
weapons". First of all, this concerns the republics of Kabarda-Balkaria,
Karachay- Cherkessia and Dagestan.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0905 gmt 12 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday

LET OFF WITH A CAUTION, THE 3AM INTRUDER WHO ATTACKED AND TERRORISED FARMER AND
HIS PARTNER

BYLINE: BY CHRIS BROOKE

LENGTH: 499 words


WHEN farmer Clifford Pearson was attacked by an intruder in his bathroom in the
early hours, he acted instinctively and wrestled him to the ground.

Despite being naked, the 48-year-old held on to the man for ten minutes until
police, who had been alerted by his girlfriend's 999 call, arrived at the
farmhouse.

But the couple were horrified to be told 12 hours later that the 20-year-old
intruder had been given only a caution for common assault and was not being
taken to court or punished further.

Mr Pearson was punched once in the chest and both he and his partner were badly
shaken by the terrifying ordeal.

Their upset turned to anger when they discovered that police were 'sweeping the
incident under the carpet'.

Officers attempted to justify the decision by saying it was the man's first
offence, he had a 'good job in the Army', had no recollection of what he did and
was intoxicated at the time.

Mr Pearson insisted the intruder did not smell of alcohol and was not drunk, was
fully alert and because he entered his house in the middle of the night and
assaulted him, the matter should have gone before a magistrates' court.

He said: 'He should have got a fine or a punishment of some sort in court. We
said we wanted him prosecuted and they just played the whole thing down.

'A caution is not a punishment for entering somebody's house at night,
assaulting them in their own house and putting the fear of God in them. This
just brings an early conclusion to the case, it tidies everything up very
quickly and helps their crime figures. It benefits this man and not us.'

The intruder, who was 6ft 2in tall, crept into the couple's farmhouse, half a
mile from the nearest residential area, at 3am on Sunday.

Mr Pearson had accidentally left the door unlocked but shut when he let his
puppy out 20 minutes earlier. He was in bed with his 34-year-old partner when
they heard a noise, but thought it was the dog.

As soon as Mr Pearson heard a creaking floorboard he realised someone was there
and came across the man in the bathroom.

'He immediately took two steps towards me and came at me with his hand, which I
managed to grab. He was a big man with a big hand. He then thumped me in the
chest, it was a proper punch and it hurt.

'We then scuffled and he fell to the floor. I was lucky, he ended up in a
sitting position and I had my arms around his neck and was able to hold him
down. There was nothing he could do to get up.'

Eight police vehicles arrived at the farmhouse outside Northallerton, North
Yorkshire, to arrest the intruder. However, the next day the attitude of
detectives was completely different. The farmer's partner, who asked not to be
named, said: 'The CID made it sound as if it was nothing. We are really annoyed.

'It's soft policing. What example does that give to young people?'

Police said they could not charge the man with burglary because there was no
evidence of intent.

A spokesman for North Yorkshire Police said: 'We have every sympathy for Mr
Pearson and his partner.'

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday
                                  Eire Edition

LENNON FAN ATTACK TERROR;
MATCH CHAOS AS THUG ASSAULTS CELTIC MANAGER

BYLINE: RORY TEVLIN

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 74 words


CELTIC manager Neil Lennon was attacked last night by a crazed fan during a
match against Hearts.

Police and stewards had to jump in as the thug went for Lennon - who suffered
recent death threats - after the Hoops scored their second goal in a 3-0
victory.

Trouble then broke out in the Bhoys fans' section as supporters appeared to
clash with officials.

Celtic assistant manager Johan Mjallby said it was a "dark day" for the game.

FULL STORY: PAGE 7

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGETED Thug goes for Neil Lennon last night as coach, left, tries to
protect him

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

LENNON ATTACK TERROR;
MATCH CHAOS AS THUG ASSAULTS CELTIC MANAGER

BYLINE: RORY TEVLIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 102 words


CELTIC manager Neil Lennon was attacked last night by a crazed fan during a
match against Hearts.

Police and stewards had to jump in as the thug went for Lennon - who suffered
recent death threats - after the Hoops scored their second goal in a 3-0
victory.

Trouble then broke out in the Bhoys fans' section of Tynecastle in Edinburgh as
supporters appeared to clash with officials.

Celtic assistant manager Johan Mjallby said it was a "dark day" for the game.

The win keeps the pressure on Old Firm rivals Rangers who lead the Scottish
Championship by one point with just one game to play.

FULL STORY: PAGE 7 AND SPORT

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGETED J Thug goes for Neil Lennon last night as coach Alan Thompson,
left, protects him

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tynecastle terror: fan attacks Celtic manager Lennon

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 37 words


Football, pages 60-63

An incensed Neil Lennon, the Celtic manager, is held back by security staff
while his attacker is restrained on the ground during the second half of
Celtic's 3-0 win away to Heart of Midlothian last night

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRAIG WILLIAMSON / SNS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 13, 2011
                                 First Edition

Two charged over terror attack plan;
The News Matrix The day at a glance UNITED STATES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 55 words


Two Americans of North African descent have been charged under anti-Terror laws
in the US after planning to blow up a Manhattan synagogue and the Empire State
Building. The two, who claimed the world was treating Muslims "like dogs," were
arrested after buying weapons, including a dud hand grenade, from an undercover
police officer.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                   01 Edition

MISSILE ATTACK;
WORLD TODAY TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 36 words


AT least five alleged militants were killed near Pakistan's border with
Afghanistan yesterday by a missile from a US drone. It was the third such attack
since the killing of Osama bin Laden, intelligence officials said.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        May 13, 2011 Friday 12:01 AM GMT

Touchline Terrorism;
The attack on Neil Lennon is not about football; it's about sectarian prejudice

SECTION: LEADING ARTICLES

LENGTH: 272 words


The important thing is not to be as naive as Paul Gascoigne. When the star
arrived to play for Glasgow Rangers in the mid-Nineties, the city's
Protestant-run team, it transpired that his footballing skills were greater than
his mastery of Glasgow's sectarian political history.

Gascoigne chose to celebrate a Rangers goal against Glasgow Celtic by playing an
imaginary flute in front of the rival fans. He only appreciated the symbolism of
the Orangemen's flute when Catholic Celtic fans threatened to slit his throat.

Observers unaccustomed to Glasgow politics and uninterested in football may see
the various attempts to do violence to the Celtic manager Neil Lennon in the
same way that Gascoigne saw his goal celebration - just another bit of football
mischief, perhaps gone a bit far. But such a view would be quite wrong. What we
are witnessing is a serious social breakdown, in which someone could well be
killed before long.

Ancient religious rivalry has become ancient football rivalry. A so-called Old
Firm game - a Rangers versus Celtic local derby - in 1975 resulted in two
attempted murders, two cleaver attacks, one axe attack and nine stabbings. When
Rangers first signed a Catholic player, some fans boycotted the club altogether,
while others frightened off any supporters who shouted encouragement.

The attempt to intimidate Lennon should be seen by the Scottish authorities and
by footballing authorities as an important challenge to freedom of association.
They need to act with much greater vigour and urgency than they appear to be
doing, and should consider suspending Rangers or banning Old Firm games if
necessary.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2011 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Touchline Terrorism;
The attack on Neil Lennon is not about football; it's about sectarian prejudice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 272 words


The important thing is not to be as naive as Paul Gascoigne. When the star
arrived to play for Glasgow Rangers in the mid-Nineties, the city's
Protestant-run team, it transpired that his footballing skills were greater than
his mastery of Glasgow's sectarian political history.

Gascoigne chose to celebrate a Rangers goal against Glasgow Celtic by playing an
imaginary flute in front of the rival fans. He only appreciated the symbolism of
the Orangemen's flute when Catholic Celtic fans threatened to slit his throat.

Observers unaccustomed to Glasgow politics and uninterested in football may see
the various attempts to do violence to the Celtic manager Neil Lennon in the
same way that Gascoigne saw his goal celebration - just another bit of football
mischief, perhaps gone a bit far. But such a view would be quite wrong. What we
are witnessing is a serious social breakdown, in which someone could well be
killed before long.

Ancient religious rivalry has become ancient football rivalry. A so-called Old
Firm game - a Rangers versus Celtic local derby - in 1975 resulted in two
attempted murders, two cleaver attacks, one axe attack and nine stabbings. When
Rangers first signed a Catholic player, some fans boycotted the club altogether,
while others frightened off any supporters who shouted encouragement.

The attempt to intimidate Lennon should be seen by the Scottish authorities and
by footballing authorities as an important challenge to freedom of association.
They need to act with much greater vigour and urgency than they appear to be
doing, and should consider suspending Rangers or banning Old Firm games if
necessary.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 14, 2011 Saturday

Seven Algerian soldiers said killed in "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 178 words


Seven Algerian soldiers have been killed and two wounded in a "terrorist attack"
in Jijel, some 300 km east of Algiers, the privately-owned French-language daily
newspaper Liberte reported on 14 May.

The paper said the attack targeted a military post in the Tizrarene area, in the
municipality of Ziama Mansouriah, some 50 km from Jijel.

Quoting "corroborating sources", Liberte added that at about four o'clock in the
morning, "a heavily armed terrorist group" attacked the soldiers "in their
sleep", killing seven and wounding two, while one "has disappeared".

The same source said that the assailants had taken "a large quantity of
weapons", before fleeing.

However, they added that three of the attackers had been killed by the security
services who chased them.

Liberte said that this was the second attack in the area, noting that on 6 May,
five soldiers were killed in a bomb explosion in the same province.

"Therefore, the calm that has prevailed in the area for several months seems to
be over," the paper said.

Source: Liberte, website, Algiers, in French 14 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 14, 2011 Saturday

Six Yemeni soldiers killed in "terrorist attack" - TV

LENGTH: 54 words


State-owned Yemeni TV, at 1029 gmt on 14 May, carried the following "breaking
news" screen caption: "Official Yemeni source: Six soldiers were martyred and
another was wounded in a treacherous terrorist attack on a security checkpoint
in Rida City today at dawn."

Source: Republic of Yemen TV, Sanaa, in Arabic 1029 gmt 14 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 14, 2011 Saturday
                                 1 Star Edition

HE WAS RUNNING WITH SOMETHING VERY BLOODY IN HIS HANDS..THEN I SAW IT WAS A
HEAD;
TERROR IN TENERIFE ATTACK ON SHOPPER TOURISTS TELL OF HORROR ON HOL ISLE

BYLINE: DAVID COLLINS AND RYAN PARRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 573 words


HORRIFIED witnesses told yesterday how a machete-wielding madman decapitated a
British woman in Tenerife - then fled clutching her head by the hair.

The crazed killer launched his unprovoked attack on the unnamed 62-year-old
expat as she shopped at a Chinese mini-mart in the popular resort of Los
Cristianos.

He is said to have picked up the machete from a display inside the shop. Then,
without uttering a word, he stabbed her several times before finally hacking off
her head.

FRENZIED One shocked witness said: "I was parking my car outside when I saw this
man come running out with something bloody in his hands.

"Then I saw it was a head... he had been holding a human head in his hands."

Colin Kirby, 50, a British journalist who writes for a magazine in Tenerife, saw
the maniac in the palm-lined street outside just moments after the frenzied
10.25am attack.

He said: "There was a guy walking behind me, looking very scruffy and muttering
to himself. He was carrying what I thought was a joke head by the hair.

"The blood - it just made me think of a scene from the film Clash of the Titans.
I thought the guy was a nutter and that it was some kind of sick prank. A group
of shopworkers were screaming and running around, then the security guards came
out and chased him across the road."

A young Italian biker, named only as David, chased the killer before throwing
his motorcycle helmet at him, causing him to drop the head.

Bystanders are said to have gasped in horror as they saw it roll on to the road.

The madman was then jumped on by several security guards from the shopping
centre. They wrestled him to the ground and held him until police arrived.

An angry crowd gathered and officers had to restrain people trying to get at the
attacker. One witness said: "They were queueing up and basically trying to kick
the hell out of the guy. The whole place was a madhouse."

Police draped a sheet over the severed head as the rest of the woman's body was
taken away by medics. A spokeswoman for the Tenerife ambulance service said: "We
received a call from a member of the public at 10.25am saying a woman was being
attacked by a man with a large knife."

Officials were yesterday still trying to contact the victim's family in the UK
to break the terrible news.

A spokesman for the British Embassy in Madrid said: "We can confirm the death of
a British national in Tenerife on the morning of May 13.

"We are attempting to notify next of kin and stand ready to provide assistance.
Consular officials in Tenerife are in contact with local authorities about this
tragic incident and our condolences go out to the family at this difficult
time."

The killer was last night named as Deyan Valentinov D - a 28-year-old Bulgarian
said to be well known to the local police. It is customary in Spain to release
only the surname initial of suspects taken into custody.

His is believed to have been sleeping rough in a semi-derelict house. Local
reports said he had spent time in a psychiatric hospital after a number of
violent outbursts.

He is said to have once punched a man in the street in a random attack, knocking
out his victim's two front teeth. One police officer said: "He's a well-known
local weirdo - the sort of bloke you would cross the road to avoid."

Tenerife is the largest of the Canary Islands, an archipelago off the coast of
north west Africa. It is one of the UK's most popular holiday destinations, with
1.5 million visitors every year.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WITNESS 3 Briton Colin Kirby SCENEJ Body is taken away on a stretcher
CAPTURED J Maniac covered in blood is arrested by police officers TACKLED J
Security guards grab him SHOCK Z Police hold sheets round head yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 15, 2011 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

7/7 BOMBERS' TRIP TO BIN LADEN LAIR;
TERROR SUMMIT BEFORE ATTACKS EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: NICK OWENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 289 words


TWO of the 7/7 bombers met with Osama Bin Laden's right-hand man just months
before the attacks.

It was known British-born terrorists Mohammed Sidique Khan and Shehzad Tanweer
flew to Pakistan to meet Al Qaeda chiefs in the run-up to the 2005 atrocity in
London.

But the Sunday Mirror can reveal new intelligence shows they travelled to
Abbottabad, where Bin Laden was hiding, and met his courier Abu Al-Kuwaiti.

Al-Kuwaiti was Bin Laden's was most trusted lieutenant and the Al Qaeda chief's
"eyes and ears". Ironically, he led to Bin Laden's hideout being discovered
after a phone call he made was intercepted.

Now it's emerged Al-Kuwaiti set up a meeting in Pakistan between the London
bombers and the mastermind of the 7/7 plot, Abd al-Hadi al-Iraqi.

It was then the duo were given the order to carry out the London attacks with
their two accomplices. They killed 52 people.

Our revelations indicate for the first time how the slain Al Qaeda chief could
have directly planned the London massacre.

And they provide chilling new evidence of how Bin Laden retained control of the
terror network while in hiding.

The details have emerged in new intelligence reports obtained by Wikileaks which
are being investigated by security officials.

The documents reveal how Al-Kuwaiti, currently in Guantanamo Bay, had been
living in Abbottabad as Bin Laden's "official messenger" and was involved in
planning a "major attack" between 2003 and 2004.

He regularly met with Al Qaeda's "war cabinet" including July 7 mastermind Abd
al-Hadi al-Iraqi.

Officials believe Al-Kuwaiti was the key link between the bombers, Al-Iraqi and
Bin Laden.

Terrorism expert Neil Doyle said: "It suggests Bin Laden was likely to be
involved in the planning from an early stage."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Meeting... Shehzad Tanweer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 17, 2011 Tuesday

Saudi court begins trial of suspects in 2004 Yanbu "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 257 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

["Competent Criminal Court hears 11 accused of conspiring with deviant group
members" - SPA headlines]

Riyadh, Jumada II 13, 1432, May 16, 2011, SPA - A Competent Criminal Court
started here today the proceedings of a suit filed by the Commission for
Investigation and General Prosecution against 11 accused of conspiring with four
persons who committed a terrorist attack against the residence of the contractor
of Yenbut company expansion project in Yanbu on 12/3/1425 H., killing five
company personnel, including two Americans, two Britons and an Australian and
injuring three others from Pakistan, USA and Canada in addition to the martyrdom
of a Security man and the injury of 22 of security men and pedestrians before
being killed by security men after a hot pursuit.

The deviant group associates were arrested later.

Today's session included a presentation of the accusations and authenticated
confessions in addition to a review of the evidences against the accused.

The Court also listened to some few verbal defences according to their request
while the others were given time to send their defences in writing to the court
through lawyers or forward their demands to the Ministry of Justice to provide
them with lawyers had they were unable to have them their own.

A number of Human Rights Commission members, a representative of the Saudi Press
Agency and media representatives attended the session.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 16 May 11

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 17, 2011 Tuesday

Kazakhstan denies suicide bomb blast was terrorist attack

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Astana, 17 May: The Kazakh Prosecutor-General's Office does not think that an
explosion inside the department of the National Security Committee in Aktobe
(the administrative centre of Aktobe Region in Kazakhstan) was a terrorist
attack.

"It has been established in Aktobe today that Raimzhan Makhatov has blown
himself up. He blew himself up and died as a result of it," an official
representative of the Prosecutor-General's Office, Zhandos Umiraliyev, said
today at news briefing in Astana.

"Two citizens who were near him were also injured. A criminal case has been
opened into this incident," he said.

Umiraliyev said that one of those injured was an officer of the National
Security Committee and the second person was a watchman.

He said that the explosion occurred at 0930 (Astana time) at the building of the
department of the National Security Committee in Aktobe Region.

"Makhatov, who was born in 1986, was suspected of carrying out several crimes as
part of an organized criminal group blew himself up inside the building the
department of the National Security Committee with the aim of escaping
responsibility," Umiraliyev said.

"Makhatov used a home-made explosive device of small explosive power. He died on
the spot. The two others standing nearby received medical assistance,"
Umiraliyev said.

An investigation is under way into this incident.

In answer to a journalist's question whether it was a terrorist attack,
Umiraliyev said: "No, it was not".

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1012 gmt 17 May 11

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 17, 2011 Tuesday

Saudi court begins trial of suspects in 2004 Yanbu "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 257 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

["Competent Criminal Court hears 11 accused of conspiring with deviant group
members" - SPA headlines]

Riyadh, Jumada II 13, 1432, May 16, 2011, SPA - A Competent Criminal Court
started here today the proceedings of a suit filed by the Commission for
Investigation and General Prosecution against 11 accused of conspiring with four
persons who committed a terrorist attack against the residence of the contractor
of Yenbut company expansion project in Yanbu on 12/3/1425 H., killing five
company personnel, including two Americans, two Britons and an Australian and
injuring three others from Pakistan, USA and Canada in addition to the martyrdom
of a Security man and the injury of 22 of security men and pedestrians before
being killed by security men after a hot pursuit.

The deviant group associates were arrested later.

Today's session included a presentation of the accusations and authenticated
confessions in addition to a review of the evidences against the accused.

The Court also listened to some few verbal defences according to their request
while the others were given time to send their defences in writing to the court
through lawyers or forward their demands to the Ministry of Justice to provide
them with lawyers had they were unable to have them their own.

A number of Human Rights Commission members, a representative of the Saudi Press
Agency and media representatives attended the session.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 16 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 17, 2011 Tuesday

Kazakhstan denies suicide bomb blast was terrorist attack

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Astana, 17 May: The Kazakh Prosecutor-General's Office does not think that an
explosion inside the department of the National Security Committee in Aktobe
(the administrative centre of Aktobe Region in Kazakhstan) was a terrorist
attack.

"It has been established in Aktobe today that Raimzhan Makhatov has blown
himself up. He blew himself up and died as a result of it," an official
representative of the Prosecutor-General's Office, Zhandos Umiraliyev, said
today at news briefing in Astana.

"Two citizens who were near him were also injured. A criminal case has been
opened into this incident," he said.

Umiraliyev said that one of those injured was an officer of the National
Security Committee and the second person was a watchman.

He said that the explosion occurred at 0930 (Astana time) at the building of the
department of the National Security Committee in Aktobe Region.

"Makhatov, who was born in 1986, was suspected of carrying out several crimes as
part of an organized criminal group blew himself up inside the building the
department of the National Security Committee with the aim of escaping
responsibility," Umiraliyev said.

"Makhatov used a home-made explosive device of small explosive power. He died on
the spot. The two others standing nearby received medical assistance,"
Umiraliyev said.

An investigation is under way into this incident.

In answer to a journalist's question whether it was a terrorist attack,
Umiraliyev said: "No, it was not".

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1012 gmt 17 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                              May 17, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Dad tells of gun-raid ordeal;
TERROR: THREE MEN ACCUSED OF VICIOUS ATTACK IN FAMILY'S HOME

BYLINE: SUZY GIBSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 565 words


A man feared for his life when three raiders shoved a pistol into his mouth,
while demanding drugs and £10,000, a jury heard.

Keith McGuiness was staying at his partner's home in Hand Avenue, Braunstone,
Leicester, when attackers burst in after banging on the door.

They also made knife threats to his terrified girlfriend and their
three-year-old daughter, who came downstairs on hearing the commotion. It is
alleged a knife was held to the child.

Andrew Michael Brewin (25), Mark Ian Neal (33) and Dale Francis Smith (26) all
deny aggravated burglary on May 23 last year.

Brewin and Neal deny inflicting grievous bodily harm to Mr McGuiness, 24, who
suffered a collapsed lung and had a tooth knocked out by the gun barrel.

Adrian Harris, prosecuting, told Leicester Crown Court, that Mr McGuiness was
formerly a supplier of cannabis.

"That may be what was behind the break-in," he said. He claimed Mr McGuiness
opened the door in his boxer shorts at 8am to see Brewin, who asked for some
cannabis.

He said he did not have any.

Mr Harris said: "It was a ruse, a trick to get them in.

"It didn't work. "Brewin then punched him in the face, knocking him down, before
storming in with two other men.

"He knew one by name, Dale Smith, and the other by the nickname Ginna, who the
prosecution say was Neal.

"Smith had a big kitchen knife. They shouted at him, thinking he had £10,000 and
when he said he hadn't, they were very angry.

"They threatened to hurt or kill him."

Mr McGuiness's partner Lucinda Page-Winn, whom he has since married, was
upstairs with their three children, aged six, three and one. The alleged victim
said that after he was punched, Brewin and Neal hurled him into the lounge,
throwing him over a settee and on to the floor.

He added: "Ginna pulled a gun from his trousers and put it in my mouth.

"It was a 9mm handgun. "Brewin was holding me down.

"They carried on demanding £10,000, or I was going to get hurt.

"They were kicking my ribs. "The third man was brandishing a big knife going
into a sharp point."

They found a few hundred pounds savings belonging to his partner.

Mr McGuiness said: "They were demanding drugs and had been told I had £10,000 in
the house."

He claimed that when his partner and their three-yearold daughter came
downstairs they were grabbed and also flung into the living room.

Mr McGuiness said: "The third man put a knife to my daughter.

"I was screaming at them to let them go.

"They were demanding money and drugs or they would hurt my girlfriend and child,
who was screaming high-pitched.

"I was struggling across the floor and Brewin had his knee in my chest holding
me down.

"Ginna was still holding the gun at my face, close enough to knock my tooth out,
forcing it into my mouth."

The raiders then left and he did not report it to the police until after another
alleged encounter with Brewin and Neal as he cycled across Braunstone Park, on
July 2, when he says they threatened to kill him.

Brewin, of Knighton Fields Road West, Leicester, denies making a threat to kill.

In interview, he said he knew Mr McGuiness through the drugs trade and claimed
the alleged victim was trying to "stitch him up".

When questioned, Neal, of the Railway Cottages, Thurnby, claimed he was with his
girlfriend on the day of the aggravated burglary and was mistakenly identified
as being involved.

Smith, of no fixed address, made no comment when interviewed.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2011 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

GANG ATTACK TERROR;
Man taken to hospital after savage beating  Attack victim rushed to hospital

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 350 words


A BLOOD-SPLATTERED man was rushed to hospital yesterday afternoon following a
brutal gang attack in a Paisley street.

The victim, who is believed to be aged in his 20s, was left with a nasty wound
to his head and needed immediate treatment at the scene when paramedics arrived.

The frightening incident happened in broad daylight outside a block of flats in
Queen Street, which is in Paisley's West End.

Residents there said the vicious beating took place at around 3pm, just yards
from the Bethany Evangelical Church.

At least three people - one of them a woman - are thought to have been involved
in the assault and, last night, they were being hunted by the police.

A number of cop cars, as well as two ambulances, had raced to the scene after
the emergency services were alerted yesterday afternoon.

Several people were seen running away from the scene as the injured man fell to
the ground.

One elderly woman who lives in Queen Street said she was horrified to look
outside and see so many police cars there.

The OAP, who asked not to be named, told the Paisley Daily Express: "The police
taped off an area outside one block Turn to Page 5

From Page One of flats and a man was helped into a waiting ambulance.

"There was a lot of blood around his head and he barely looked conscious.

"This is usually a quiet street, so it was a shock to see something like this
happening. There are a lot of older people who live around here and we don't
want any trouble.

"I've no idea what was behind this attack but I hope the police catch the people
who were responsible for it."

As medics treated the victim's injuries at the scene, a team of police officers
searched the area for the gang but the attackers could not be found.

Officers stood guard outside the tenement at 17 Queen Street while their
colleagues began carrying out door-todoor inquiries in the hope of finding
witnesses.

One officer told the Express: "If anyone saw this attack or knows anything about
it, they should ring Paisley Police Office on 0141 532 5900 or Crimestoppers on
0800 555 1112."

From Page One of flats [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SCENE: Police stand guard

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 19, 2011 Thursday

Arrested Al-Qa'idah man behind recent terror attacks in Karachi - Pakistan daily

LENGTH: 428 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 19 May

Islamabad: Al-Qa'idah operative Mohammed Ali Qasim, alias Abu Sohaib al-Makki,
who was recently arrested in Pakistan, had been living in the country for almost
10 years and was involved in recent terrorist activities in Karachi.

Makki's arrest, according to a senior security official, yielded a 'treasure
trove' of information. He is said to be an expert in computers and explosives.

It's not clear when Makki, 34, started living in Karachi with his family.

The exact date of arrest is being kept secret because security agencies are
working to unearth his "elaborate terror network" in the city.

It has been claimed that Makki was arrested days after Osama bin Laden had been
killed in Abbotabad. But others said he had been under surveillance since the
beginning of this month, but was arrested on Tuesday.

Before moving to Karachi, the terrorist of Yemeni origin lived in South
Waziristan, NorthWaziristan, Peshawar and Faisalabad.

Makki had been in Pakistan since June 2001. He was taken into custody along with
his wife and three children. Initial investigations revealed that he who earlier
operated along the Pak-Afghan border facilitating movements of Al Qaeda
operatives. He later started targeting Pakistan and got involved in terrorist
activities in Karachi, including bombings and probably target killings.

It is not clear if he had something to do with the planning of the grenade
attack on the Saudi Consulate and subsequent killing of Saudi diplomat Hassan
al-Qahtani, who is thought to have been working on Saudi dissidents and
extremists living in Pakistan.

Although, security officials dismissed as speculative reports that he was acting
as a courier between Usamah Bin-Ladin and Ayman Zawahiri, they admitted that he
had been in touch with Al-Qa'idah top leadership and one of the sources
described him as a linchpin for the terror organisation.

Pakistan and the US had on Monday under their "renewed terms of engagement"
agreed to undertake joint actions against Al Qaeda elements in Pakistan.

A source said that under the arrangement if Pakistan were to go after any Al
Qaeda operative it would share information with the US. It is expected that
Pakistani officials would share detailed information with the US when CIA Deputy
Director Mark Morrell visits Islamabad shortly.

The CIA official is expected to come for follow-up talks after Senator Kerry
helped ease some of the tensions in the aftermath of the Abbottabad raid.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 19 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Kentish Gazette

                                  May 19, 2011

Mum's terror as she sees son attacked by dalmatian

LENGTH: 305 words


by Katie Alston

kalston@thekmgroup.co.uk

A DALMATIAN has been destroyed after it attacked a five-year-old boy, leaving
him with a bite wound to the bone.

Ashley Painter was riding his bike outside his home in City View, Canterbury, at
1pm on Sunday when the dog bounded towards him.

It then attacked the terrified youngster, who instinctively curled himself into
a ball.

His mum Penny, 27, who was metres away speaking to her dad, froze and started
screaming and shaking.

Neighbours rushed out of their houses to help and the animal was caught.

Nightmare

Traumatised Ashley was taken to hospital, with a bloodied nose and gaping leg
wound.

Mum-of-two Penny said: "This is every parent's worse nightmare.

"Seeing your child lying on the floor being attacked by a dog is something no
one should have to witness.

"Ashley is usually confident around animals, but now he is very wary.

"When you think of dalmatians, you think about the cute and fluffy cartoon, not
some out-of-control animal.

"It is the scariest situation I have ever been in.

"It was like something from a film, I was glued to the spot and couldn't move.

"Although Ashley has a nasty wound on his leg and will be left with a permanent
scar, I'm thanking my lucky stars that it wasn't worse and he wasn't bitten on
the face, or his nose wasn't torn off."

Police were called to the scene and a 47-year-old woman from Knight Avenue has
been reported for summons.

The owner of the dalmatian volunteered to take the dog to the vets to be put
down.

Penny added: "I'm glad the animal has been destroyed. Once it has a taste for
blood, who is to say it wouldn't have done this again.

"I'm reluctant to let Ashley out the front to play any more and I have had to
keep him off school to recover.

"The whole situation has just been a massive shock for all of us, and I can't
believe it has happened."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             May 19, 2011 Thursday

My A&E attack terror, by paramedic bride-to-be

BYLINE: Alice McKeegan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 344 words


A PARAMEDIC has told how she was attacked on the eve of her wedding and feared
the thug would ruin her big day.

Sarah Harrison was assaulted while trying to calm down Sharon Martin, who was
being abusive to staff and other patients in the A&E department at Wythenshawe
Hospital.

Sarah, 31, stepped in as peacemaker but Martin then turned on her and shoved her
fist in her nose, threatening to smash her face in.'

Sarah, from Blackrod, Bolton, was not harmed but described her ordeal as
terrifying. She was able to marry long-term partner Richard Harrison, 27, also a
paramedic, a fortnight later as planned.

Sarah, whose maiden name is Bickers, said: It was horrible she had her fist
pressed up against my nose and I feared she was going to take a swing at me.

Fortunately I managed to move my head back. All that was running through my mind
was my wedding and how I was going to look.

It was scary. You don't expect to be attacked at work or in A&E it's made me
more on my guard and more wary of people.

Martin, 46, from Hoylake Road, Sale, admitted a charge of common assault when
she appeared at Manchester magistrates court. She was given a 12-month community
order and ordered to pay  £50 compensation to her victim, as well as  £85 costs.

The court heard how Martin, who is being treated for a drink problem, had gone
to the hospital complaining of stomach pains and began shouting abuse at staff
and members of the public in the waiting area.

Deputy District Judge John Jones said: This was a shameful and nasty incident on
a paramedic who was doing a difficult job in difficult circumstances.

Dominic Walker, defending, said Martin was receiving counselling for an alcohol
addiction and had not had a drink since the incident.

After the hearing, Derek Cartwright, director of emergency service for North
West Ambulance Service, said: It is unacceptable that violence is directed
towards ambulance staff.

The trust welcomes this sentence and hopes it sends out a very clear message to
anyone who assaults our crews, either verbally or physically, that they face
prosecution.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL It was scary,' says paramedic Sarah

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 19, 2011 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

BOMB ATTACK ON OFFICER IS CONDEMNED;
TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 114 words


A PETROL bomb attack on a car outside a police officer's home has been
condemned.

Dissident republicans were blamed for the incident and a masked man was said to
have been seen fleeing the scene in Derry on Tuesday night.

The SDLP, Sinn Fein and Alliance were among those who hit out at the incident
which targeted the home of former deputy mayor of the city Liam Bradley, whose
son is a police officer.

Detectives have appealed for anyone with information on the attack, which
destroyed the car at Lone Moor Road, to come forward.

SDLP Assembly member Pat Ramsey said: "The Bradleys have a son in the police
service who they are very proud of and it's because of that they're being
targeted."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 22, 2011 Sunday

Thirteen die in Iraqi ''terror attack'', 73 wounded

LENGTH: 53 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Television in Arabic at 1019 gmt on 22 May carries the
following "breaking news" as a screen caption: "General Qasim Ata: The final
toll of the terrorist attacks that occurred this morning is 13 martyred, 73
wounded."

Further as warranted.

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1019 gmt 22 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 22, 2011 Sunday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack on hospital in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 99 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 22 May: Turkey condemned on Sunday [22 May] the terrorist attack on a
military hospital which killed at least three people in Kabul.

In a statement, Turkish Foreign Ministry described the attack on medical
students as "inhuman."

On Saturday, a suicide bomber infiltrated the capital's main military hospital
and killed at least six Afghan medical students.

The ministry offered condolences to families of victims and wished quick
recovery for the injured.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0826 gmt 22 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 23, 2011 Monday

Terrorists attack naval base in Pakistan's Karachi - agency

LENGTH: 146 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Karachi - An officer and a sailor of Pakistan Navy embraced martyrdom and two
others sustained injuries when some terrorists attacked Pakistan Navy Base
Mehran here on Sunday [22 May] night.

This was stated by an official of the ISPR (Navy) here late on Sunday night.

He said that more than a dozen terrorists sneaked into Pakistan Navy Base
Mehran, hurled hand grenades and resorted to firing with rocket launchers.

A P3C Orion aircraft of Pakistan Navy was also damaged in the attack.

The Commandos and Marines of Pakistan Navy as well as the Rangers are carrying
out operation against the terrorists. The area has been cordoned off.

The casualties of the terrorists were not immediately known, it was further
stated.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 2305gmt
22 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 23, 2011 Monday

Kazakh suicide blast has "signs" of terror attack - senior security official

LENGTH: 249 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 23 May: A deputy head of the Kazakh National Security Committee, User
Mizanbayev, believes that for now it is unacceptable to describe the suicide
bombing in Aktobe (the administrative centre of Aktobe Region [in western
Kazakhstan]) as a terrorist attack.

"It is too early to draw conclusions," he said in Astana on Wednesday [as
published], answering journalists' questions as to whether the incident was a
terrorist attack.

At the same time, answering the question why the people who were detained while
investigating the criminal case are suspected of charges of "terrorism" and
"setting up and leading a terrorist group and participating in its activities",
Mizanbayev said: "It means that there are signs [of terrorism]".

"If you are well aware of laws, there should be a reason or grounds for
everything. If there are signs, that means there are signs," he added.

"Any crime, even the one that is committed by hooligans, has some extremist
beginnings. All details of the crime will be announced after the investigation
is completed," Mizanbayev said. He added that "no details are known for now"
about the investigation of the crime.

[Passage omitted: covered details of the suicide bombing in the Aktobe regional
security body building on 17 May; earlier the Kazakh Prosecutor-General's Office
denied that the blast was a terrorist attack]

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0500 gmt 23 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 23, 2011 Monday

Suspected terrorist group confesses to planning attack on oil pipeline - website

LENGTH: 657 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Armed Terrorist Group in Banias Confess to Planning to Detonate Oil Pipeline,
Railway and al-Qooz Br..." - SANA Headline]

(SANA) - Damascus, (SANA)-The Syrian TV on Wednesday broadcast confessions of an
armed terrorist cell arrested by the army units and security forces while on a
mission of chasing armed terrorist groups in Banias.

The army units and security forces seized quantities of weapons, ammunitions and
explosive devices which were prepared to attack army members, security forces,
public and private properties.

The army engineering regiments managed to dismantle many explosive charges which
were prepared to attack the oil pipeline, the railway and al-Qooz Bridge near
Tartous Highway.

The terrorists hid other explosive charges in food packages and garbage sacks
near the sidewalks in the vicinity of the army units.

Safi Yassin, a terrorist member, said "I was a detainee in the Central Prison
because of quarrels. Upon leaving the prison, I was surprised that
demonstrations emerged from mosques calling for freedom, and later came to call
for toppling the regime and declare Jihad in mosques by Sheikhs."

"All the incitement and protests started from mosques following Friday prayers.
They emerged indiscriminately.

Persons such as Anas al-Shaghri, Sheikh Anas Airutt, and Abu Ali Mohammad Ali
al-Bayyasi and Al-Sahyoni were already granted loans by banks estimated at
hundreds of millions, and they were out for the destruction of this country."

Yassin continues "Mohammad Ali al-Bayyasi stood in the protest and told
protestors that he will arm them, and that weapons are kept in cars and that all
should be armed for Jihad, blowing up the thermal power station, the railway and
oil pipelines passing through Banias."

He added that the protests strayed from calling for freedom to calls for killing
unarmed civilians such as Nidal Jannoud from Tartous, who was slashed by knives
by a bunch of persons who later mutilated his body."

Yassin said that the names who killed Jannoud and mutilated his body are "Yehia
Al-Rayyes, Ali Al-Rayyes and Taleb Barbour, having no mercy on him although he
was unarmed."

Yassin confessed that weapons were provided by external sides such as Abdul
Halim Khaddam through al-Bayyasi, his partner and business manager, who assured
them that weapons are available, giving him a machine gun. "When the army
reached Jisr al-Naba' area, they started firing at them and detonating dynamite,
although the army was not shooting and some army members were killed."

Yassin goes on to say, "In the meantime, Anas al-Shaghri was collaborating with
TV Channels via lines they provided for him to give them false information, and
he was preparing eyewitnesses from Banias."

"Anas al-Shaghri prepared a number of ignorant people and trained them how to be
eyewitnesses." "Some Salafi Sheikhs, among them Ahmad al-Moussa and others, were
calling for establishing a Salafi emirate secretlya€¦As for the titles and posts
and the names of those who will occupy them, they were pushing for that such as
al-Bayyasi as the emir, al-Sohyoni, and others who were granted loans from the
state money, estimated at hundreds of millions, such as Anas Al-Shaghri, who
works as business manager of an artist in a cabaret.

Ismail al-Bayyasi, another terrorist member charged with killing and vandalism,
said "the cell was plotting to mine Abu Raslan building, while an agricultural
pharmacist called Ahmad Oubaid took it upon himself to provide necessary
fertilizers, and detonators were provided by someone from Lattakia.'

' Al-Bayyasi added that planting mines started in the "state" of Sheikh Anas
Airutt, Anas al-Sheghri and Mohammad Ali Al-Bayyasi. "Ten meters of the oil
field between Baniyas and Homs were mined, and mines were also planted in
Baniyas entrance opposite Al-Marqab Castle."

M. Ismael

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 23 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 23, 2011 Monday

Sending troops to Afghanistan may provoke terror attacks in Kazakhstan - pundit

LENGTH: 324 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Almaty, 23 May: A [Kazakh] political scientist, Dosym Satpayev, believes that
sending Kazakh servicemen to Afghanistan may provoke extremist organizations to
step up their activities in Central Asia.

"The problem is that other extremist and terrorist organizations operating in
Central Asia may simply use the Taleban's call as a pretext of some sort for
committing a terrorist attack in Kazakhstan," Satpayev told the
Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency today.

In particular, the political scientist believes the Uzbek organization Islamic
Jihad Union may step up its activities. Satpayev says that "unlike the Islamic
Movement of Uzbekistan", this organization "calls for fighting not only against
[Uzbek President] Islom Karimov, but also against all the regimes in Central
Asia".

The suicide bombing in Aktobe (the administrative centre of [western
Kazakhstan's] Aktobe Region) "shows that Kazakhstan is in a high danger zone",
he noted. "Any similar threats should be perceived seriously," the pundit added.

In this context, Satpayev expressed his disagreement with the views of several
Kazakh MPs who had not attached special significance to the Taleban's threats to
the country.

"I think they are not right in the sense that what is at issue is not Kazakh
servicemen being sent there, it is Astana's support for the West in the fight
against the Taleban in Afghanistan, as was once the case in the fight against
Al-Qa'idah in Iraq," Satpayev said.

"In this context, it would be useful for Kazakhstan to beef up security at
strategic facilities now," he believes.

[Passage omitted: according to foreign media reports, the Taleban warned
Kazakhstan about "serious consequences" of sending its servicemen to
Afghanistan; Kazakhstan plans to send four officers to Afghanistan to help NATO
forces - covered]

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0958 gmt 23 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              May 23, 2011 Monday
                              North Wales Edition

Hague: Iraq is a better place...;
... but terror attacks go on as last UK forces leave

BYLINE: THEO USHERWOOD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 491 words


THE toppling of Saddam Hussein and the subsequent rebuilding of Iraq was worth
it, Foreign Secretary William Hague said yesterday as British military
operations in the country finally came to an end.

Mr Hague said the UK was leaving Iraq "a much better place than we found it",
insisting that after years of tyrannical rule under its former president, it was
now a democratic state with a growing economy.

But a wave of early morning explosions in and around the Iraqi capital Baghdad
killed 16 people yesterday and for the third time this month, Iraqi security
forces were the main target.

Insurgents have been hammering the security forces in an attempt to undermine
Iraqis' confidence in the ability of their police and military to take over from
American forces who are also scheduled to leave the country by the end of this
year.

David Miliband, Mr Hague's predecessor as Foreign Secretary, said progress in
Iraq would have been much quicker had the allied forces developed a "proper
strategy for peace" from the outset of the conflict.

He said that "while there have been gains, the list of negatives has been long,
longer than the list of gains" in Iraq.

The UK's only presence in the country will now be a handful of consular staff at
its embassy in Baghdad following the formal end of Operation Telic, which began
in 2003 with the allied invasion and cost 179 British lives. The last British
soldiers left in 2009 but a number of Royal Navy personnel remained in the port
city of Umm Qasr to train some 1,800 Iraqi sailors in everything from defending
the country's offshore oil platforms to using small arms.

Asked about the current situation in Iraq, Mr Hague told the BBC's Politics
Show: "It is a much better place than we found it.

"Remember, it was previously a ruthless dictatorship and it was a menace and a
danger to the peace of that region and for the wider world as was shown by
Saddam Hussein launching two wars against his neighbours during his time ruling
Iraq.

"Now it is a democratic country. It still has many difficulties but it is a
democratic country, its economic prosperity is growing, its potential for a
positive role in the region is now growing.

"So we are leaving it a better place and it was worth doing what we have done."

But Mr Miliband, Foreign Secretary between June 2007 and May last year, was less
upbeat about the operation's success.

Speaking on the BBC's Andrew Marr Show, he said: "Iraq obviously divided not
only our country, but divided the whole world really. It proved how much easier
it is to win wars than to win the peace.

"Six, seven, eight months after the fall of Saddam Hussein, the sort of
Sunni-Shia conflict that came to mark the Iraq episode, hundreds of thousands of
deaths, hadn't really started, it was still in the balance.

"I am afraid the failure of the Western forces to develop a proper strategy for
peace, not a strategy for war, has held back the country."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Main, civilians and security forces personnel at the scene of a car
bomb attack in Baghdad, Iraq, yesterday
 inset, a ceremony concluding the UK/Iraq Training and Maritime Support
Agreement. British operations in Iraq finally ended yesterday as the Royal Navy
completed that mission

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        May 23, 2011 Monday 12:01 AM GMT

Six killed in terrorist attack on Pakistani airbase

BYLINE: Zahid Hussain, Islamabad

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 304 words


Six people were killed and at least one aircraft destroyed as fighting between
Islamist militants and Pakistani troops raged at an airbase belonging to the
Pakistani navy in Karachi tonight.

Witnesses said they could hear gunshots and see smoke rising from the Tahir
Navid base. Officials said that between 15 and 20 attackers were inside the
base, and had attacked three aircraft hangars. Eight explosions were reported
from the base.

"Three hangers were hit. There is some damage to aircraft or helicopters," an
intelligence official said.

A least a dozen ambulances were parked outside the base, waiting to take the
wounded to hospital.

Pakistani military and paramilitary reinforcements were pouring in, with four
vehicles each carrying about ten troops moving into the base.

Taleban militants, who have vowed to avenge the killing of Osama bin Laden by US
special forces, have carried out several attacks since his death on May 2.

Yusuf Raza Gilani, the Prime Minister of Pakistan, condemned the "terrorist"
attack at the naval base. "Such a cowardly act of terror could not deter the
commitment of the government and people of Pakistan to fight terrorism," Mr
Gilani said in a statement.

Pakistan television reported that a P-3 Orion maritime surveillance aircraft was
attacked in the assault.

The Karachi attack evoked memories of an assault on Pakistan's army headquarters
in the town of Rawalpindi in 2009, and revived concerns that even the most
well-guarded institutions in the country remain vulnerable to militants.

Pakistan has faced a wave of bombings and gun assaults over the past few years,
some of them claimed by the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), or Pakistani
Taleban.

Other attacks have been blamed on al Qaeda-linked militant groups once nurtured
by the Pakistani military that have since slipped out of control.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2011 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 24, 2011 Tuesday

Kazakh police find no signs of terror attack in blast

LENGTH: 122 words


Text of report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 24 May: According to preliminary information, the car explosion in
Astana early this morning was caused by the spontaneous explosion of an
explosive substance without a case, the press service of the Kazakh Interior
Ministry has said.

The explosive was "without shrapnel, bolts, nails or screws", the press service
announced.

"These circumstances show the lack of signs of a terror attack. An investigation
is under way, and a forensic examination has been scheduled," the announcement
says.

According to police information, the bodies of two European-looking men were
found in the car.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0549 gmt 24 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 24, 2011 Tuesday

Terror attack not main theory behind blast in Kazakh capital - source

LENGTH: 124 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 24 May: Investigators are looking into a theory that the explosion
outside the building of the remand centre of the National Security Committee's
department in Astana was a terror attack, but this is not their main theory, a
source has told the Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency.

"The explosion took place at 0340 24 May [2140 gmt 23 May]. As a result, a
person who was inside the car was killed. The investigation into the case is
looking into a terror attack theory, but this not the main one," the source
said.

[Passage omitted: the source said an explosive device had blown up in the car]

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0506 gmt 24 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 24, 2011 Tuesday

US alerted India on possible terror attack at naval base - paper

LENGTH: 418 words


Text of report headlined "US alerted India of fresh Taleban attack last week"
published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 24 May

Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, 24 May - High-level sources have indicated that an US
alert sent out last week based on chatter picked up by American snoops listening
in on conversations of Taleban operatives had picked up indications that a major
naval base would be attacked and that like 26/11 [Mumbai attacks], the attack
could come from the sea.

The US, fearful of another 26/11 and of the firm belief that India would be
unable to hold off from retaliating if such an attack were to happen, had tipped
off Delhi, which led India to put its western naval command facilities on high
alert. Ports in Gujarat [western Indian state] were believed to be a target. The
Taleban have claimed responsibility for the attack on Naval Station Mehran, only
a few hundred nautical miles up the coast in the Pakistani port city of Karachi.

India used the opportunity presented by the Taleban's 16-hour attack on one of
Pakistan's most well-guarded naval-cum-airbases to spell out India's no-first
use nuke policy. "If attacked, let nobody be in any doubt, India will retaliate
in case of any nuclear attack. Rest assured, there will be massive retaliation,"
an official source said.

Indian officials said that repeated attacks on Pakistan's military installations
were "extremely worrying", as concerns grow over Pakistan's ability to safeguard
its growing arsenal of nuclear weapons and its recently augmented stockpiles of
plutonium.

India has also noted Taleban's concerted effort to take out assets that they see
as affecting them directly as in Mehran where two front line P3C Orion US
acquired maritime spy planes were torched during the brazen 16 hour siege,
particularly the ability of militants to enter such facilities with apparent
ease, as "Pakistan further loses internal coherence."

Official sources said while nuclear weapons were not necessarily like AK-47s and
Kalashnikovs and, therefore, did not constitute an immediate threat, what was
more worrying apart from "Pakistan's incoherence," was the "reliability of the
guardians of the nuclear weapons, the ones who hold the keys. Who will guard the
guardians that is the real risk," implying the deep sympathies for the Taleban
within Pakistan's military and ISI [Inter-Services Intelligence, Pakistani
agency]. Karachi itself is a home to several Al Qa'idah operatives.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 24 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 24, 2011
                                 First Edition

Terrorists in revenge attack on naval base;
PAKISTAN

BYLINE: Omar Waraich IN KARACHI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 381 words


Pakistan was last night searching for two terrorists who escaped after mounting
the one of the most brazen attacks yet on the country's powerful military.

President Asif Ali Zardari has ordered an inquiry into how six attackers
besieged the Mehran naval base in Karachi on Sunday, a raid that lasted 17
hours. The six managed to slip into the base unnoticed, damage two military
aircraft, kill 10 security personnel and wound 15 others before commandos
overpowered them.

"It was the revenge of martyrdom of Osama bin Laden," Ehsanullah Ehsan, a
spokesman for the Pakistani Taliban, said. "It was the proof that we are still
united and powerful."

Since the raid by the United States that eliminated Bin Laden on 2 May, Pakistan
has been reeling from a series of deadly and high-profile attacks.

Interior Minister Rehman Malik said al-Qa'ida and the Pakistani Taliban had
convened somewhere in Waziristan to plot a series of revenge attacks in the days
after Bin Laden's death.

"They decided to attack the army, security installations and some VIPs," Mr
Malik told reporters in Karachi yesterday.

Mr Malik said Mr Zardari had ordered an inquiry into how the attackers were able
to penetrate the sensitive security installation. As in the case of Bin Laden,
who is suspected of having spent as long as five years at his Abbottabad
compound, many in Pakistan wonder whether the siege could have been mounted
without at least some involvement from inside the country. "These people who
attacked knew what time would be the most appropriate, they knew from where to
enter and how to go about it," retired Air Marshal Riazuddin Shaikh said. "It
seems they had a lot of information, the question is whether it was provided to
them. It is my feeling that it was provided to them."

Mr Malik said that the attackers had used ladders to breach a vulnerable wall at
the back of the facility. The six men were dressed in black Westerntype
clothing, he said. They used cutters, which were later retrieved to sever the
curled barbed wire that crowned the wall.

None of the attackers was taken alive, Mr Malik said. One killed himself by
exploding a suicide vest.

For the military, the siege is a fresh embarrassment. The Bin Laden raid exposed
leading officials to rare criticism over how they failed to locate him.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 24, 2011
                                 First Edition

Hunt is on for terror duo after attack;
The News Matrix The day at a glance PAKISTAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 32 words


Pakistan is conducting a manhunt for the two terrorists who escaped after
attacking the Mehran naval base in Karachi, in a raid that lasted for 17 hours
and left 10 security personnel dead. PAGE 8

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 24, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Mumbai terror suspect: Pakistan aided attack

BYLINE: Richard Hall

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 244 words


Pakistan's main spy agency looks set to come under further scrutiny after a man
who has pleaded guilty to plotting the 2008 Mumbai terror attack suggested that
it co-ordinated with a militant group in the country.

David Headley, an American who has admitted to scouting targets in Mumbai for
the Pakistani militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba, made the comments at the trial of
the Pakistan-born Canadian citizen Tahawwur Rana, who is accused of using his
immigration-services firm to provide a cover story for Headley.

Headley has pleaded guilty to avoid the death penalty and to avoid being
extradited.

The trial comes just weeks after the killing of Osama bin Laden by US Special
Forces raised questions about whether Pakistani authorities knew that the leader
of al-Qa'ida was in their country and about their commitment to fighting
militant groups. Testifying yesterday, Headley said that Pakistan's main spy
agency, Inter Services Intelligence (ISI), and the militant group
Lashkar-e-Taiba "co-ordinate with each other".

Headley had previously told investigators that the militants' "handlers" were
members of the ISI directorate.

His testimony will be closely monitored for what it could reveal about the role
of the ISI in the attacks that killed more than 160 people in the Indian city.

Prosecutor Sarah Streicker said in her opening statement to the jury in US
District Court in Chicago that the defendant Mr Rana "not only knew of the
attacks, he approved of them".

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 24, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MONSTER'S 4 RAPES IN 13YR REIGN OF TERROR;
New mum's attack hell

BYLINE: GRANT McCABE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 275 words


A SEX beast is behind bars after being convicted of raping four women in a
13-year reign of terror.

Monster Raymond Donnelly, 32, even attacked one of his terrified victims shortly
after she had given birth.

He was found guilty of the rapes following a harrowing trial at the High Court
in Glasgow. The fiend was also convicted of separate assaults on the women -
three of whom were pregnant at the time.

A jury heard he subjected his victims to "systematic violence".

Donnelly denied carrying out the assaults at addresses in Ayrshire between 1997
and 2010. But Paul Kearney, prosecuting, said he had "controlled, intimidated,
assaulted and raped each of them".

The advocate depute said: "He exploited their vulnerabilities.

"He sexually assaulted each of these young women to satisfy his desires and his
selfish interests with not a moment's consideration as to the hurt he was
causing."

Mr Kearney added: "He subjected them to frequent, regular, humiliating and
frightening violence. "The women were younger than him. There were kicks,
punches, slaps on the head and body, hair pulling, compressing the throat."

One victim recalled how she was raped after she had given birth in December
2005. She said: "I was telling him no - I actually had tears telling him. I
couldn't struggle. I was too weak."

Judge Alastair Stewart QC remanded Donnelly until July.

FIEND David Bell was yesterday convicted of attempting to rape a 21-year-old
woman as she walked home late at night.

The beast, 22, had denied the attack in Irvine, Ayrshire, last December, but was
found guilty at the High Court in Glasgow. He'll be sentenced next month.

scottish-sun@the-sun.co.uk

Violence

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 25, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Samaraweera still has lucky' bullet from terrorist attack

BYLINE: Nick Hoult

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 362 words


England this week face a Sri Lanka team hardened by the terror attack they faced
two years ago - and one player still possesses a permanent reminder of the day
the team dodged death.

Thilan Samaraweera is the steadying influence in the middle order and will
appear in his 64th Test in Cardiff this week, but he knows how lucky he is to be
alive after suffering the most serious injuries of any player caught up in the
attack on the Sri Lanka team bus in Lahore on March 3 2009.

He was the only player struck by a bullet, which was removed by surgeons and now
sits at home as a reminder of the attack.

Samaraweera was hit in the thigh but the bullet missed his left knee by only
centimetres. He said: "I have kept the bullet, it's at home. I feel that it's a
lucky bullet, as if it had hit the bone I would never have played cricket again
and if it had hit a nerve then the doctors said that I would have been
paralysed.

"So for me, the fact that it neither hit the bone or a nerve means that the
bullet was lucky. It was the worst day of my life. Those three minutes in the
bus will stay with me forever. But it's all in the past now and thankfully I am
here to tell the tale."

He believes that if it had made contact with bone, his career could have been
over but he was back playing within four months of the incident.

"It was a challenge to play after the attack and the injury, but I wanted
desperately to start playing again," he said.

"I was back for Sri Lanka after four months. When I was lying in the hospital
bed recovering from the injury I never thought I would be able to make such a
swift recovery. We have had 30 years of internal problems in Sri Lanka, we are
used to that.

"In schools and other educational establishments we are taught how to react in
such situations and that helped us all that day in Lahore."

Samaraweera, 34, has started this tour steadily with scores of 41 and 74 against
the England Lions last week on a pitch the Sri Lanka coach Stuart Law said
yesterday had more grass on it than any of his players had seen for years.

When Sri Lanka toured England in 2006, Samaraweera endured a torrid time with
the bat, scoring just 17 runs in four innings.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             May 25, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

OUTRAGE OVER TUBE TERROR ATTACK GAME;
Victims' horror as bomb scene recreates 7/7

BYLINE: EMMA WALL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 213 words


FURIOUS Brits have called for a ban on an ultra-violent computer game featuring
7/7-style bomb attacks.

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 shows a blast on the Tube with chilling echoes of
the 2005 London horror.

A trailer of game footage released yesterday also depicts a gun battle near Big
Ben, and players will also see a dirty bomb attack on Parliament.

Last night victims of the 7/7 attacks, which killed 52 innocent people, called
for MPs to ban the game, due to hit shops in November.

Sean Cassidy, whose son Ciaran, 22, died in the Piccadilly Line blast, raged:
"This is insensitive. What happened shouldn't be used as entertainment.

This brings back bad memories for everybody, not just victims but people who
travel on the Tube every day."

Lucy Cope from antiviolence group Mothers Against Guns added: "This is
horrendous, especially when London is on red alert. David Cameron should ban it
from the shelves."

And Labour MP Keith Vaz said: "I am appalled. The exploding Tube carriages are
likely to cause distress. We should consider a ban."

But makers Activision defended the game, which also shows a 9/11-style air
attack on New York's skyscrapers.

A spokesman said: "The scenes are entirely fictional and not intended to
recreate any historical events."

emma.wall@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ? UNDER ATTACK: Gamers will take part in a gun battle near Big Ben and
the Houses of Parliament
? TUNNEL OF HELL: An Underground train explodes in a chilling echo of the July 7
carnage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             May 25, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

OUTRAGE OVER TUBE TERROR ATTACK GAME

BYLINE: by EMMA WALL

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 216 words


Victims' horror as bomb scene recreates 7/7

FURIOUS Brits have called for a ban on an ultra-violent computer game featuring
7/7style bomb attacks.

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 shows a blast on the Tube with chilling echoes of
the 2005 London horror.

A trailer of game footage released yesterday also depicts a gun battle near Big
Ben, and players will also see a dirty bomb attack on Parliament.

Last night victims of the 7/7 attacks, which killed 52 innocent people, called
for MPs to ban the game, due to hit shops in November.

Sean Cassidy, whose son Ciaran, 22, died in the Piccadilly Line blast, raged:
"This is insensitive. What happened shouldn't be used as entertainment. This
brings back bad memories for everybody, not just victims but people who travel
on the Tube every day."

Lucy Cope from antiviolence group Mothers Against Guns added: "This is
horrendous, especially when London is on red alert. David Cameron should ban it
from the shelves."

And Labour MP Keith Vaz said: "I am appalled. The exploding Tube carriages are
likely to cause distress. We should consider a ban."

But makers Activision defended the game, which also shows a 9/11-style air
attack on New York's skyscrapers.

A spokesman said: "The scenes are entirely fictional and not intended to
recreate any historical events."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNDER ATTACK: Gamers will take part in a gun battle near Big Ben and
the Houses of Parliament
TUNNEL OF HELL: An Underground train explodes in a chilling echo of the July 7
carnage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Haringey Independent

                                  May 25, 2011

'Justifiable fear' of terrorist attack by Tottenham man, judge rules

BYLINE: Tristan Kirk

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 276  words


A FATHER-of-two accused of being an Islamic extremist was right to be moved out
of Tottenham for the safety of the public, a judge has ruled.

The unnamed man was issued with a Home Office control order in February,
restricting his movement and insisting he live in the N17.

A further order then insisted the man, who has duel British and Nigerian
nationality and is known in court papers as CD, is moved to a "Midland city" to
stop him associating with other alleged extremists.

A High Court judge this week threw out the man's appeal against being moved,
agreeing with security services' assessment that "it was necessary to remove CD
from Greater London for the purpose of protecting the public from the risk of
terrorism".

Intelligence gathered on the man claimed he had attended the same extremist
training camp in Cumbria as the 21/7 London bombers.

He is also alleged to have associated with known terrorists on a trip to Syria,
and has made efforts to buy firearms on his return to the UK.

The evidence before the court alleged: "He was the leading figure in a close
group of Islamic extremists based in north London, which included TM and MS.
There was an assessment that the group was involved in planning attacks,
probably using firearms."

His lawyers, trying to block the relocation order, argued his right to a private
and family life had been impinged, and said the reasons for relocation were
"flawed".

However, Mr Justice Simon said there was a "justifiably held fear" that CD would
engage in terrorist activity, due to his extremist views and history of trying
to buy firearms.

He did, however, grant the man's family a travel allowance to visit him.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 26, 2011 Thursday

Pakistan article suspects Indian involvement in terror attack on naval base

LENGTH: 715 words


Text of article by SM Hali headlined "PNS Mehran attack "whodunit?" published by
Pakistani newspaper The Nation website on 25 May

Before concluding who was behind the daring and well conducted attack on PNS
Mehran base by well trained terrorists, with sophisticated communication
equipment, night vision devices; state-of-the-art weaponry, we need to asses who
gained the maximum from this assault.

The loss of two P-3C Orion maritime surveillance aircraft, which were
India-specific, and is capable of primarily conducting maritime patrol,
reconnaissance, anti-surface warfare and anti-submarine warfare, benefits the
adversary. In one stroke, 75 per cent of Pakistan's P-3C fleet has been
decimated. The armed forces of Pakistan, who were humiliated as a result of
Operation Geronimo on 2 May, have been further besmirched as a result of the
breach of security at PNS Mehran and the 7 hours required to break the siege by
only four (+2) terrorists. This act speaks volumes for whodunit.

According to an international news agency, the Tehrik-e-Taleban (Pakistan)
claimed responsibility, but this appears to be a red herring. This was no ragtag
militia descended from the tribal region between Afghanistan and Pakistan.

The targeted P-3C Orions were not being used in the war against terror, so were
of no threat to the Taleban or Al-Qa'idah. Pakistan Navy has not been an active
participant in the war on terror apart from its contribution to the anti-piracy
efforts or the Maritime Task Force in the Indian Ocean. This lends credence to
the earlier media reports of the Indian spy agency RAW, infiltrating the Taleban
and Al-Qa'idah with some other foreign intelligence agencies to destabilise
Pakistan.

Resulting from the attack, a number of advantages can be accrued to the enemies
of Pakistan. Besides the trauma and shock, the loss of high value military
hardware and the loss of 10 lives and injuries to 15 armed forces personnel, a
clear message has been sent to Pakistan. The detractors of Pakistan's nuclear
weapons programme are bent upon proving that there are breaches in the security
system, which can lead to the nuclear weapons landing in the hands of
terrorists, thus endangering the world.

No amount of reasoning, rationalisation and explanation that sophisticated
nuclear weapons are not hand grenades, which can be transported and hurled at
targets with impunity has worked, since the detractors are bent upon Pakistan
abandoning its nuclear weapons, they will stop at nothing short of actually
defanging us. The detractors, through intelligence and war games with varied
scenarios, have explored the possibilities of taking control of Pakistan's
nuclear weapons but have reached virtual dead ends.

The other aspect is vindictiveness for the Mumbai attacks. India has been
itching for levelling the score, since it has been alleging that Pakistan was
behind the Mumbai attacks. It tried launching surgical strikes but lost its
nerve, when its initial probe missions got intercepted. Ever since, India has
been pressurising Pakistan for action against the alleged perpetrators of the
Mumbai attack but has ended up with egg on its face when two of the persons in
the so-called list are found to be in India.

India has been targeting PN's maritime patrol aircraft since the 1990s. IAF
targeted and shot down PN's Atlantique reconnaissance aircraft over Sir Creek
area on 11 August 1999 when the unarmed aircraft was flying close to the Indian
border. It is another story that nature avenged the death of the 16 innocent PN
personnel, who perished with the Atlantique, when Squadron Leader Bundela, the
pilot of the MiG-21, who shot down the Atlantique, himself crashed and was
paralyzed from the neck down and struggled as a near vegetable for four months
before succumbing to his injuries.

It is now abundantly clear who is targeting Pakistan. The fact that four plus
two terrorists managed to infiltrate PNS Mehran with impunity, and two of them
make good their escape despite the security dragnet, there is dire need for the
government to revisit its security and anti-terrorist policy, evolve a clear cut
strategy to combat the scourge of terrorism and take the people of Pakistan into
confidence to garner their support.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 25 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 26, 2011 Thursday

Government "asleep" while US, terrorists attack Pakistan - paper

LENGTH: 528 words


Text of editorial headlined "Security concerns" published by Pakistani newspaper
The Nation website on 26 May


Prime Minister Gillani's directive to the relevant authorities to strengthen the
security of Pakistan's defence installations to ensure their safety was,
undoubtedly, a move that was most urgently called for. Mr Gillani issued these
instructions while on a visit to the Mehran naval base on Tuesday [24 May]. In
the meantime, terrorists have once again shown that they have an upper hand by
launching an attack at a CID office at Peshawar in the early hours of Wednesday,
killing nine and injuring over 40. The pity is that our leaders needed as
vicious an incident as the attack on the naval base to realize deficiencies in
security. Had they taken note of the series of attacks that have occurred on our
sensitive sites during these years of our participation in the war on terror we
would not have had to experience this agony and humiliation. Even the general
law and order situation that has been going from bad to worse ought to have
alerted them to this reality. The truth is that we are not a security-minded
people and are given to too much trust. First of all, this thinking has to
change to take care of the phenomenon of militancy that did not exist earlier,
and then proper training, latest equipment and suitable deployment of the
concerned personnel have to be ensured to obtain the desired results.


Besides, following the Mehran debacle, it was but expected that the Western
media and leaders, who have since long been conjuring up scary scenarios of
Pakistan's nuclear assets falling into the hands of terrorists, would be quick
at grasping this lapse in security to use it to add substance to their fears.
NATO Secretary General Rasmussen, questioned about the safety of our nuclear
arsenal in the light of the Mehran base attack, has opined that though he is
confident about the safety of the arsenal, the incident has raised concern. Both
The New York Times and The Los Angles Times have called into question the
ability of Pakistan's security agencies to protect the 100-odd nuclear weapons
after their failure at the naval base.

Washington's designs against our nuclear assets, despite its denials, are hard
to discount, while our rulers remain oblivious of the danger. In fact, PML-N
[Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz] leader Mian Nawaz Sharif is right when he says
that both the US and the terrorists are attacking Pakistan, but our government
is "asleep". The assault at Mehran was to give a grievous blow to our naval
capability. As this paper points out in a story published yesterday, the CIA
[Central Intelligence Agency] seems to have double crossed the ISI
[Inter-Services Intelligence]; its drone strikes are creating enemies of
Pakistan and pushing insurgents into the country. While compelling Islamabad to
ban TTP, it is infiltrating its operatives into Pakistan. We believe that to
clear the air, it is imperative to hold an impartial inquiry and lay its
findings before the public to elicit their cooperation that is essential to
rooting out the menace of terrorism.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 26 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 26, 2011 Thursday

Pakistan lawyers condemns recent wave of terror attacks

LENGTH: 187 words


Text of report by staff reporter headlined "LHCBA demands commission to fix
responsibility in acts of terror" published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times
website on 26 May

Lahore: Lahore High Court Bar Association (LHCBA), in its general house meeting
on Wednesday, condemned the recent wave of terrorist activities and demanded
constitution of a judicial commission to fix responsibility in the PNS Mehran
attack case, GHQ attack case and the US operation in Abbottabad.

LHCBA President Asghar Gill said that that Pakistan confronted serious security
concerns as heavily guarded places were being attacked by militants.

He said the government should take serious notice of the situation and review
its security policy to avoid further attacks in the country. He said that people
were alarmed over an attack on the country's armed forces and wanted to expose
those whose negligence caused this destruction.

The House also condemned the target killing of two lawyers Altaf Hussain and his
brother Nazar Hussain in Karachi, and urged the government to arrest the
killers.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 26 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                             May 26, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Terrorist attack inspired me to start my business';
RESTAURANT: INDIAN FOOD IS TO BE SERVED IN VICTORIA PARK

BYLINE: IAN GRIFFIN

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 345 words


A businessman says he was inspired to open a restaurant after surviving the
Mumbai terrorist attack.

Hanif Piranie and his daughter hid in one of the kitchens at the Taj Mahal Hotel
in 2008 when Muslim extremists burst in and opened fire with machine guns.

During the 10-hour ordeal, Mr Piranie made friends with a number of chefs. He
catches up with them whenever he visits the hotel.

He said they had encouraged him to launch a restaurant in Leicester, where he
also runs a clothing busi-ness. It led to Mr Piranie opening the Bombay
Pavilion, in Victoria Park, Leicester.

He has spent a five-figure sum refurbishing what had been called the Pavilion
before opening the venture with business partner Riaz Osman.

"It was a terrifying ordeal in Mumbai," said Mr Piranie.

"But the staff were great and I made friends with the chefs. I go to the hotel
three or four times a year and they have advised me on this restaurant."

The menu includes steaks marinated with various sauces, a fusion of Indian and
Chinese food and the south Indian dish masala dosa.

The venue can cater for up to 100 people inside and another 80 outside.

Mr Piranie and Mr Osman took over the building after securing the lease from
Leicester City Council.

Mr Piranie said he was pleased to have renovated what had been a run-down
building into an attractive eatery.

His 85-year-old mother Hawabai officially opened the venue at a ceremony which
was attended by Leicester East MP Keith Vaz.

His son Fayaz manages the business.

"We have turned an unsavoury place into a really nice place," he said. "It's the
most beautiful location in the whole of Leicester." He said he wanted to work
with the city council to provide further investment in the area.

Mr Piranie runs First Lady women's clothing store and a children's wear
wholesaler, both based in Belgrave Road.

He and his daughter Zahra were at the Taj Mahal Hotel making preparations for
her wedding when the terrorists struck.

The pair hid in a kitchen with 40 other guests and staff, including a Bollywood
film star. Their driver and one of the chefs were killed.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOMBAY DREAMS: Hanif Piranie, left, and Riaz Osman at the Bombay
Pavilion restaurant in Victoria Park, Leicester, which has just opened
PICTURE: MATT SHORT/LEMA20110513D-001_C.JPG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2011 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             May 26, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

TERROR AS RACIST YOB ATTACKED MAN ON BUS;
Driver flagged down passing cops

BYLINE: JOHN LEES

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 398 words


A RACIST yob who hurled vile abuse at a passenger on board a bus and then
viciously assaulted him has escaped a jail sentence.

Sean McPherson's appalling tirade shocked other people who were travelling on
the Arriva bus as it headed along Maxwellton Road, Paisley, in September last
year.

And, when 18-year-old McPherson went up to his stunned victim, attempted to
headbutt him and punched him on the head, knocking his spectacles from his face,
the bus driver decided he had seen and heard enough.

The horrified driver stopped his vehicle and flagged down a passing police car
to have the culprit arrested.

Paisley Sheriff Court heard that some of the racially-abusive remarks McPherson
hurled at innocent victim Michael Omwugiegwu were grossly offensive.

Despite being taken aback by the ugly and venomous attack, Mr Omwugiegwu
attempted to remain unflustered and tried to calm McPherson down.

However, that only inflamed matters as McPherson got up from his seat, walked
over to him and began to strike out in the manner described.

In court, McPherson, of George Street, Paisley, admitted conducting himself in a
racially-aggravated manner and committing the assault.

Defence agent Rhona Lynch conceded it was a "nasty offence" but said her client
had led a fairly nomadic life in recent times, with little or no positive
examples being set by any adults.

It was stated that his mother was serving a lengthy sentence in Cornton Vale
women's prison and he had started to abuse alcohol and other substances.

Mc Lynch said that McPherson would benefit from structured supervision.

Sheriff James Spy told the accused he had acted in an "appalling" manner which
would have justified a period of detention.

However, he added that, with some reservations, he was prepared to give him the
chance to benefit from a period of probation.

Sheriff Spy said that McPherson would have to agree to attend for addiction
counselling during the two-year term and carry out 200 hours of unpaid work in
the community as a direct alternative to a period of detention.

He told the accused: "You have come very close to a significant custodial
sentence today and I intend to keep a close eye on you.

"If you do not comply, the order will be revoked and you will be locked up."

McPherson is to be hauled back to court on July 12 for a probation progress
review as part of that monitoring process.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 27, 2011 Friday

Police put on high alert in Kyrgyz south amid terror attack rumours

LENGTH: 131 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Kyrgyz news agency 24.kg website

Bishkek, 27 May: "The spread of rumours and banned literature in the south of
Kyrgyzstan is not accidental ahead of the anniversary of the June events [ethnic
riots in June 2010]," the head of the Osh city interior directorate, Marat
Orozbayev, has told journalists.

He said the security agencies of the southern capital [Osh city] were taking
"additional measures to prevent a repetition of last year's events". "Rumours
are spreading in the Osh city that there will be terror attacks in some
districts. Police officers have been put on a heightened state of alert," Marat
Orozbayev said.

[Passage omitted: five police posts have been set up across the city]

Source: 24.kg website, Bishkek, in Russian 0102 gmt 27 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 27, 2011 Friday

Recent terrorist attacks in Afghan provinces show Taleban's fear - paper

LENGTH: 496 words


Text of editorial entitled: "Attack due to helplessness" by Afghan independent
secular daily newspaper Hasht-e Sobh on 23 May

Over the last few days, Taleban attacked a hospital in Kabul and a municipality
department in [eastern] Khost Province. Two weeks ago, the Taleban also used
hotels and schools as their fort in Kandahar Province. The Taleban's attitude
indicates that most of their recent attacks are carried out for showing off,
instead of being a military success. The death of Bin-Ladin fuelled the fear of
threats against the Taleban leaders and thus the Taleban try to give hope to
their troops by launching such attacks. In addition, the Taleban's attempt shows
they do not observe laws of war by targeting civilians.

The attacks on hotels, hospitals and municipality offices have led to deep
public hatred against the Taleban. Now, every Afghan citizen and every public
office have become good targets for Taleban operations. Consequently, they
cruelly attack civilians and public welfare centres. However, it does not
benefit the Taleban psychologically as people understand the nature of factors
behind the events more than ever. Moreover, it appears that on the threshold of
holding negotiations with the Taleban and as a result of political pressures
placed on Pakistan, such attacks will increase day by day. The Pakistani
government is trying to once again play a central role by showing the Taleban as
a serious danger. Pakistan aims to get political advantages through the current
games again.

Apart from that the Pakistani government is concerned about its own politics and
therefore it aims to disrupt any chances of holding talks between the Taleban,
the Afghan government and the United States. Pakistan is trying to hide the
biggest scandal it faces following Usamah Bin-Ladin's death. Consequently, it
tries to bolster the Taleban's morale in Afghanistan by supporting suicide
attacks.

The Taleban are aware of negative consequences of their attacks in Afghanistan,
but this would be the outcome of war and suicide attacks when they are carried
out due to helplessness. The Taleban attacks have led to a strong reaction of
the government, international community, human rights organizations and people.
The Taleban's acts have decreased chances of holding talks with the group.
Furthermore, the Taleban's recent actions will lead the government to act more
cautiously and observe the public opinion which is against the Taleban group
now.

People expect the government to take strong measures in order to oppose the
Taleban group now. People expect the government to form a tribunal not for the
election disputes but for the arrested terrorists and to punish them.
Unfortunately, no special courts have been set up to bring terrorists to trial
over the past 10 years and the arrested Taleban have either escaped in groups or
been discharged from prisons by ambiguous dealings.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, Mazar-e Sharif, Herat and Jalalabad in Dari 23 May
11

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 28, 2011 Saturday

Pakistan to devise new anti-terror strategy if drone attacks continue - minister

LENGTH: 421 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 27 May: Minister for Information and Broadcasting Dr Firdous Ashiq
Awan said on Friday [27 May] if United States government fails to respect the
unanimous resolution of the Parliament and sentiments of people of Pakistan on
national sovereignty, the government will have to devise new strategy to protect
national interests.

Talking to media persons after briefing about Federal Cabinet meeting, she said
that it was the responsibility of the government to convey sentiments of the
people of Pakistan to United States.

The minister said the joint resolution indicated that if drone attack continue,
Pakistan will have to re-visit its engagement with the US.

She said that under the new strategy the country's interests would be protected
without facing isolation in the world.

She said the parliament, all political parties, the nation are unanimous that
continuation of drone attacks will affect Pakistan, US relations.

The Minister said US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton has been conveyed that
it is unacceptable for Pakistanis to allow that any one to challenge their
country's sovereignty. To a question about absence of the Defence Minister in
Defence Committee of the cabinet, she said that top civil and military officials
including Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Air Staff, Chief of Naval Staff, and
Defence Secretary attended the meeting.

The prime minister is the captain of the team who chairs the meeting and absence
of one player does not mean that the government is not serious on security
issues, she said. About the Independent Commission to probe the 2 May incident,
she said "We believed in supremacy of the Parliament as it reflects the
sentiments of the people of Pakistan." She said the prime minister informed the
cabinet about the process of formation of the commission. She said it will be
constituted with the consultation of all political parties and consultations
were going on to appoint a non-controversial person as its head.

She expressed the hope that commission will be constituted soon. To another
question she said Interior Minister Rehman Malik will present preliminary
investigation report of PNS to the prime minister within couple of days. To a
question about Punjab chief minister statement regarding refusal to take foreign
loans, she said it attractive slogan but it should be implemented in the Punjab
province first.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1330gmt
27 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 28, 2011 Saturday

Pakistan article terms India as "beneficiary" of terrorists attack on naval base

LENGTH: 1270 words


Text of article by Ikram Sehgal headlined "Differing threat perceptions?"
published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 26 May

Throughout the Cold War the US projected communism as the greater threat than
India to Pakistan's existence. Both in 1965 and 1971, the US "tilted" more
towards Pakistan than India, when the chips were down we did not manage to get
much more than tea and sympathy.

With sanctions imposed after the 1965 war on both India and Pakistan, India's
armed forces got off scot-free, being equipped mostly with Soviet- or
European-origin arms and equipment. Almost wholly dependant upon the US for its
military supplies (an ally in both Cento and Seato), Pakistan not only had to
scrounge and diversify, it was also forced into self-sufficiency when the
sanctions put us repeatedly out in the cold every ten years.

Despite the Indians' "non-aligned" status and Soviet connections, the US became
India's largest supplier of arms and defence equipment because of the 1962
India-China war. Despite this US largesse (which nearly included submarines to
fight the Chinese in the Himalayas), India, for all intent and purposes,
remained very much on the side, if not an active part, of the Soviet bloc
throughout the Cold War.

Who did they give whole-hearted support to during the Soviet occupation of
Afghanistan? Ambassador Chester Bowles subsequently laid the groundwork for
stated US policy for the future with his famous memo dated May 25, 1965,
supporting "democratic" India as a regional power to take on China, even at the
expense of Pakistan.

The collapse of the Soviet Union saw India starting to change tack. 9/11 allowed
them to seize the opportunity to align themselves with the US desire to contain
China. India used the "war against terrorism" to successfully label freedom
fighters in Kashmir as "terrorists." The 26/11 Mumbai incident in 2008
reinforced Indian claims that Al-Qaeda had India in its sights along with the
US. CNN provides a platform for motivated Indian propaganda. Fareed Zakaria uses
this media pulpit to for this.

There is no deep-rooted perfidy in US policy towards Pakistan, as our conspiracy
theorists insist on suggesting. It has not changed in half a century. The US
economic and military aid to Pakistan is (and always was) on an "as required"
basis. We are a platform for their war in Afghanistan and, because of that, a
victim of the terror proliferating throughout our heartland. We should learn not
to resent realpolitik. India's vast population makes it commercially more
important than us.

Even then, it was over violent Indian objections that the US stood its ground in
keeping with its prime mission statement to protect US national interests no
matter what. One has no reason to question US [resident Obama's sincerity in
believing that the existential threat to Pakistan comes from the terrorists
running amok and that we must rid ourselves of the anti-Indian mindset.
Unfortunately, the Indian armed forces deployment seems to have escaped US
attention, or maybe in pursuit of their national interest they are choosing not
to look! We are forced to juggle our priorities and our forces to combat both
the threats.

The Indian forces on, or in proximity of, our eastern borders is not a figment
of imagination but a real threat to our existence. Deployed to support
operations in Siachen and Kargil, the Indian 14 Corps is mainly facing China (an
infantry and mountain division each and armoured brigade): (1) 15 Corps facing
us in Kashmir has two infantry divisions and an infantry brigade, 16 Corps
comprising three infantry divisions and an armour and artillery brigade with 9
Corps having two infantry divisions and three armoured brigades; (2) In Punjab
11 Corps has three infantry divisions and an armoured and mechanised brigade
each with 10 Corps having one infantry and three Reorganised Plans Infantry
(Rapid) Divisions; (3) Haryana has two (Strike) Corps with one armoured, one
rapid and one infantry division with an armoured and engineer brigade each as
well as an armoured and engineering brigade; (4) Rajasthan 12 (Desert) Corps
having two infantry divisions and an armoured and mechanised brigade each.

Well positioned to swiftly reinforce these forces (already more than three times
our conventional strength at maximum stretch) on our borders, the Indians
further have (1) 21 (Strike) Corps with an armoured division, a rapid division
and infantry division and one artillery, armoured and engineering brigade each;
and (2) 1 (Strike) Corps with an infantry division, a mountain division and an
armoured division and 21 (Strike) Corps with an armoured division, a rapid
division, an infantry division and an armoured, artillery and engineering
brigade each. In face of this overwhelming 4:1 superiority, some of our
available forces to deter this favourable attack ratio have been redeployed for
counter-insurgency (COIN) operations.

Facing Bangladesh and China the Indians have 33 Corps with three mountain
divisions, 3 Corps with one infantry and 1 mountain division and 4 Corps with
three mountain divisions. Their logistics plans are in place to move another
10-15 percent from their eastern borders to join the 70 percent of their land
forces already facing us within 2-3 weeks. With redeployment of their air
force's South-western command paralleling the army deployment, their air
capacity has similarly overwhelming numbers.

Carrying out as many as 11 exercises in which 50,000 troops or more have been
involved. Why is the Indian military trying so hard to operationalise its "Cold
Start" Doctrine (CSD) against Pakistan for the last seven years? According to
Masoodur Rahman Khattak, during the past month alone the Indian military
concluded the six-day long joint military exercise "Vijayee Bhava" in Bikaner
and Suratgarh in the Rajasthan Desert just 70 kilometres from the Pakistani
borders. Blitzkrieg-type robust armoured incursions against Pakistan by
mechanised and rapid divisions were practiced, emphasising rapid penetration
into our territory and testing out their war fighting capability to launch
night-time operations. India is placing eight Independent Brigade Groups (IBGs)
close to the border with Pakistan to save mobilisation time and is further
relocating its Strike Formation headquarters, armoured divisions and armoured
brigades from their existing locations in central India and (in depth) in Punjab
to forward locations. Having no strategic depth, Pakistan has its deployment
close to our borders, the comparatively less time than India to deploy our
forces offsets the element of surprise that CSD envisages.

Given the overwhelming numbers of the Indian deployment thereof, Pakistan should
be forgiven for maintaining a minimum deterrent. To create a favourable
environment maybe the US president could convince the Indians to publicly
renounce their CSD option and redeploy even a token of their forces deeper into
India. One would certainly like to have India as a friend, only peace can bring
prosperity to South Asia. Can the country afford to take an existential gamble
on Obama and Mian Nawaz Sharif coincidentally being on the same page with
respect to their strategic threat perception that "India is not our enemy"? Can
we declare India a "friend" when it persists in behaving as an enemy, and makes
no secret about it?

What motive would the terrorists have in destroying Pakistan's naval eyes and
ears capacity? Who is the sole beneficiary of the loss of our P3C-Orions making
our navy temporarily deaf and blind? Are we expected to be dumb also?

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 26 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 28, 2011 Saturday

Pakistan article says survival of country "on the line" in wake of terror attack

LENGTH: 878 words


Text of article by Roedad Khan headlined "Darkness at noon" published by
Pakistani newspaper The News website on 26 May

Today our country is dysfunctional and sleepwalking toward disaster. A pall has
descended on the nation and we are fast approaching Arthur Koestlers' Darkness
at Noon.

The tragedy is that each man feels what is wrong, and knows what is required to
be done, but, with the exception of Imran, none has the will or the courage or
the energy needed to speak up and say 'enough is enough'. No more drone attacks.
No more American interference in our internal affairs.

The country has been humiliated but it is business as usual in the corridors of
power. If we absolve these people who put us here, we cut off any chance to
learn from the Abbottabad debacle. We need to place the blame where it belongs.
Otherwise, they will do even more damage in the days to come.

Once we were the envy of the developing world. That is now the stuff of
nostalgia. We seem exhausted, rudderless, disoriented. Our great dreams have
given way to a corrosive apprehension, fear, uncertainty and frustration. Today
most youngsters graduate directly from college into joblessness.

It is like a nightmare in which you foresee all the horrible things which are
going to happen and can't stretch out your hand to prevent them. Such is the
feeling conjured up by corrupt, inept rulers of Pakistan as it enters a period
of great uncertainty and sinks deeper and deeper into the quagmire.

It is torture to live in an un-republican republic. Today Pakistan, a
camouflaged, thinly disguised civilian dictatorship, is a land of opportunities,
heaven for a handful and hell for countless millions of poor people.

The American footprint in our country is growing larger and heavier by the day.
Nuclear Pakistan is now an American colony and is used as a doormat on which the
US can wipe its bloodstained boots. American military personnel criss-cross our
border without let or hindrance. Their drones violate our air space with the
agreement of our government and kill innocent men, women and children. No
questions asked. No public outrage. No country-wide protest demonstrations. No
self-respecting country, big or small, would tolerate such intrusions.

Were politics in our country burdened with such notions as shame, integrity,
accountability, rule of law, and last but not least, inviolability and supremacy
of the constitution, all of them including Musharraf, would be in jail today.

All the pillars of state, with the exception of the Supreme Court and the media,
are dysfunctional. The president, the symbol of the unity of the federation, is
mired in corruption, totally indifferent to public welfare and is interested
only in protecting himself and his ill-gotten wealth. Parliament, the so-called
embodiment of the will of the people, is fake like a Potemkin village. Its
"stunning" performance fascinates only a few enlightened souls; whereas nine out
of ten Pakistanis are totally indifferent and unaware of its existence. Quite a
few members of this august body are fake degree-holders.

Today all the symptoms which one had ever met within history prior to great
changes exist in Pakistan. The country appears to be adrift. Nobody knows where
it is headed without wise and mature leadership to guide or direct it. We are on
the verge of a political collapse. The social contract between the government
and the people has collapsed. The dialogue between the rulers and the ruled has
broken down.

How will this crisis pan out? Either this is a cyclical crisis in the system and
it will soon resolve itself, or it is a crisis of the system and we will soon
witness the passage of one epoch to another. Whether the distortions, conflicts
and resentments that exist in our society today are peacefully resolved or
explode in revolution will be largely determined by two factors: The existence
or absence of dynamic democratic institutions able to redress grievances through
legislation and the ability of intellectuals to transform a local fire into a
nation-wide conflagration and fan the flames of social discontent and transmute
sp ecific grievances into a wholesale rejection of the existing order. One thing
is certain. For anything to change in this country, everything has to change.

Where are the voices of public outrage? Where is the leadership willing to stand
up. We have sullied ourselves enough. Why are we so passively mute? How can we
be so comatose as a nation when all our political institutions are crumbling
before our own eyes?

Today the survival of the country, its hard-won democracy, its independent
judiciary, its liberties all are on the line. No one is safe, and perhaps no
place on earth more closely resembles Hobbes's description of state of nature in
which life is "nasty, brutish and short".

At a time like this, people detest those who remain passive and love only those
who fight. In this transcendent struggle, neutrality is not an option. You're
either with the people or against them. It is as simple as that. One thing is
clear. The day is not far off when status quo will shift, corrupt, inept rulers
will get their just dessert, and people will once again believe in the "power of
the powerless".

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 26 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Plymouth Herald

                             May 28, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Six years for knife terror;
Man jailed for knife attack

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 435 words


A JILTED lover dressed all in black subjected his exgirlfriend to a terrifying
knife attack in her bedroom as her young son watched, a court heard.

The woman woke to find Kevin Kelly, pictured above, standing at the foot of her
bed brandishing a kitchen knife, and feared he was about to kill her.

Kelly then leapt on the woman, who had been sleeping with her five-year-old
autistic son, and stabbed her between the breasts, saying: "If I can't have you,
no-one else is..."

During the violent struggle, she was slashed in the shoulder, also cutting her
hand as she wrestled the knife off him and threw it down.

Kelly, 35, then apologised and ran home to his mother's house. Prosecutor David
Gittins said both the woman and her son were left traumatised by the attack. She
told police she was now afraid to go out but also afraid to stay at home. Mr
Gittins told Plymouth Crown Court that the woman began a relationship with Kelly
in 2006, but they split up in March 2010 because he was spending so much money
on cannabis. Kelly had great difficulty accepting that the relationship was
over, and in May last year got into her house while she was out, hid under a
quilt and waited. When she returned, he dragged her downstairs by her hair and
put his hand over her mouth and nose until she fainted because she could not
breathe.

He was cautioned by police while she changed the locks and obtained a court
non-molestation order. But during the next fortnight, Kelly breached all six
conditions. Then on May 30, he broke into her house with a crowbar, took a large
kitchen knife and slashed a dress hanging up to dry. He then went to her bedroom
and stabbed her as the child cried: "Get off Mummy!" Kelly ran home and told his
mother he had stabbed the woman. His mother had been so concerned by his
behaviour that she had taken to locking him in every night. Mr Gittins said
Kelly, who had a criminal record for drugs and dishonesty stretching back to
1994, gave police a "no comment" interview, but was very emotional. Kelly was
initially charged with attempted murder, but later pleaded guilty to unlawful
wounding, the woman's injuries being a superficial cut to the chest requiring a
steri-strip and four stitches to her shoulder.

Nick Lewin, for Kelly, said his client had not taken the knife to the scene, was
in a bad mental state at the time and had spent 361 days in jail on remand.
Judge Francis Gilbert said aggravating features included the break-in, the use
of a knife, the attack taking place in the woman's bedroom and the presence of a
child. He jailed Kelly, of North Prospect Road, Plymouth, for six years.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PLH


                       Copyright 2011 The Plymouth Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 29, 2011 Sunday

Syrian Interior Ministry source says "terrorist group" attacks policeman, sons

LENGTH: 148 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

[Article by H. Zain/ Manal - "Interior Ministry Source: Criminal Group Attacks
Policeman and his two Sons in Homs" - SANA Headline]

Taldao, Homs, Central Syria: An armed terrorist group in Taldao village in Homs
on Saturday [28 May] attacked the policeman Mohammed Eid Yassin and two of his
sons.

Mohammed's son Maher Mohammed Yassin ,25 years old, was martyred and his brother
Thaer Mohammed Yassin was injured, although the policeman Mohammed is one of the
village's residents.

An Interior Ministry source said the policeman Mohammed, who had to defend
himself and his sons, killed two of the attackers and injured a third, while the
others escaped. The security forces continue to track down the attackers in
order to arrest them and bring them to justice.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 29 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 30, 2011 Monday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 292 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

["TURKEY-AFGHANISTAN -Turkey Condemns Act of Terror in Afghanistan" - Anatolia
headline]

Ankara, 30 May: Turkey has condemned Saturday's act of terror in Afghanistan.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement that Turkey condemned
Saturday's suicide bomb attack on a compound of the governor of Afghanistan's
northern Takhar province.

"This heinous attack targeted efforts to ensure peace and stability in the
country," the Ministry said, expressing profound sorrow over killing of General
Daoud Daoud, police commander in northern Afghanistan, Gen. Shah Jahan Noori,
provincial police chief, and troops from the International Security Assistance
Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan.

"Afghan people, who have been living face to face with wars, clashes and
destruction for the last three decades, deserve peace and stability. We believe
that Afghan people will give the most determined and meaningful response to such
acts of terror by strengthening their unity and solidarity," it said.

The Ministry also offered its condolences to those who lost their beloved ones
in the attack.

A suicide bomber wearing a police uniform infiltrated the heavily guarded
compound of the governor of Afghanistan's northern Takhar province in Taloqan,
and blwe himself up during a security meeting of top NATO and Afghan officials
from the region. Two NATO soldiers, police commander Gen. Daoud Daoud and the
provincial police chief, Shah Jahan Noori, were killed in the attack. The German
commander of NATO's force in the north, Maj. Gen. Markus Kneip, and the governor
of Takhar Province, Abdul Jabar Taqwa, were among the many wounded.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0623 gmt 30 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 31, 2011 Tuesday

Pakistan TV show discusses wave of terror attacks in country

LENGTH: 905 words


Karachi Geo News at 1405 gmt on 26 May relays "Jirga" hosted by Saleem Safi, a
senior journalist who hails from the tribal areas. The program focuses on the
issue of terrorism, militancy, and extremism in Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Province and Federally Administered Tribal Areas [FATA] as well as
Pakistan-Afghanistan relations. The guests on the program include military
figures, politicians, religious scholars, and experts. Words within double slant
lines are in English.

Program: "Jirga"

Reception: Good

Duration: 1 hour

Guests:

Brigadier [retired] Asad Munir, former official of the Inter Services
Intelligence [ISI]

Amir Rana, director of the Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies

Haroonur Rasheed, senior journalist

Safi begins the program referring to the latest wave of terrorist attacks in the
country. He says that the nation lacks consensus on solution to this problem. He
says that Al-Qa'ida and the Tehreek-e-Taleban Pakistan [TTP] still have the
capacity to shake Pakistan. He says that terrorist attacks on Islamabad's
Marriot Hotel, General Headquarters, and Pakistan Naval Station Mehran reflect
the strength of terrorists. He says that it is time to find out a comprehensive
and multidimensional solution to this problem. He says: "Al-Qa'ida enjoys
considerable support at public level in Pakistan." He says that Al-Qa'ida and
the TTP think that what they are doing is jihad in the name of Islam. He says
that what is common between Al-Qa'ida and Pakistani extremist organization TTP
is that they are anti-US; they are anti-Pakistan Government, and want to impose
Islamic system forcibly. He says that Pakistan's extremist organizations use
Al-Qa'ida's literature for promotion of jihad. He says that the TTP and
Al-Qa'ida depend on each other for their survival. He says that the TTP thinks
that attacks on Pakistani security forces are justified since the Pakistan
Government is an ally of the United States.

Safi asks Munir what extremists want to achieve by attacking Pakistani people.
Munir says that terrorist attacks are being conducted by Al-Qa'ida and the TTP.

Safi asks Rana who are conducting terrorist attacks on Pakistani security
institutions and people. Rana says that the perpetrators of terrorist attacks
are all Pakistanis and belong to different religious and jihadist organizations.
He says that jihadist organizations have two agendas: first, to defeat the
United States and NATO and second, to form Islamic governments and impose their
brand of Islam on Pakistan and Afghanistan. He says that these extremist
organizations are unlikely to succeed in their mission number two.

Safi asks Rasheed whether he agrees with Rana. Rasheed agrees with Rana that
extremists want to impose their brand of Islam on Pakistan and Afghanistan. He
says that Afghan jihad against Russia and the Taleban regime in Afghanistan
caused //power intoxication// in extremists. He says that the Pakistan
Government should have conducted dialogue with extremists. He says that use of
force is not an appropriate solution to the problem of terrorism. He says that
the possibility of foreign hand behind terrorist attacks cannot be ruled out.

Safi asks Munir whether he believes that agents of the Indian Research and
Analysis Wing [Indian intelligence agency] or any other intelligence agency
support Al-Qa'ida militants against Pakistan. Munir says that he did not find
any evidence in support of this conspiracy theory. He adds that India cannot use
the Taleban because they are committed to their cause only.

Safi asks Rana why the TTP and Al-Qa'ida are attacking Pakistani Muslims. Rana
says that they are attacking Pakistanis because they think that Pakistan is an
ally of the United States. He agrees with Munir's statement that the Taleban are
basically anti-Indian and that India cannot exploit them against Pakistan. He
adds that the Taleban want war with India.

Safi asks Rasheed whether he believes that India is involved in terrorist
attacks in Pakistan. Rasheed says that Indian involvement cannot be ruled out.
He adds that terrorists are willing to work for Indian agencies in exchange for
money.

Safi asks Rasheed whether it is true that Pakistan is playing double game; it is
fighting against those whom it considers its strategic assets. Rasheed says that
this policy should be changed now.

Safi asks Rasheed how Pakistan can deal with this situation. Rasheed says that
the civilian and military leadership should devise a //national security
policy//. He says that the leadership should take the nation into confidence on
this issue. He says that it is a pity that political parties are not united to
counter this threat.

Safi asks Munir why security institutions have failed to prevent terrorist
attacks. Munir says that terrorist attacks are not possible without the support
of internal staff. He adds that terrorists have someone to provide secret
information about premises.

Safi asks Rana how Pakistan can respond to the challenge of terrorism. Rana says
that Pakistan should create a national security policy. He says that the nation
needs to develop consensus on solution to this problem. He says that the
leadership is in a //state of denial//.

Rasheed says that creation of effective counterterrorism strategy should be the
foremost priority of the government. He says that the leadership should take the
nation into confidence.

Safi concludes the program.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1405gmt 26 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 2, 2011 Thursday

Report says 40 militants killed in Afghan terror attack in northwest Pakistan

LENGTH: 194 words


Text of report headlined "27 security personnel killed after cross-border raid"
published by Pakistani newspaper The Express Tribune website on 2 June

Peshawar: The death toll from Wednesday's militant attack on a joint police and
Levies check post in Shiltalao area of Upper Dir has risen to 27, according to
DCO Ghulam Muhammad.

The dead include three civilians. Security forces said 40 militants were also
killed in the clashes.

Skirmishes had been going on for 24 hours in a village in Dir region, Ghulam
Mohammad Khan, a top local government official, said by telephone.

"We are preparing to evacuate 25 bodies from the village," he said, referring to
police and paramilitary forces killed in the fighting that spread to a forest.

Khan said he had no figures on militant casualties.

Dir police official Dawar Ali said army troops had arrived in the area to
support security forces. He said more details on the battles were hard to come
by because communications had broken down in the area.

The militants had arrived in a pre-dawn operation on Wednesday dressed in
military uniforms and killed one policeman.

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 02 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 2, 2011 Thursday

Georgian arrests two on charges of plotting Russian-backed terror attack

LENGTH: 173 words


The Georgian Interior Ministry's Constitutional Security Department has detained
two residents of the breakaway republic of Abkhazia on charges of attempting to
stage a terrorist attack ordered by "Russian special services".

At a briefing carried live by the private Imedi TV on 2 June, detective Giorgi
Bukhrashvili said: "Law enforcers in Samegrelo District [in west Georgia] have
detained Abesalom Chkhetia and Tamila Benia, residents of Gali District in
occupied Abkhazia. The detained persons had an explosive substance, which was
confiscated by police and rendered harmless through the use of special water
canon equipment.

"It has been established as a result of testimonies by the detained persons that
employees of the Russian special services in the occupied territory of Abkhazia,
[name omitted] and [name omitted], ordered them to stage a terrorist attack. The
Constitutional Security Department is continuing its investigation into the case
to establish additional details."

Source: Imedi TV, Tbilisi, in Georgian 1300gmt 02 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             June 2, 2011 Thursday

Samurai sword attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 89 words


A GANG carrying a Samurai sword violently attacked a man in his bedroom.

The 39-year-old was also hit with a sledgehammer and iron bar at his home on
Culver Road, Adswood, Stockport on Monday (May 30) just after 9.30pm.

A group of up to four men had burst into the house through a side door and
charged up to the bedroom before launching the attack.

The victim was taken to Stepping Hill Hospital with injuries to his leg,

stomach and head. Although the injuries are not thought to be life threatening
he was kept in overnight for observation.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 3, 2011 Friday

Four Kenyan soldiers killed in Somali "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 342 words


Text of report by Somalia's private commercial Radio Shabeelle on 3 June

[Presenter] Kenyan security forces are conducting security operations in Mandera
after a vehicle belonging to Kenyan security forces was targeted with a bomb
explosion last night. Our reporter Muhammad Ali Roraye has the details.

[Reporter] Reports received by Radio Shabeelle say Kenyan security forces are
this morning conducting security operations in Mandera town after their
colleagues were targeted by an explosive last night. It is unclear whether the
Kenyan forces have arrested suspects in connection with the attack. However, the
operation has affected the residents of Mandera town. Four Kenyan security
forces were killed and five others wounded in the attack. The wounded soldiers
were rushed to a hospital in Nairobi. The governor of Gedo Region [bordering
Kenya], Muhammad Abdi Kalil, who spoke to Radio Shabeelle, said Al-Shabab was
behind the attack, adding that the explosion only caused injuries.

[Governor] The explosion indeed happened. As you aware, Mandera and Buulo Xaawo
[in Somalia] are almost attached. The explosion occurred after the sunset
prayers. It is the terrorist group which was behind the attack. The explosion
targeted a vehicle belonging to Kenyan forces. The casualties resulting from the
attack are very minimal and we haven't received any report of deaths. We have
only heard of the injury of several soldiers. The attack is part of the
explosions which the group is carrying out around the world or in this part of
the world. Those behind the incident will be identified but we are pretty sure
that it is the terrorists who are behind it.

[Reporter] Whom are you referring to as terrorists?

[Governor] Terrorists are these men who call themselves Al-Shabab, which is made
up of people from different races. It is made up of foreigners as well as
Somalis.

[Reporter] Neither the Kenyan government officials nor those from Al-Shabab have
commented on the overnight blast in Mandera.

Source: Radio Shabeelle, Mogadishu in Somali 0500 gmt 3 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 3, 2011 Friday

Pakistan TV show discusses "new US demands", war on terrorism, drone attacks

LENGTH: 1222 words


Geo News TV in Urdu at 1800 gmt on 30 May carries live regularly scheduled
programme, "Aapas Ki Baat" hosted by Muneeb Farooq and Najam Sethi. The
programme brings in-depth analysis on burning issues faced by Pakistan; words
within double slant lines are in English

Duration: 60 minutes

Reception: Good

Segment I

Farooq begins the programme by saying that the nation is still confused about
whether Pakistan should own the war on terror [terrorism] and this confusion and
division has been beneficial for the enemy. Farooq says that the leadership is
not taking the nation into confidence on discourse with the US officials since 2
May.

Farooq plays a video report. The report says that civilian and military
leadership is not taking the nation into confidence on discussions with the
high-level US officials, including US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton,
Admiral Mike Mullen, and Senator John Kerry. The report adds that the nation
wants to know about the new US demands. The report says that the United States
has given a list of four most wanted terrorists to Pakistan. The report adds
that meanwhile the Taleban have vowed to continue the war against Pakistan even
after the US withdrawal from the region. The report quotes the Taleban as saying
that Pakistan's nuclear weapons are assets of the Muslim world and they will be
used to protect Muslims. The report says that Pakistan will have to be quick to
recognize its real enemy; the United States or the Taleban. The report adds that
the government has decided to begin military operation against the
Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan [TTP] in North Waziristan but it is not clear whether
the Haqqani Network will also be targeted.

Farooqi asks Sethi why the civilian and military leadership is trying to conceal
the details of US-Pakistan talks. Sethi says he smells a rat behind closed
doors. Sethi says that Pakistani leadership does not want to face media
representatives, which is why Secretary of State Hillary Clinton attended the
press conference in Islamabad in the absence of someone from Pakistan's side.

Farooq asks Sethi how Pakistan's role in the war on terror is going to evolve
after the recent US-Pakistan talks. Sethi says that the US administration has
agreed to give some concessions to Pakistan. Sethi reveals that the United
States is ready to declare Pakistan innocent in Bin-Ladin's case. Sethi says
that it will be risky for the United States to declare that Pakistan's senior
officials were unaware of Bin-Ladin's presence in Abbottabad since it is not
confirmed yet; however, the United States is ready to take this risk so that
Pakistan could prove its innocence before the international community. Sethi
further says that meanwhile David Headley's prosecution in the United States is
also going to be "troublesome" for Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence [ISI].
Sethi adds that David Headley is likely to come up with accusations on ISI and
Hafiz Muhammad Saeed, chief of the Jama't-ud-Da'wah Pakistan; however, the
United States seems willing to give concession to Pakistan in the David Headley
case also. Sethi says that the United States wants Pakistan to begin military
operation in North Waziristan.

Farooq asks Sethi what kind of operation will be conducted in North Waziristan.
Sethi says that North Waziristan operation will be a "//limited operation//."
Sethi adds: "two cities of North Waziristan are home to terrorists." Sethi says
that according to the Army, the right time for operation in North Waziristan has
arrived now. Sethi adds that the United States wants to conduct joint operations
against four most wanted terrorists - Aiman Al-Zawahiri, Al-Qa'idah leader;
Ilyas Kashmiri, former leader of the Lashkar-i-Toiba; Atiya Abdur Rehman, head
of operations of Al-Qa'idah in Pakistan and Afghanistan; and Sirajuddin Haqqani,
chief of the Haqqani Network.

Farooq asks Sethi why the list does not include Mullah Omar's name. Sethi says
that the United States wants Pakistan to handle Mullah Omar. Sethi adds that
this development is also tantamount to "concession to Pakistan." Sethi further
says that Mullah Omar is against Al-Qa'idah's presence in Afghanistan. Sethi
adds that the United States has allowed Pakistan to persuade Mullah Omar and
reach some agreement with him. Sethi reveals that the United States is willing
to have negotiations with Jalaluddin Haqqani [father of Sirajuddin Haqqani] but
not with Sirajuddin Haqqani because the latter is an intransigent militant.
Sethi further says that the United States is in favour of joint operations
against the four most wanted terrorists. Sethi thinks that Pakistan is still
hesitant to take action against Sirajuddin Haqqani. Sethi says that according to
the US intelligence, one of the most wanted terrorists is in South Punjab. Sethi
says: "Pakistan Army will have to take action against Sirajuddin Haqqani since
failure in doing so will cause the United States to conduct another //unilateral
operation//."

Segment II

Farooq says that the Army has reservations on the way Pakistani Ambassador to US
Hussain Haqqani is issuing visas to CIA [Central Intelligence Agency] personnel.
Sethi says that according to a senior military official, Pakistan Embassy in
Washington has issued 9,000 visas to CIA officials; however, this figure is not
correct. Sethi adds that according to official record, almost 4,900 visas were
issued to official visitors while the rest were issued to private citizens.
Sethi says that the figure of 4,900 include the visas issued to delegation with
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Sethi further says that moreover the US
defence consultative group also visited Pakistan eight times in 2010. Sethi
reveals that American citizens have started avoiding travelling to Pakistan due
to security reasons. Sethi says that it was Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gillani,
who empowered Hussain Haqqani to issue visas to US officials in 2010.

Segment III

Farooq plays a video showing Muttahida Qaumi Movement [MQM] supporters listening
to telephonic address of their chief Altaf Hussain from London. Hussain says
that some anchorpersons are misleading people by saying that terrorist attacks
are backlash of drone attacks. Hussain adds that such anchorpersons are enemies
of the state.

Farooq establishes telephone link with Faisal Sabzwari, a leader of MQM, and
asks him to clarify Altaf Hussain's stance on terrorism. Sabzwari says that
Altaf Hussain is in favour of accountability of the Army and ISI. Sabzwari adds
that Altaf Hussain wants the Army and ISI to identify sympathizers of extremists
in their ranks and remove them. Sabzwari further says that MQM supports the
proposed independent inquiry commission. Sabzwari says that the war on terror is
Pakistan's own war. Sabzwari adds that some anchorpersons are deliberately
trying to mislead people by saying that this war is not Pakistan's war.

Segment IV

Farooq invites calls from viewers.

A caller asks Sethi why Pakistan is so much dependent on the US aid. Sethi says
that Pakistan has received 20bn dollars from the United States during the past
10 years. Sethi adds that 14 out of 20bn dollars were used by the Army. Sethi
further says that the civilian government is weak and it cannot bypass the Army
and decline the US aid.

Farooq concludes the programme.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1800gmt 30 May 11

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS



              PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: SOUTH WEST

                        June 3, 2011 Friday 11:59 AM BST

WOMEN TERRORISED IN GULL ATTACKS

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 181 words


Two elderly women say they are too terrified to leave their home following a
series of aerial attacks by gulls in Cornwall.

Nancy Bond and Gloria Prinn say they cannot use their garden or even hang their
washing out following a number of onslaughts near their flat in Falmouth.

Ms Prinn told the BBC she had her glasses knocked off during one incident.

``I was hanging out my clothes. It just landed on me and glasses really went
off,'' she said.

``It was like a tonne weight on me. It was terrible.''

Ms Bond said: ``When we come out to go shopping, the two big ones up there just
come zooming over the top of you.''

The RSPB said gulls nesting on house roofs are most likely to be herring gulls
and are likely to be protecting their young.

The charity said the problem should disappear when the gulls' chicks have flown.

The RSPB said although gulls are protected, it is possible to get a licence to
deal with nuisance birds.

But it added that Government licences allow the killing of urban gulls only as a
last resort, where a significant risk to public health or safety has been
identified. end

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2011 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Brentwood Weekly News

                                  June 4, 2011

Firms train to cope with terror attacks

SECTION: BRENTWOOD NEWS (BRENTWOOD NEWS)

LENGTH: 268 words


BUSINESSES in Brentwood are being offered the chance to learn how to project
themselves from terrorist attacks.

Brentwood Council has teamed up with the National Counter Terrorism Security
Office to form an initiative called Project Argus, which will show businesses
from the borough what to do should a terrorist attack happen.

Project Argus, which stands for Area Reinforcement Gained Using Scenarios, will
be starting off with an education session at the Nightingale Centre, in Warley,
on July 8, which will go through different situations and how to deal with them.

The free event will be run by the council and Essex Police, with Mark Reed,
chairman of the council's Business and Community Panel, saying even though there
is no real threat to Brentwood at the moment, the course would be very
worthwhile for businesses.

He said: "Whether you are a national chain or a small business, Project Argus
will be providing a unique opportunity to learn from, and contribute to,
valuable lessons.

"It will be helping to protect you, your business and your community and help
you prepare and have the necessary plans in place to help safeguard your staff,
customers and your company assets.

"We haven't received a specific threat, but given our key strategic position,
it's going to be a great way to increase awareness of counter terrorism issues
and help make us more resilient and aware as a community."

The session will run from 9.30am to 12.30pm.

Any businesses interested in taking part in Project Argus, can book a place for
July 8, by contacting Shelley King on 01277 312693 or e-mail shelley.king@
brentwood.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 4, 2011 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Let us do our job, say police cleared of attack on suspect;
Anti-terrorism

BYLINE: David Brown; Sean O'Neill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20,21

LENGTH: 669 words


Four policemen acquitted of assaulting an al-Qaeda suspect and mocking his
Muslim faith during an anti-terrorist raid demanded yesterday to be allowed to
resume their careers.

A jury took less than an hour to clear the members of the Metropolitan Police's
Territorial Support Group (TSG) of beating up Babar Ahmad at his South London
home in 2003.

But the officers' futures pose a problem for Scotland Yard because Sir Paul
Stephenson, the Met Commissioner, has previously paid Mr Ahmad £60,000 damages
in the High Court after admitting his officers had carried out a violent
assault. Lawyers for the officers said that the allegations had been "unfounded
and unsubstantiated".

Scotland Yard promised a speedy review of misconduct issues raised by the case
but confirmed that three of the officers -- PCs John Donohue, 36, Nigel Cowley,
33, and Roderick James-Bowen, 40 -- will be on restricted duties. The fourth, PC
Mark Jones, 43, who in 2009 was acquitted of assaulting two black teenagers,
remains suspended from duty on full pay over an unrelated disciplinary issue.

A separate review of the Met's handling of the case, conducted by Sir Geoffrey
Grigson, is due to be published by the Metropolitan Police Authority.

It has been disclosed that the four officers had amassed a total of 58
complaints against them -- with 31 of those being registered against PC Jones,
the majority from black or Asian people.

The Met also faces questions over its refusal to agree to a request from
prosecutors to interview Inspector Paul Davis, the most senior TSG officer
present when Mr Ahmad was arrested, as a witness in the case.

Fiona Murphy, Mr Ahmad's solicitor, called for "an urgent review" of the
misconduct issues and accused the Independent Police Complaints Commission
(IPCC) of botching the inquiry into the officers' activities.

Ms Murphy said: "The criminal proceedings have taken their course and the jury
has returned its verdict. We now call upon the IPCC to put its abject failures
in relation to this case to one side and to give proper consideration to the
misconduct aspects."

The criminal trial at Southwark Crown Court was told that an MI5 surveillance
device hidden in Mr Ahmad's prayer room recorded officers forcing him to kneel
and laughing as they asked: "Where is your God now?" Mr Ahmad said that the
officers punched him in the face, stamped on his feet, grabbed his testicles and
twisted his handcuffs to inflict intense pain. The assaults were alleged to have
occurred at his home, in a police van and at Charing Cross Police Station.

Mr Ahmad told the court that he feared he was going to die and denied fighting
with the officers. He said: "I had nothing to gain. There was no struggle, there
was no resistance, there was no fighting."

The accused officers said that they had been warned that Mr Ahmad was the
dangerous head of an Al-Qaeda terror cell who had received training in armed and
unarmed combat. They said that they had been reminded that PC Stephen Oake had
been murdered 11 months before during a raid to arrest another terror suspect in
Manchester. Their instructions were to "deck and dominate" the suspect.

PC James-Bowen described an "immense struggle" with Mr Ahmad and admitted
charging at him to bring him to the ground. The officer claimed that Mr Ahmad, a
martial arts expert, had rained blows on his back.

PC Jones said that the discovery of a Samurai sword made officers "more
determined to get him secured". The officers claimed Mr Ahmad continued to
struggle violently on the journey to the police station. They insisted his
injuries were as a result of his struggles.

Mr Ahmad was freed without charge six days after his arrest but was re-arrested
in August 2004 at the request of the American authorities.

He has been in prison since, fighting extradition to the United States on
charges of facilitating and raising money for terrorism, conspiring to kill and
assisting the Taleban and the Chechen mujahidin.

'I had nothing to gain. There was no struggle, there was no resistance'

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 7, 2011



CORRECTION: We reported ("Let us do our job, say police cleared of attack on
suspect", June 4) that an MI5 surveillance device in the home of Babar Ahmad had
recorded police officers saying: "Where is your God now?" The tape, while
capturing audio of the whole arrest, did not record any such comment. We
apologise for the error.

GRAPHIC: Mark Jones, John Donohue, Nigel Cowley and Roderick James-Bowen leave
Southwark Crown Court after they were cleared of assaulting Babar Ahmad
NICK EDWARDS / NATIONAL PICTURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 4, 2011 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Put us back on beat, say four cleared of attack on suspect;
Anti-terrorism

BYLINE: David Brown; Sean O'Neill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20,21

LENGTH: 723 words


CORRECTION: We reported ("Put us back on beat, say four cleared of attack on
suspect ", June 4) that an MI5 surveillance device in the home of Babar Ahmad
had recorded police officers saying: "Where is your God now?" The tape, while
capturing audio of the whole arrest, did not record any such comment. We
apologise for the error.

Four policemen acquitted of assaulting an al-Qaeda suspect and mocking his
Muslim faith during an anti-terrorist raid demanded yesterday to be allowed to
resume their careers.

A jury took less than an hour to clear the members of the Metropolitan Police's
Territorial Support Group (TSG) of beating up Babar Ahmad at his South London
home in 2003.

But the officers' futures pose a problem for Scotland Yard because Sir Paul
Stephenson, the Met Commissioner, has previously paid Mr Ahmad £60,000 damages
in the High Court after admitting his officers had carried out a violent
assault. Lawyers for the officers said that the allegations had been "unfounded
and unsubstantiated".

Scotland Yard promised a speedy review of misconduct issues raised by the case
but confirmed that three of the officers -- PCs John Donohue, 36, Nigel Cowley,
33, and Roderick James-Bowen, 40 -- will be on restricted duties. The fourth, PC
Mark Jones, 43, who in 2009 was acquitted of assaulting two black teenagers,
remains suspended from duty on full pay over an unrelated disciplinary issue.

A separate review of the Met's handling of the case, conducted by Sir Geoffrey
Grigson, is due to be published by the Metropolitan Police Authority.

It has been disclosed that the four officers had amassed a total of 58
complaints against them -- with 31 of those being registered against PC Jones,
the majority from black or Asian people.

The Met also faces questions over its refusal to agree to a request from
prosecutors to interview Inspector Paul Davis, the most senior TSG officer
present when Mr Ahmad was arrested, as a witness in the case.

Fiona Murphy, Mr Ahmad's solicitor, called for "an urgent review" of the
misconduct issues and accused the Independent Police Complaints Commission
(IPCC) of botching the inquiry into the officers' activities.

Ms Murphy said: "The criminal proceedings have taken their course and the jury
has returned its verdict. We now call upon the IPCC to put its abject failures
in relation to this case to one side and to give proper consideration to the
misconduct aspects."

The criminal trial at Southwark Crown Court was told that an MI5 surveillance
device hidden in Mr Ahmad's prayer room recorded officers forcing him to kneel
and laughing as they asked: "Where is your God now?" Mr Ahmad said that the
officers punched him in the face, stamped on his feet, grabbed his testiclesand
twisted his handcuffs to inflict intense pain. The assaults were alleged to have
occurred at his home, in a police van and at Charing Cross Police Station.

Mr Ahmad told the court that he feared he was going to die and denied fighting
with the officers. He said: "I had nothing to gain. There was no struggle, there
was no resistance, there was no fighting."

The accused officers said that they had been warned that Mr Ahmad was the
dangerous head of an Al-Qaeda terror cell who had received training in armed and
unarmed combat. They said that they had been reminded that PC Stephen Oake had
been murdered 11 months before during a raid to arrest another terror suspect in
Manchester. Their instructions were to "deck and dominate" the suspect.

PC James-Bowen described an "immense struggle" with Mr Ahmad and admitted
charging at himto bring him to the ground. The officer claimed that Mr Ahmad, a
martial arts expert, had rained blows on his back.

PC Jones said that the discovery of a Samurai sword made officers "more
determined to get him secured". The officers claimed Mr Ahmad continued to
struggle violently on the journey to the police station. They insisted his
injuries were as a result of his struggles.

Mr Ahmad was freed without charge six days after his arrest but was re-arrested
in August 2004 at the request of the American authorities.

He has been in prison since, fighting extradition to the United States on
charges of facilitating and raising money for terrorism, conspiring to kill and
assisting the Taleban and the Chechen mujahidin.

'I had nothing to gain. There was no struggle, there was no resistance'

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 7, 2011



CORRECTION: We reported ("Let us do our job, say police cleared of attack on
suspect", June 4) that an MI5 surveillance device in the home of Babar Ahmad had
recorded police officers saying: "Where is your God now?" The tape, while
capturing audio of the whole arrest, did not record any such comment. We
apologise for the error.

GRAPHIC: Mark Jones, John Donohue, Nigel Cowley and Roderick James-Bowen leave
Southwark Crown Court after they were cleared of assaulting Babar Ahmad
NICK EDWARDS / NATIONAL PICTURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 5, 2011 Sunday

Syrian security forces attacked by "terrorist groups" in Al-Rastan

LENGTH: 225 words


Text of report in English by M. Nassr/ H. Said entitled state-run Syrian news
agency SANA website

["Injured Army and Police Personnel: Terrorist Groups Targeted Us withVarious
Types of Weapons" - SANA Headline]

Homs, Central Syria, (SANA) - A number of army members, security forces and
policemen who were attacked by the terrorist groups in Al-Rastan city in Homs
said that the groups members used various types of weapons with the intention of
killing them.

In interviews with the Syrian TV on Saturday [4 June], one of the injured
security members said his group was under heavy fire coming from a building
behind them in al-Ashrafieh village, pointing out that he was shot in the leg.

Other wounded policeman said that more than 100 armed persons opened fire on his
group in Al-Rastan city, Homs, adding that "the shooting was coming from
rooftops. One of my friends martyred and I was shot in my arm and belly."

For his part, Dr Mohsen Ibrahim said there were serious injuries that were
transferred to the hospital in critical conditions, adding that some of them
underwent through surgeries, while others were moved to the intensive care room
to monitor their health conditions.

Dr Ibrahim added that the injuries were caused mostly by direct fire shooting or
fragments of mines or grenades.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 5 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        June 5, 2011 Sunday 2:16 PM BST

TERRORISTS 'WILL OUTSOURCE ATTACKS'

BYLINE: Antony Stone, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 500 words


Terrorists will increasingly act like modern day multi-national firms
outsourcing mass atrocity attacks, a top military expert warned today.

Senior American military strategist Philip Bobbit has offered a chilling glimpse
of the new potential for mass murder.

Among the new threats is a disturbing rise in the risk of terrorists who might
use biological weapons of mass destruction.

He also warned today that some in the military are so far failing to appreciate
the nature of the new threat.

Twenty first century terrorists are harnessing the advantages of globalism in
the same way as large corporations.

He said the emergence of ``market states,'' as opposed to nation states, is
giving rise to terrorists who act in the same way.

As the USA and other western countries have outsourced everything from Pentagon
operations to transport, terrorists would do the same.

But he dismissed the idea of a war on terror as ``absurd'' as he detailed how
the traditional military approach would not work.

The top flight academic, author and former director of America's Centre of
National Security was talking at the Hay Festival, in mid Wales.

``For five centuries only other states could threaten the viability of another
state,'' he said today.

``That is still true today but it will not stay true for long and not everyone
in the military understands that.''

He also warned that technological innovation means the risk of a biological
attack has increased alarmingly.

``You can now alter the gene makeup of something without a great deal of
resources,'' he said.

``It used to be that only a few states had the resources to do that sort of
thing.''

He said that technological advance meant the know-how, cash and numbers of
people needed had all radically reduced over time.

``You can take Mouse Pox and alter it very little to make Small Pox - you don't
have to be a genius.

``That is the real threat, seriously.''

While his chilling message may well trigger alarm, he also claimed the risk of
dying in a terrorist attack is low.

He said with the exception of the 9/11 atrocity, the annual death toll to
terrorist attacks over the last half century was minimal.

``The number of Americans killed by international terrorism since the 1960s is
the same as the number of people who died from an allergic reaction to
peanuts.''

He said while the death toll to terrorism will remain low, when attacks did
happen the numbers involved would be relatively high.

The theme of his discussion today was whether war on terror was absurd.

In answer, he said the traditional approach of attacking an enemy, forcing its
surrender and taking over its capital city no longer applied.

He said terrorists would ultimately reflect the prevailing world system, of
globalism and market states.

``When people in this country, or in Europe, say that they know terrorism what
they men is the IRA, PKK or ETA. That is no longer relevant.''

He said the previous model of terrorist groups operating in one nation was no
guide to the global terrorism of today.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2011 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Bournemouth Echo

                              June 6, 2011 Monday

Sisters' terror after beach gang attack

BYLINE: Katie Clark and Joanna Codd

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (BE LATEST NEWS)

LENGTH: 396 words


A TERRIFYING attack carried out by a gang of youngsters on Bournemouth beach has
left two teenage girls too scared to go out on their own.

Sisters Kimberley and Chanelle Drew and three girl friends were at the beach
just west of Bournemouth Pier when the incident happened last Thursday.

Tomboy Chanelle, 13, and her friend had earlier joined in a game of frisbee with
members of the 15-20 strong group, although others came over and called them
"white trash".

As they were leaving the beach, Chanelle pointed out one of the girls that had
been nice to her. A male member of the group came over and grabbed her by the
throat.

"He pushed her to the ground, and went to kick her in the head. She was curled
up into a ball," said the girls' mother Sara Drew.

Kimberley, 16, tried to pull her sister's attackers away but they went for her
instead. Although there were several people around, only one man intervened to
stop the assault.

An ambulance was called and the girls were checked over before being taken to
the police station to give statements.

Mrs Drew, 37, said: "I was just leaving to pick them up when the police rang me.
They said 'don't panic, we have got your daughters, they have been involved in a
scuffle'.

"When I got to the police station they were in a right state. Kimberley was
shaking and had marks all round the tops of her arms. Their clothes were torn
and they've got marks where someone had grabbed their arms and dug their nails
in. They've both had hair ripped out."

Kimberley felt dizzy and sick later and Mrs Drew took both girls to hospital,
where she was told they probably had whiplash and slight concussion.

"My neck is hurting and when I try to get to sleep, I get an image of them
trying to strangle my sister. We didn't do anything to provoke it," said
Kimberley.

She said she and her sister had feared for their lives and thanked the man who
came to their rescue.

Mrs Drew said: "The police said they were lucky they didn't get stabbed or
worse. We just want them caught. They can't be allowed to get away with this."

A spokesperson for Dorset Police said they had received a call at 5.28pm from a
friend of the girls reporting an assault on two females by a group of Chinese
males and females. They are thought to be in their late teens and the girls had
seen some of them smoking cannabis.

Anyone who saw the assault can contact police on 01202 222222.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 6, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Archbishop: Paedo tried to attack me;
MARTIN'S CHILDHOOD TERROR

BYLINE: FERGUS O'SHEA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 259 words


ARCHBISHOP Diarmuid Martin was attacked by a sicko paedophile when he was a
child, it emerged yesterday.

And in a sensational interview, the Catholic leader wept as he described his
disgust at what priests in his own diocese had done.

Martin revealed that only the appearance of a garda saved him from certain
attack when he was just 12 years of age. The top cleric recalled: "One day when
I was about 12, this dirty old man came up and said the most horrendous things
to me in the street.

"And he had me sort of pinned against the wall and I could do very little about
it.

"I was getting very upset, and I saw a policeman coming, and I called the
policeman and the man ran away."

The Archbishop of Dublin then welled up as he told of an Irish priest who built
a swimming pool in order to attract innocent youngsters.

He said: "He built a swimming pool in his own garden, to which only boys of a
certain age, of a certain appearance were allowed into.

"There were eight other priests in that parish, and not one of them seemed to
think there was something strange about it."

Martin said he is still worried that abuse can happen.

He told the New York Times: "The danger now is to think, well, that's in the
past and we can sit back and relax and say it can't happen again. It can."

The paedophiles, he said, "have an ability to take the young children into their
grips and make it impossible for them to talk".

He added: "They look for the vulnerable and make them worse. You see that a lot
of these men were driven not by faith but by hormones."

fergus.oshea@the-sun.ie

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Explosive interview . . Bishop Martin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                             June 8, 2011 Wednesday
                                Nuneaton Edition

WOMAN TELLS OF TERROR ATTACK;
Burglar threatened her with knife as she lay in bed

BYLINE: Sandish Shoker

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 399 words


A WOMAN has described the terror she felt when a teenager climbed through her
bedroom window at night and attacked her in bed with a knife.

Baillee Fairley, 17, of Humber Road, Stoke was found guilty of aggravated
burglary at Coventry Crown Court yesterday.

He had pleaded guilty to a second charge of robbery at an earlier hearing.

During a two-day trial, the court heard how Fairley had climbed through an open
bedroom window at 1am on January 14 this year.

The resident, aged 45, had been asleep at the time and was woken up when she
heard Fairley come through her window.

Giving evidence, the victim, who was recovering from leg injuries sustained in a
previous accident, said: "I was absolutely petrified. I was frozen in fear. He
said 'give me your money' and jumped on my bed.

"I struggled with him to fight him off and as I reached forward I felt a
serration in my hand. That is when I realised he was carrying a weapon.

"My instinct was to protect myself so I grabbed my crutches lying on the other
side of the bed but he took them. He was far stronger than me and I was still
fairly immobile."

She described how Fairley beat her with the crutches, stopped to make sure no
one else was in the house and on realising she was alone continued the violent
attack. She told the jury how Fairley then hit her on the head up to four times
with a knife.

She added: "He threatened to take my eye out. I thought he was going to kill
me."

She received treatment for three deep cuts to her head, a cut to her forehead
and severe bruising to her arms, shoulder chest and back.

Fairley fled through the window taking the victim's handbag, which contained
credit cards, pounds 400 cash, a gold bangle and two mobile phones.

The jury was shown pictures of her injuries and images of blood splattered
bedsheets and curtains. A black woolly hat which was left behind at the scene
helped police connect Fairley to the crime.

He admitted carrying out the burglary but denied carrying a sharp weapon. He
told the jury he was drunk and high on drugs at the time so remembered few
details from that night.

He said: "I don't know why I went for that house. I saw the open window and just
went for it. I couldn't stop myself. I didn't think of anyone's safety or
anything. I only said I would stab her so she would comply with me. I wouldn't
have hurt her, I didn't intend to stab her."

Fairley will be sentenced at a later date.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday

Pakistan TV show discusses government decisions on drone attacks, terrorism

LENGTH: 892 words


Geo News television in Urdu at 1700 gmt on 6 June aired live regularly scheduled
"Today with Kamran Khan" programme. Prominent Pakistani journalist Kamran Khan
reviews, discusses, and analyzes major day-to-day developments with government
ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and prominent analysts in the
programme; words within double slant lines are in English; subhead as carried

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Segment I

Khan begins the programme saying that the Supreme Court ordered Pakistan
Electronic Media Regulatory Authority [PEMRA] today to issue a broadcasting
license to Geo Super immediately and submit the compliance report in three days.
Khan terms the court ruling as "victory of justice." Khan adds: "the government
targeted Geo New because of the latter's policies of exposing the government's
incompetence and corruption." Khan says: "it was a conspiracy at the highest
level to teach a lesson to Geo News and Jang Group of Newspapers, but the
government has failed in its attempt." Khan says the sports fans are happy over
the court decision to open Geo Super, the only sports channel in Pakistan.

Khan also gives a brief history of the recent court decisions that exposed
numerous cases of corruption in the country.

Segment II

Khan says drones carried out three attacks in South Waziristan on 6 June. He
adds: "It is said that most of the killed persons are militants, but independent
sources do not confirm the claim." Khan says Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gillani
made an important statement on 6 June.

Khan plays video clip of Prime Minister Gillani's statement saying: "As far as
the killing of Ilyas Kashmiri is concerned, the United States has confirmed his
death."

Khan sarcastically says: "Prime Minister Gillani was telling the media that it
was the United States that told us that Ilyas Kashmiri has been killed and we
know nothing about his killing although he was killed on our soil." Khan further
says: "the government has not protested against today's drone attacks although
it protested against drone strikes in the past."

Khan establishes telephone link with senior journalist Mushtaq Yousufzai and
asks him: "Why there is sudden upsurge in drone attacks on South Waziristan?"
Yousufzai replies: "The US drones have been targeting apparently those militants
who have been fighting against the US-led coalition forces in Afghanistan." He
says: "Most of those killed in recent attacks are tribal elders and militants
from Punjab which do not carry out terror attacks inside Pakistan." Yousufzai
adds that in some cases militant leaders who were known for their offences
inside Pakistan like former Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan [TTP] leader Baitullah
Mehsud and recently Ilyas Kashmiri were also targeted. He says it can be said
that "these attacks have been serving Pakistan's interests to an extent."
Yousufzai further says that in his view drone attacks are being carried out on
South Waziristan because numerous militants might have moved to this area from
North Waziristan after reports of a military operation there. Yousufzai adds
that Hafiz Gul Bahadur, the Taleban Commander in North Waziristan, and Maulvi
Nazeer, the Commander in South Waziristan, are regarded as the pro-government
militant leaders as they have not been fighting against Pakistan. He says these
two Taleban commanders have been sheltering only those militants who have been
engaged inside Afghanistan. Yousufzai says most of the Punjabi Taleban having
links with Harkatul-Jihad or Jaish-i-Muhammad is carrying out their offences
inside Afghanistan. Yousufzai says those Taleban leaders who have reached peace
agreements with Pakistan do not allow those militants who have been fighting
inside Pakistan, in their areas.

Khan says: "the government's policy on the war on terror is ambiguous and people
are at a loss to understand this policy."

Khan plays a video clip of Prime Minister Gillani saying: "We have asked US
State Secretary Hillary Clinton to respect the resolution of parliament."

Khan refers to the recent resolution and the one in 2008 and puts the question
to Prime Minister Gillani: "what will be the answer if the United States asks
what you have done with your own resolutions?"

Segment III

Khan says the report of the investigation commission on the floods has held
corruption and wrong decisions of the government responsible for the mass
destruction in the floods last year.

Khan establishes telephone link with Geo News correspondent Ghulam Mustafa and
seeks details of the report. Mustafa replies to the report and said that the
large-scale damages in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Punjab were caused by narrow water
courses built under motorways and highways. He adds weak embankments in Sind
cause huge destruction. Mustafa quotes report saying much of the land had been
illegally allotted on the river banks by the government. He further says the
commission when recommending action against these officials has also stressed
the need for auditing of the amount allocated for the said projects.

Khan says corruption and incompetence of the government has been proved that
caused terrible losses in the worst ever floods that hit Pakistan last year.

Segment IV

Passage omitted on cricketer Shahid Afridi's tussle with Pakistan Cricket Board.

Khan concludes the programme.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1700gmt 06 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday

Yemeni tribal leader condemns anti-terror forces role in attacks

LENGTH: 219 words


Text of report by opposition Yemeni Alliance for Reform newspaper Al-Sahwah
website on 8 June

[Unattributed report: "Al-Ahmar calls upon the United States not to remain
silent towards the employment of the counterterrorism units against him"]

Hashid Chieftain Shaykh Sadiq Bin-Abdallah Bin-Husayn al-Ahmar has called upon
the United States not to remain silent towards the Yemeni regime's embroilment
of the counterterrorism units that were trained by the United States in the
Al-Hasabah attacks in the capital Sanaa.

In a statement, he condemned the employment of the counterterrorism units by
Salih's regime to carry out attacks against his house and his neighbourhood in
Al-Hasabah.

Security sources told Al-Sahwah Net that the ruling party's website had posted
pictures that prove the participation of the counterterrorism militias in the
attack against the Ministry of Local Administration; this contradicts with the
nature of work of these units that were formed with the support of the United
States to confront Al-Qa'idah.

The United States had said that it was investigating Ali Salih's employment of
the counterterrorism forces in his war against Shaykh Sadiq al-Ahmar and his
brothers against the backdrop of their support for the people's peaceful
revolution.

Source: Al-Sahwah website, Sanaa, in Arabic 8 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                       June 9, 2011 Thursday 1:26 AM GMT

FIASCO ATTACKS 'TERRORIST' OBAMA

SECTION: MUSIC

LENGTH: 126 words


Hip-hop star LUPE FIASCO has sparked a controversy by blasting U.S. President
BARACK OBAMA and labelling him the "biggest terrorist" in America.

The Superstar hitmaker, who hails from Obama's adopted home town of Chicago,
Illinois, openly revealed his dissatisfaction with his President's foreign
policy stance, which is sure to anger fans.

During an appearance on web show What's Trending with Shira Laza, he says,
â(EURO)oeTo me the biggest terrorist is Obama in the United States of America...

"The root cause of terrorists is the stuff the U.S. government allows to happen.
The foreign policies that we have in place in different countries that inspire
people to become terrorists... I donâ(EURO)(TM)t want you to bomb some village
in the middle of nowhere."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2011 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                                  June 9, 2011

UPDATE: No misconduct hearing for officers cleared of terror suspect attack

SECTION: UPLOAD NEWS ARTICLES

LENGTH: 367  words


Tooting terror suspect Babar Ahmad has refused to stop fighting for "justice"
after four police officers accused of assaulting him during his arrest were told
they will not face a misconduct hearing.

The Metropolitan Police's (Met) Directorate of Professional Standards was tasked
with launching a misconduct review into the actions of Detective Constable John
Donohue, 37, and PCs Roderick James-Bowen, 40, Mark Jones, 43, and Nigel Cowley,
34, after they were acquitted of assault by a jury at Southwark Crown Court last
week.

But, after the review was concluded, a Met spokesman said: "The officers have
been informed there are no misconduct matters to answer in connection with the
incident."

Mr Ahmad, who was suspected of leading a small UK based group providing
"logistical support, financial assistance, recruits and computer expertise" for
overseas Jihadi groups, has always maintained he was attacked by arresting
officers in his Tooting home during a raid on December 2, 2003.

He was paid £60,000 in damages by the Met in a civil case in 2009, with the
authority conceding he had been the victim of "a serious, gratuitous and
prolonged" attack.

After the Met made its announcement, Mr Ahmad's family released a statement,
which said: "The haste with which this decision has been reached is not
consistent with considered reflection upon the evidence heard at Southwark Crown
Court.

"This decision is also inconsistent with the Met Commissioner's admission in
2009 civil proceedings that his officers were responsible for the assault upon
Babar.

"The standard of proof in misconduct proceedings is the same as that in civil
proceedings. Babar calls for the recording from the probe to be released to his
solicitor so that it can be subjected to independent expert examination "The Met
does itself a great disservice by continuing to turn a blind eye to the
behaviour of certain members of its force, not least those in the Territorial
Support Group. This matter will not be laid to rest until we get justice."

Mr Ahmad has been in custody without trial since August, 2004, fighting against
extradition to the US on terror charges.

· What do you think? Let us know by emailing imason@london.newsquest.co.uk.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 10, 2011 Friday

NATO, Afghan forces "hands in glove" with terrorists' attacking Pakistan - paper

LENGTH: 411 words


Text of editorial headlined "Hoti exposes phony claims of TTP" published by
Pakistani newspaper Pakistan Observer website on 10 June

During his visit on Wednesday to the Dir village that witnessed the deadliest
ever cross border attack from Afghanistan, Chief Minister of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa
Amir Haider Hoti squarely blamed US and NATO forces for killing of innocent
people of Pakistan by terrorists from the neighbouring country. He questioned
what US and Afghan forces were doing when militants launched an attack inside
Pakistan from the Afghan side.

The Chief Minister has raised very pertinent question, as Pakistan has been
under continuous pressure from the United States to do more in checking
militants that allegedly cross over from this side of the border to Afghanistan
to carry out attacks on occupation forces. Pakistan has deployed a large number
of troops on its Western border putting at risk its security interests on the
Eastern border but despite that there is no end to demands for do more. But
attacks on Pakistani villages by terrorists based in Afghanistan and that too in
numbers that cross three hundred, speaks volumes about efficiency and capability
as well as intentions and designs of the NATO forces and Afghan troops. Though
Mr Hoti, for understandable reasons, stopped short of categorically referring
towards active support being extended to terrorists for targeting Pakistan and
its interests but the fact remains that Taliban would not have sustained their
activities sans training, funding and supply of equipment by some foreign
powers. The ease with which a gang of over three hundred crossed over to
Pakistan bears testimony to the fact that the occupation forces in Afghanistan
were hands in glove with terrorists and the objective is the same - to put more
pressure on the country and to destabilise it further. There are also reasons to
believe that most of the attacks on religious places like mosques and
Imambargahs and public places are carried out not by Taliban but some foreign
agencies and their local agents but the blame is always thrown on TTP. After
every such dastardly act, one of the three top wire agencies of the West
receives so-called phone calls from Taliban accepting responsibility for the
attack. We fully subscribe to the views of the KPK Chief Minister that such
calls are phony and are aimed at diverting attention from the real terrorists.

Source: The Pakistan Observer, Islamabad, in English 10 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 10, 2011 Friday

Syria:"Armed terrorists" attack, kill security forces in Ma'arrat al-Nu'man

LENGTH: 139 words


Damascus Syrian Arab Television TV1 in Arabic between 1548 and 1610 gmt on 10
June carries the following "breaking" news as screen captions:

"News correspondent: Army units track down armed organizations in the
surrounding areas of Jisr al-Shughur and kill and injure a number of them."

"Sources to the news: The armed organizations in Ma'arrat al-Nu'man are trying
to repeat the scenario of Jisr al-Shughur, including torching government
facilities and the headquarters of police and security forces."

"The attack by the terrorist armed organizations on a security detachment in
Ma'arrat al-Nu'man causes injuries and death among the security forces. The
armed organizations used medium-size weapons, grenades, and TNT, and they are
trying to repeat the scenario of Jisr al-Shughur.

Source: Syrian TV, Damascus, in Arabic 1548 gmt 10 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Romford Recorder

                              June 10, 2011 Friday

Firms offered terror attack risk seminar

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 183 words


Brentwood firms can learn how best to deal with a terrorist attack at an event
in Warley next month.

Brentwood council is working with the National Counter Terrorism Security Office
on an initiative to identify security risks.



A free event will take place on July 8 at the Nightingale Centre, Pastoral Way,
which will run through a simulated terrorist attack with local businesses and
identify measures they can take to prevent, handle and recover from such an
incident.

It is part of an initiative called Project Argus (Area Reinforcement Gained
Using Scenarios).

Cllr Mark Reed, chairman of the council's business and community panel, said:
"Whether you are a national chain or small business, Project Argus will be
providing a unique opportunity to learn from and contribute valuable lessons."

He added: "We haven't received a specific threat but given our key strategic
position, it's going to be a great way to increase awareness of
counter-terrorism issues and make us more resilient and aware as a community."

To book a place businesses can email Shelley.king@brentwood.gov.uk or call 01277
312 693.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RRC


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday

Two Arrests Over Dog Attack Terror

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 290 words


TWO women have been arrested and two animals seized in connection with a dog
attack in Tyneside.

Last week we told how Kay Stewart-Johnson and her two Jack Russell puppies were
targeted by Staffie dogs.

Plastic surgeons had to operate on the 26-year-old's hand following the incident
in Windmill Way, Bensham, Gateshead.

Her puppies Bailey and Russell both suffered serious injuries which were treated
by an emergency vet.

Police said today that two women, aged 33 and 35, were arrested on suspicion of
failing to control a dangerous dog and causing injury in a public place.

A spokesman added: "Both women have been bailed pending further inquiries. Two
Staffordshire Bull Terriers have been impounded by trained officers at the
Northumbria Police kennels."

Software tester Ms Stewart-Johnson says she was walking Bailey and Russell on a
lead at about 6.30pm on May 26, at the junction of Windmill Way and Bensham
Road, when she was attacked.

She made it back to her home and bandaged her bleeding hand before calling a
taxi to take her to Gateshead's Queen Elizabeth Hospital. Accident and emergency
medics referred her to Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary plastic surgery unit
where she underwent surgery to repair tendon damage.

It was the first of two incidents in a week on streets near to each other in
Bensham.

Linda Winthrop, 59, told on Thursday how her tiny West Highland Terrier, Nellie,
was mauled almost to death near her home in Affleck Street.

In a terrifying attack by a Staffie, the care worker said her white pet "turned
red" as the dog inflicted bite injuries.

Nellie was severely hurt and emergency vets feared she could not survive deep
wounds to her face, neck and legs.

Police do not believe the two dog attacks are connected.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                              June 13, 2011 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

Anti-terror plan under attack for 'burning bridges'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 216 words


GOVERNMENT plans, which identify West Yorkshire as a hotbed for Islamic
terrorism, have been criticised by liberty campaigners.

An update to the anti-terrorist Prevent strategy, announced by Home Secretary
Theresa May on Wednesday, will train teachers and university staff to recognise
signs of extremism.

¦ BOMBER: Jermaine West Yorkshire has been identified as a key target following
the London bombings on July 7, 2005, in which 52 commuters were killed by four
suicide bombers, all from West Yorkshire, including leader Mohammad Siddique
Khan, from Dewsbury, and Jermaine Lindsay, of Dalton.

But liberty campaigners Just West Yorkshire say the policy would burn bridges
between British Muslims and the Government.

A Just spokesperson said: "The facile suggestion that campuses breed terrorism
and extremism on the basis that a number of the convicted terrorists were
university educated is akin to saying that all politicians are likely to commit
acts of criminality on the basis that those implicated in the expenses scandal
were university-educated.

Lindsay "By carelessly labelling every young Muslim in tertiary education as a
potential extremist, the Coalition government is effectively burning its bridges
in terms of developing meaningful lines of communications with young Muslims."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ BOMBER: Jermaine Lindsay

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday

Saudi daily on ongoing trial of suspects linked to 2004 sea port terror attack

LENGTH: 530 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Arab News website on 14 June

One of the masterminds of a 2004 terrorist attack in Yanbu was described on
Sunday as a "time bomb" by his brother who is also standing trial in Riyadh for
his alleged involvement in the atrocity.

The man, identified as Defendant No 3 and who is being tried alongside 10 other
men at a Riyadh court, said Mustafa Abul Qadir Al-Ansari was not an obedient
son.

The defendant said his brother once called from the town of Al-Muasem in Jazan
and asked him to collect his ID card and clean clothes from his mother in
Makkah. Instead, he told the court, he collected Al-Ansari and brought him back
to see his mother who was constantly in tears.

"When I took him in my car from Jazan to Makkah, I had no idea that I was
carrying a time bomb that would later explode in the family. The father died,
the children became orphans, many members of the family were put in jail and
their wives asked for a divorce," he said.

Al-Ansari was one of the four men who carried out the heinous attacks before
being killed by security forces. The others included his brother Ayman Abdul
Qadir Al-Ansari, their nephew Samir Sulaiman Al-Ansari and his brother Sami
Sulaiman Al-Ansari.

The 11 men currently on trial in the capital are all members of the same family
and were also related to the attackers.

The four terrorists who attacked a company called Yanpet killed two Americans,
two Britons and an Australian.

Defendant No 3 said that he had no idea that harbouring his brother, who was
wanted by security forces, was a crime punishable by law. "I visited him in
Yemen before 9/11 and asked him to come back with me to the Kingdom and rectify
his situation but he refused," he said.

All 11 defendants deny knowledge of Al-Ansari's intentions. They said they hid
him because they were confident he would correct his ways and hand himself over
to the authorities.

"I asked Mustafa to surrender through one of the sheikhs but he refused. I could
not turn him in because I was certain that he would go out for jihad (holy
war)," one defendant said.

There is no solid evidence to confirm or refute the 11 defendants' testimonies.
The case is now being examined by judges who consider all of them innocent
unless proven otherwise.

The judges are inclined now more than ever to convict them, but the accused have
the right to appeal the verdicts and to go later to the high court.

What makes the crime unique is that all those involved were related to each
other, whether they were brothers, nephews or in-laws.

Mustafa, according to documents from the Interior Ministry, went to Afghanistan
for jihad in 1413H. He stayed there for a year before coming back to the Kingdom
where he remained for a short time before proceeding to London.

It was there he met two Saudis who opposed the country, Saad Al-Fakeeh and
Muhammad Al-Masaari. He escaped from Britain leaving his passport there and went
to Somalia where he stayed for a month. He then went to Yemen where he got
married and stayed for four years. At the end of 2003 he came back to the
Kingdom and six months later carried out the attack.

Source: Arab News website, Jedda, in English 14 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday

Iraqi official says "terrorist attack on Diyala Provincial Council ended"

LENGTH: 93 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Television in Arabic as of 0840 gmt on 14 June carries the
following "breaking news" as screen captions:

"The head of the Security and Defence Committee follows up on the Diyala
incidents, meets with the intelligence services chiefs, and states that the
members of the provincial council are safe and sound."

"The head of the security and defence committee: 'The terrorist attack on the
Diyala Provincial Council is ended, the wounded hospitalized, and a wounded
attacker arrested.'"

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 0840 gmt 14 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday

Defendants in 2004 Saudi terror attack trial deny role in "Yanbu massacre"

LENGTH: 850 words


Text of report by Muhammad al-Sulami from Riyadh entitled "Defendants deny role
in Yanbu massacre" published in English by Saudi newspaper Arab News website on
14 June

Six defendants among the eleven Al-Qa'idah suspects blamed for the 2004 Yanbu
terrorist attack acknowledged Saturday before the court that Mustafa Al-Ansari
was the leader of the operation that killed six Westerners and a Saudi National
Guard officer and wounded at least 50 others.

The six men pleaded innocent in an unprecedented trial that has been open to the
public, and they claimed their confessions were coerced using physical and
psychological torture.

The eleven suspects have been in jail since their arrest shortly after the
attack. Some of the accused claimed they have been imprisoned unjustly and are
demanding compensation.

The second hearing in the trial began at 9 a.m. before a thee-member bench, a
common feature of Saudi court cases. Four representatives of the government's
Human Rights Commission and members of the media were present during the
proceedings. Court cases in the kingdom are typically closed to all but those
involved in the case. Security was light, too, with only two security officers
in the room.

Justice Minister Muhammad Al-Eissa said the ministry considered the
participation of the media and rights officials in the trial a guarantee of
justice. "We feel that this is very important to ensure the fairness of our
justice system and the efficiency of our judges in terms of power and
trustworthiness," he said.

He also disclosed plans to publish a number of verdicts related to terrorism and
state security cases.

"We have utmost confidence in the verdicts issued by our courts. There is
nothing to wonder as they follow Shariah and other relevant regulations," the
minister said, adding that international legal experts have commended the
criminal verdicts issued by Saudi courts.

Al-Eissa hoped that reporters covering the terror trial would convey the truth
to the public and the fairness of our justice system based on the Qur'an and
Sunnah.

All the six defendants rejected the accusation they were members of Al-Qa'idah.
They reiterated their allegiance to the Saudi rulers and approved the system
followed by the government and views of Saudi Islamic scholars. They said they
simply sympathized with Al-Ansari when he returned to the Kingdom after 10 years
because of their family relations with him. They were confident Al-Ansari would
change his views, especially after he brought his wife and children from abroad.
They said they were enticed by the three who carried out the Yanbu attack.

"We never thought the three had any connection with terrorism as they were
holding reputable jobs," the defendants told the judges, adding that they were
cheated by the perpetrators of the attack, exploiting their family relations.

Two defendants asked the judge to appoint lawyers to defend them and the judge
agreed to that request.

Four militants from a 15-member terror cell stormed the headquarters of a Saudi
contractor in Yanbu on May 1, 2004 and opened fire on workers indiscriminately.
The militants fled the area when they saw security officers and took refuge in a
residential district after seizing cars of citizens by force. Police killed
three of the militants and arrested a fourth. Two Americans, two Britons and an
Australian were killed in the attack.

The first defendant denied that one of the four attackers belonged to the wanted
terrorists. He also denied the accusation that he allowed one of the attackers
to use his car. He said he had not received any amount of money from any person
and had not taken any material from his school's laboratory. He said he dealt
with the attackers without having any suspicion about their activities.

The second suspect said he was not aware of the terrorist operation. He said he
visited his brother Al-Ansari in order to convince him to return to the Kingdom
as per the desire of their mother.

"But Al-Ansari, who had connections with renegades Al-Masaary and Al-Faqeeh,
feared that he would be jailed once he returns to the Kingdom," the second
suspect said and denied charg es that he smuggled Al-Ansari from Jazan to
Makkah. "Al-Ansari had his civil ID with him during the trip and I never thought
he was carrying a bomb to attack innocent people." He admitted that one of the
attackers was a wanted terrorist.

However, he pointed out that he had tried to change the mind of that person. He
admitted that his brother had used his ID for moving around in the Kingdom. He
said he helped the attackers to buy large quantities of weapons to get some
money as he was jobless at that time. Before the attack, he reached a deal with
a weapons trader and received 30 Kalashnikov rifles and 16 caches of live
ammunition. He said he had asked the fourth defendant to carry some of the
weapons to Makkah and sold them to some of the attackers. He said he stopped
selling the weapons after the beginning of terrorist operations in the country.
He said he had sold only three guns to the attackers.

Source: Arab News website, Jedda, in English 14 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday

Syrian "terrorist" groups said attack army using "sophisticated weapons"

LENGTH: 373 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Wounded Army and Security Members: We were Targeted with Various Types of
Weapons, Children Used as Human Shields"]

Aleppo, Homs, 14 June - A number of the wounded army and security forces
members, who are being treated at Aleppo Military Hospital after they were
targeted by the members of the terrorist armed groups in Jisr al-Shughur,
stressed that the armed groups attacked them with the most sophisticated types
of weapons and snipers. They indicated that the members of the armed groups
lured the children who are less than fifteen years old and used them as human
shields as they know that the army members will not open fire on the children
while the gunmen were shooting at the army.

The injured indicated that the armed groups set fire to the crops, and targeted
the security members with their snipers, stressing their determination to thwart
the conspiracy hatched against Syria which will be foiled through the national
unity and the awareness of the Syria people.

Visiting the injured, Aleppo Governor, Ali Ahmad Mansura, said that Syria will
overcome the crisis due to the awareness of its people and their national unity
as they believe that what is taking place in Syria is a conspiracy targeting its
national and pan-Arab stances.

For their part, the martyrs' relatives expressed pride in their son's martyrdom,
affirming determination to sacrifice everything for the sake of their
motherland.

In the same context, a number of Homs lawyers visited the wounded members of the
army in Homs Military Hospital and presented flowers to them, wishing them quick
recovery. The lawyers strongly condemned the crimes perpetrated by the armed
terrorist groups against the civilians and the members of the army and security
forces. Chairman of Lawyers Syndicate, Homs Branch, Sulayman Radwan, said that
whoever attacks the members of the Army and security forces and commits the most
obnoxious crimes against the motherland and its people and economy is connected
to suspicious foreign projects. He affirmed that the Syrian lawyers seek to file
lawsuits against the channels of sedition and instigation.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 14 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Jaws terror as shark attacks Cornish boat

BYLINE: By Mark Reynolds

SECTION: NEWS; 09

LENGTH: 402  words


A KILLER shark has brought fear to the Cornish coast after a terrifying
Jaws-style attack on a fisherman's boat, it was revealed yesterday.

The deadly seven-foot predator is believed to be an oceanic whitetip -
responsible for more fatal attacks on humans than all other shark species
combined.

It is thought to be the first time the deadly hunter had strayed into British
waters when it struck just a mile off the coast at St Ives.

It slammed into mackerel fisherman Ian Bullus's boat in an apparent attempt to
capsize it, before swimming off and menacingly circling a second vessel.

Experts confirmed the description tallies with that of an oceanic whitetip and
are investigating the sightings.

Mr Bullus, 60, was fishing in St Ives Bay when the distinctive mottled dorsal
fin of the whitetip began zig-zagging towards him.

It then suddenly rammed his boat - just like the great white shark in the 1975
horror classic Jaws.

Mr Bullus said: "I was interested so I stood up to have a good look at it. As I
was looking over the side of the boat, it just slammed into it.

"Then its head came out of the water by about a foot. It was that close to the
boat that it slammed the side of the boat with its body and tail."

The life-long sailor said he knew it was not a harmless porbeagle, a shark which
often follows mackerel boats.

He added: "I have been fishing in these waters all my life and I have never had
a shark ram my boat.

"This was an aggressive shark. I was in a 16ft boat, but if I had been in a
kayak it could have easily had a bite at my legs."

Oceanic whitetips, not to be confused with the more docile reef whitetip, prefer
deep, open water and rarely stray into shallow waters. It is a deadly hunter and
considered the most dangerous of its species and will prey on survivors of
downed aircraft and shipwrecks.

Immediately after the sighting, two weeks ago, Mr Bullus warned the nearest boat
a few hundred yards away.

Last night, Simon Freeman, 28, who operates his own fishing boat from St Ives
harbour, said he was "100 per cent'' sure it was a whitetip shark.

A leading scientist warned that rising sea temperatures could have led the
whitetip shark into Cornish waters.

Dr Nova Mieszkowska of the Plymouth-based Marine Biological Association, said:
"It may have been drawn to the rising temperatures of the sea. Of course,
sometimes animals just get lost. We've heard of them turning up in all sorts of
places."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: On the prowl, the oceanic whitetip Peaceful St Ives yesterday, but a
deadly killer could be circling just off the coast

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 15, 2011 Wednesday

Russian FSB head shares information on terrorist attacks, admits threat exists

LENGTH: 283 words


Text of report by state-controlled Russian Channel One TV on 15 June

[Presenter] Almost 1,500 instances of violation of security at transport
facilities and vital infrastructure have been revealed in Russia since the
beginning of 2011, director of the Russian Federal Security Service Aleksandr
Bortnikov said at a session of the National Antiterrorism Committee today.

Following checks, over 100 officials were brought to account, he said.
Additional steps to protect the population as well as transport and energy
facilities were discussed at today's meeting. This information was discussed
behind closed doors. Speaking about the results of special services' work in
this sphere, Bortnikov stressed the need to step up activities aimed at
prevention of terrorist attacks.

[Bortnikov] Special services and law-enforcement agencies revealed and prevented
at preparation stage over 30 sabotage and terrorist attacks on industrial and
transport facilities in 2010-11 alone. As a result of search and combat
measures, practically all organizers and accomplices of terrorist attacks in
Moscow's underground, at Domodedovo airport and the Baksanskaya hydroelectric
power plant were identified, detained or eliminated.

However, despite taken efforts, it should be admitted that a terrorist threat
still exists.

[Interfax news agency at 0702 gmt 15 Jun 11 quoted Bortnikov as saying that
"international terrorist organizations and linked with them leaders of bandit
underground operating in a number of North Caucasus republics, with the support
of foreign sponsors, have not given up plans to carry out terrorist attacks at
vital infrastructure".]

Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 0800 gmt 15 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            June 15, 2011 Wednesday

Terror as three thugs attack jogger

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 123 words


A JOGGER was left soaked in blood after a random attack by three thugs.

The 20-year-old man was near the Porter's Wood area of Wigan when he was
assaulted.

He was struck with an unidentified weapon, leaving him with gashes to his
shoulder and cheek and heavily bloodstained clothes.

The attack happened near Martland Green Road just before 10am on Monday, May 16.

One of the men is white, 5ft 10, with an athletic build and wore a plain black
tracksuit with a hooded top.

The others wore dark clothing and hooded tops.

Police say a man wearing a fluorescent jacket and jeans who was walking a Jack
Russell may have been a witness.

Anyone with information is urged to contact Wigan CID on 0161 856 7295 or
Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 16, 2011 Thursday

"Terrorist" groups attack Syrian government facilities - state TV

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report by Syrian TV on 16 June

In the city of Ma'arrat al-Nu'man in the Idlib Governorate, members of terrorist
armed organizations attacked yesterday a number of government and security
headquarters in the city and burned large parts of them. Moreover, they robbed a
number of parking lots, destroying and burning cars.

The members of these armed organizations attacked private and public facilities
in the city, terrorized citizens, and targeted policemen and security members.

The residents of Ma'arrat al-Nu'man called on the army to swiftly intervene to
put an end to these activities before the criminals manage to kill people and
before the attacks - carried out by the members of the terrorist armed
organizations, who are trying to repeat the massacre that they committed in the
area of Jisr al-Shughur last week - exacerbate.

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 0930 gmt 16 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 17, 2011 Friday

Algerian municipal guard wounded in Boumerdes area terrorist bomb attack

LENGTH: 179 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 16 June

A municipal guard from the detachment in the municipality of Timezrit (50
kilometres east of Boumerdes) was wounded yesterday at about 1030 hours in a
bomb attack perpetrated on the road leading towards Naciria, it was learned from
a local source. The bomb had been planted by the side of the road, in the spot
known as Tizouighine, before being triggered remotely, with the help of a cell
phone, as a vehicle went past on board which there were two municipal guards.
One of them was hit slightly by the debris from the explosive device. Our source
indicated that he was taken on an emergency basis to a health institution in the
community, where he got the necessary care before returning to his post. This
terrorist attack came less than two weeks after the one that was perpetrated
between Bordj Menaiel and Naciria, this still east of Boumerdes, and which cost
four elements from Dellys's Judicial Police Mobile Brigade [BMPJ] their lives.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 16 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                  Eire Edition

IRISH WOMAN'S HOLS SEX ATTACK TERROR;
FOUR MEN HELD IN MAJORCAN RESORT

BYLINE: TOM WORDEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 337 words


AN Irish woman was the victim of a horror sex assault in Majorca, is was
revealed last night.

The victim ran in terror from a hotel after she was attacked by four North
African men, Spanish police said.

Four men were last night being quizzed by detectives following the alleged
sexual assault.

A spokesman for the Spanish Civil Guard said: "We are investigating an
allegation of sexual assault on an Irish woman by four men at a hotel in
Magaluf. Four men were arrested after officers interviewed the alleged victim."

The distraught 24-year-old told investigators she was assaulted after a night
out in the party resort.

The woman, who was on holiday with friends, went back to a hotel with another
tourist she met at the BCM nightclub in the early hours of Thursday.

She went to his room, where she said she was sexually assaulted by him and three
of his friends at around 5am.

The woman fled the hotel and returned to the club where she reported the attack
to a bouncer who called police.

Armed officers from the Civil Guard police force arrested four North African
tourists aged between 21 and 22, all staying at the three-star hotel.

The suspects are expected to appear before an investigating magistrate over the
weekend.

The alleged attack took place at the Hotel Samos, which boasts 417 rooms over
nine floors.

It is a short stroll from the BCM club, one of the most popular nightspots in
Magaluf.

Magaluf, in the south west of the island, has a reputation for attracting
youngsters. It has also been plagued by a high number of sex attacks in recent
years.

In April last year an 18-year-old British woman was dragged into an alley and
raped by two Spaniards after a night out in the resort.

On the same weekend a dancer told police she was raped as she returned home from
working in a bar.

At the time a local resident told a local paper: "Lots of tourists come to
Magaluf and get drunk and don't remember what happened.

"Every year a large number of girls are raped. Unfortunately many of them go
home without reporting it to police."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BUSY BCMclub

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

ELF UNSAFETY;
Town in terror of tiny attacker in a pointy hat

BYLINE: VINCE SOODIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 204 words


A VIOLENT elf is terrorising a town by stalking locals and beating them up, it
emerged yesterday.

The creature is said to have big ears and always wears a pointy hat.

It is believed to be behind up to a dozen brutal attacks on kids and old men.
The gnome has even KNOCKED people off their bikes and rained PUNCHES on them.

Cops in the Argentinian town of Suncho Corral have been flooded with so many
complaints they have declared a state of alarm.

A 14-year-old boy was one of the first victims last month. A source said: "He
crossed by a dark area at the back of a school when he was hit from behind by
the creature known as The Dwarf or Shorty-Eared One.

"He was finally able to get away from its clutches."

A cyclist was also punched off his bike by the elf. It then barred his way and
said: "You shall not pass through here" - before beating the rider unconscious.
In 2008, The Sun told how another Argentinian neighbourhood was in fear of the
"creepy gnome". It was filmed by teenager Jose Alvarez in the town of General
Guemes.

He said: "We thought it was a dog - but when we saw this gnome-like figure begin
to emerge we were really afraid."

The Sun's video clip was viewed by millions around the world.
v.soodin@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Evil ... gnome

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 19, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Refugees in terror as Syrian forces attack villages

BYLINE: ANDREW OSBORN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 387 words


SYRIAN TROOPS backed by tanks stormed a town near the Turkish border yesterday,
burning houses and arresting dozens in a further attempt to crush the
three-month uprising.

Tanks and armoured personnel carriers swept into the north-west Syrian town of
Bdama, just over 10 miles from where thousands of refugees have crossed into
Turkey following the regime's crackdown.

Saria Hammouda, a lawyer in Bdama, said: "I counted nine tanks, 20 jeeps and 10
buses. I saw [gunmen] setting fire to two houses."

At the same time antigovernment local co-ordination committees raised their
estimate of the death toll from Friday's protests to 19.

The Foreign Office yesterday urged Britons to leave Syria immediately as the
situation in the country continued to deteriorate.

Bdama is close to Jisr Al-Shughour., which was recaptured by President Bashar
al-Assad's security forces last Sunday.

The regime's offensive has forced thousands of civilians to flee the area, with
many now camped in a terrifying limbo in a no-man's land on Syria's border with
Turkey.

Among them are Abu Abdu and his family, who fled their village near Jisr
Al-Shughour.

Mr Abdu said: "The soldiers killed the animals, set light to the crops and shot
at people working the land for no reason. It did not matter whether you had done
anything wrong or not."

He said security forces had poisoned the water and that the water and
electricity supply had also been cut. He spoke of rapes and people disappearing
after being rounded up.

Mr Abdu and his fellow refugees live in fear of the arrival of Syrian troops.
"If the soldiers come we will run for our lives," he said.

His son, who is four, is covered in small scabs, the result of living rough for
more than a week without the most basic amenities.

Mr Abdu told The Sunday Telegraph that he and his family were dependent for food
on supplies smuggled across the Turkish border. "Without food from Turkey we
would simply die of hunger," he said.

Over the brow of a hill a few miles away, refugees said Syrian troops had
blocked roads to stop more people or supplies arriving. Yet the mood was
defiant. On Friday, hundreds of refugees gathered beneath the hot sun to protest
against the regime. Clapping loudly, some of them chanted "Assad out" and "Give
us our Freedom".

Additional reporting by a Special Correspondent in Damascus.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                              June 20, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SOMETHING DIDN'T SEEM RIGHT TO ME;
One of the world's most controversial deniers of the September 11, 2001, terror
attacks is to speak at the Colston Hall. DAVID CLENSY reports

BYLINE: DAVID CLENSY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1166 words


IF you want to get yourself instantly disliked by a sizeable proportion of
Americans, heading to New York City and publicly denying the 9/11 attacks on the
World Trade Center is a good way to start. It is a bit like outing yourself as a
holocaust denier while leaning against the Wailing Wall. But six years ago,
Richard Gage, an architect of 23 years, addressed a group of fellow architects
and structural engineers, speaking for the first time about his "confusion" over
what happened in Manhattan on September 11, 2001. Since then, Richard's life has
become consumed by the debate surrounding 9/11. As the founder of the Architects
& Engineers for 9/11 Truth organisation he has also become the focal point of a
nation's distaste for anyone who would dare to question the validity of official
reports of the World Trade Center attacks. His mere presence in Bristol this
week, to give a public lecture at the Colston Hall, is likely to cause its own
controversy. But if Gage's opponents come out in force as strongly as Gage's
supporters on Thursday evening, it will be nothing new for the laid-back San
Franciscan.

"People call me all kinds of names all the time, but that's OK, I can cope with
that," he says. "Probably the most truly derisive thing I get called is a
conspiracy theorist - that's one thing I'm not. I'm an architect, I don't come
up with conspiracy theories, I come up with evidence. "All I do is present the
evidence about the World Trade Center collapses, and let people make up their
own mind. But to me, what happened that day clearly has all the hallmarks of
being a series of controlled explosions. "It's not for me to suggest who might
be responsible for any official cover up that might be going on, but there are
serious implications for the entire War on Terror, and the invasions of those
two countries (Iraq and Afghanistan) if you consider the attacks on Manhattan
were somehow staged." Gage says he began to question the official line on 9/11
almost immediately as the horrors of that day unfolded. "Like everyone else, I
watched the tragedy unfold on television that day, but I know about buildings. I
watched the Twin Towers collapse and straightaway I had a strange feeling about
it in my stomach. "We were being told immediately that it was a gravitational
collapse due to the impact, but the towers were obliterated when they fell. We
should have seen the 110 floors stacked up on the ground in a 20-storey-high
pile, but the whole thing turned to dust. That just didn't seem right to me."
Since 2005 Richard has travelled the world presenting his version of the
evidence at public talks, and has so far garnered the signatures of 1,500
prominent architects and engineers, and 11,500 other supporters, calling for an
independent investigation into the cause of the collapses.

"I only started becoming truly impassioned about it in 2005, after I heard the
evidence of the firefighters - 118 of them reported seeing flashes of light
ahead of the collapses. "So many of the industry professionals I present my
evidence towards go away convinced that these were controlled explosions. "I
know questioning anything about 9/11 is a very sensitive issue - but I have
families of those killed in the Twin Towers among the signatories on my
petition. They want to get to the bottom of why and how their loved ones were
murdered. Was there more to it?" Richard says he begins his presentation by
discussing the collapse of World Trade Center 7 (WTC7) - which occurred a few
hours after the demise of the Twin Towers. As well as housing offices of leading
financial companies, WTC7 also had some unusual tenants: the Secret Service, the
CIA, the Department of Defence and the Office of Emergency Management, which
would coordinate any response to a disaster or a terrorist attack "Often people
haven't even heard of WTC7," he says. "This was a building that wasn't hit by a
plane, that collapsed vertically within a few seconds. There were 80 columns
holding up the superstructure of WTC7 - the only way that building could
collapse vertically, in my professional opinion, would be a controlled explosion
of all 80 columns simultaneously." ¦ Richard Gage speaks at the Colston Hall on
Thursday at 7pm. Tickets, £6, £4 concessions, available only on the door.

? Comment: Page 10 On September 11, 2001, 19 hijackers took control of four
commercial airliners. At 8.46 am, American Airlines Flight 11 crashed into the
World Trade Center's north tower, followed by United Airlines Flight 175, which
hit the south tower at 9.03am. Another group of hijackers flew American Airlines
Flight 77 into the Pentagon at 9.37 am. A fourth flight, United Airlines Flight
93, crashed near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, at 10.03am. Reports indicated that
during two of the flights, the hijackers stabbed and killed aircraft pilots,
flight attendants and in at least one case, a passenger. The 9/11 Commission
established that two of the hijackers had recently purchased Leatherman
multi-function hand tools. A flight attendant on Flight 11, a passenger on
Flight 175, and passengers on Flight 93 mentioned that the hijackers had bombs,
but one of the passengers also mentioned he thought the bombs were fake. No
traces of explosives were found at the crash sites, and the 9/11 Commission
believed the bombs were probably fake. Three buildings in the World Trade Center
complex collapsed on the day of the attack. The south tower fell at
approximately 9.59am after the fire caused by Flight 175 had been burning for 56
minutes. The north tower collapsed at 10.28am, after the fire caused by Flight
11 had been burning for about 100 minutes. When the north tower collapsed,
debris that fell on the nearby World Trade Centre 7 building damaged it and
initiated fires. These fires burned for hours and the building finally collapsed
at 5.21pm. In total, 2,996 deaths have been attributed to the 9/11 attacks,
including the 19 hijackers. In total 246 passengers were killed on the four
planes, 2,606 in New York City in the towers and on the ground, and 125 at the
Pentagon. More than 90 countries lost citizens in the attacks. The vast majority
of people below the impact zone safely evacuated the buildings, along with 18
people who were in the impact zone in the south tower and a number above the
impact zone who used the one intact stairwell in the south tower. Investment
bank Cantor Fitzgerald, based on the floors 101-103 of the north tower, lost 658
employees - the highest number of casualties lost by any firm in the buildings
affected that day. Marsh Inc, located immediately below Cantor Fitzgerald on
floors 93-101, lost 355 employees, and 175 employees of Aon Corporation were
killed. According to the Commission Report, hundreds were killed instantly by
the impact, while the rest were trapped and died after the towers collapsed. At
least 200 people jumped to their deaths from the towers. A total of 411
emergency workers died as they attempted to rescue people and fight fires.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Doubts: Architect Richard Gage says the Twin Towers did not collapse in
a way consistent with just being hit by an aeroplane

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EPB


                    Copyright 2011 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                              June 20, 2011 Monday

Something didn't seem right to me;
One of the world's most controversial deniers of the September 11, 2001, terror
attacks is to speak at the Colston Hall. DAVID CLENSY reports

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 713  words


I F you want to get yourself instantly disliked by a sizeable proportion of
Americans, heading to New York City and publicly denying the 9/11 attacks on the
World Trade Center is a good way to start.

It is a bit like outing yourself as a holocaust denier while leaning against the
Wailing Wall.

But six years ago, Richard Gage, an architect of 23 years, addressed a group of
fellow architects and structural engineers, speaking for the first time about
his "confusion" over what happened in Manhattan on September 11, 2001.

Since then, Richard's life has become consumed by the debate surrounding 9/11.
As the founder of the Architects & Engineers for 9/11 Truth organisation he has
also become the focal point of a nation's distaste for anyone who would dare to
question the validity of official reports of the World Trade Center attacks.

His mere presence in Bristol this week,  to give a public lecture at the Colston
Hall, is likely to cause its own controversy.

But if Gage's opponents come out in force as strongly as Gage's supporters on
Thursday evening, it will be nothing new for the laid-back San Franciscan.

"People call me all kinds of names all the time, but that's   OK, I can cope
with that," he says. "Probably the most truly derisive thing I get called is a
conspiracy theorist - that's one thing I'm not. I'm an architect, I don't come
up with conspiracy theories, I come up with evidence.

"All I do is present the evidence about the World Trade Center collapses, and
let people make up their own mind. But to me, what happened that day clearly has
all the hallmarks of being a series of controlled explosions.

"It's not for me to suggest who might be responsible for any official cover up
that might be going on, but  there are serious implications for the entire War
on Terror, and the invasions of those two countries (Iraq and Afghanistan) if
you consider the attacks on Manhattan were somehow staged."

Gage says he began to question the official line on 9/11 almost immediately as
the horrors of that day unfolded.

"Like everyone else, I watched the tragedy unfold on television that day, but I
know about buildings. I watched the Twin Towers collapse and straightaway I had
a strange feeling about it in my stomach.

"We were being told immediately that it was a gravitational collapse due to the
impact, but the towers were obliterated when they fell. We should have seen the
110 floors stacked up on the ground in a 20-storey-high pile, but the whole
thing turned to dust. That just didn't seem right to me."

Since 2005 Richard has travelled the world presenting his version of the
evidence at public talks, and has so far garnered the signatures of  1,500
prominent architects and engineers, and 11,500 other supporters, calling for an
independent investigation into the cause of the collapses.

"I only started becoming truly impassioned about it in 2005, after I heard the
evidence of the firefighters - 118 of them reported seeing flashes of light
ahead of the collapses.

"So many of the industry professionals I present my evidence towards go away
convinced that these were controlled explosions.

"I know questioning anything about 9/11 is a very sensitive issue - but I have
families of those killed in the Twin Towers among the signatories on my
petition. They want to get to the bottom of why and how their loved ones were
murdered. Was there more to it?"

Richard says he begins his presentation by discussing the collapse of World
Trade Center 7 (WTC7) - which occurred a few hours after the demise of the Twin
Towers. As well as housing offices of leading financial companies, WTC7 also had
some unusual tenants: the Secret Service, the CIA, the Department of Defence and
the Office of Emergency Management, which would coordinate any response to a
disaster or a terrorist attack

"Often people haven't even heard of WTC7," he says. "This was a building that
wasn't hit by a plane, that collapsed vertically within a few seconds.  There
were 80 columns holding up the superstructure of WTC7 - the only way that
building could collapse vertically, in my professional opinion, would be a
controlled explosion of all 80 columns simultaneously."

¦ Richard Gage  speaks at the Colston Hall on Thursday  at 7pm. Tickets, £6, £4
concessions,  available only on the door.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2011 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 20, 2011 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

SAS TRAIN FOR OLYMPIC TERRORIST MASSACRE;
MUMBAI-STYLE ATTACK FEARED

BYLINE: CHRIS HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 162 words


ELITE troops are training to foil any terror strike on next year's London
Olympics.

SAS and SBS special forces have launched a series of practise operations to
combat a Mumbai-style massacre.

They have teamed up with officers from Scotland Yard's CO19 Firearms Command for
night-time "rehearsals" of possible terrorist scenarios.

The exercises, involving four-man teams, include realistic shoot-outs using
blank ammunition.

In one recent drill, commandos stormed a building just a few hundred yards from
the Tower of London and "killed" a dozen soldiers posing as terrorists. Local
residents heard shouting and bursts of machine gun fire after a street was
cordoned off.

With the threat level of an attack at "severe", military chiefs are determined
to be prepared for any eventuality - such as the 2008 Mumbai attack when 10
heavily-armed fanatics left 164 dead.

An insider said: "It's is all being done on the basis of 'practise hard - fight
easy' and it makes a lot of sense."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAID Mumbai killer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

Pakistan survey says drone strikes terror attacks causing mental problems

LENGTH: 340 words


Text of report headlined "80pc people suffer from mental illness in Waziristan"
published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 21 June

Peshawar: The drone attacks by US spy planes and acts of terrorism have not only
affected the mental health of tribesmen but also the people of settled areas.

"About 80 per cent residents of South and North Waziristan agencies have been
affected mentally while 60 per cent people of Peshawar are nearing to become
psychological patients if these problems are not addressed immediately,"
according to a survey conducted by an NGO, Horizon.

Conducted under the supervision of noted psychologist Dr Khalid Mufti, the
survey said that seven to nine per cent children became victims of phobia owing
to consistent telecast of terrorism related scenes by TV channels.

The skyrocketing price hike, energy crisis, lawlessness and untidiness had also
made many people mentally retarded, it added.

It would be very difficult to save future of youth if the existing situation
remained unchanged, said Dr Mufti. He urged TV channels to avoid telecasting
footage of terrorism related incidents to improve mental health of people and
children exposed to phobia and other disorders.

Underling the need for creating jobs opportunities and recreational activities
to improve lives of people in restive areas, Dr Mufti said that owing to
economic disparity, torture and domestic disputes, people of the affected areas
were inclining to use of narcotics.

During the last one decade, he said, youths were confronted with mental and
economic pressure while children and women were exposed to depression owing to
uncertain situation.

"These problems need to be addressed for survival of our young generation and
improving lifestyle of people," he added.

Dr Mufti appealed to people to work for establishment of a peaceful society to
get rid of mental worries, problems and use of drugs. "For this purpose every
segment of the society has to play a positive and constructive role," he said.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 21 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 22, 2011 Wednesday

Iranian oil delegation comes under "terrorist attack" in Iraq

LENGTH: 142 words


Text of report in English by Iranian news website Shana on 22 June

Tehran, 22 June: An Iranian oil delegation headed by the managing director of
the National Iranian Oil Refining And Distribution Company (NIORDC) Ali Reza
Zeyghami was attacked by a terrorist group in Baghdad.

The incident took place on Wednesday morning [22 June] but nobody was hurt.

Iranian delegation that has travelled to Iraq to talk on oil products exports
came under fire when it had left Iraq's Ministry of Oil and was on the way to
attend a meeting with Iraq's Electricity Ministry officials.

According [to] a report by the public relations office of the National Iranian
Oil Refining And Distribution Company nobody was hurt in the attack.

The same source says talks are under way with Iraqi side on schedule.

Source: Iranian news website Shana, Tehran, in English 1245 gmt 22 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 22, 2011 Wednesday

Rwandan police arrest five for planning "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 398 words


Text of report entitled: "Police arrests alleged members of Kayumba Nyamwasa
rebel group" published in English by Rwandan news agency RNA

Kigali, 22 June (RNA) - A woman and four men are in police custody after they
were arrested planning "terrorist attacks" with support from an exiled defence
minister, ex-army chief and the man behind the movie Hotel Rwanda, according to
security sources.

The group was paraded Wednesday before the press, as police said they were in
advanced stages of implementing a series of terror attacks including throwing
grenades.

Looking calm but shabby, the four men and a woman took turns to narrate that
they were members of a new rebel group named Front Nationaliste pour la
Democratie et la Reconciliation au Rwanda (Fronader [French for Nationalist
Front for Democracy and Reconciliation in Rwanda]) based in eastern DRC
[Democratic Republic of Congo]. The female among them was covering her hair.

Police says the group arrived in Rwanda in May to start the terror campaign, but
did not give any more specifics. The arrested group told a small team of
reporters that they had been dispatched on command from exiled ex-army chief
Lt-Gen Kayumba Nyamwasa and former Defence Minister Maj-Gen Emmanuel Bem
Habyarimana. Another mentioned is Mr Paul Rusesabagina, the man behind the
renowned movie Hotel Rwanda.

Gen Nyamwasa lives in South Africa as Gen Habyarimana has been in Belgium since
he fled Rwanda.

The alleged rebel force has apparently been led on the ground by among them Col
Norbert Ndererimana alias Gaheza who was also paraded before journalists at the
Kacyiru Police Headquarters.

It is only recently that the name Fronader surfaced but news about the rebel
outfit came to public at a regional conference for defence ministers in Kigali
earlier this year. The defence chief called for a joint platform to wipe out any
rebels on each others territory.

Colonel Ndererimana, a former commander with the Rwanda FDLR rebels told
reporters that their terror plan was getting funding and all sorts of support
from Gen Nyamwasa and Mr Rusesabagina, who lives between Europe and the United
States.

Sounding knowledgeable, Col Ndererimana said the plan was to be launched in
December including attacking petrol stations, hurling grenades indiscriminately
and assassinating senior government officials.

Source: RNA news agency, Kigali, in English 1448 gmt 22 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 22, 2011 Wednesday
                                  Eire Edition

CAR ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 132 words


A DAD whose car was attacked as he tried to drive out of Short Strand told
yesterday how he feared he would end up like murder victim Robert Hamill.

Liam McManus said he was surrounded by masked men who battered the car as they
tried to get him out at Mountpottinger Road at around 9pm. He told the Irish
Daily Mirror: "The police were there, three Land Rovers full of them and they
never came near me as I was being attacked.

"I thought I was going to end up like Robert Hamill being battered to death as
the cops sat in their jeeps.

"I was over visiting my kids so imagine if they had been in the car with me.

"They would have been petrified."

Robert Hamill was beaten to death by a loyalist mob in Portadown in 1997.

At Strand Walk, local pensioner Tommy McNulty said the situation was "bedlam".

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SMASHED J Liam McManus' car was attacked by thugs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Leatherhead Advertiser

                                 June 23, 2011

Police warn valley is a perfect spot for terror attacks

BYLINE: David Churchill david.churchill@essnmedia.co.uk

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 336 words


Mole Valley's open landscapes provide a perfect haven for terrorists to launch
missiles at planes, police have warned.

In a "show and tell" meeting between anti-terrorist police and Effingham
residents, officers displayed a heat-seeking missile launcher and a DVD
demonstrating its use by terrorists in Afghanistan.

The five foot launcher, which can fire up to 12,000 feet into the air, was then
dismantled and residents were shown the component parts.

Effingham resident James Nicholls, who attended the meeting, said: "The police
realise there is potentially a real threat, enough so for them to come and let
us know about this. What they are worried about is that someone could
potentially smuggle parts of these launchers to the UK.

"The message is keep an eye out for anyone burying anything suspicious or
carrying anything suspicious.

"The biggest concern is not just how someone will launch a missile but where a
plane will come down if one is hit. We don't want another Lockerbie on our
hands."

With areas of Mole Valley directly underneath Heathrow and Gatwick's flight
paths, police say it is an attractive location for potential terrorists to bury
launcher parts and reassemble them for a later attack.

Last Wednesday's meeting at Ockham village hall also provided a glimpse of a
digital map on which high-risk areas were plotted, including Cobham, Bookham and
Effingham.

The type of launchers demonstrated by police cost 200 (£123) in Afghanistan,
weigh about 40lbs  in total, and comprise a barrel, trigger launch mechanism and
battery.

A statement on the Metropolitan Police's aviation security website says: "The
terrorist threat remains real and there is no room for complacency.

"The public should remain alert and aware of their surroundings at all times. If
something strikes you as suspicious and out of place then trust your instincts
and call the police."

There is not thought to be any imminent threat, but anyone with information is
asked to  call the anti-terrorist hotline confidentially on 0800 789321.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 309


                    Copyright 2011 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 24, 2011 Friday

Six Algerian soldiers wounded in Tizi Ouzou area "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 208 words


Text of report by Imene Brahimi headlined: "Provisional toll: Six soldiers
wounded," published by Algerian electronic daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on
23 June

A military convoy was attacked this Thursday [23 June] at 1400 hours [local
time] by a major terrorist group on the Azazga road, about 40 kilometres east of
the city of Tizi Ouzou, Tout sur l'Algerie has learned from security sources in
the region.

It was at the very spot where a military encampment was attacked on 25 April,
killing 17 soldiers. A convoy of forces from the National People's Army [ANP]
moving towards the Yakourene region fell into an ambush laid by a group of armed
Islamists whose number was undetermined but which was certainly major given the
intensity of the attack.

Six soldiers were wounded, our sources indicated, who added that the toll was
still only provisional. One hour after the start of the attack, the soldiers
were still trying to respond to repel the perpetrators of the attack. Major
military reinforcements were dispatched to the scene to hunt down the group
behind the attack, the same sources stated. Helicopters from the ANP immediately
flew over the skies of Tizi Ouzou, headed towards Azazga.

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website, in French 23 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              June 24, 2011 Friday

Iraq: Terrorist Attack on American Convoy in Baghdad

LENGTH: 166 words


June 23, 2011

Victoria Nuland

Department Spokesperson , Washington, DC

The United States condemns a terrorist attack in Baghdad today that claimed the
life of international development and finance expert Dr. Stephen Everhart and
wounded three others. Dr. Everhart was an American citizen who was working in
Iraq for an implementing partner of the United States Agency for International
Development's Mission in Iraq. He was killed while working on a project to
introduce a new business curriculum to a Baghdad university in a program
supported by the Iraqi Ministry of Higher Education. His support of efforts to
advance a modern and efficient financial sector has benefited the people and
business enterprises of Iraq and his lifelong dedication to public service has
improved the lives of countless people around the world.



We are saddened by this tragedy and extend our thoughts and prayers to Dr.
Everhart's family and loved ones, and to the three other injured victims and
their families.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2011 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 25, 2011 Saturday
                                  Eire Edition

MAN QUIZZED OVER 3-HOUR RAPE TERROR;
VICTIM ATTACKED AS SHE SLEPT AT HOME

BYLINE: DECLAN BRENNAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 269 words


A mAN in his 30s was being questioned last night in connection with a harrowing
rape that lasted three hours.

The sickening attack took place in the victim's home in Cabinteely, South
Dublin, in the early hours of Friday June 17.

The woman was asleep in the house when a man broke in and subjected her to a
lengthy sexual assault.

Enquiries by Gardai from Dun Laoghaire and Cabinteely were carried out in the
days after the assault and investigators quickly identified a suspect.

A manhunt was launched and yesterday afternoon detectives arrested a man in
connection with the attack.

A local source told the Irish Daily Mirror: "This man is from the same area as
the victim and would be well known to gardai.

"He is a low-level criminal and he and associates of his have been parasites on
locals.

"Gardai would have put a lot of time into investigating this attack."

The rapist is understood to have broken into the property at around 3.30am
before fleeing on foot.

Gardai were alerted when the woman managed to contact a friend.

Our source said: "She was at home in her bed asleep when an intruder broke into
the house. This poor girl is totally traumatised.

"It has really upset people to think that something like this could happen.

"You just can't feel safe in your own bed."

A Garda spokesman said: "Gardai in Cabinteely, Co Dublin, investigating an
aggravated burglary and sexual assault on June 17 in the Marlfield area have
arrested a man in connection with this incident.

"The man was arrested in Dublin shortly before 2pm and is currently detained at
Dun Laoghaire Garda station under Section 4 Criminal Justice Act 1984."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 28, 2011 Tuesday

German authorities note continuing high risk of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 314 words


Text of report by independent German news magazine Der Spiegel website on 27
June

[Unattributed report: "Danger at High Level"]

According to the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution [BfV],
the Internet has developed into the central medium for extremists and is
increasingly used for attacks on the economy and the Federal Government. This is
shown by the Constitutional Protection Report for 2010, which has not yet been
published and which Interior Minister Hans-Peter Friedrich (Christian Social
Union) intends to present at the beginning of July.

Jihadists are using the Internet "to form 'virtual' networks," the report says.
Arid U. from Frankfurt, who shot two US soldiers at Frankfurt Airport at the
beginning of March, is considered to be the prototype of "virtual"
radicalization. In the view of the constitutional protectors, Islamist terrorism
is still the biggest danger. "The high density of clues to attacks shows that
German interests at home an abroad consider to be endangered at a high level."

The Internet is also of "increasing importance" for "attacks on computer systems
of industrial companies and government bodies." The BfV accuses Russia and China
of massively spying in Germany.

The number of neo-Nazis has risen (from 5,000 to 5,600), while the number of
members of the rightwing extremist scene has declined slightly as a result of
the weakening of rightwing extremist parties. However, the authorities are
registering more rightwing extremist demonstrations than ever. Rightwing
extremist music is of "outstanding importance" for the violence-prone neo-Nazis
scene.

In the leftwing extremist milieu the BfV has noted an increase in the number of
violence-prone activists to 6,800 persons. The year 2010 was characterized by a
"high level of aggression and confrontation," the report says.

Source: Der Spiegel website, Hamburg, in German 27 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                             June 28, 2011 Tuesday

Cabbie's Terror At Blade Attack

BYLINE: Sophie Doughty

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 190 words


A CABBIE is terrified to return to work after he was robbed at knifepoint.

Police are today hunting the passenger who threatened the young driver with a
blade before stealing his cash and phone.

The cabbie, who works in Newcastle city centre, picked up the man at Central
Station just after midnight on Saturday and drove him to Park Terrace.

At around 12.15am, the passenger grabbed the driver around the neck and
threatened him with a knife before taking his mobile and money and running off.

Today the cabbie's colleagues said the attack had left their pal extremely
shaken and worried about returning to work.

They added that all the drivers are nervous.

Fazal Almed, from City Cabs, said: "He is traumatised. He hasn't been back to
work since.

"This has made a lot of drivers very, very nervous.

"Everyone is on edge. This doesn't happen that much in Newcastle. It's generally
a safe city to be a taxi driver, but we are looking into increasing safety
measures."

The attacker is described as a white man in his 20s, around 5ft 7ins tall and of
medium build. He was wearing a hooded top.

Witnesses should call Northumbria Police on 03456 043 043.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday

Moscow drug police prevents possible terrorist attack - official

LENGTH: 162 words


A possible terrorist attack has been prevented in Moscow's south-east, Russian
news agency RIA Novosti reported on 29 June, citing the Federal Service for
Control over the Trafficking of Narcotics.

On 28 June the call centre of Moscow's South-East administrative district
received an anonymous telephone call saying that narcotics and weapons are
buried in the ground on Volgogradskiy Prospect avenue. Having examined the
place, drug police officers did not find narcotics there but found a metallic
cylinder. According to further experts' examination, the cylinder was a
ready-to-use special device equipped with the mixture of TNT and ammonium
nitrate weighting around 1.5 kg and electric detonator. As a rule, explosive
device of this kind is used for exploding railway and buildings, the federal
service said, adding that currently the materials necessary for opening a
criminal case are being prepared.

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0811 gmt 29 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday

Article flays civilian killings in Mohmand, terror attack in northwest Pakistan

LENGTH: 1296 words


Text of article by Hamid Mir headlined "Mass killing in Mohmand Agency and the
media's helplessness" published by Pakistani newspaper Jang on 27 June


The state of Pakistan has been surrounded by a number of internal and external
threats. However, regrettably, the nation is not united to confront these
threats; nor does the government have any strategy to unite the nation. The
Constitution of Pakistan has given the responsibility to some persons and
organizations to bring solidarity among the people and to protect the nation,
but all these have some way or other, become part of the new wave of political
confrontations. Nevertheless, under the present circumstances, they should have
emulated the role played by local DIG [Deputy Inspector General] of Police Syed
Imtiaz Shah and DPO [District Police Officer] Mohammad Hussain during the attack
on Tehsil [revenue district] Kolachi in Dera Ismail Khan on 25 June. Kolachi is
a backward locality surrounded on two sides by the tribal areas of Dera Ismail
Khan and Tonk.

This small city situated on the bank of River Komal about 45 kms from Dera
Ismail Khan is the final resting place of several renowned Sufi saints. This
city has the reputation of producing many important politicians and religious
scholars, including Sardar Inayatullah Khan Gandapur, who was the chief minister
of the province; but, he could not change the destiny of Kolachi. The youths of
this area were drawn toward militancy due to the backwardness and unemployment
problem in this locality, because South Waziristan is not too far from here. The
attack on Kolachi police station on 25 June was the act of these local
militants. This act was pretty much similar to the attack on PNS [Pakistan Navy
Ship] Mehran in Karachi a few weeks ago. The only difference was that the
darkness of the night and lax security arrangements were utilized to enter the
Mehran base, whereas burqa [veil worn by Muslim women] was used to storm into
the Kolachi police station in broad daylight. In this attack, seven police
personnel, including local SHO [Station House Officer] and one innocent person,
were martyred and the two assailants as well were killed after about eight hours
of fighting. On receipt of information about the attack, DIG Syed Imtiaz Shah
and DPO Mohammad Hussain reached Kolachi immediately, whereas the DIG himself
led the operation against the assailants. The courage and valour demonstrated by
him boosted the morale of the police force and the police decided to break into
the police station on a personnel armoured carrier and directly confront the
attackers. Various TV channels, too, telecast live some part of the operation.
When this operation was being shown on TV channels, many Members of Parliament
belonging to the tribal areas established contacts with this poor man [author
Hamid Mir]. These gentlemen were complaining that the Pakistani media air the
killing of innocent people by the security forces in Karachi and Quetta as well
as the ongoing police action in the far-flung areas like Kolachi. Nevertheless,
they do not even show 1 percent of whatever is happening in the tribal areas.

It is absolutely true that during the past few years, Pakistani independent
media's reach in the tribal areas has been completely halted. Reports about the
tribal areas are being released through the ISPR [Inter Service Personal
Relations] only and the ISPR takes the journalists whom it trusts to specific
locations. Staking his life, if any journalist voluntarily goes to some tribal
area and tries to show the two sides of the picture, he is included in the list
of the most undesirable elements. I asked the grumbling parliamentarians as to
why don't they demand in the National Assembly and the Senate that the media
should be given permission to enter the tribal areas? On this question,
Akhundzada Chattan, Member of National Assembly [MNA] representing the Pakistan
People's Party from Bajaur Agency started telling: we ourselves are helpless
before the Political Administration of our areas. Political Agents do not heed
the elected parliamentarians from their areas; but, on several occasions, while
adopting an insulting attitude toward us, they strengthen the stance of the
militants that democracy is not the solution to any problem. MNA Akhundzada
Chattan said that when Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Governor Masood Kausar visited Bajaur
in the recent past, he was insulted by the Political Agent before the Governor.
The problem is that by sitting in Islamabad, the Members of Parliament from the
tribal areas take part in the process of legislation, but that legislation is
not implemented in the tribal areas. Only the military officers and Political
Agents have their say there. Therefore, though 10 years have elapsed, the
situation is not under control in the tribal areas. The Pakistani media can show
the killing of a youth in the hands of Rangers in Karachi, but cannot air the
tragedy of innocent people being killed in the drone attacks in North Waziristan
and Bajaur. Many roads remain closed in Kurram Agency adjoining North Waziristan
for quite some time. New records of oppression and atrocities are being set
there on a daily basis, but the media could not reach there. During the past
five years, dozens of journalists were forced to quit the tribal areas; because,
neither the militants like the presence of media there, nor is it in the
interest of the security forces even. Certain incidents take place in the tribal
areas on a daily basis, which, if brought to light by the media, common
Pakistanis will come know the exact reasons for the ordeal being faced by their
country. Nonetheless, after a careful consideration, the media's reach in the
tribal areas has been brought to an end. A negative outcome of this move is that
the tribal people are becoming disappointed with not only the media but Pakistan
as well. On 10 June, in the Senate, Senators Hafiz Mohammad Rasheed and
Professor Ibrahim Khan representing Mohmand Agency referred to a heart-rending
incident, in which the security forces lined up 38 innocent people and killed
them in Lakade Sheikh Baba Tehsil of Mohmand Agency. These people were killed on
11 April just because they failed in giving a tip-off about a militant of their
village. After the killing, all of them were pushed into a ditch and buried.
But, the local scouts could not tolerate it and they informed the next of kin of
the deceased about the real situation. When there was a threat of reaction from
the people, the relatives were given permission to bury all the dead bodies in
separate graves and an attempt was also made to silence the next of kin of the
deceased by giving 300,000 rupees each. The slain include a 12-year-old boy
Mumtaz and his 43-year-old father Mohammad Siddique. Most of the killed were
close friends of one another. Senator Professor Ibrahim Khan has passed on to
the Senate Chairman a list containing the names, parentage, ages, and addresses
of these 38 people in order to initiate an inquiry into this mass killing.
However, you will see that when a demand arises for an inquiry into this mass
killing, some liberal fascists will describe those making the demand as the
sympathizers of the Taliban. This is the tendency which has divided the
terrorism-hit Pakistan from within. In fact, those who launched the suicide
attack on Kolachi police station on 25 June were also the enemies of Pakistan,
and those who killed 38 people in Mohmand on 11 April were, too, the enemies of
humanity -- both should be held accountable. If, for the accountability of only
one, noises like -- this is our war, this is our war - are raised, then your war
will never end and the conflagration of war will consume all of us.

Source: Jang, Rawalpindi in Urdu, 27 Jun 11, p 10

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday

Defected Syrian sniper gives details of attacks on "terrorist" groups

LENGTH: 1642 words


Text of report in English by Qatari government-funded aljazeera.net website on
29 June


["Seeing Syria Through the Sniper's Sights" - Al Jazeera net Headline]

In the dead of night in southern Syria, on a road near the town of Izra', a
truck driver is flagged down by a group of men. It's May 25 and the men, clearly
agitated, explain why they need a lift urgently: The group of 21 are soldiers
defecting from the army's Division 47 after a month deployed in Deraa [Dar'a] ,
the cradle of the Syrian uprising. This is the story of how one of those men, a
sniper, took the decision to flee the bloodshed and the orders to kill
protesters he said came to him directly from President Bashar al-Assad's [Bashar
al-Asad's] brother Mahir. "Being told by officers to kill peaceful and unarmed
civilians is the most brutal thing that ever happened to me," said the defected
former sniper, a member of the special forces of the army's Division 47, which
he said was deployed from Damascus to Izra', 30km north-east of Deraa, on April
25.Al Jazeera spoke twice to the soldier by phone from his exile in neighbouring
Turkey and has corroborated his testimony with that gathered by Insan, a leading
Syrian human rights organization and Avaaz, the global rights organization. At
the request of the soldier, Al Jazeera agreed not to reveal his name, military
ID, hometown and other personal details, though the organization has seen them,
as it has the names of the sniper's commanding officers.

"The decision to desert the army was a life and death decision for me," he said.
"It was impossible for me to continue watching people dropping dead in front of
my eyes every day -even if they were not killed by me."

Indoctrination

The sniper told Al Jazeera that he and fellow soldiers were told by their
commanding officers that they were being deployed to Deraa in order to protect
civilians there from "terrorist" gangs."We were told that there were
demonstrations in Deraa and we had to protect the demonstrators from terrorists
and foreign elements who were threatening them," he said."The week before we
arrived in Deraa our officers gave us strict orders to spend every evening from
8pm to 10pm watching Al Dunya TV. They said we would hear about the conspiracy
against Syria," he said. Al Dunya TV is Syria's only private satellite channel
and is owned by President's Assad's first cousin and the country's wealthiest
businessman, Rami Makhlouf. On June 5 the station hosted the pro-regime analyst
Dr Taleb Ibrahim, who allegedly called on Syrians to kill protesters."We all
believed what we saw on Dunya TV and we were eager to go and kill those people,
especially after watching the reports from Deraa," said the sniper."It was
propaganda showing gangsters and Salafi opening fire on the army, the secret
police and civilians and we were told that they were being paid by foreign
forces to kill civilians."The sniper said his barracks in Izra' were in a remote
location and the soldiers were kept isolated from the outside world.

"We had orders not to talk to civilians. We had no access to TV, newspapers,
radio or the internet. Our only source of news was our officers. During the
morning meetings they would repeat the conspiracies against Syria, such as
people being planted by foreign forces among protesters to kill civilians and
soldiers. They would tell us about Bashar's achievements and the good things he
has done for country."They would say: 'Of course we will not accept protesters
calling for the toppling of our beloved President Bashar al-Assad. Those people
chanting like this are hired by foreign forces and we should get rid of them.'"

Shoot to kill

Four times each week the men would drive from their base in Izra', south into
Deraa, with orders to crack down on the protesters. The 47th Division was
composed of around 100 men, he said, including six snipers who were told to take
to rooftops of tall buildings around key protest areas of the city.Other
divisions joined the 47th, he said, including the Fourth Division -under the
command of Maher al-Assad, who the sniper said was in overall command of the
military assault in Deraa."All the divisions in Izra' and Deraa were under the
direct leadership of Mahir al-Asad. All officers took orders directly from him.
I know this because I often overheard officers asking each other if they had
received this or that order from Maher and asking each other what he said about
this or that."The sniper said that, during the early days of the deployment,
while the regular soldiers were told to shoot in the air to break up protests,
the snipers were given orders to shoot to kill."We were ordered to aim for the
head or heart from the beginning. We were not given specific numbers but told to
kill as many as possible as long as there were protests," he said.However, what
met the sniper on his first mission to Deraa was in stark contrast to what he
had been told to expect."It took us a couple of days to understand that the
people we had been told were terrorists were just normal citizens protesting
peacefully -and we discovered that it was our officers that were the criminals,"
he said. "When I got there I didn't see anything except peaceful protesters. So
I decided I would not shoot at them."However, the sniper was being closely
monitored by officers who deployed with the soldiers to make sure they followed
orders. "I managed to shoot randomly, not targeting people. It looked like I was
doing my job and the officers could, of course, not know what I was aiming at,
so I just wouldn't find the target. But we were continuously given orders to
shoot to kill."The sniper said the officer never suspected anything as other
soldiers would be hitting the protesters. "It wasn't only me. There were a
number of other soldiers who secretly refused to open fire on people."The sniper
said the only armed civilians he had seen were those armed by the military
itself."I never witnessed or heard about civilians having guns, using them or
hiding them in Deraa," he said. "But I saw armed civilian men in the army, armed
by the army officers. We used to call them 'thugs' and I saw them taking orders
before they opened fire on protesters."From his vantage point on the rooftops of
Deraa, the sniper was shocked to see the thugs not only shooting and killing
civilians, but also turning their guns on the regular soldiers."I saw some of
the thugs open fire on soldiers. It seemed it was in order to confirm the story
told to us by officers and what was shown on Dunya TV: That armed gangs were
fighting the army. In fact, Dunya TV would report on these incidences."The
consequences of not following orders were dire. The sniper described how a
soldier he knew as Wael had refused to shoot at unarmed protesters, disobeying a
direct order."He had an argument with his officer saying that he would not point
his gun at unarmed people," the sniper said. "During the night something
happened. The next morning we were told that Wael had been killed by terrorists
who had snuck inside the barracks. It was strange because the barracks are
closely guarded and we had never heard about a terrorist attack on barracks
before. We all knew he had been killed by our commanders."

Defection

By mid May, the sniper has seen enough. He began to discuss the possibility of
defecting with a group of soldiers he discovered were also from his home region
of north-east Syria."In the military the soldiers given orders to kill are never
from the region the orders are given in," he said. "We discovered we all came
from roughly the same area and since they used to send us together on missions
in Deraa we started to trust each other and to talk to each other about the
situation. And then we began to discuss defecting."But the soldiers' barracks at
Izra' was under the close scrutiny of the secret police."Whenever they (secret
police) would come and join our group, when we sat around talking after the
missions in Deraa, we would always change the subject or answer them with what
they wanted to hear," he said.There had already been defections from the Deraa
deployment, said the sniper, even before he began discussing it with others."I
heard about many soldiers who defected from Deraa. Maybe around 100 to 150.
Usually soldiers would defect during their missions in Deraa city. They would
just drop their weapons and run towards the protesters. Some also fled the
barracks at night."The defected soldiers were all privates, not officers, he
said. Officers slept in separate barracks and got the best food. By contrast,
the sniper said, the regular soldiers would receive only bread and water -and
sometimes not even that. One time the water had worms in it, he said. With no
end in sight to the killing, the sniper agreed with 20 other soldiers that the
time had come to flee.At 10pm on the night of May 25 the men handed in their
weapons as usual and retired to their beds. But after lights out the men
gathered at an agreed location and sneaked out of the barracks onto the road. A
small group, including the sniper, went ahead to flag down a vehicle. The first
to pass was a truck, driven by an old man. At first reluctant to pick up his
dangerous cargo, the old man relented after half an hour of tense negotiations,
driving the men the 100km north to Damascus, where the group split up. A few
days later the defected sniper was in Turkey, where several other defected
soldiers, including from the assault on Jisr al-Shughur, have sought refuge."I
feel better now with my friends in exile, but not as good as I would if I was
with my own family," he said. "I call them every day to see if they are ok. No
one has asked for me yet but I am so afraid for my family because of what I did.
But it was the only decision I could take."

With reporters in Syria

Source: Aljazeera.net website, Doha, in English 29 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            June 29, 2011, Wednesday

10 SLAIN IN HOTEL TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 199 words


AFGHAN police fought a fierce gun battle with a gang of Taliban thugs who
stormed a hotel in a murderous suicide mission yesterday.

At least 10 people were feared dead in the horrific attack at the
Intercontinental in the capital Kabul. The hotel is popular with Westerners.

At least six bomb-clad terrorists took part in the devastating raid.

The attack comes amid fears hardcore jihadists are lining up to avenge Osama bin
Laden's death.

Three of the men blew themselves up while officers tried to repel the assault
using machine guns and rocketpropelled grenades. Guests cowered in terror as
bullets flew and explosions rocked the hotel. One guest is believed to have
leapt to safety from an upper window.

Another told how he heard gunfire echoing throughout the building. Streets
leading to the hotel were blocked and the electricity was cut.

One man blew himself up at the gate as the assault was launched. Two others then
triggered devices, one on the second floor of the hotel, and another at the
rear. Several police officers were injured.

Meanwhile, British troops destroyed a Taliban training base and bomb factory in
Helmand. They found 74 explosive devices after another fierce gun battle.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

KNIFE ATTACK TERROR;
threatened in car

BYLINE: Mark Truelove

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 406 words


A KNIFEMAN threatened a pensioner after twice climbing into her car in
Huddersfield.

Although the woman bravely tried to resist, the thug escaped with cash from her
handbag.

It is vital that we track down this man, who was responsible for a very
frightening incident.

It happened on Monday in a busy Huddersfield road while the elderly woman was
driving her car.

The 79-year old Huddersfield woman was in her red Ford Fusion car at the
junction of Blackmoorfoot Road and Manchester Road at 12.30pm.

She was waiting for the lights to change when a man got into the passenger seat
of the car, placed a knife against her leg and told her to drive.

When the lights changed, the victim drove across Manchester Road, on to
Birkhouse Lane and up to the junction with Millgate.

Here the suspect tried to make the 79-year old turn on to Millgate but, knowing
that this was a dead end, and despite being extremely scared, the woman bravely
refused.

The suspect then grabbed the victim's handbag from the back seat and got out of
the car, running off along Millgate.

But the woman''s ordeal was not over as, just seconds later, the suspect jumped
back into the car and forced the woman to drive towards Longroyd Lane.

Here, the suspect ran from the car towards Manchester Road. As he fled he threw
the victim's handbag back into the car, but he had taken its contents with him.

In total, he stole a purse, around pounds 100 cash, a bus pass and several bank
cards.

What is of more concern is that he left the victim extremely shaken by the whole
incident.

Fortunately however, this lady has been brave enough to give us a detailed
description of the man responsible and agreed for us to appeal to the public for
help in catching him.

The suspect was a white man in early to mid 20s, skinny and with a thin, pale
face. He had light brown hair in a crewcut and was wearing a light blue navy
zip-up top with two hoops around the chest.

He was also wearing grey trousers and pumps.

To put it simply, I am extremely keen to arrest the man responsible for this
crime and am strongly urging any witnesses to come forward.

This robbery took place in the middle of the day at a busy junction where there
was a great deal of traffic. Someone saw this crime taking place as there was a
large amount of traffic on the roads where this vulnerable and frightened lady
was forced - at knifepoint - to drive.

Please contact us on 0845 6060606.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ SCENE OF ORDEAL: Birkhouse Lane where the victim was forced to drive

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday

Policeman among four injured in terrorist attacks in Afghan east

LENGTH: 160 words


Text of report by private Pakistan-based Afghan Islamic Press news agency

Khost, 30 June: A border police officer has been killed and four others wounded
in two separate incidents in Gorbaz District of Khost Province. The chief for
Gorbaz District, Wali Shah Hemat, told Afghan Islamic Press [AIP] on Thursday
[30 June] that the armed Taleban had killed the border policeman along with his
father in an attack on their house in the Jolan area of Gorbaz District.
According to Hemat, the slain border police officer was back to his home on
leave when the incident happened.

Talking about a separate report, the district chief told AIP that a police
Ranger vehicle struck a roadside mine in his district this morning which left
four policemen onboard injured. He also said that the incident had completely
destroyed the police vehicle.

The Taleban have not commented on both incidents yet.

Source: Afghan Islamic Press news agency, Peshawar, in Pashto 0447 gmt 30 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                             July 2, 2011, Saturday

POLICE FOIL BY-ELECTION BOMBER;
SCOTS VOTERS SAVED FROM TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Craig Mcdonald

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 163 words


EXCLUSIVE COPS foiled a terror threat to blow up a by-election polling station,
the Record can reveal.

Officers raced to the McLean Museum in Greenock, Renfrewshire, after receiving a
phone call on Thursday. They later raided TURN TO PAGE 4

From Page One three houses nearby and it is alleged a crude device was found in
one of them.

One local said: "There were police swarming all over the place - it looked like
it was being taken very seriously."

A man was remanded in custody at Greenock sheriff court yesterday in relation to
the incident. Patrick Lyon, 31, of Greenock, is accused of constructing an
explosive device at a flat in Kelly Street with intent to endanger life or
damage property.

He is also charged with making a hoax call claiming there was a bomb in the
museum, and possessing the class B drug amphetamine.

The museum was being used for polling in the Inverclyde by-election, which
Labour's Iain McKenzie won with a 5838-vote majority.

Police foil election blast plot

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WINNER: McKenzie

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             July 2, 2011 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Knife thug attack terror

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: PG2; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 70 words


A MAN was knocked to the ground as he was robbed at knifepoint while walking his
dog.

The 61-year-old suffered cuts in the struggle and shock following the attack in
Braidburn Valley Park, Edinburgh.

The thug made off with some the man s possessions after the attack at around 8am
yesterday.

Appealing for witnesses to come forward, a Lothian and Borders Police spokesman
said:  Thankfully the victim was not seriously injured.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 5, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Sangakkara relives terrorist attack that left him praying to stay alive

BYLINE: Nick Hoult

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 489 words


Kumar Sangakkara painted an evocative eyewitness account of the terrorist attack
on the Sri Lankan cricket team in Pakistan when he delivered the annual Cowdrey
Lecture at Lord's last night.

In a moving speech, Sangakkara told an audience in the Nursery Pavilion of his
life growing up during Sri Lanka's bloody civil war and the part cricket has
played in healing factional conflict. Despite the turbulence in Sri Lanka,
violence and war had never impinged directly on Sangakkara's life until
terrorists fired on the bus taking his team to a stadium in Lahore in March
2009.

He shared the moment he thought he would be killed. "Suddenly a shout came from
the front: 'Get down, they are shooting at the bus'," he said.

"The reaction was immediate. Everyone dived for cover and took shelter on the
aisle or behind the seats. With very little space, we were all lying on top of
each other. Then the bullets started to hit. It was like rain on a tin roof.
Suddenly Mahela [Jayawardene], who sits at the back of the bus, shouts, saying
he thinks he has been hit in the shin. I am lying next to Thilan [Samaraweera].

"He groans in pain as a bullet hits him in the back of his thigh. As I turn my
head to look at him, I feel something whizz past my ear and a bullet thuds into
the side of the seat, the exact spot where my head had been a few seconds
earlier. I feel something hit my shoulder and it goes numb. I know I had been
hit, but I was just relieved and praying I was not going to be hit in the head.

"Tharanga Paranavitana is also next to me. He stands up, bullets flying all
around him, shouting 'I have been hit' as he holds his bloodsoaked chest. He
collapsed on to his seat, apparently unconscious. I hear the bus roar in to life
and start to move. [Tillakaratne] Dilshan is screaming at the driver: 'Drive,
drive.' We speed up, swerve and are finally inside the safety of the stadium."

Paranavitana recovered fully and has featured on this summer's tour of England.

Sangakkara began his speech detailing the history of cricket in Sri Lanka before
dwelling on his youth, and memories of playing cricket with Tamil friends who
were being sheltered by his family during race riots in the early 1980s.

"I recollect 1983 now with horror, but for the simple imagination of a child not
yet six it was a time of extended play and fun," he said. "I do not say this
lightly as about 35 of our closest friends, all Tamils, took shelter in our
home.

"They needed sanctuary from vicious politically-motivated goon squads. My
father, like many other brave Sri Lankans from different ethnic backgrounds,
opened his houses at great personal risk.

"For me, though, it was a time where I had all my friends to play with all day
long. The schools were closed and we'd play sport for hour after hour in the
backyard - cricket, football, rounders. It was a child's dream come true. I did
not realise the terrible consequences of my friends being discovered."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Vivid detail: Kumar Sangakkara speaking at Lord's last night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 5, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Sangakkara recalls terror of bus attack;
CRICKET

BYLINE: Stephen Brenkley

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 216 words


IN A compelling address last night on what cricket means to Sri Lanka, their
former captain, Kumar Sangakkara, spoke of the day the team coach was ambushed
in Pakistan. Until that moment, Sangakkara told his audience at Lord's, he could
not truly relate to the experience of thousands of his countrymen caught up in
the civil war.

"I had great sympathy and compassion for them, but had no real experience with
which I could draw parallels," he said in the 2011 MCC Spirit of Cricket
Lecture. Sangakkara (above) then described the incident as the team bus was
interrupted on its journey for the third day of the second Test in 2009.

"Having been asked to leave early instead of waiting for the Pakistan bus, we
were anticipating a day of hard toil for our bowlers," he said. Seconds later
bandits started shooting at the bus.

"Then the bullets started to hit," said Sangakkara. "It was like rain on a tin
roof. The bus was at a standstill, an easy target. Suddenly, Mahela
[Jayawardene] shouts saying he thinks he has been hit in the shin. I am laying
next to Thilan [Samaraweera]. He groans in pain as a bullet hits him in the back
of the thigh. As I turn my head to look at him I feel something whizz past my
ear and a bullet thuds into the side of the seat, the exact spot where my head
had been."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                              July 5, 2011 Tuesday

Brierfield family flee from fire attack terror

BYLINE: Tyrone Marshall

SECTION: BRIERFIELD (BRIERFIELD)

LENGTH: 252 words


A TERRIFIED mum had to carry her disabled son out of their house after waking up
to discover a fire in the back yard.

Sabina Hussain, 31, woke at around 5am yesterday to discover 10ft flames at the
back of the house in Chapel Street, Brierfield.

It is believed arsonists started the blaze. Sabina had to carry seven-year-old
Hussnain, who is unable to walk and uses a wheelchair, out of the front door and
wake up friend Abdul, 22, who was staying at the house.

She said: "I heard the noise outside of glass breaking and when I looked out the
window I saw the flames. I was shocked and in panic. I had to carry Hussnain
out. He sleeps in the back room and his window was open so it is a relief he
didn't inhale any smoke, it was very scary."

Abdul called the fire brigade and ambulance after seeing the fire and next door
neighbours, who had also woken up at the noise, called the fire service as well.

Police and fire investigators believe the blaze was started deliberately and are
investigating any motivation for the attack.

Sabina said: "I don't know why anyone would so something like this, it is sick.
Everybody round here knows there is a disabled child that lives here.

Everything in the back yard was destroyed, including carpets and the wheelie
bins. There was glass in the outhouse which was breaking, it was a frightening
noise."

Crew manager Ed Hargreaves said the blaze was well alight with the roof of the
outhouse fallen in. He said: "It would have spread to the house and to next door
if we hadn't arrived."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             July 6, 2011 Wednesday

Leader calls for trust to be scrapped ; It's no way to run a hospital' ; MP
demands probe into heart op 999 drama ; Robbery terror as armed gang attack
couple in their own home

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 868 words


MP SIMON Danczuk is calling for a full investigation after hospital doctors
battling to save the life of a patient were told to dial 999 - because their
back-up team had been axed.

Mr Danczuk spoke out after the Observer revealed the drama at Rochdale
Infirmary, which led to all operations being cancelled until new procedures
could be put into place.

Medics pressed a buzzer to summon emergency back up when a man went into cardiac
arrest during routine surgery.

They wanted help to try to resuscitate him - but nobody came because the back
up, known as a 'crash team', had been moved to other hospitals following the
downgrading of Rochdale Infirmary's A&E unit to an 'urgent care centre'.

When no-one responded to the alarm, the medics called the security office - and
were advised to phone 999 and ask for an ambulance.

The patient survived after the surgery team managed to restart his heart without
outside help.

Rochdale MP Mr Danczuk, who has previously campaigned against the axing of
services at Rochdale, said the incident was 'worrying'.

He said: I have had discussions with the health minister and the acting chief
executive of NHS North West about these issues.

I specifically told them that communications were poor in that people didn't
know what changes were taking place, where and when changes were being
implemented and how they would impact on people.

I knew communications were bad but I didn't know they were so bad that the
medical staff who are carrying out operations in the hospital didn't even know
that the crash team had been withdrawn.

If it weren't so life-threateningly serious it would be almost farcical.

It is no way to run a hospital and I will be calling for a full investigation
into this incident.

A spokesman for the Pennine Acute Trust, which runs the hospital, said there
were 'advanced life savers' on site at Rochdale trained to act in place of the
crash team.

But the surgery team was apparently unaware that they were supposed to summon
them by phoning an internal number.

A memo has now been issued to staff reminding them of the changes.

Bosses said the full crash team was no longer necessary because the hospital no
longer had inpatients.

The Pennine spokesman said: Specific and separate resuscitation arrangements
were available to the catheter lab at Rochdale Infirmary, but we are now taking
the opportunity to look at these arrangements again over the next few days.

While we are doing this, a small number of non-urgent patients will have their
procedures postponed.   A MAN and woman were threatened by a gang of robbers
armed with kitchen knives at their home in John Roberts Close, Deeplish. The
gang of four entered the house through a back door at 10.45am on Monday June 27,
punching their victims and demanding cash. They stole a mobile phone and fled,
jumping over the back fence into Mulberry Close and then on to Elm Grove, where
a getaway driver was waiting in a blue Ford Focus. The car drove off towards
Tweedale Street. The first offender is described as a mixed race man, aged
between 17 and 22, 5ft 10in tall, of slim build, with short shaven black hair,
bushy eyebrows, a black hooded top and black Nike golf gloves. He spoke with a
Manchester accent. The second offender is described as a mixed race man, with
lighter skin than the first. He is aged between 18 and 25, 6ft 2in, of slim
build, he had a long thin face and sideburns. He was wearing a blue baseball cap
with a red peak and a black and navy blue slim fitting top. He spoke with a deep
Manchester accent. n THIEVES burning plastic coating off metal cables caused a
fire in Uncouth Road, Milnrow at 9.51pm last Tuesday (June 28)   n From page 1
now need to escalate this. Now is the time to say there has to be another way of
running our hospital and time for Pennine Acute Trust to be broken up. How many
lives are going to be put at risk before somebody says stop? Coun Lambert
believes another health trust could run services at the hospital. He added: It
is time for us to publicly call for the end of PAT. I do not believe they have
any contract with the people of Rochdale. We need to move as soon as possible to
a different way of running our hospital. I am hoping fellow leaders in
Manchester, Oldham and Bury will now follow suit and call for the same. The
hospitals trust was offered the chance to comment but declined. It comes in the
same week that the council wrote to Trust chief executive John Saxby outlining
the council's arguments concerning changes made to the infirmary as part of the
Healthy Futures and Making it Better programmes. In a letter to the trust, Linda
Fisher, legal and democratic service director for the council, stresses the new
urgent care centre which has replaced the A&E unit at the infirmary - is not
providing the level of service promised. It also accuses the trust of
accelerating the timetable for transition of some services by 12 months and says
the maternity closure is irrational because the new specialist baby unit in
Oldham is still incomplete. It goes on to state that the move of the cardiology
department was unlawful and that an earlier promise that the infirmary would
become a cardiac centre of excellence was not fulfilled.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INVESTIGATION CALL ... Simon Danczuk
by Simon Coyle

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             July 6, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Where only the brave dare tread;
Delicate work: Tomorrow is the sixth anniversary of the 7/7 terror attacks on
London. OLIVER STALLWOOD speaks to a bomb disposal expert who was tasked with
advising the government in the aftermath

BYLINE: OLIVER STALLWOOD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 786 words


Weary from a challenging patrol in Iraq, Maj Chris Hunter, a bomb disposal
expert, receives a disturbing message. Terrorists have identified him as 'the
golden-haired bomb man', and they are intent on killing him along with hundreds
of other innocent people.

A few days later, a report comes in about a suspicious car spotted outside a
Basra hospital caring for more than 1,000 patients. 'What I should have done is
gone in there and dealt with the bomb by hand,' recalls Maj Hunter, who was
called in as a government advisor following the 7/7 terror attacks on London in
2005. 'But I didn't - it felt like a booby trap. It stank of a come-on.
'Instead, I ran into the hospital and tried to evacuate everyone but no one
moved. 'So I pulled out my pistol and waved it around a bit and suddenly
everyone understood me and started moving to the back of the hospital.' Outside,
Maj Hunter manoeuvred a remote-controlled robot to the back of the suspect car
and asked a colleague to fire a shot at the boot to pop the lock. A 300lb bomb
exploded. The damage caused was immense but no one was hurt.

'I felt like a dead man walking that day,' he says. 'When I walked into the
canteen at brigade headquarters, I was covered in sweat and char from the
explosion. Most people had finished their lunch and I could tell they were
looking at me thinking: "What a nutter."' Maj Hunter, 37, joined the British
Army as a 16-year-old. He initially trained as a Russian linguist, working in
defence intelligence. After four years of service, he was selected to undergo
officer training at the Royal Military Academy in Sandhurst, Surrey.

Maj Hunter's father died when he was just 15 and, while he was at Sandhurst, his
brother committed suicide. It left him wanting to do something that would make a
difference and save lives but it wasn't until he was on a security patrol in
Northern Ireland that he decided to become an explosive ordnance disposal (EOD)
operator.

He recalls seeing two bombs explode at Army headquarters and watching as a
disposal team smashed car windows to find any other hidden explosives.

As a member of the 11 EOD Regiment, Royal Logistic Corps (RLC), he defused more
than 60 improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and thousands of conventional
munitions.

He was deployed on high-threat tours of Northern Ireland, Iraq and Afghanistan,
and undertook EOD protection duties for the royal family before finally retiring
as the MoD's senior IED intelligence analyst in January 2007.

Maj Hunter explains the traits of a bomb disposal expert: 'They are not complete
headcases taking foolhardy risks. They are normally extroverts and take
calculated risks. Most of them have a motorbike and a higher-than-normal IQ.

'The trouble with an improvised device is that you don't know what it is going
to be. You have to get into the mind of the bomb-maker and work out who and how
many they are trying to kill.

'You are trying to think two steps ahead of the bomb-maker; it's man versus man.
There are no scripted procedures because if the insurgent sees you doing one
particular thing he'll use that against you next time.' Maj Hunter says many of
the bombs in Iraq and Afghanistan are found on the side of the road by infantry
patrols. A call will then go back to send out an EOD operator. Often when Maj
Hunter (pictured) was on patrol he used his training, experience and a
wellversed mantra to calculate dangers.

'It is about looking at the pattern of life - the absence of the normal, or the
presence of the abnormal,' he says. 'What has changed since yesterday, what have
witnesses got to say, what are these rascals going to do to catch me out? The
worst thing you can do is lose your cool. 'My boss said to me: "Make sure you
have a plan B and a plan C and so on."

'If it goes wrong, don't throw your teddy in the corner; go on to the next plan.
In a city centre where thousands of people depend on you, you have to show the
right personality.' Through his work with the government after 7/7, Maj Hunter
says he has seen many changes in Britain's approach to terrorism. He says the
resources are now in place and solid intelligence and information-sharing
between agencies has given the country the edge to disrupt terrorists early on.

Unfortunately, he concedes, a threat can never truly be eradicated but attacks
can be stopped before they happen.

'There is a social and economic cause to terrorism and you can't ever get rid of
it,' he says. 'You can disrupt plots and make life difficult for them and,
hopefully, encourage people to do something different with their lives.' Maj
Chris Hunter is the subject of Bomb Hunters, a two-hour documentary on Military
History (Sky Channel 531 and Virgin 236) on Thursday, July 14 at 8pm.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTRscot


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 7, 2011 Thursday
                                  Eire Edition

FAMILY TARGETED IN PETROL ATTACK HELL;
MUM'S TERROR AT RAID GANG

BYLINE: CONOR SHEILS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 254 words


A MOTHER has told how masked men poured petrol over her and her husband after
they burst into the family home.

Tearful Sonia Mullen, 35, said she was terrified their three young children
would be injured during the brutal attack in Dundalk, Co Louth.

Her 36-year-old husband Gary, a garage boss and convicted fuel launderer, was
yesterday having surgery for injuries he received during the robbery on Tuesday.

Gardai are now investigating if the attack is connected to an illegal diesel
laundering operation in the border region. The gang burst into Mr Mullen's home
in the Ath Leathan estate, Dundalk, as he had breakfast with his family shortly
after 8am.

Once inside they tied up Mr Mullen and his wife.

A woman in her late 40s and two teenage girls, who were in the house at the
time, were also bound and gagged during the robbery.

The couple's children, aged one, two and four, were also there at the time of
the attack. Mr Mullen - who was handed a six-month suspended sentence last year
when he pleaded guilty to the 2008 diesel laundering offence - told gardai the
thugs poured petrol over him and Sonia and threatened to set them on fire during
the assault.

Mrs Mullen added: "It was absolutely horrific. It was terrifying for all of us,
especially my three children."

"It was an armed robbery, they gave him [Mr Mullen] a fractured knee and a
fractured nose. I'm so upset about all of this - I can barely speak. We were
terrified."

The gang made their getaway in a vehicle parked nearby. They escaped with just
EUR2,000 in cash.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROBBERy J The Mullens' home in Dundalk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

Ugandan police issue terror alert ahead of 11 July attack anniversary

LENGTH: 377 words


Text of report by Steven Candia and Jeff Lule headlined "Police issue fresh
terror alert" published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New
Vision website on 8 July

The police yesterday issued a terror alert, saying it had intelligence
indicating that terrorists were planning anniversary bombings in both Uganda and
Kenya to coincide with 11 July.

The police said they would conduct impromptu security checks in public places to
ensure that appropriate security measures have been put in place.

The anniversary bombings, police said, would either be carried out before, or
immediately after 11 July.

On 11 July 2010, 79 people were killed in twin bomb attacks as they watched the
World Cup finals between the Netherlands and Spain Al-Shabab militants in
Somalia claimed responsibility for the attack.

"We have credible information of their plans and that they are targeting hotels
and other public places," police spokesperson Judith Nabakooba said yesterday.

"We are, therefore, urging the public to be vigilant. The information we have
indicates that they want to have twin bombings in Kenya and Uganda," she said.

The police and other security agencies, Nabakooba said, had stepped up
surveillance, both covert and overt to avert any threat and urged the public not
to panic.

Kampala police chief Grace Turyagumanawe re-echoed the need for the public to
remain vigilant.

The terror alert in Uganda comes as security agencies in Kenya were placed on
high alert following reports that a top Al-Shabab commander might have sneaked
into Kenya for treatment after being wounded in a US attack. Bilal el Berjawi, a
close aide of slain Al-Shabab commander Fazul Abdullah, suffered head injuries
in a US air strike on Sunday. The British national of Lebanese ancestry is
suspected to have been sneaked into Kenya for treatment after the attack that
killed the mastermind of last year's terrorist bombings in Uganda, known by his
pseudonym, Badrudin.

Speaking in Addis Ababa on Monday, Kenyan president Mwai Kibaki led regional
leaders in asking the UN to enforce no-fly zones on key towns in Somalia
controlled by the Al-Shabab.

This was during the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development assembly.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 8 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

Mauritanian army confirms killing six "terrorists" in Bassiknou attack

LENGTH: 236 words


Text of report by Mauritanian news agency AMI

Nouakchott, 7 July, AMI: The national staff command announced in a statement it
issued today, Thursday [7 July], a copy of which was received by the Mauritanian
news agency [AMI], the killing of six criminal elements in an attempted attack
launched by criminal elements last Tuesday evening on the town of Bassiknou.

The statement said: "At 4.30 [local time, 1530 gmt] on the evening of Tuesday 5
Jul 2011, the town of Bassiknou was subjected to an attempted attack launched by
criminal elements. One of our military units in the town managed to intercept
this enemy, composed of 20 vehicles, and confronted them with force and courage
a matter which prompted the terrorists to escape in a great chaos and confusion
under the intensive effect of the unit's fire.

"The confrontation resulted in the killing of six terrorist elements, the body
of one of them was found in the battlefield, two of them were burnt to death in
one of the destroyed supply vehicles, while the burial of three of the attackers
was confirmed in Gatta El Garm, 18 km south of the Lerneb village. There are
also strong indications of the existence of a large number of injured among the
terrorists' ranks.

"With God's grace, no material or human losses were registered among the
elements of the unit which was engaged in this battle."

Source: AMI news agency, Nouakchott, in Arabic 1725 gmt 7 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                 July 10, 2011

Campaigning 9/11 widows choose to shun spotlight as tenth anniversary
approaches: The 'Jersey Girls' who battled for a credible inquiry into the
terror attacks have moved on with their lives - and embraced new causes to fight
for

BYLINE: Paul Harris New York

SECTION: OBSERVER WORLD NEWS PAGES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 982 words


Of the many faces and names to emerge after the terrorist attacks of 11
September 2001, few were more evocative to Americans than the "Jersey Girls".

They were four women from New Jersey whose husbands were killed in the tragedy
and went on to campaign for a national commission of inquiry into the attacks.
In eventually winning their battle to be heard in Washington, the four
transformed themselves into powerful representatives of the 9/11 victims. But
now, as America gears up for the emotional 10th anniversary of the attacks, the
Jersey girls seem to have embraced new lives out of the media spotlight. They
will be keeping their grief private.

"I am no longer defining my life as a widow. I feel like I am not going to let
myself be defined by what happened to me on 9/11. It's healthier for me. My
husband has gone and he's not coming back," Kristen Breitweiser, 40, told the
Observer in an interview. Breitweiser said that she would spend the coming
anniversary with her 12-year-old daughter. "We will take a nice walk on the
beach," she said.

Those sentiments were echoed by fellow Jersey girl Lorie Van Auken, 56, who will
spend the day watching her daughter appear in a New York show. "Life goes on,"
she said.

For a long time, the Jersey girls were among the most outspoken people on the
attacks. Each had lost a husband in the most awful circumstances. Van Auken's
spouse, Kenneth, was a bond trader at Cantor Fitzgerald and called his wife to
tell her he loved her after an aircraft hit.

Breitweiser's husband, Ronald, was a senior vice-president for Fiduciary Trust
International. Investigators found his wedding ring in the smouldering ruins of
the World Trade Centre but not much else. Patty Casazza's husband, John, also
worked at Cantor and was just 38 when he died. The final member of the quartet
was Mindy Kleinberg, whose spouse, Alan, was another Cantor worker.

The four banded together and, in the face of official intransigence, campaigned
with other victims' relatives to set up the 9/11 commission.

They later pressured it to conduct a credible investigation. The four women
ended up confronting people such as former secretary of state Henry Kissinger
(briefly the first commission chairman) and acting as a sort of watchdog on the
process as it probed the event that took the lives of their husbands. Tom Kean,
the New Jersey politician put in charge of the commission, once said: "I doubt
very much if we would be in existence without them."

Looking back, however, both Breitweiser and Van Auken believe their huge battle
to get the commission up and running left too much undone. After fighting so
hard to get it set up, they became some of its fiercest critics. Van Auken has
spoken of too many questions going unanswered, too many redactions in the final
2004 report and its reluctance to be too critical of senior government figures.
That has led some critics to say she flirts with conspiracy theories, but she
insists that she just wants the truth. "It is just unanswered questions," she
said.

Breitweiser also believes their work to campaign for more openness and better
security tactics in defending the US against future terrorism has failed. She
fully expects another terror attack on American soil in the future. "I am sure
we are going to get another terrorist attack. That will be horrible for the
people who will then experience what we did. We did what we did with the
commission so as to avoid people ever walking in our shoes again," she said.

Breitweiser said she had lost all faith in America's political system, believing
it to be dominated by deep-pocketed business interests who put profit over
citizens' safety. Twice in the last few years, she said, people had urged her to
stand for office. Twice she refused. "You need money to run and when you get the
money you are indebted to the people or corporation that gave you it," she said.
Instead, Breitweiser now devotes herself to blogging for the Huffington Post on
a wide range of issues.

She has developed a fascination with the Middle East and the Muslim world and
recently took her child on a trip to Morocco. A trip to Turkey is planned this
year and she wants to go to Egypt next year to witness the aftermath of the
country's recent revolution. "There is nothing more inspiring than seeing a
group of people rise up together against the powers that be when those powers
are in the wrong," she said. "It was also non-violent, and after losing my
husband in the way I did, by Middle Eastern terrorists, it was amazing to see
change happening without violence."

Van Auken, too, has now developed interests that perhaps one might not expect.
She, too, concentrates on her children, but also makes jewellery and has seized
on a new campaigning cause: the plight of bees. After taking a course at a local
university in New Jersey, Van Auken began keeping her own hives, harvesting
honey and then exploring the problems that are causing bees to die out across
the world. That has led her right back into campaigning, as many experts believe
the bee's problems could be linked to pollution and other human activities. A
leaked internal report from the Environmental Protection Agency recently cited
the risks of one chemical pesticide to bees and caused outrage.

Now Van Auken is trying to organise beekeepers to campaign for a ban on the
product. "I am back in another 'fight the government' thing," Van Auken laughed.
But as well as giving her a cause, the bees have also given her peace of mind.
"I enjoy the bees. You get to watch the colony and see what they're doing. It
makes me happy," she said.

The Jersey girls, it seems, may have moved on - but they haven't lost their
fighting spirit.

Captions:

Jersey Girls Kristen Breitweiser and Lorie Van Auken at the centre of post-9/11
media attention, left, and Van Auken with beekeeping garb, above. Photographs by
Steve Hockstein, Gerald Herbert/AP


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 11, 2011 Monday

Indonesia arrests 11 terror suspects planning attack on policemen, Muslim group

LENGTH: 248 words


Text of report by Indonesian newspaper Republika website on 8 July

Jakarta: Police arrested 11 suspected terrorists in Surabaya, East Java and
several other places in Jakarta and surrounding area this week. According to
police, the suspects had planned to attack police officers and [members of] the
Liberal Islam Network [JIL].

"They had planned to attack the police. JIL was also their target," said
Inspector General Anton Bahrul Alam, the head of the Republic of Indonesia
Police Public Relations Division, during a press conference at the police
headquarters in Jakarta on Friday, 8 July.

Alam added that the suspects were arrested for planning attacks on the police
force, in addition to possessing and trading firearms across borders. Alam
suspected that the firearms in their possession originated from the Philippines
and entered the country through Tawau, Nunukan, Palu, and Surabaya.

Police confiscated evidence in the form of three rifles, six guns, 14 magazines,
and 272 bullets of various calibres. The police said they are still
investigating the suspects' involvement in the assault against the then Defence
Minister Matori Abdul Jalil, in 2000. Alam said Abu Umar, the suspect, who had
given the order to attack the minister, had been arrested. "They belong to the
same group and this (involvement in the attack) is still being investigated. We
are still waiting for the investigators to come up with a wanted list," he said.

Source: Republika, Jakarta, in Indonesian 08 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 11, 2011 Monday

Uganda marks anniversary of terror attack

LENGTH: 570 words


Text of report by Herbert Ssempogo entitled "July 11 marked amid tight security"
published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New Vision website
on 11 July

The police and other security agencies have stepped up security in Kampala and
the countryside as Uganda today honours those killed in last year's twin
bombings.

The Uganda Police Force deputy spokesperson, Vincent Ssekate, told the press in
Kampala that they were on high alert to avoid a repeat of the tragedy.

"The extra security is a precaution against any possible terrorist attack and
retaliation for the killing of their fellow militias in Somalia by the AMISOM
troops. We cannot take any chances anymore.

They have been issuing continuous threats during this period. We suspect they
are targeting the commemorations. We are not ready to lose more lives," he
explained.

Exactly a year ago, the Somali-based Al-Shabab militants, who have close links
with the world's leading terror group, Al-Qa'idah, attacked Uganda, killing 76
people who were watching the final of the FIFA World Cup.

The bombs went off almost simultaneously at the Kyaddondo Rugby Grounds at
Lugogo and the Ethiopian Village in Kabalagala, Kampala. Al-Shabab claimed
responsibility for the bombings.

Today (Monday), a memorial service jointly organized by the inter-religious
council and the Kyaddondo Rugby club management, will be held at the Rugby
grounds from 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. [local time]. Participants will light
candles and lay wreaths on an epitaph.

The deputy commandant of the police anti-terrorism unit, John Ndugutse, a week
ago said almost all people behind the deaths had been apprehended. Seventeen
suspects, the majority being foreigners, are still on trial over the tragedy.
The suspects face three counts of terrorism, 76 counts of murder and 10 of
attempted murder. Although it is a year since the heinous attack, the chilling
effect of incident to Ugandans remains strong.

For the bereaved, it cannot be erased off their memories.

Even those who were lucky to survive the tragedy, their lives have never been
the same. Many like Brenda Nanyonjo still have fragments in their bodies.

"When I went for a scan, the doctors disclosed that bomb fragments had
penetrated my body close to my skull" she said recently.

An employee of the internal affairs ministry, Patrick Isoke, is among the
bereaved as his 29-year-old brother, George Ssanga, was a victim.

Nanyonjo and Isoke represent hundreds of people who were affected. Recently,
Somalia government forces killed Harun Fazul, presumed to be the Al-Qa'idah
leader in east Africa. Asked if Uganda had learnt any lessons, Kampala
Metropolitan Police chief, Grace Turyagumanawe said the level of alertness was
up.

In a related development, 17 affected families have not picked the 5m shillings
[1,934 dollars] the government set aside to assist them.

The internal affairs ministry has placed a public notice in the media requesting
the families to pick the money.

These include that of Philip Hern, an American who perished in the tragedy.

The injured persons who have not collected the money by 7 July were: Shamim
Namatovu, Godfrey Mujumbi, Irene Sangamba, Daniel Amanuel, Ashraf Abraham and
Emilly Kresteller.

Others are Thomas Kranmer, Kris Sledge, Joanne Heck, Ruta Desta, Kasahan Legese,
Sylvia Bwebale, Samuel Selubero, Indahiro Kanku and Paul Kafeero.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 11 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 11, 2011 Monday

Ugandan paper calls for surveillance over terror attacks

LENGTH: 403 words


Text of editorial entitled "July 11 bombings, one year later" published by
leading privately-owned Ugandan newspaper The Daily Monitor website on 11 July

It is a year today since the tragic bombing of revellers watching the football
World Cup final at Kyadondo Rugby Club and the Ethiopian Village Restaurant in
Kampala. The attacks by the Al-Shabab terrorists left the country in shock and
fright.

Looking back to that fateful 11 July, 2010 day, the sadness and loss of 76 lives
in that cowardly act taught us a key lesson: that terror attacks have become
inevitable in all parts of the world.

After the attack, questions were asked about how the terrorists entered the
country. We can argue about what security agencies should have done and what
they didn't do, but that should not be our focus now. What we must realize is
that we are living in an unsafe world where we can only put in place measures to
prevent attacks. This requires a collective effort.

As we remember 11 July, this newspaper has, over the last one month, revisited
the times that followed; that time when the country's collective sorrow brought
a sense of unity and belonging. That togetherness was what gave purpose to
bereaved families through our strong community support systems. It is the reason
this newspaper continues to follow those families and tell their stories so that
they can get help.

The anniversary of 11 July comes amidst more terror threats. As a country, we
cannot say that in the last one year, we have found a common ground on what we
are supposed to do to stay safe. That is why we must, at all times, have
vigilant countrywide security surveillance.

Today, we need to remember that just as security should be our collective
responsibility; this country can only be truly unified if the sense of
togetherness we showed after 11 July becomes part of our daily lives. But we
lost that unity along the way.

If we stopped fighting each other, it would be easier to fight our common enemy,
the terrorists; it would be even easier for the leaders to focus on helping the
victims of 11 July, many of whom still need help and, it would be easier to work
together to turn this country into a better, safer, place.

Like a social network page proclaimed after the attacks, we are proud of the
beautiful flag of the Pearl of Africa; we are proud to be Ugandans. No one can
bomb that!

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 11 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Mersey Edition

Raider jailed after pounds ¼m terror attack on family;
courts

BYLINE: Chloe Griffiths

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 765 words


A MASKED gang deliberately targeted the family of a wealthy businessman after
discovering he had jewellery insured up to pounds 500,000.

Up to eight men burst into the man's luxury home and subjected his family to a
"horrific" hour-long ordeal.

The businessman, his wife and their three children were attacked, tied up and
threatened with torture. They were kept prisoner at their home for up to an hour
while the gang punched and kicked them, threatened to slit their throats and
kill them. In the wake of their ordeal, Liverpool Crown Court heard how the man
had spent 40 years building up his business so he could afford an up-market home
and valuable jewellery for his wife, but now blamed himself that his good
fortune had sparked the raid.

He said: "I believe my success has led to the demise of my family. We were
targeted because we had a nice house."

During the attack, the company boss was stabbed seven times and had his ear
sliced in two with glass from a Raid victim father tells of his guilt over
family's ordeal frame which had previously displayed his daughter's degree
certificate. Speaking of his guilt in being unable to protect his family, the
man said: "I just hoped if they did kill me, my family would survive." The gang
only fled the home in the Calderstones Park area after the man eventually opened
three safes and handed over Rolex watches, a Rotary watch and jewellery worth up
to pounds 250,000, as well as pounds 7,000 in cash. But one of the gang was
snared after his blood was found in an upstairs bathroom. Neil Stockley, 39, was
yesterday jailed for 13 years for his role in the attack. Judge Mark Brown said:
"On any view, this was a well-planned and professionally-executed crime during
which very significant violence was used upon the family. "Since the incident
they have said their home is no longer a home, but a prison and the experience
must have been a living nightmare for them." Judge Brown said it was clear the
gang had "some inside knowledge" and had deliberately targeted the family
because during the raid. they revealed they knew the family had insured
jewellery at the property for up to pounds 500,000. Peter Davies, prosecuting,
told how the family were at their home, which is surrounded by 8ft walls and has
security cameras, at 9.30pm on March 8 when their "peace was savagely
disturbed". After covering the cameras, between six and eight masked men burst
in from three different directions. Two men began to attack the company boss,
while his wife was grabbed in the bar area of their home. Two further men came
into through the kitchen and grabbed their eldest daughter. Despite their
attempts to fight back, the family were punched and kicked to the floor, before
being tied up. Hearing their screams, the man's 16-year-old son, who was
upstairs, showed "tremendous courage" and bravely attempted to come to their
rescue, hitting one man in the face with a baseball bat. But as he tried to help
his mother he was set upon by several men. Once the gang had all the family
together they ordered them to lie face down before dragging the heavily bleeding
businessman upstairs, ordering him to open the safe. Unsatisfied with their
initial haul, two members of the gang - including Stockley - stabbed him seven
times in the shoulder and arm. The family eventually revealed the location of
their valuables after the gang threatened to kill the teenage boy. After
plundering the valuables the gang left the distressed family tied up together in
the living room, ordering them not to call the police. Their ordeal only came to
an end after one of the daughters managed to pull against the tape around her
neck and free herself. Judge Brown said it was clear from victim impact
statements that the family had suffered "very significant psychological harm".
He said: "They will all live with this dreadful experience for the rest of their
lives." They have been for counselling, carry security alarms with them and have
added extra security to their home until they can move. Stockley, of Greenall
Court, Prescot, pleaded guilty to robbery. Ian Harris, defending, said Stockley,
who has a previous conviction for robbery, apologised for his behaviour and now
recognised the harm he had caused. He added: "He will have a long time in
custody to think about matters. He is 39 and will spend some of his best years
in prison." Judge Brown said the teenage boy should be commended for his
"tremendous courage" in attempting to tackle the gang. CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 ldp
mobile FOR News, Sport and Business on your phone ¦ OPINION: Page 17

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 12, 2011 Tuesday

Terror attack in UK now less likely, say experts: Threat level reduced from
'severe' to 'substantial' Assessment by MI5 and police leads to alteration

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor Alan Travis

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 532 words


A judgment by MI5 and the police that a Mumbai-style attack in the UK is now
less likely led to a reduction yesterday of the terrorist threat from "severe"
to "substantial",

Whitehall sources told the Guardian.

Other factors that led to the decision include the arrest of terrorist suspects
in December in Cardiff, Stoke and London, a view that al-Qaida's leadership is
"struggling" after the death of Osama bin Laden, and the killing by Somali
government forces of Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, the al-Qaida leader who
masterminded attacks on US embassies in east Africa in 1998.

The decision was taken by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (Jtac), comprising
officials from MI6, MI5 and the police. It acts independently of ministers.

The threat level was increased to severe in January 2010 after the failed
attempt by the so-called "underpants" bomber, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, to
bring down a Detroit-bound passenger aircraft. Last year MI5 was pursuing leads
about a possible Mumbai-style attack in the UK. That threat has now dissipated,
officials believe.

The threat level from Northern Ireland-related terrorism remains at severe in
Northern Ireland and substantial in Great Britain.

The change in the official threat assessment - first made public in 2006 - means
that an attack in Britain is no longer classified as "highly likely" but is
instead regarded as "a strong possibility".

Theresa May, the home secretary, said: "The change in the threat level to
substantial does not mean the overall threat has gone away - there remains a
real and serious threat against the United Kingdom."

The threat assessment by Jtac is based on the latest intelligence, including
capability, intent and timescale.

The change came as Home Office lawyers appealed to the high court to uphold a
control order imposed on a terror suspect known as "CD" which bans him from
travelling to London.

The security services have identified CD as a father of two with joint
Nigerian-British nationality who is the leading figure in a "close group of
Islamic extremists based in north London".

They claim he trained alongside the 7 July bombers in 2004 and underwent further
training in Syria, where he began planning an attack in the UK. The high court
is being asked to quash the use of the control order's "relocation" powers,
which ban him from travelling to London.

The Home Office justified the continued use of these "internal exile"
restrictions on the grounds that he and his associates intend to carry out an
attack on targets "most likely in London". The relocation power has been dropped
from the government's replacement for control orders now before parliament.

CD denies the allegations. His lawyers say the security assessments are flawed
and there is insufficient evidence to justify the order. They say the distress
caused to him and his family is "disproportionate".

Corinna Ferguson, legal officer for Liberty, said that clear allegations that
someone had been training for terrorism and meeting with co-conspirators to plan
atrocities should lead to their being charged and tried. "Shuffling him between
addresses around the country provides neither certainty for his family nor
safety to the public," she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Brentwood Gazette

                                 July 13, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lessons in dealing with a terror attack on the town;
Council and shop staff told what to do in the aftermath of a bomb

BYLINE: Iain Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 602 words


THE DAY after the country marked the sixth anniversary of the 7/7 London
bombings, Special Branch officers visited Brentwood to help shopkeepers wise-up
to the threat of terrorist attacks in the town.

Although MI5 has received no intelligence to suggest Brentwood is a target for
Al Qaeda or any other extremist organisation, the officers described the town as
a possible "secondary target" - a place terrorists may turn on if they are
prevented from attacking their number one choice.

I was among the audience at the Nightingale Centre, in Warley, on Friday,
alongside Brentwood council staff, chairman of the council's business panel,
Cllr Mark Reed, and retail management to hear about Project Argus and take part
in the session.

We were all asked to assume the role of a shop manager for a simulated bomb
attack exercise. And the group session, laid on by the National Counter
Terrorism Security Office, was an eyeopener. Tactics Should there ever be an
incident in Brentwood it will take at least 40 minutes for the emergency
services to arrive as they use the bulk of that time to assess the information
received and decide their tactics, to avoid being caught up in trouble
themselves.

I was challenged to write down exactly what I would do if a blast occurred
outside my hypothetical premises. Did I have a mental block? Not really, I just
couldn't work out exactly how I should react.

I scrawled down 'ring the emergency services and give first aid to anyone in
trouble' but I couldn't even think of a third.

And that five-minute discussion immediately hammered home the point that
creating an Incident Management Plan (IMP), which is exactly what the presenters
were promoting, is not overkill, but an exercise which probably takes an hour to
put together and could save lives.

For the record, the recommen-ded actions are self-preservation, call the
emergency services, deal with any first aid as required and take charge of the
immediate area. Keeping a grab bag containing useful items, such as a torch,
bandages and a mobile phone, is also part of the IMP, an action that Marks &
Spencer in Brentwood is already on top of.

Useful Motivated by taking part in the mock catastrophe, Sue Winton, the manager
of The Baytree Centre, will be preparing an IMP for the centre, which she will
then promote to individual shops.

She said: "It is useful. It's just bringing everything together and informing
people and making them aware. I think we will get our own plan together first
and hopefully since this will be in the newspaper people will start to take
notice."

Greg Campbell, business improvement manager at Brentwood Borough Council, who is
working with other local authorities on creating a terror alert contingency
plan, which includes mass evacuation by bus, believes proper planning is
critical.

"It's important because we have to engage with local businesses which must
ensure sure that they have now got something in place," he said.

"If there was an explosion or something it's about getting businesses back on
their feet as soon as possible."

How to prepare for the worst ¦ Develop an Incident Management Plan ¦ Prepare a
grab bag which should be kept in store. It should contain;-First aid kit Radio
Notebook and pen Torch Batteries Phone card List of contact telephone numbers
Staff list Cash ¦ All staff should save an ICE (in case of emergency) number for
their next of kin in the mobile phone ¦ The Incident Management Plan should
include Carrying out evacuation or keeping people inside Dealing with casualties
Provision of water and comestibles Taking control of the situation Distributing
the grab bag

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FORMING A STRATEGY: Speakers outlined the importance of an Incident
Management Plan to deal with a terrorist attack
SERIOUS BUSINESS: Council staff and shop managers hear about Project Argus at
the Nightingale Centre in Warley

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BRG


                        Copyright 2011 Brentwood Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                      July 13, 2011 Wednesday 7:17 PM GMT

20 dead in Mumbai terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 296 words



HIGHLIGHT: At least 20 people have been killed and more than 113 people injured
in a 'co-ordinated' terrorist strike in Mumbai.


At least 20 people have been killed and more than 113 others injured in what the
Indian government have called a 'co-ordinated' terrorist strike in Mumbai.

Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said: 'I strongly condemn the bomb blasts
in Mumbai this evening. I appeal to the people of Mumbai to remain calm and show
a united face.'

Mumbai police confirmed three blasts, one in central Mumbai and two in the south
of the city, which is still scarred by the attacks of 2008 blamed on the
Pakistan-based militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba.

'This was a coordinated attack by terrorists,' Home Minister P Chidambaram told
reporters in New Delhi.

'The entire city of Mumbai has been put on high alert. I would appeal to the
people of Mumbai and people all over the country to remain calm,' Mr Chidambaram
said, adding that federal investigative teams were being rushed to the city.

The targets included a predominantly middle class residential area, a wholesale
gold market and a building housing diamond traders and jewellery shops, with the
explosions reported at rush-hour, at around 6.30pm local time.

In November 2008, ten Islamist militants attacked multiple targets in Mumbai,
including five-star hotels, in a deadly assault that killed 166 people.

India blamed the Islamist group Lashkar-e-Taiba for the assault and broke off a
peace dialogue with Islamabad. Talks between the two nuclear-armed rivals only
resumed earlier this year.

Eyewitnesses outside the diamond trader building in South Mumbai said a car bomb
had exploded at around 6.45pm when the area was packed with office people
returning home from work.

The last major bombing incident in India was in February last year in the
western city of Pune, when a blast at a packed restaurant killed nine people
including one foreigner.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2011 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday

Polish foreign minister condemns terrorist attacks in Mumbai

LENGTH: 209 words


Text of report in English by Polish national independent news agency PAP

Warsaw, 14 July: Poland's Foreign Ministry firmly condemns a Wednesday terrorist
attack in Mumbai which killed 17 people and injured 131, the ministry wrote in a
communique issued Thursday.

The Foreign Ministry believes that terrorism in all its forms is a dangerous
pathology, which should be fiercely fought by the 21st century world. Terrorist
acts which kill innocent people cannot be justified by any ideology or political
goals, Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski wrote.

I am sending my deepest condolences to families of victims of the attack in
Mumbai and to the entire Indian nation. During a visit paid recently to India I
could get convinced about the strength of the Indian democracy. I know that
India will not yield to the cowardly enemy as terrorists. My friends, Poland is
with you at this time of ordeal, Minister Sikorski declared.

Three bombs rocked crowded districts of Mumbai during rush hour on Wednesday,
killing 17 people in the biggest militant attack on India's financial capital
since 2008 assaults blamed on Pakistan-based militants. There was no immediate
claim of responsibility for the blasts.

Source: PAP news agency, Warsaw, in English 0959 gmt 14 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Co-ordinated bomb attacks bring terror back to streets of Mumbai

BYLINE: Amana F Khan; Rahul Bedi; Rob Crilly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 984 words


TERRORISM returned to the streets of Mumbai last night as three co-ordinated
bomb blasts at the height of rush hour killed at least 21 people and injured
more than 100.

The near-simultaneous explosions - targeted at districts filled with thousands
of shoppers and commuters - threw the city into chaos, as people feared a repeat
of the terrorist attacks of 2008 in which 166 died.

One explosion was reported in the Zaveri Bazaar, a renowned jewellery market in
the south of Mumbai, another in the Opera House business district and a third in
Dadar district further north.

Officials quickly con- firmed the bombings as the work of terrorists, with
immediate suspicion focused on Lashkar-e- Taiba, a Pakistani group that had
attacked India in the past, as well as the Indian Mujahideen, a home-grown
extremist organisation.

Anti-terrorist commandos and National Investigation Agency officials flew into
Mumbai, while cities across India, including New Delhi, the capital, and
Calcutta, were put on high alert as security forces prepared to deal with the
possibility of further attacks.

Last night, US President Barack Obama condemned the "outrageous" attacks and
William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, described them as "deplorable acts of
terrorism". Manmohan Singh, India's prime minister appealed for the people of
Mumbai to "remain calm and show a united face".

The bombings once again left the people of Mumbai, India's financial capital,
having to cope with the horrific aftermath of a major terrorist attack less than
three years after 10 militants laid siege to the city for 60 hours in November
2008.

That attack, which targeted two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre and a busy train
station, killed 166 people and escalated tensions between India and Pakistan.
Peace talks were suspended and resumed only recently.

Witnesses to last night's bombings, which happened at just before 7pm, described
chaotic scenes as the explosions sent people scurrying for cover.

The first blast hit Zaveri Bazaar at 6.54pm. Police said a bomb, hidden in an
umbrella, tore through its jewellery shops and street stalls.

"There was a lot of blood and I saw at least three people dead," said a gold
dealer, adding that the death toll could have been worse if monsoon rains had
not kept some people off the streets.

A minute later, a car bomb exploded in the Opera House business district. The
third bomb in 11 minutes of mayhem detonated in a taxi in Dadar, a central area
where shattered glass littered the pavement as commuters hurried to the nearby
railway station.

"We heard a big blast. The building shook, the windows shattered. It was
deafening," said Aagam Doshi, a diamond merchant who was at the scene of the
Opera House explosion.

"We came outside, and the area was filled with black smoke. There were bodies
lying all over the street, there was lots of blood. We saw many bodies missing
arms and missing legs."

Survivors carried the wounded to taxis or hauled them on to the back of lorries.
Sandals were abandoned among the muddy puddles and potholes overflowing with
steady monsoon rain; roadside food stalls were overturned in the gutter, and the
mangled remains of a car stood with its doors hanging off.

"More than 5,000 people pass through here every minute," said Jayesh Labdhi, of
the Mumbai Diamond Merchants' Association near the wreckage of a car.

"At about 6.50pm there was a huge blast. We didn't know what it was but after a
couple of minutes we saw so much smoke everywhere. There were so many people
lying on the ground just crying out and wanting help."

Another eyewitness at the Zaveri Bazaar described two motorcycles exploding in
flames and saw at least six bodies. "People were shouting 'Help me, help me,'"
the man said.

"It was a cowardly attack," said Ravinder Singh, 48, a shop owner. "These were
innocent people. Poor as well as rich."

Crowds gathered in the blast areas wondering whether the entire city was under
attack while bomb squads with sniffer dogs stooped and inspected passing
vehicles.

India's home minister, P Chidambaram, said the co-ordinated timing of the bombs
was evidence of a terrorist attack but appealed to a frightened country to
"remain calm and maintain peace".

No group immediately claimed responsibility for the attacks but Mumbai has been
targeted repeatedly by terrorists and criminal gangs. The attack in 2008 was
blamed on Lashkar-e-Taiba, the banned Pakistan-based Islamist group, as part of
its campaign to drive Indian forces from Kashmir.

The people of Mumbai have been on edge ever since. Last night, Pakistan's
Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a rapid statement using Twitter, condemning
the attacks less than an hour after they took place.

"The President and the Prime Minister have expressed their deepest sympathies to
the Indian leadership on the loss of lives, injuries and damage to property in
Mumbai," it said.

Any suspicion that Pakistan was involved will destabilise already tense
relations between India and its neighbour. New Delhi says Pakistan-based groups
aid and train militants to carry out attacks against India, often with the
support of the country's intelligence services, a claim Islamabad rejects.

Amir Rana, the director of the Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies, said it was
important not to jump to conclusions and let the investigation take its course.
"There has been positive momentum in terms of bilateral relations and my worry
is that an incident of this kind could cause that to deteriorate, whoever is
responsible," he said.

President Obama said: "I strongly condemn the outrageous attacks in Mumbai and
my thoughts and prayers are with the wounded and those who have lost loved
ones."

He added that "India is a close friend of the United States," and that "the
American people will stand with the Indian people in times of trial, and we will
offer support to India's efforts to bring the perpetrators of these terrible
crimes to justice".

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The blast caused extensive damage at the Zaveri Bazaar. Police moved to
seal off the Dadar district, below, as forensic officers moved in
AP, INDRANIL MUKHERJEE & SUJIT JAISWAL/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday

Rush hour bomb blasts kill 21 in Mumbai: Market a target in fourth major terror
attack on India's financial capital since 2003

BYLINE: Maseeh Rahman Delhi

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 739 words


Mumbai was struck by three powerful bomb blasts during the evening rush hour
yesterday that killed at least 21 people and injured dozens more, including
businessmen from the city's thriving diamond, gold and jewellery trade.

India's home minister, P Chidambaram, warned that the death toll could rise
further. It is the fourth major attack by suspected terrorists on India's
financial capital since 2003.

The chief minister of Maharashtra, Prithviraj Chavan, said 113 people had been
hospitalised after suffering injuries in the blasts, which he said were caused
by "powerful explosives . . . planted in a scooter and a motorcycle".

Asked by television news if the state government had received any warning of the
terror strike, he replied: "No comment."

Unlike earlier multiple bomb attacks on the city, no radical organisation has
yet claimed responsibility for the attack. However, suspicion fell once again on
the Indian Mujahideen (IM), an underground terrorist group sworn to avenge the
massacre of hundreds of Muslims in the neighbouring state of Gujarat.

A day earlier in Mumbai, the anti-terrorist squad had arrested two car thieves
allegedly belonging to the IM who had supplied stolen cars used for planting
bombs in 2008 in the Gujarat cities of Ahmedabad and Surat.

The fifth anniversary of the Mumbai train blasts that killed more than 180
commuters fell this week, on 11 July.

Officials were careful not to blame any organisation for the early evening
blasts, but the choice of neighbourhoods in south and central Mumbai suggested
that, as in the past, the attempt was to terrorise the city's businessmen,
particularly from among its Gujarati community.

The first explosion at 6.54pm was in the crowded, bustling Zaveri bazaar, a
British-era market packed with hundreds of gold and jewellery shops.

The second, a minuter later, was at the Opera House, which has become a major
hub for India's prosperous diamond exporters.

The third blast at 7.05pm hit the central Mumbai neighbourhood of Dadar, at the
Kabutar Khana (Pigeon House) junction, where businessmen on their way to the
railway station often stop to feed grain to the pigeons. Dadar is largely a
residential district, and is the stronghold of the opposition Shiv Sena, a
militant political party whose headquarters were targeted during the 1993 bomb
blasts following the demolition by radical Hindus of a Mughal-era mosque in
northern India.

Television interviews revealed the anger that Mumbai's citizens felt at the
latest attack, which comes less than three years after the deadly attacks on the
city by Pakistani Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) gunmen in November 2008.

Chavan appealed to the people of Mumbai to "remain calm". He said: "Please don't
believe in rumours."

He was probably referring to speculation, which has proved incorrect, that 13
July is the birthday of Ajmal Kasab, the lone surviving Pakistani terrorist from
the 2008 attack.

After the latest attack, slogans were chanted on the streets against Kasab, an
indication of the resentment people feel that the LeT gunman, who has been
sentenced to death by a court, is still alive in jail as higher courts have
still to hear his appeal against the verdict.

Anger was also directed against the failure of the authorities to anticipate and
prevent yesterday's serial blasts.

"Please wake up. It's high time you did something," said a Zaveri bazaar
businessman, Hemant Mehta. "There is a question mark about the credibility of
the home ministers of India and Maharashtra state."

Since the November 2008 attack, money has been poured into upgrading police and
intelligence capabilities in Mumbai. Even so, the most basic measures get
indefinitely postponed. A Mumbai police plan to set up a city-wide 5,000-camera
surveillance network has been gathering dust in the state home department since
January 2009. If such a police CCTV network had been in place yesterday,
identifying the perpetrators of the attack might have been made easier.

"We see a lack of political will to take this (protecting the city against
terror attacks) on on an emergency basis," the media professional Prahlad Kakkad
told the CNN-IBN news channel.

"Mumbai is a soft target, it will always remain a soft target. The only way to
combat this is through good intelligence, and that's not there."

Captions:

The scene near Opera House, a hub for diamond exporters, site of the second bomb
blast. Below, a victim is taken to hospital Main photograph: EPA

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday

Security Council strongly condemns terrorist bomb attacks in India

LENGTH: 197 words


July 13, 2011

The Security Council condemned in the strongest terms today's terrorist attacks
in various parts of the Indian city of Mumbai, describing the blasts as "heinous
acts" and reaffirming that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable,
regardless of their motivation.



The blasts killed more than 20 people and injured over 100 others, according to
media reports.

The Council expressed its deep sympathy and sincere condolences to the victims
of the explosions, their families and the people and Government of India.

"The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to combat
all forms of terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the
Charter of the United Nations," Ambassador Peter Wittig of Germany, which holds
the Council's rotating presidency this month, said in a statement read out to
the press.

The Council reaffirmed that "terrorism in all its forms and manifestations
constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security,
and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of
their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed," the statement
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2011 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday

Terrorist bomb attacks in India draw UN condemnation

LENGTH: 204 words


July 13, 2011

Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and the United Nations Security Council condemned
the terrorist attacks that struck various parts of the Indian city of Mumbai,
stressing that such violence is unjustifiable.



The blasts killed more than 20 people and injured over 100 others, according to
media reports.

Both Mr. Ban and the Council expressed their condolences to the victims of the
attacks, their families and the people and Government of India.

"No cause or grievance can justify indiscriminate violence against civilians," a
statement issued by Mr. Ban's spokesperson stated.

Members of the Council, which described the blasts as "heinous acts," reiterated
their determination to combat all forms of terrorism, in accordance with their
responsibilities under the UN Charter.

They reaffirmed that "terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes
one of the most serious threats to international peace and security, and that
any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their
motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed," Ambassador Peter
Wittig of Germany, which holds the Council's rotating presidency this month,
said in a statement read out to the press.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2011 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday

18 killed in new Mumbai terror attacks

BYLINE: Our Foreign Desk

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 261 words


The bombings took place in three separate neighbourhoods within minutes of each
other. They represent the worst terror attack in India since the siege of Mumbai
that killed 166 people nearly three years ago.

Officials said one bomb had been placed in a bus shelter, another had been
hidden under rubbish by the side of the road and a third had been hidden under
an umbrella. Today anger was spreading that an overhaul of the security forces
after the 2008 attacks had not enabled the government to prevent the bombings.
Officials admitted that the attacks came "without warning" and that they had no
leads as to who was behind them. "We live in the most troubled neighbourhood in
the world," said Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram today. "Every part of
India is vulnerable. "Whoever perpetrated this attack has worked in a very, very
clandestine manner," he added. "We are not pointing the finger at this stage. We
have to look at every possible hostile group." Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was
in Mumbai to meet victims of the attack and said the perpetrators "must be
brought to justice quickly." But Mumbai residents were unimpressed that the
authorities had been taken by surprise. Jeweller Uttam Jain said he was
"disgusted with politicians who promise security, but do nothing after the media
cameras are gone," while accountant Anita Ramaswami said: "After the 2008 blast
and all the media hype about safety, we all thought we were safe. "But still
things are the same and the people in Mumbai continue to feel vulnerable."
foreigneditor@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 15, 2011 Friday

"Armed terrorist group" attacks Syrians, vandalizes property in Qatana

LENGTH: 408 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Armed men kidnap two law enforcement members, a high school student in Hama"]

Provinces, 15 July - SANA correspondent in Hama said on Thursday [14 July] that
some armed men kidnapped two law enforcement members and a high school student
to an unknown place.

In Dayr-al-Zur Province, veiled armed groups tried to put up barriers on roads,
forced shop owners to close their shops in the city, terrified families,
threatened citizens and destroyed some stores whose owners refused to respond to
their demands.

An armed terrorist group mingled with a popular march in Qatana, Damascus
countryside, attacked citizens and vandalized private and public properties,
venting their grudges by killing and sabotaging, whereas another group stood in
the way of passers-by in a terrorist conduct. While a march was in progress in
support of the reform process and dialogue in which hundreds of citizens
participated, it was attacked by scores of saboteurs holding sticks, while some
of them opened fire randomly, changing the march into a field for terrorism.
Even those who came to visit their relatives in Qatana were not spared from the
attacks of the saboteurs, including Col Nawfal Ibrahim Maaruf.

In an interview with the Syrian TV, Col Maaruf recounted the details of the
attack, saying "I was on a visit to Qatana Military Housing Compound on
Wednesday. Upon my arrival to the area, I found that the road was blocked, and
at the crossroads there was a group of men and women clad in black shouting:
Allah Akbar. I tried to get past them until I reached a place blocked by 25
persons with sticks and knives in their hands, then I tried to turn backwards
with my car, but they hurled stones and it and smashed its glass. I went ahead
with my attempts to escape, until I reached a place which was also blocked by
rocks. I was trying to get past it when the car overturned. Then they attacked
me and stabbed me six times in the shoulder and back, and they also beat me with
sticks and stones."

In the same area, armed men attacked one of the law enforcement members whom
they beat severely, and stole his weapon and military card. The member said
"While I was on my duty, I was assailed by an armed group holding knives and
guns. They took away my pistol and ID card before citizens rescued me and
carried me to the hospital."

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 15 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                              July 15, 2011 Friday
                                Nuneaton Edition

FAMILY ESCAPES ARSON ATTACK TERROR;
Mum passes tots over garden fence as flames spread to house

BYLINE: Sam Dimmer

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 86 words


A MUM had to pass her two babies over a garden fence to neighbours after
mindless arsonists set fire to a car parked right outside her house.

The family was asleep at their home in Marner Road, Nuneaton, when the fire was
started in the early hours of yesterday morning.

Fortunately neighbours raised the alarm but, finding flames licking the front
door of the house, the petrified mum had to pass her tots - both aged under two
- to safety over the back fence. A police investigation is now underway.

FULL STORY: PAGE 2

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LUCKY ESCAPE: The house in Marner Road, Nuneaton, where a family fled
after arsonists set fire to a parked car Picture Mark Radford

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                              July 15, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Muslims condemn India terrorist attack that left 18 victims dead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 273 words


MUSLIMS in Leicestershire have condemned a terror attack that killed 18 people
in India on Wednesday evening.

Mumbai was rocked by three explosions, with the bombs targeting crowded business
districts and a market.

The Federation of Muslim Organisations in Leicestershire yesterday said it
"strongly condemned the rampant violence and carnage" that had taken place.

Spokesman Suleman Nagdi said: "Violence of any type is unacceptable. The world
should treat those individuals responsible as criminals who must be made to
answer for their activities."

The attacks, which also injured dozens of people, are the deadliest in India
since 2008, when gunmen killed 165 people in a three-day raid in Mumbai.

Mr Nagdi said: "I am disturbed that India has once again witnessed murderous
acts of violence, we must all stand together to condemn this and all acts of
violence."

The 2008 attacks were blamed on Muslim terrorists.

But Abdulkarim Gheewala, chairman of the Indian Muslims Association in
Leicester, said there was no evidence pointing towards Muslims having carried
out the latest attacks, and that assumptions could damage relations between
India and Pakistan. He said: "This only distracts the investigations and has
proved wrong in the case of many similar attacks in the recent past."

He added: "Indians have repeatedly displayed admirable maturity on such
tragedies in the past and have refused to fall prey to the plans of those who
want to spread communal divisions and push India into sectarian violence. We
hope and pray that they will again maintain usual sobriety and foil the plans of
the sadist cowards who enjoy death and destruction."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2011 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 16, 2011 Saturday

Money: Counter-attack as residents face demand for terrorism cover: Insurance An
MP is accusing a property management company of exploiting safety concerns to
raise costs.

BYLINE: Rupert Jones

SECTION: GUARDIAN MONEY PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1005 words


An MP this week hit out at a property management firm for demanding that
flat-dwellers pay for pricey "terrorism insurance".

Leaseholders in Walthamstow, east London, have been told they must pay around an
extra £68 a year, on top of their buildings insurance premium. When one
complained, he was told that "terrorist activity has in the past been present in
Walthamstow". Three people living in the area were convicted in 2009 and 2010
for their part in an airliner bomb plot.

It is not clear how many people in Walthamstow have received the demand, though
it could be as many as 2,500. Residents of other areas may have received similar
demands.

Local Labour MP, Stella Creasy, has accused the company, Freehold Managers PLC,
of "seeking to exploit concerns about terrorism to justify increasing the cost
of buildings insurance for local residents". She has called for "an immediate
apology" to the residents of her constituency.

Freehold Managers rejects her claims, saying Walthamstow "has not been singled
out as a terrorist hotspot". As a prudent landlord, it adds, it insists all its
properties are covered, in line with guidance from the Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors (Rics).

The ultimate beneficial owner of Freehold Managers is the Tchenguiz Family
Trust. Mayfair property tycoon Vincent Tchenguiz's sprawling empire was the
subject of a Money investigation in February into allegations of excessive
charges at several subsidiaries. In early March he was one of nine men targeted
in dawn raids by the Serious Fraud Office as part of its investigations into the
collapse of one of the Icelandic banks.

Those affected are leaseholders of "Warner" properties in Walthamstow, built in
the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Freehold Managers has confirmed it
manages about 2,500 properties in the district - mainly flats and maisonettes.

A longstanding Warner flat resident, who asked not to be named, told Money he
received a letter from an insurance broker, Oval, which stated that he needed to
pay £68 for a separate terrorism insurance policy. This would be in addition to
his buildings insurance, which cost around £240.

He contacted Freehold Managers to say there was nothing in the terms of the
lease to say he must have this cover.

The man received a reply from the company stating: "When these leases were
written, terrorism on mainland England was non-existent. In this day and age it
is prudent for the landlord to cover any insured peril relevant to their
portfolio. The LVT (Leasehold Valuation Tribunal) in the past has confirmed it
is reasonable to include terrorism . . . Please find attached a newspaper
article showing that terrorist activity has, in the past, been present in
Walthamstow."

The article, from the London Evening Standard in September 2009, reports on the
case of a man from Walthamstow, and two others, who were sentenced to life
imprisonment after being convicted of planning to lead a squad of suicide
bombers in smuggling liquid explosives aboard transatlantic airliners. In July
2010, two more men from the area were found guilty of conspiring to murder in
connection with the same plot.

The resident says: "Last year there was no terrorism insurance as a separate
policy, but this year they've introduced it. I don't know one example of any
terrorist blowing up their own property in the UK. I imagine every Warner
property is affected by this. I've talked to all my neighbours and they've had
the same policy included."

The resident contacted his MP, Creasy - herself a former Warner tenant - who
says she is "furious", adding: "Their representative suggested they believed
residents should pay a terrorist attack premium purely for residing in
Walthamstow, using an incident from several years ago which did not refer to any
activity in the locality to justify this slight."

While the resident says that, as far as he is aware, this is the first time he
has been billed for terrorism cover as a separate policy, other residents may
have been paying it for a few years. On a Facebook page, one says: "Well done
Stella for bringing this into the public domain. I, along with everybody else,
would love to have all our terrorism payments paid back. I believe we've been
paying for two to three years."

A spokesman for Freehold Managers told Money that the "ultimate beneficial
owner" of the company was the Tchenguiz Family Trust. This owns a large number
of residential freeholds. However, Freehold Managers manages freeholds that are
not owned by the trust, but by third parties. The freehold of the Warner
properties is owned by an unnamed unit trust.

He says that since 1993, terrorism cover has been specifically excluded from
most buildings insurance. That year, the government established Pool Reinsurance
to cover the risk. "As a significant manager in Walthamstow, and throughout the
country, Freehold Managers tries to ensure it adheres to best practice," he told
us, adding that Rics guidance stated that "serious consideration should be given
to taking out terrorism insurance".

He adds: "Any prudent party responsible for taking out adequate insurance . . .
would consider the Rics guidance . . . as, in the event of an incident, the
consequences of not taking out this insurance could be severe to the residents,
who would be required, under their leases, to pay for the reinstatement of the
property, but without the benefit of any insurance to cover the costs.

"There is also a requirement from insurers to insure whole portfolios and not
just selected, or perceived at-risk, properties. This is dictated by Pool
Reinsurance . . . I hope this clarifies why, as a prudent landlord, we insist
all our properties are covered."

The spokesman also highlighted an LVT ruling from 2005 which stated that "we do
not find it unreasonable in this day and age for a prudent landlord to include
terrorism cover, even though the property might be in a quite (sic) residential
area".

Captions:

Cause for concern: Labour MP Stella Creasy is demanding an 'immediate apology'
Picture: Graham Turner

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 July 16, 2011
                                 First Edition

Bin Laden planned 9/11 anniversary attack;
TERROR

BYLINE: Alistair Dawber

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 157 words


Osama bin Laden was planning a major attack on the United States to coincide
with the 10th anniversary this year of the 11 September atrocity.

The planning even went as far as considering candidates to carry out the attack,
a report in The Wall Street Journal claims. Details of the planned strike have
emerged after a detailed examination of the so-called "motherlode" of data
recovered from the al-Qa'ida leader's compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, where he
was killed by US Special Forces on 2 May. The paper, citing unnamed sources,
says there was no evidence that the "nascent plot" ever went beyond the planning
phase.

"Bin Laden and his operations chief, Atiyah Abd al-Rahman, swapped views about
the composition of the attack team," the report said.

The suggested attack is one of a number of claims made about evidence found in
the compound. It has also been claimed that Bin Laden was briefed on the details
of the attacks on London in 2005.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 17, 2011 Sunday

Israeli army general says "price-tag attacks" on Palestinians "terrorism"

LENGTH: 384 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 17 July

[Pool report: "Maj. Gen. Mizrahi: 'Price-Tag' Attacks Constitute Terror"]

OC Central Command Maj-Gen Avi Mizrahi on Saturday [16 July] condemned settler
violence against Palestinians, saying that actions that have come to be known as
"price tag" attacks constitute terrorism. "What's happening in the field is
terrorism," Mizrahi told Channel 2's Meet the Press. These are "terrorist
activities, and [they] need to be dealt with. "The harassment of Palestinians is
not a 'price-tag,' it's terror," he said.

The IDF fears that "terrorism against Palestinians is likely to ignite the
territories," he said. "The burning of mosques, the destruction of olive groves
or the injuring of people" can trigger renewed violence in the West Bank, he
said. The term "price-tag attacks" refers to when Palestinians or their property
are targeted after the security forces evacuate or demolish settlement
structures.

Mizrahi also criticized the criminal justice system for not punishing right-wing
activists arrested by the army. "Law enforcement in Judea and Samaria cannot be
solely laid on the IDF," he said. "When somebody infiltrates Joseph's Tomb [in
Nablus] at night and I unnecessarily endanger my soldiers in order to locate and
protect him, I expect the court to [remove him from the area] for a very long
time." When the courts releases such offenders, "I feel as if I'm working with
no chance" of succeeding, Mizrahi said.

The general, born in 1964, singled out the Yitzhar settlement, which has been
the site of numerous clashes between settlers on the one hand and soldiers and
police on the other, as well as with Palestinians. "It's my opinion that the
Yitzhar settlement must be closed," he said. He added, however, that "I act
according to the orders I receive."

Mizrahi also criticized right-wing protests targeting OC Judea and Samaria
Division Brig.-Gen. Nitzan Alon at his home, calling them very grave. "We are
public servants and we expect the legal system to protect us. We are working in
every possible channel to deal with these people, but I don't think that Nitzan
would want us to deploy a company [of soldiers] outside his home."

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 17 Jul 11 p 3

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 18, 2011 Monday

Israeli military attacks ''terror cell'' in southern Gaza

LENGTH: 295 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 18 July

[Unattributed report: "Shin Bet, IDF Thwart Terrorist Attack in Gaza Strip"]

The IDF [Israel Defence Forces] and Shin Bet on Monday [18 July] attacked a
terrorist cell in the southern Gaza Strip. The cell was planning to carry out a
shooting attack against IDF troops, the IDF spokesperson stated.

"The IDF will not tolerate any attempt to harm IDF soldiers and will continue to
act firmly and strongly against anyone who uses terrorism against Israel. The
Hamas terrorist organization is responsible for the Gaza Strip," said the
statement. The joint operation was carried out by the Air Force's
counter-terrorism squadron. The Shin Bet alerted the IDF of the terrorist plot
on Sunday, and the Shin Bet and IAF coordinated a mission late at night to stop
the cell from carrying out its planned attack against Israeli soldiers.

According to Hamas's military wing, the Izz-al-Din al-Qassam Brigades, two
terrorists were wounded in the attack, Hamas's official newspaper Al-Risalah
reported. The incident came after a recent escalation in rocket fire from the
Gaza Strip into southern Israel .

On Friday, IDF Chief of General Staff Lt-Gen Benny Gantz convened top brass to
discuss the escalation in the south, including OC Southern Command Maj-Gen Tal
Russo, IAF Commander Maj-Gen Ido Nehushtan and OC Military Intelligence Maj-Gen
Aviv Kokhavi.

Following the meeting, senior officers condemned Hamas for not taking action to
rein in other terrorist organizations in Gaza that the IDF believes are behind
the recent rocket fire. Since the beginning of last month, some two dozen
rockets have been fired into Israel.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 18 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 18, 2011 Monday

Russian security service foils large terrorist attack in Moscow Region

LENGTH: 208 words


Text of report by state-controlled Russian Channel One TV on 18 July

[Presenter] The Federal Security Service [FSB] has prevented a big terrorist
attack in Moscow Region and detained a group of four people from the North
Caucasus. A bomb equivalent to nearly 10 kg of TNT and weapons have been seized
from them, the FSB director Aleksandr Bortnikov reported to the head of state.

[Bortnikov] We have carried out work and prevented one of the biggest terrorist
attacks at its preparation stage in Moscow Region. We detained the group of four
people from the North Caucasus, which had personally been preparing the
terrorist attack on public places and transport infrastructure. An improvised,
ready-to-use explosive device with the total power of 10 kg of TNT was seized.
Weapons and the sketch map of the target place for this terrorist attack were
seized. A number of accomplices in the preparation of this action was
identified. The activities concerning the incident are being carried out within
the framework of a criminal case. Necessary physical evidence, confessional
statements by this group of people were obtained. I will certainly update on the
course of the investigation.

Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 1100 gmt 18 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 18, 2011 Monday

Russia: Suspected organizers of foiled terror attack in Moscow Region named

LENGTH: 319 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 18 July: Alleged organizers of a major terrorist attack in Moscow
Region, the prevention of which was announced by the FSB [Federal Security
Service] director Aleksandr Bortnikov on Monday [18 July], have been arrested.

Moscow's Lefortovskiy Court told Interfax that four natives of several North
Caucasian republics had been arrested on 7 and 8 July.

"All of them are suspected of committing crimes under Article 222(3) (illegal
possession of arms), Article 223(3) (illegal manufacture of weapons) and Article
30(1), Article 205(2) (attempted terrorism) of the Russian Federation Criminal
Code," the source said.

According to the representative of the Lefortovskiy Court, the arrestees include
a native of Groznyy, a native of Chegemskiy District of the Republic of
Kabarda-Balkaria, a native of the Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Soviet Socialist
Republic and a native of the Mordovian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic.

"The arrest of the defendants is sanctioned until 6 September," the source
added.

[At 1449 gmt Interfax quoted the Lefortovskiy Court as saying that the arrested
men included "M. Yedilbiyev, I. Khamzhuyev, M. Umayev and F. Nevlyutov". It also
noted that the materials of the case did not mention the defendants' names.

In the same report, Interfax quoted a source in the law-enforcement agencies as
saying that one of the arrested men, Farid Nevlyutov, could be a member of the
group led by militant leader Said Buryatskiy (Aleksandr Tikhomirov), who was
killed in 2010. "Buryatskiy's group included several natives of Mordovia. F.
Nevlyutov could be one of them. The Mordovian special services had leads about
his possible involvement in terrorist activities for quite a long time, but it
was not possible to find him in the republic," the source added.]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1354 and 1449 gmt 18 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday

Afghan interior minister says terror attacks organized in Pakistan

LENGTH: 430 words


Text of report by privately-owned Noor TV on 19 July

[Presenter] Interior Minister Besmellah Mohammadi says Jaan Mohammad Khan, the
presidential advisor who was killed in his house on Sunday evening [17 July],
did not have any bodyguards in his house when the terrorists attacked him. While
speaking at a general parliamentary session today, the interior minister said
that the terror attack against Jaan Mohammad Khan had been organized in
Pakistan.

Mohammad Mansurian reports:

[Correspondent] The lower house of parliament has expressed concern over the
killing of Jaan Mohammad Khan and MP Mohammad Hashem Watanwal and summoned the
interior minister and Dr Zia, deputy NDS [National Directorate of Security]
chief on cooperative affairs, to parliament today to give information about the
attack.

[Abdorrauf Ebrahimi, captioned as parliament Speaker] This is another tragic
incident which has accrued in the capital of Afghanistan and seriously concerned
both the people of Afghanistan and the Afghan parliament.

[Correspondent] Interior minister said that terrorists attacked Jaan Mohammadi
Khan's house because he did not have bodyguards on that time.

[Besmellah Mohammadi, captioned as the interior minister] Unfortunately, there
was no bodyguard in Jaan Mohammad Khan's house when terrorists attacked him and
they managed to directly open fire on Jaan Mohammad Khan and Mohammad Hashem
Watanwal as they entered his house. In fact, two terrorists had attacked Jaan
Mohammad Khan's house and one of them opened fire on Jaan Mohammad Khan and the
other targeted Hashem Watanwal and killed both killed on the spot.

[Correspondent] Interior minister also said they have some proofs and documents
which show that the terrorists directly contacted some individuals in Pakistan
as soon as they killed Jaan Mohammad Khan and MP Hashem Watanwal.

[Besmellah Mohammadi] After terrorists killed Jaan Mohammad Khan and MP
Watanwal, they received phone calls both from Pakistan and Afghanistan and also,
the NDS officials told me earlier in the day that the had have heard voices of
terrorists over the phone who contacted some individuals in Pakistan and they
were congratulating each other.

[Correspondent] It is worth pointing out that Jaan Mohammad Khan, a presidential
advisor and a close friend of President Karzai and MP Mohammad Hashem Watanwal
were killed by two armed terrorists in Kart-e Chahar locality of Kabul city last
Sunday evening.

[Video shows the interior minister speaking in parliament; archive footage of a
parliamentary session].

Source: Noor TV, Kabul, in Dari 1300 gmt 19 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday

Premier views possible visit to Gaza, terror attack in Turkey, Cyprus problem

LENGTH: 326 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

["TURKEY-MIDEAST: Turkish prime minister unveils plans to visit Gaza after
Egypt" - AA headline]

ANKARA (A.A) -July 19, 2011 -The Turkish prime minister said on Tuesday [19
July] that he was considering to pay a visit to the Palestinian city of Gaza
following his talks in Egypt.

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan left for Turkish Republic of
Northern Cyprus (TRNC) Tuesday to attend the Peace & Freedom Day celebrations in
this country.

Speaking to reporters at Ankara's Esenboga Airport prior to his departure,
Erdogan said the date of his upcoming visit to Egypt was not clear yet, but he
was planning to visit Gaza after Egypt.

"I hope to proceed to Gaza after my trip to Egypt. However, dates are not clear
yet. If necessary conditions are provided, I am actually considering to pay a
visit to Gaza," he said.

Upon a question on his remarks about a method change in fight against terrorism
after the latest terrorist attack in southeastern Diyarbakir province, Erdogan
said Turkey's National Unity & Brotherhood Project aimed at reaching all ethnic
elements in the country, not Kurdish-origin people only.

Describing terrorists as "ill-intentioned" individuals, Erdogan said, "Those who
have bad intentions should not expect good intentions from us in return. Against
such moves, our relevant authorities will take all the necessary steps in terms
of strategy and tactics and in a very different way".

Noting that such steps would be more delicate from now on, the premier noted
that fight against terrorism was a long-term struggle.

Replying a question on whether Turkey would put into action a B Plan on Cyprus
issue, Erdogan said, "The current plan is functioning. It is not the time to
talk about a B Plan. If such a thing is needed, it can be implemented when the
time comes, but it will not be spoken about".

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1507 gmt 19 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Moscow terror attack thwarted

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 55 words


russia's top security official has claimed security authorities have averted a
"large terrorist attack" in the Moscow area by militants armed with homemade
bombs. "Several days ago a large terrorist attack was averted at the preparation
stage in the Moscow area," director of the Federal Security Service Alexander
Bortnikov said.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday

Afghan analysts accuse security officials of involvement in terror attacks

LENGTH: 359 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 19 July

[Presenter] A number of analysts have said some security officials in the
country are involved in the increase in incidents, accusing security officials
of not being professional. They warned that if the situation continued like this
the country would face serious security crisis, saying that security bodies were
unable and failed to prevent misuse of military uniforms.

[Correspondent] A number of analysts said security bodies, especially the
Ministry of Interior, did not observe any norms when they gave license to
individuals for carrying weapons and that had led to the situation that Kabul
was changed into a military city. The analysts also said the use of military
uniforms was a surprise, saying that it provided a good opportunity for
terrorists to misuse military uniforms.

[Atiqollah Amarkhel, military analyst, captioned] Today in our country, some
individuals carry the best weapons that the army and police even do not have. No
one asked where they had taken the weapons from. When they refer to the Ministry
of Interior, the ministry says go and buy weapon and the ministry will give you
license. What law says this? However, it does not say where he will buy the
weapon from? Who will sell it to him?

[Abdol Wahed Taqat, military analyst, captioned, in Pashto] They climbed onto
the roof of the Intercontinental Hotel, carrying heavy weapons. Ordinary people
cannot do this. However, senior officials who are in the system can do this.

[Correspondent] Following terrorists, who used military uniforms, killed a
number of security and senior officials, the analysts warned that if security
bodies did not take concrete steps to recognize irresponsible armed individuals,
terrorists would kill hundreds of senior officials using the opportunity. We
wanted to have the ministries of interior and national defence to comment on
this, but we could not succeed despite repeated contacts.

[Video shows a number of analysts speaking to camera, archive video shows a
number of armed opponents, a number of police force along with their vehicles.]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 19 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Blackburn delay trip after terror attacks

BYLINE: Rory Smith

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 347 words


Steve Kean, the Blackburn Rovers manager, says that Venky's, the Indian poultry
giant which owns Blackburn Rovers, is "disappointed" that the preseason tour of
India has been postponed in the wake of the Mumbai terror attacks.

Blackburn were due to visit Pune, where Venky's is based, for a friendly this
Friday as part of a long-standing plan to make the Ewood Park side not just the
first Indian-owned Premier League club, but also the first to play on the
subcontinent.

However, the club decided to delay the trip until later in the year after last
week's attacks in Mumbai, in which 20 people died. "The trip is postponed to
another date because of the activity out there," Kean said. "The board had a
meeting with the owners and decided we had to go through a number of different
checks and that trip will now take place at the beginning of October."

Kean said the postponement was not the result of opposition from the squad. "The
players are looking for guidance and as long as everything was explained to them
they were fine as a group," he said. "I think the owners would have been more
disappointed if it was totally finished but the fact it has been put back a
couple of weeks softens the disappointment."

A statement from Blackburn and the club's owners said the attacks in Mumbai had
left them with "no option".

"Safety is always our top priority and after detailed discussions with our
security and legal advisers we have been left with no option other than to
postpone," the statement said. "While everyone is obviously disappointed, we all
accept the circumstances and the reasoning."

Kean also confirmed yesterday that the club were discussing two potential
transfers, though a deal to sign former River Plate striker Mariano Pavone seems
close to collapse.

"He has been impressed by the manager and the welcome he has received from the
club and he would really like to sign for Blackburn," said Pavone's agent, Barry
McIntosh. "As far as we were concerned the deal was ready to be completed. Now
that all may have changed and we are just waiting to hear what has happened."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday

Pakistan article says drone attacks "displace", not defeat, terrorism

LENGTH: 945 words


Text of article by Rafia Zakaria headlined "Defeat of the drones" published by
Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 20 July

'Gaming in Waziristan' is an art exhibition taking place in London's
Beaconsfield Gallery from 19 July to 5 August.

Using the archives of the UK-based charity Reprieve, documents from 2007-2011
and the work of three artists, the exhibition is an attempt to give visual
reality to a war that is largely invisible.

Photographs from North Waziristan, often taken in the moments after a drone
strike, are a pictorial attempt at dislodging the reputation of the drone as a
tool of sterile, precise and perfect extermination.

The attempt is commendable, particularly in a world where the unseen is
summarily relegated to the unreal and consequently goes un-mourned.

Particularly apt is the western venue, a milieu where many have settled on drone
warfare as the solution to the rising cost of producing a human soldier, the
terrorist jargon and target-sterilizing the messy business of killing.

But the defeat of drones as the antidote to fears of a terror-filled world is
not being effected by art alone (although such a route would indeed be ideal).
The recipe for taking out militants in Pakistan has been quite simple: drones -
marvellous inventions that can kill but not be killed, that can fly for hours,
whose anonymous operators can strike from the silent comfort of an anonymous
control room.

The landscape they mapped was stark, the mobility of a single human visible
against the relative immovability of mud-coloured infinity. Men and militants
could be tracked and hunted, and a single moment of foolhardy repose could mean
the elimination of an important leader like Baitullah Mehsud.

But warfare, even this new robotic version of it, is always messy and some
others, nameless and faceless from their lack of lethality, were killed -- their
mourners limited by the sealed-off terrain to those unfortunate enough to be
left behind. These supposed militant leaders or those mistaken for them, or
living near them, soon numbered hundreds of thousands, forming caravans of
hopelessness on the move.

While US officials touted the wonders of drones, those who knew them best turned
south to cities away from the constant deathly buzz -- away from the prospect of
appearing lethal to some distant, unknown persecutor, away from the only
landscape they knew how to survive in. The defeat of the drone, an instrument of
warfare that played on dated definitions of borders and perpetrators, has
resulted from the demographic changes spawned by its own famed efficiency. What
the drowned-out wails of powerless victims could not accomplish, the shifts in
population have done instead.

As droves of refugees empty out of the drone-ravaged tribal areas, and filter
into crowded urban areas, the calculations of the best place to set up your
militant shop or jihadi outlet also change. As any mischievous five-year-old
will inform you, the worst place to hide is the most obvious one, where everyone
looks first.

The limits of the drone then have been spelt out by a change in strategy, a move
to new hiding places where teeming millions provide the camouflage that terrain
and tribal intrigue once did.

Newly minted AfPak strategists, long-time lovers of drones, are trained to sniff
out the singular sin of global jihad in the mutations of Al-Qa'idah and the
Taleban. When 'ethnic' warfare appears in the think-tank teacup, eyes begin to
glaze over, and attention flags. Those were the old wars, petty post-colonial
squabbles over slums and survival, or the right to live in a little less squalor
-- all missing the neat labelling crying out 'Islamist global jihad lies here'.

But in war calculations that do persevere, the boredom of one side is always an
opportunity for the other. As the violence in Karachi, whose many million
fragile egos are also armed and unforgiving, amply testifies, a little local
knowledge can go a long way, ignite long-festering faultlines and destabilise
not a remote tribal area but a city.

In its calculations, the architects and the executors may never be known and are
largely irrelevant; the end result is lawlessness, chaos, a terrified population
and the ability to do whatever, wherever and whenever. Through this trajectory,
the mutation of the 'war on terror', its urbanisation, causes foes to
proliferate, making recognition nearly impossible and life for those seeking
secrecy near perfect.

As is the case with other abandoned instruments of mass killing, the decreasing
strategic value of drones is unlikely to be accompanied with notes of apology or
admissions of inertia. In the afterglow of their imagined perfection, drones are
likely to continue to ply the skies over abandoned hideouts and once-familiar
hangouts yielding ever fewer heads to stake on the posts of victory.

As the US wraps up its operations in Afghanistan, and constructs a victory over
terror on Usamah Bin-Ladin's 'missing' corpse, it withdraws into the amnesic
reclusion that lies between episodes of imperial expansion.

Perhaps in the soul-searching born of sombre parting moments, American lawmakers
orchestrating the final exit will pause at the idea that drones do not defeat
terror and possibly only displace it, enabling a murky metamorphosis that will
continue to terrify.

Drones, even if they disappeared tomorrow, have left Pakistan forever changed,
demographically altered, its nascent democratic institutions flailing. It is
these urban, dread-darkened streets that those left behind must continue to ply,
after the drones, defeated or merely redundant, are finally gone.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 20 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

British shipping executive killed by terrorists in Yemen bomb attack

BYLINE: Richard Spencer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 254 words


A BRITISH shipping consultant has been killed by a car bomb in Yemen in what
appears to be the first terrorist attack directed at Westerners in unrest
sweeping the country this year.

The consultant, who was in his sixties, is believed to have been a long-term
resident of the southern port city of Aden. The Foreign Office declined to name
the man last night after his family requested privacy.

His car had apparently been booby-trapped. "He started the car and it
immediately exploded and he was engulfed in flames," a witness said. No one
admitted responsibility for the attack. Aden has been considered relatively safe
for foreigners but has been the scene of large protests in recent months.

The neighbouring two provinces have largely been taken over by militant Islamic
groups thought to be allied to al-Qaeda. The next city along the coast,
Zinjibar, the capital of Abyan province, has been a no-go zone for foreigners
for months and was taken over by a militant group in May.

Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, which is based in the east of the country,
has also called for attacks on Westerners. It is believed to be behind
unsuccessful attacks on cars carrying the British ambassador to Yemen and his
deputy ambassador last year. The dead man was said to have been an independent
shipping surveyor who had recently returned from inspecting a vessel attacked by
pirates in the Gulf of Aden.

He worked for the Arab Company for Inspection and Marine Consulting. There was
no reply from the company's offices in Aden last night.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Plymouth Herald

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CITY MAN KILLED IN TERROR BOMB BLAST;
Marine surveyor dies as car destroyed in Yemen attack ; Man dies ; in terror ;
attack

BYLINE: TRISTAN NICHOLS ; ALISTAIR GRANT

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 387 words


A PLYMOUTH marine surveyor has been killed in a suspected terrorist attack in
Yemen.

David Mockett, from Plympton, was killed yesterday when his car blew up in
Yemen's port city of Aden.

Mr Mockett - believed to be aged in his 60s - died shortly after he drove away
from his hotel, police officials said.

His wife, Cynthia, said the couple had daughters and would give more details
about the family today.

Mrs Mockett said her husband's death was a shock - but not entirely unexpected,
given security problems in Yemen.

A spokesman for the Foreign Office (FCO) said: "We can confirm the death of a
British national in Aden, Yemen, on July 20 in a car bomb.

"We are providing consular assistance to next of kin. The family have requested
media respect their privacy at this extremely difficult time."

The spokesman added: "Our Embassy in Sanaa has asked the Yemeni authorities to
investigate the incident."

Police in Yemen could not comment on any possible motive for the apparent
attack.

However Yemeni officials have blamed a rise in violence in Aden on al
Qaida-linked militants.

A YouTube video showing the aftermath of the car explosion showed a badlyburned
body being removed from the car. Abdul Moti Hasson, a freelance ship inspector
based in Aden, said: "David ¦ worked here as a marine surveyor. His wife came
here with him at times." Mr Mockett listed his job on his LinkedIn web page as
principal surveyor at Arabian Marine Surveyors Ltd. He had recently returned to
Yemen from Dubai, as part of a long career abroad. He returned home to Plymouth
briefly in 2004, but was normally based overseas. He had begun his career at sea
in 1964, qualifying as a master mariner working on boats operated by Sir William
Reardon Smith and Sons. He moved to Saudi Arabia in 1976, working for Gray
Mackenze Overseas in Jeddah and Riyadh. In 1985, he joined Al Tawil Shipping &
Maritime Services in Jeddah, as general manager, before returning to London
between 1995 and 1998, where he was a representative for the Saudi Arabian
Shipping Agency and Arabian Establishment for Trade and Shipping. Mr Mockett
previously worked in Yemen. from 1998 to 2004, for Marine & Offshore Consultants
(Yemen) Ltd. He then went home to Plymouth and on to Dubai, where he worked for
Miller International on marine surveying, before moving back to Yemen.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATROCITY: People gather around the wreckage of the vehicle. It is
believed a bomb was placed under the driver's seat

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PLH


                       Copyright 2011 The Plymouth Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      July 21, 2011 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

Al-Qaeda terror mastermind escapes botched attack by US planes

BYLINE: Giles Whittell, Washington

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 650 words


Racing across the desert in a pick-up truck, Anwar al-Awlaki probably had no
idea how close he was to achieving martyrdom.

It was three days after the killing of Osama bin Laden. Mr al-Awlaki was among
America's most sought-after al-Qaeda operatives left alive and President Obama
wanted him dead. A small airborne armada had been dispatched to take him out.

Flying high above the arid wilderness of Shabwa province in Yemen were a
specially-adapted C-130 transport, Harrier jump jets used by the US Marines and
at least two Predator drones.

Tipped off to Mr al-Awlaki's whereabouts by Yemeni intelligence, the Obama
Administration was within minutes of a second extraordinary coup against
al-Qaeda, already reeling from the loss of its spiritual leader. But there was a
great deal that could go wrong, and a great deal did.

According to a new account of the botched atack on May 5, the massive firepower
deployed against Mr alAwlaki failed to kill him because of a "series of errors"
in the weapons system. The first aircraft to fire on the pick-up was the C-130,
equipped with air-to-ground missiles and a laser targeting pod beneath its wing.
Somehow, the targeting device failed to keep the fast-moving vehicle in its
sights and the first missile missed, sources told reporters. Alerted to the
attack, Mr al-Awlaki called in extra vehicles in an attempt to confuse their
pursuers.

Two more rockets were fired at the pick-up, exploding in a fireball that US
experts guiding the drones assumed was a direct hit. Seconds later they were
stunned to see the target vehicle emerge from the impact zone with only minimal
damage to its rear bumper.

Running low on fuel, the Harriers turned back while the special operations
aircraft and the Predators kept up the pursuit. A fourth missile was fired,
destroying the pick-up and killing its occupants. "We were hoping it was him," a
US official said soon afterwards. It wasn't. In the confusion, Mr al-Awlaki had
swapped vehicles and escaped.

A TV reconstruction of the attack broadcast this week will have looked strangely
familiar to anybody who saw the 2008 film Body of Lies, starring Leonardo
DiCaprio. In the movie, the CIA loses a high-value target in the desert when he
swaps SUVs in a dust cloud created by driving round in circles beneath the
remotely controlled cameras of an American drone.

It was not clear yesterday whether life imitated art or a well-laid plan simply
fell apart. What is clear is that Mr al-Awlaki remains at large, linked to three
high-profile attacks on US targets in the past two years.

Mr al-Awlaki, 40, has spent 21 years of his life in America and holds US
citizenship. President Obama is understood to have given orders that he should
be killed because of his alleged ties to Major Nidal Malik Hasan, accused of
shooting dead 13 US soldiers and civilians at Fort Hood in Texas in 2009; Umar
Farouk Abdulmutallab, the alleged Northwest Airlines underwear bomber, and
Faisal Shahzad, who confessed to leaving a car bomb in Times Square, New York,
last year.

All three terror suspects face trial in the US. It remains unclear how closely
involved, if at all, Mr al-Awlaki was in planning their missions, but he is
known to have corresponded with all of them and US officials consider him to be
al-Qaeda's most effective recruiter in the English-speaking world.

The son of a Yemeni Fulbright scholar, he went to university in the US but moved
to Yemen in 2004. Last year a senior State Department official described him as
"extraordinarily dangerous, committed to carrying out deadly attacks on
Americans and others worldwide".

Some analysts believe Washington exaggerates Mr al-Awlaki's influence within
al-Qaeda, but US officials said on Tuesday that they expect him to announce a
formal merger of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) and the terror group's
Pakistani-based wing, under Ayman al-Zawahiri, within the next few weeks.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2011 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror mastermind escapes botched attack by US planes;
Yemen

BYLINE: Giles Whittell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 830 words


Racing across the desert in a pick-up truck, Anwar al-Awlaki probably had no
idea how close he was to achieving martyrdom.

It was three days after the killing of Osama bin Laden. Mr al-Awlaki was among
America's most sought-after al-Qaeda operatives left alive and President Obama
wanted him dead. A small airborne armada had been dispatched to take him out.

Flying high above the arid wilderness of Shabwa province in Yemen were a
specially adapted C130 transport, Harrier jump-jets used by the US Marines and
at least two Predator drones. Tipped off to Mr al-Awlaki's whereabouts by Yemeni
intelligence, the Obama Administration was within minutes of a second
extraordinary coup against al-Qaeda, already reeling from the loss of its
spiritual leader. But there was a great deal that could go wrong, and a great
deal did.

According to a new account of the botched atack on May 5, the massive firepower
deployed against Mr al-Awlaki failed to kill him because of a "series of errors"
in the weapons system. The first aircraft to fire on the pick-up was the C130,
equipped with air-to-ground missiles and a laser targeting pod beneath its wing.
Somehow, the targeting device failed to keep the fast-moving vehicle in its
sights and the first missile missed, sources told reporters. Alerted to the
attack, Mr al-Awlaki called in extra vehicles in an attempt to confuse their
pursuers.

Two more rockets were fired at the pick-up, exploding in a fireball that US
experts guiding the drones assumed was a direct hit. Seconds later they were
stunned to see the target vehicle emerge from the impact zone with only minimal
damage to its rear bumper.

Running low on fuel, the Harriers turned back while the special operations
aircraft and the Predators kept up the pursuit. A fourth missile was fired,
destroying the pick-up and killing its occupants. "We were hoping it was him," a
US official said soon afterwards.It was not. In the confusion, Mr al-Awlaki had
swapped vehicles and escaped.

A TV reconstruction of the attack broadcast this week will have looked strangely
familiar to anybody who saw the 2008 film Body of Lies, starring Leonardo
DiCaprio. In the movie, the CIA loses a high-value target in the desert when he
swaps SUVs in a dust cloud created by driving round in circles beneath the
remotely controlled cameras of an American drone.

It was not clear yesterday whether life imitated art or a well-laid plan simply
fell apart. What is clear is that Mr al-Awlaki remains at large, linked to three
high-profile attacks on US targets in the past two years.

Mr al-Awlaki, 40, has spent 21 years of his life in America and holds US
citizenship.

President Obama is understood to have given orders that he should be killed
because of his alleged ties to Major Nidal Malik Hasan, accused of shooting dead
13 US soldiers and civilians at Fort Hood in Texas in 2009; Umar Farouk
Abdulmutallab, the alleged Northwest Airlines underwear bomber; and Faisal
Shahzad, who confessed to leaving a car bomb in Times Square, New York, last
year.

All three terror suspects face trial in the US. It remains unclear how closely
involved, if at all, Mr al-Awlaki was in planning their missions, but he is
known to have corresponded with all of them and US officials consider him to be
al-Qaeda's most effective recruiter in the English-speaking world. The son of a
Yemeni Fulbright scholar, he went to university in the US but moved to Yemen in
2004. Last year a senior State Department official described him as
"extraordinarily dangerous, committed to carrying out deadly attacks on
Americans and others worldwide".

Some analysts believe that Washington exaggerates Mr al-Awlaki's influence
within al-Qaeda, but US officials said on Tuesday that they expect him to
announce a formal merger of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) and the
terror group's Pakistan-based wing, under Ayman al-Zawahiri, within the next few
weeks.

The chase in the desert

Anwar al-Awlaki Radical American Muslim cleric of Yemeni descent Frontman of the
al-Qaeda offshoot al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula Linked to attacks across the
world, including September 11

The Americans will have been monitoring the operation from their base in
Djibouti, a carrier in the Gulf or Langley, Virginia

Special operations C130

This aircraft fixes the target with lasers for itself and accompanying aircraft.
It fired the first of four missiles and possibly others

2 Harrier GR7s

Attack aircraft, ran low on fuel and returned to base without engaging target

2 Predators

Unmanned drones operated remotely, probably from CIA headquarters in Langley,
Virginia. Possible armament: Hellfire or Stinger missiles

1 C130 unable to lock on to target with lasers, fires missile that misses target

2 Predators support the attack. Two more missiles are fired that closely miss
the target

3 Under cover of dust cloud caused by missile strikes, the target switches
vehicles and escapes

4 The fourth missile is a hit, and CIA mistakenly believes al- Awlaki is killed

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 22, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

British couple held in Afghanistan 'were plotting UK terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham; Ben Farmer; Thomas Harding

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 572 words


A BRITISH man and a woman have been captured by the SAS in Afghanistan as they
prepared to link up with terrorists to launch attacks in the UK, sources have
disclosed.

The pair, who are of Afghan origin and are understood to have dual nationality,
were detained during a raid on a guest house in Herat, a city close to the
Iranian border, last week.

They are thought to be the first Britons to be captured alive in Afghanistan
since 2001, although there have been reports of others who have died in suicide
operations or been killed.

The couple were known to MI5, but not considered "high priority" targets and
managed to leave Britain unnoticed, security sources said.

They were picked up in Herat soon after arriving in Afghanistan when MI6 learned
they were trying to "establish contact" with the Taliban or al-Qaeda in order to
learn bomb-making skills.

It is believed they were planning a terrorist attack in Britain, but one source
said: "They were intercepted at an early stage, so it is difficult to know what
the targets would have been."

They were put under surveillance in a joint operation involving MI6 and signals
intercept specialists from GCHQ, along with agents from the Afghan National
Directorate of Security.

Undercover British and Afghan intelligence officers visited a number of hostels
with pictures of their targets, including the Nazari hotel in Herat, according
to the hotel's management. "They checked the hotel's register and went up to the
rooms," one staff member said. "But when they came back down they said they had
got the wrong place and apologised."

Afghan security sources said the couple were originally from Ghazni Province, a
mixed area of Pashtuns, Hazaras and Tajiks in the east of Afghanistan. They are
thought to be in their late twenties.

Security services in Britain were not aware of their desire to launch attacks in
Britain until they turned up in Afghanistan, sources said.

"They would have been arrested or disrupted before they could travel abroad if
that information had been available," one source said.

The couple are now the subject of a legal wrangle at the Foreign Office as
lawyers try to decide whether they can hand them over to Afghan authorities - in
accordance with normal practice - without breaching human rights laws.

The handover normally takes place within 96 hours of capture but in this case an
extension has been requested. It is understood they have not been formally
arrested.

"We are examining all the issues, including legal ones, as rapidly as possible,"
a Foreign Office source said.

Clive Stafford Smith, from the legal charity Reprieve, has written to the
Foreign Office asking for a letter to be passed to the detainees offering legal
representation. If they accept then he plans to launch a legal battle to have
them repatriated to Britain.

"The Afghan criminal justice system has no justice," he said yesterday. "We have
to protect British nationals from this legal black hole."

A spokesman for the Ministry of Defence confirmed that two British passport
holders were detained in an operation by British forces with Afghans in support
and were being held at a secure facility in Kandahar for questioning. He added
that all detention operations in Afghanistan were conducted "in accordance with
international law and strict policy frameworks".

There have been a number of attacks by British extremists in Afghanistan, while
several have been killed by Western forces.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An image from an al-Qaeda training video

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Loughborough Echo

                                 July 22, 2011
                                  1st Edition

PHONE HACK HORROR OF BOMB VICTIM'S BOYFRIEND;
MET POLICE CONTACTED HIM TO SAY HIS MOBILE WAS ON LIST AFTER 7/7 TERRORIST
ATTACK  Report by Richard Rush

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 95 words


A MAN whose girlfriend was killed in the 7/7 bombings has spoken of his horror
at being told that his phone may have been hacked while he was searching for
her.

Gous Ali, 37, was contacted two weeks ago by the Metropolitan Police's Special
Operations Unit who told him he was on a list of people whose voice mail
messages had been intercepted by people working for the News of the World
newspaper.

His girlfriend, 37-year-old Neetu Jain, was on her way to work and was on the
bus in Tavistock Square on July 7, 2005, when a suicide bomber struck.

Full story page three

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Neetu Jain and Gous Ali.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: lh


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                              July 22, 2011 Friday

Cameron's outrage at Norway terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS:

LENGTH: 416 words


DAVID Cameron tonight expressed outrage at terrorist attacks in Norway that are
feared to have left more than a dozen dead.

The Prime Minister pledged Britain's help to track down the "evil" perpetrators
behind a huge bomb in Oslo and shootings on an island near the capital.

The statement of support came as diplomats sought to establish whether any UK
nationals had been caught up in the carnage.

The blast in Oslo seriously damaged government buildings this afternoon,
including the offices of prime minister Jens Stoltenberg - who was not in the
city.

At least seven people are believed to have been killed and many more injured as
the streets were showered with broken glass.

Around an hour later, as the emergency services struggled to deal with the
incident, a gunman ran amok at a summer camp for teenagers run by the Norwegian
Labour Party.

The shooter was apparently dressed as a policeman, and gained access to the site
on the island of Utoya by claiming he was carrying out extra security checks in
the wake of the bombing.

Around 10 people are reported to have been killed, although there have been
suggestions the number could be higher.

Police have arrested a suspect, said to be of Nordic appearance, who was seen in
the vicinity of both attacks.

No terrorist group has yet made a credible claim of responsibility for the
incidents.

Mr Cameron said: "I was outraged to hear about the explosion in Oslo and attack
in Utoya today that have killed and injured innocent people.

"My thoughts are with the wounded and those who have lost friends and family,
and I know everyone in Britain will feel the same."

He added: "These attacks are a stark reminder of the threat we all face from
terrorism.

"I have called Prime Minister Stoltenberg this evening to express my sincere
condolences and to let him know that our thoughts are with the Norwegian people
at this tragic time.

"I have offered Britain's help, including through our close intelligence
co-operation.

"We will work with Norway to hunt the murderers who did this and prevent any
more innocent deaths.

"We can overcome this evil, and we will."

Labour leader Ed Miliband said: "I'm horrified by events in Norway. These
senseless acts are an affront to decent people everywhere. All my thoughts are
with the Norwegian people."

Norwegian foreign minister Jonas Gahr Store told the BBC he had been on Utoya
taking part in debates with the students yesterday.

"This is a tradition in the Labour Party movement," he said. "It's been going on
for decades."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                                 July 23, 2011

Claim Norway terror attacker 'boasted of links to EDL'

BYLINE: Asian Image reporter

SECTION: NEWS - UK

LENGTH: 140 words


A man who is suspected of killing 91 people in Norway may have taken part in
discussions with UK far-right groups it has been reported.

Anders Brehing Breivik is said to have taken part in online discussions with
members of the EDL and other anti-Islamic groups.

The Guardian reports Breivik had talked admiringly about conversations he had
had with unnamed English Defence League members and the organisation 'Stop the
Islamification of Europe over the success of provocative street actions leading
to violence'.

"I have on some occasions had discussions with SIOE and EDL and recommended them
to use certain strategies," he wrote two years ago.

"The tactics of the EDL are now to 'lure' an overreaction from the Jihad
Youth/Extreme-Marxists, something they have succeeded in doing several times
already".

Breivik's Facebook page has been blocked.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday

Jordan condemns "terrorist attacks" in Norway

LENGTH: 103 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

The Jordanian government on Friday [22 July] strongly condemned the terrorist
attacks in Norway. Jordan strongly condemns such cowardly terrorist attacks,
Foreign Minister Nasir Judah said, expressing Jordan's full solidarity with
Norway against such criminal acts. The minister also stressed the Kingdom's firm
position against all forms of terrorism. Judah expressed deepest sympathies and
heartfelt condolences to families of the victims, wishing the injured a speedy
recovery.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 2050 gmt 22 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday

Japan condemns terror attacks in Norway

LENGTH: 269 words


Text of report in English by Japan's largest news agency Kyodo

Tokyo, 23 July: Japan on Saturday [23 July] condemned the terror attacks in
Norway, which claimed the lives of about 90 people.

Prime Minister Naoto Kan told reporters at his residence, "I cannot tolerate
this kind of violence at all." The premier said he has sent Tokyo's condolences
to Oslo.

In his message to Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, Kan wished for the
earliest possible recovery of those injured in the attacks and rapped the
violence inflicted on innocent civilians, saying it is "unforgivable regardless
of the reason." Kan also expressed his solidarity with his Norwegian counterpart
as well as the government and the people of Norway, according to the Japanese
Foreign Ministry.

Foreign Minister Takeaki Matsumoto issued a statement in Bali, Indonesia, where
he is attending a regional security meeting. He said that he is "deeply shocked
and indignant at" the loss of many lives from the attacks and that Japan conveys
its sympathies to the victims.

Matsumoto said Japan "resolutely condemns terror attacks in any form and for any
purpose" and that the country will continue cooperating with the international
community to combat terrorism. A large explosion rocked Norwegian government
offices in central Oslo on Friday, claiming seven lives. Later in the day, at
least 80 people were killed in a shooting rampage at a youth camp affiliated
with the ruling party on an island south of the capital and a 32-year-old man
has been arrested in connection with the shooting.

Source: Kyodo News Service, Tokyo, in English 0648gmt 23 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday

Kuwaiti leader condemns Norway terrorist attack

LENGTH: 158 words


Text of report in English by Kuwaiti government-owned news agency Kuna website

["Hh emir Sends Condolences To Norway After Terrorist Attacks" - KUNA Headline]

His Highness the emir Shaykh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah sent on Saturday
[23 July] a cable of condolences to King Harald V of Norway expressing his
sympathy with victims of the horrific twin shootings and bombings in the capital
Oslo and the island of Utoeya that left scores dead and injured.

In his cable, HH the emir expressed Kuwait's condemnation of the inhuman,
terrorist attacks that targeted innocent people.

"These heinous attacks contradict all religious and human values," HH the emir
stressed, wishing the wounded victims speedy recovery.

His Highness the Crown Prince Shaykh Nawaf al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah and His
Highness the Prime Minister Shaykh Nasir al-Muhammad al-Ahmad al-Sabah, sent
similar cables.

Source: Kuna news agency website, Kuwait, in English 1400 gmt 23 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                 Derry Edition

17 killed in Oslo terror attacks

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 59 words


TWIN terror attacks hit Norway yesterday when a bomb blast in Oslo and a lone
gunman killed at least 17 people in the country. A devastating bomb ripped
through the capital killing at least seven people near the offices of Prime
Minister Jens Stoltenberg. Hours later a gunman posing as a policeman rampaged
through a youth camp on an island 20 miles away.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

SLAUGHTER OF THE INNOCENTS;
Youth camp massacre and city centre blast in twin terror attack on Norwegian
capital

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 473 words


A BOMB ripped open buildings in the heart of Norway's government before a man
dressed as a police officer opened fire at an island youth camp connected to the
ruling party, leaving at least 17 dead in the attacks.

Seven people were killed in the bomb blast in Oslo and at least ten more in the
shootings on the nearby island of Utoya, where the youth wing of the Labour
Party was holding a summer camp for hundreds of teenagers.

Acting Police Chief Sveinung Sponheim said the two attacks were belived to be
linked - the man arrested for the shootings had been spotted in Oslo before the
explosion there.

Sponheim wouldn't give any details about the shooting suspect, who he said was
dressed in a police uniform when he opened fire into a crowd of youths. Police
also con-firmed that undetonated explosives were found on the island.

Norway's Justice Minister Knut Storberget said the shooting suspect was
Norwegian. He added police fear the death toll will rise above ten.

Aerial images broadcast on TV showed members of a SWAT team dressed in black
arriving at the island in boats and running up the dock.

Behind them, people stripped down to their underwear swam away from the island
toward shore, some using flotation devices.

Labour Party spokesman Per Gunnar Dahl said the shooting "created a panic
situation where people started to swim from the island" to escape.

The youth wing of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's Labour Party organises an
annual summer camp on the island, 60 miles north-west of Oslo.

Stoltenberg had been scheduled to speak there today.

He described the attacks as "bloody and cowardly" and said that Norway had been
"shaken by evil" but that its democracy and ideals would not be destroyed.

In Oslo, the bombing left a square covered in twisted metal, shattered glass and
documents expelled from surrounding buildings.

Most of the windows in the 20-floor high-rise where Mr Stoltenberg and his
administration work were shattered. Other buildings damaged house government
offices and the headquarters of some of Norway's leading newspapers.

Stoltenberg was working at home yesterday and was unharmed. Police said the
explosion was caused by "one or more" bombs. They later sealed off the nearby
offices of broadcaster TV 2 after discovering a suspicious package.

The United States, European Union, Nato and the UK all condemned the bombing.

The attacks come as Norway grapples with a home-grown terror plot linked to al
Qaida. Two suspects are in jail awaiting charges.

Last week, a Norwegian prosecutor filed terror charges against an Iraqiborn
cleric for threatening Norwegian politicians with death if he is deported from
the Scandinavian country. The indictment centred on statements that Mullah
Krekar - the founder of the Kurdish Islamist group Ansar al-Islam - made to
various news media.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Camp: Utoya Island, near Oslo, where the gunman opened fire. Terror:
An injured woman is carried by emergency workers from the scene of devastation
in Oslo where a huge bomb exploded.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2011 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                    Citywire

                      July 23, 2011 Saturday 12:01 AM GMT

Saturday Papers: Twin terror attacks kill 16 in Norway - money and other news

LENGTH: 1067 words


Financial Times

* At least 16 people were killed in an apparent twin terrorist attack on Norway;
a large bomb was detonated outside government buildings in Oslo and a gunman
opened fire at a summer camp attended by hundreds of young people.

* Regulators have begun their investigation into whether the phone-hacking
scandal may have changed British Sky Broadcasting's status as a fit and proper
person to hold a broadcasting licence, it emerged on Friday.

* US budget negotiations collapse again; John Boehner, Republican speaker of the
House of Representatives, broke off talks with President Barack Obama, saying
"we couldn't connect".

* General Electric, the US conglomerate, posted another round of
estimate-beating earnings, boosted by a continuing recovery at its financial
unit and a solid performance at its industrial businesses; in the three months
to the end of June, net income attributable to GE shareholders climbed 22% to
$3.7 billion.

* Private equity bosses are plotting initial public offerings for a string of
potential FTSE 100 companies in the coming months.

* A legal spat between Durex owner Reckitt Benckiser and its Indian joint
venture TTK Lig has led to a severe disruption to the UK-based consumer group's
condom supplies.

* Britons are buying fewer clothes, splashing less cash on big ticket items such
as furniture, and putting fewer items in supermarket trolleys.

* Macmillan fined £11.3 million over Africa actions; High Court order follows an
SFO inquiry after the publisher referred the case itself into contracts in
Rwanda, Uganda and Zambia.

* South African workers at De Beers, the world's largest diamond producer, went
on strike on Friday over wage demands.

* Breedon Aggregates, the UK's largest independent quarrying business,
experienced a jump in earnings during the first half of the year after
aggressive cost-cutting helped offset the rise in oil prices.

* Crude spread dents Calpers' bumper returns; Californian pension fund sticks
with policy of tying commodities portfolio to S&P GSCI despite exposure to
spread between WTI and Brent oil.

* Caterpillar reports lower than expected profits due to effect of the Japanese
earthquake and softer Chinese demand.

* Easyjet reported a sharp rise in revenues and predicted that profits would
beat expectations this year.

* BMW issues 1 billion bond; first sizeable sale of investment-grade European
corporate debt in two weeks after new rescue package for Greece and expanded EU
bail-out powers.

* Helmut Kiener, a former hedge fund manager who defrauded investors out of 345
million, has been sentenced to more than 10 years imprisonment after one of
Germany's most spectacular cases of financial crime to be revealed by the global
economic crisis.

* Higher funding costs and a rise in souring property loans weighed on Spanish
lenders as three domestically focused banks reported earnings on Friday.

* A US federal appeals court has thrown out new rules from the Securities and
Exchange Commission intended to make it easier for shareholders to eject board
members at listed companies.

* Schlumberger, the world's largest oilfield services company, beat forecasts
with a 64% rise in second-quarter profit.

* McDonald's shares touched a record high on Friday, after the company said its
frozen drinks and breakfast offerings helped its second-quarter earnings exceed
Wall Street expectations.

* Dutch personal navigation company TomTom announced it was taking an impairment
charge on goodwill and intangibles of 512 million.

* Global X has built a substantial asset base in just two years by offering ETFs
that reflect ongoing fundamental shifts in the global economy.

* FBI says hacking attack on IMF started in China; suspicion puts pressure on
IMF chief Christine Lagarde, who has named former deputy governor of the Chinese
central bank to top management.

* Goldman Sachs' prized trading engine spluttered this week, providing the only
substantial upset to Wall Street's second quarter earnings season; net profit of
$1.1 billion fell short of analysts' estimates and it was the famed fixed-income
trading division that came in short.

* Lowell McAdam, Verizon Communications's incoming chief executive, made it
clear that he does not see any advantages to a possible merger with Vodafone.

* Vodafone cautions India over tax case; the Uk Mobile operator warns foreign
investors could steer away from the country if it should lose the high profile
case.

* Pension providers are ramping up commission payments to advisers before the
practice is banned in 2013, leaving consumers at risk of a poorer retirement,
according to a report by Consumer Focus.

* The escalating Eurozone debt crisis has seen demand for property in the worst
hit countries drop significantly in recent months.

The Times

* The big six energy giants should be broken up to help to cut household bills,
Ed Miliband insists.

* The Ifo business index of export sentiment fell to 112.9 in July from 114.5 in
June.

* Fitch, the ratings agency, said that the Greek bailout agreed this week
constituted a restricted default.

* Big European banks have limited their losses on Greek bonds to just over 5
billion after negotiating a 21% write-off on their debt holdings as part of a
rescue plan.

* Ernst & Young, administrator to TJ Hughes, the Liverpool-based discount
retailer, announced the closure of its distribution centre, with the loss of 116
staff.

The Independent

* Neville Richardson, Co-operative financial Services' chief executive, has quit
in the middle of the group's attempt to pull off the transformational
acquisition of a branch network from Lloyds Banking Group.

* The Lloyd's of London insurer Beazley sank to a $24 million loss after taking
a $183 million hit from natural disasters in the first half.

* Vodafone said it remained on track yesterday despite the economic storm
buffeting its southern Europe markets; the group posted revenues growth of 1.5%
to £10.8 billion for the quarter to 30 June.

The Guardian

* A code of conduct by executive search firms has pledged to ensure that at
least 30% of boardroom nominees for FTSE firms are women.

The Daily Telegraph

* The complexity of BP's Gulf of Mexico oil spill means that a key report into
what caused the accident has been delayed by US investigators.

* The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission ruled that Foxtel's A$2.5
billion (£1.67bn) bid for rival network Austar would create a pay-TV monopoly.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2011 Citywire Financial Publishers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                              North Wales Edition

DEADLY TERROR ATTACKS IN OSLO

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 7 words


DEADLY TERROR ATTACKS IN OSLO See page 17

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

30 TEENS KILLED IN TERROR ATTACK;
Holiday camp bloodbath

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 40 words


AT LEAST 30 people, including many teenagers, were slaughtered in two terror
attacks yesterday.

A gunman shot at hundreds of youngsters on a island camp in Norway, while
Government buildings were bombed in the capital Oslo.

Full story: Page 2

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

More than 25 feared dead in Norway terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 275 words


MORE than 25 people were feared dead last night after a bomb ripped open
buildings in the heart of Norway's government and a man dressed as a police
officer opened fire at an island youth camp connected to the ruling party. At
least seven people were killed in the blast in Oslo. A witness said more than 20
teenagers died in the camp shootings on the island of Utoya, the peaceful
nation's worst violence since the Second World War.

Witness Andre Scheie said he saw "very many dead by the shore" of the camp on
Utoya, where the youth wing of the Labour Party was holding a summer camp.

He said some victims were shot in the water after trying desperately to swim
away. "There are about 20 to 25 dead," he said.

Police did not immediately confirm the account, but Acting Police Chief Sveinung
Sponheim said a suspect had been arrested.

He said police were still trying to get an overview of the camp shooting and
could not say whether there was more than one gunman.

Sponheim said the arrested man was linked to the bombing in Oslo, the capital
and the city where the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded.

A square was covered in twisted metal, shattered glass and documents expelled
from buildings, which house government offices and some of Norway's leading
newspapers.

Police said the explosion was caused by "one or more" bombs, but declined to
speculate on who was behind the attack. The United States, European Union, Nato
and the UK, all quickly condemned the bombing. Prime Minister David Cameron
said: "These attacks are a stark reminder of the threat we all face from
terrorism.

"My thoughts are with the wounded and those who have lost friends and family."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The scene of devastation after the explosion that wrecked several
buildings in Oslo yesterday afternoon.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DET


                     Copyright 2011 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday

Front: Norway terror attacks: 'He first shot people on the island - then he shot
those in the water': Residents of Norway were still reeling from deadly bomb
attack in their capital when news of second atrocity began to emerge

BYLINE: Peter Beaumont

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 955 words


The man dressed in the police uniform called to the group of teenagers to "come
to him". Then he opened fire.

"This is just the beginning," he said, before continuing his shooting spree at a
youth camp organised by Norway's Labour party on the small Utoya island, not far
from Oslo.

Witnesses described scenes of horror as teenagers and party workers clambered
trees or attempted to swim offshore to escape.

Emilie Bersaas, identified by Sky News as one of the youths on the island, said
she ran inside a school building and hid under a bed. "At one point, the
shooting was very, very close (to) the building. I think it actually hit the
building one time, and the people in the next room screamed very loud," she
said.

"I laid under the bed for two hours and then the police smashed a window and
came in. It seems kind of unreal, especially in Norway. This is not something
that could happen here."

Survivors from the camp of around 700 told Norwegian media how the man in
uniform had killed their friends.

A 15-year-old camper named Elise said she heard gunshots but then saw a police
officer and thought she was safe. Then he started shooting people right in front
of her.

"I saw many dead people," said Elise, whose father didn't want her to disclose
her last name. "He first shot people on the island. Afterward, he started
shooting people in the water."

Elise said she hid behind the same rock that the killer was standing on. "I
could hear his breathing from the top of the rock," she said.

She said it was impossible to say how many minutes passed while she was waiting
for him to stop.

Another said he saw 20 dead at the youth camp. Last night, police could only
confirm that nine or 10 had died on the island, but warned that the figure could
rise. "I've seen it with my own eyes, at least 20 dead people lying in the
water," Andre Skeie, 26, told Reuters.

He said he had gone to Utoya with his boat to help people evacuate the island.
One of those who managed to get through to those on the island was Bjorn Jarle
Roberg-Larsen of Labour, who said he had had telephone contact with young people
who were on the island.

He said: "Young people have to swim in panic, and it is far to the mainland from
Utoya. Others are hiding. Those I spoke with did not want to talk more. They
were terrified."

The events at the campsite were not an isolated incident, either. Instead, they
added to a mounting sense of horror in Norway, taking place a matter of hours
after an earlier bomb attack in the capital, Oslo.

Jon Magnus, the chief foreign correspondent of Oslo's VG newspaper, was sitting
at his desk finishing a comment article when the bomb's blast wave blew him off
his chair. "It was 3.26 in the afternoon," he said. "Suddenly the whole building
was shaking. It was like it was dancing. There was glass flying through the
newsroom."

The explosion shattered what had been a quiet afternoon in Oslo's summer holiday
season, setting off the sequence of nightmarish events that within a few hours
would plunge the country into mourning. The shooting had added to the sense that
the country was being plunged into an unspeakable national disaster.

As details emerged, with them came fears that a Mumbai-style attack warned of
for so long by intelligence services in Europe had been mounted where it was
least expected - in a country, perhaps, chosen as a soft target.

It was the secondary attack that seemed to confirm that it was the prime
minister of Norway himself, Jens Stoltenberg - who had been working at home -
and his party who were the intended victims.

Located a few hundred metres from the little square at Einar Gerhardsen Place,
which separates the building housing the ministry of health and the offices of
the prime minister, the explosion struck the side of the glass-fronted newspaper
offices closest to the cluster of government buildings.

"Even though I was on the far side of our newsroom from where the explosion
occurred," said Magnus, "the air pressure was so enormous it knocked me off my
chair. I thought the bomb had exploded in our newsroom."

The bomb had not exploded in VG but several hundred metres away, the explosion
so intense, added Magnus, that when he ventured outside in its immediate
aftermath he could see walls had been ripped away and government buildings were
burning.

"When I reached the blown-out windows closest to the explosion I could see the
prime minister's office on fire. I could see we were right in the middle of the
explosion. When I ran out of the building it was complete chaos. I could hear
people screaming and see people covered in blood and what looked like corpses,
lifeless people with their faces covered. I counted four or five.

"Before we left our own offices we had a pair of binoculars and we could see in
the health department what seemed to be bodies hanging out of the windows. We
could see into some of the floors and could see people also inside, what
appeared to be bodies."

What precisely had happened Magnus and his fellow colleagues tried to piece
together in the immediate aftermath, as some of the first people on the scene.

"There were two badly damaged cars close to the prime minister's office," said
Magnus. "One of them had its wheels in the air."

Captions:

Aftermath

Clockwise from top: an aerial view of paramedics at work on the island of Utoya;
the Oslo building that took

the force of the bomb blast; a paramedic helps one of the injured; swimmers off
the shore of Utoya and, below, the Norwegian foreign minister, Jonas Gahr Store,
at the Norwegian Labour Youth League summer camp on Utoya earlier this month; an
injured woman is helped away from the scene of the blast Photographs: All Over
Press Norway/Rex Features; Andreas Fadum/All Over Press Norway/Getty Images

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday

Front: Terror strikes Norway in attacks on island and Oslo city centre: At least
seven killed in bombing: 10 die in gun rampage at camp: Police arrest Norwegian
man

BYLINE: Julian Borger and Peter Beaumont

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 751 words


Norway suffered the worst attack in its postwar history yesterday when a bomb
exploded in Oslo's central government district and a man later opened fire at a
political youth camp on an island near the capital, leaving at least 17
confirmed dead.

At least seven people were reported killed and scores injured in the city
centre, while at least 10 and perhaps as many as 30 young people may have been
shot on the island by a man dressed as a policeman, who was arrested at the
scene.

As Norway's police and security services struggled to come to terms with the
scale of the disaster, police sources indicated they believed the two events
were linked, with some saying the same man arrested had been spotted at the site
of the bombing.

Police trying to unravel the events that had occurred over two bloody hours were
still attempting to confirm that the attacks were the work of a "lone, deranged
individual". Norwegian news reports suggested the authorities believed the
attacks were not linked to international terrorism. The justice minister, Knut
Storberget, said later the man who opened fire at the youth camp was Norwegian.

Local media named the suspect as Anders Behring Breivik.

Aerial images broadcast on Norway's TV2 showed members of a SWAT team arriving
at the island in boats and running up the dock. Behind them, people stripped,
and swam away from the island toward shore, some using flotation devices.

The Oslo blast, which occurred at just before 3.30pm, damaged buildings and blew
out windows over a half-mile radius, filling the area with smoke and littering
it with shards of metal. It took place near the 17-storey government building
where the prime minister has his offices and the headquarters of Norway's
biggest tabloid paper, VG. Witnesses said tables in the paper's basement
cafeteria were smeared with blood and scattered with glass and other debris.
Residents were told to stay away from the city centre, or stay in their homes
and hotel rooms.

Then, in what Norwegian police said was a co-ordinated attack, about 700 youth
members of the Labour party, some as young as 15, who were holding their annual
summer camp on Utoya island, on a lake west of Oslo, came under fire by a man
armed with an automatic weapon. According to tweets by people at the event, some
children escaped by climbing trees, hiding in the bushes or swimming away.

One party youth member tweeted: "A man is shooting, clothed in a police uniform.
Help us! When are the police coming to help us?"

Counter-terrorist police flew to the island and a man, described in reports as
tall and blond, was arrested. The prime minister, Jens Stoltenberg, who was to
attend the camp today, was reported to have been working at home and to have
been unharmed by the blast, as were the rest of the cabinet.

Stoltenberg appealed to Norwegians not to be cowed. "Co-workers have lost their
lives today. It's frightening," he told the broadcaster NRK.

"That's not how we want things in our country. But it's important we don't let
ourselves be scared. Because the purpose of that kind of violence is to create
fear. I have a message to those who attacked us," he said. "It's a message from
all of Norway: You will not destroy our democracy and our commitment to a better
world."

Those close to the Oslo bomb described the blast's force.

"The whole building was shaking. It was dancing," said Jon Magnus, VG's chief
foreign correspondent, who was blown out of his chair by the explosion. "There
was glass flying through the newsroom. I was on the far side of the building
from where the prime minister's office is. The entire glass front of our
building has been blown out."

David Cameron extended his condolences to the families of the victims. "I was
outraged to hear about the explosion in Oslo and attack in Utoya today that have
killed and injured innocent people," he said. "My thoughts are with the wounded
and those who have lost friends and family, and I know everyone in Britain will
feel the same."

President Barack Obama offered US assistance with the investigation. Speaking at
an Oval Office meeting with New Zealand's prime minister, Obama said he
remembered how warmly Norwegians treated him when he travelled to Oslo to accept
the Nobel Peace Prize in 2009.

He said "our hearts" go out to the Norwegian people. He also offered US
assistance with the investigation.

Captions:

A man helps a woman out of a damaged building after the explosion that rocked
the central government district of Oslo Photograph: Scanpix Norway/Reuters

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday

Front: Norway terror attacks: Analysis: Nature of attacks suggests political
motive

BYLINE: Peter Beaumont

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 645 words


The re-appearance of an apparently large scale and co-ordinated terrorist attack
in a European capital last night raised the inevitable questions of who was
behind it.

The most tempting and immediate conclusion was that it would be a jihadist
group, as the style of the Oslo attack bore strong similarities to other earlier
attacks elsewhere.

But Norwegian police said last night that the individual believed responsible
for the shooting in Utoya, a 32-year-old Norwegian man, was also spotted in Olso
before the bombing there.

The targeted nature of the attacks at both government offices and the Labour
party youth camp both suggest a more political agenda rather than an attempt to
create widespread terror.

Norwegian news reports last night said that police did not think the attacks
were linked to international terrorism and that it was more likely directed at
the current political system.

There were reports that the gunman responsible for the attack on PM Jens
Stoltenberg's party youth camp on the island of Utoya was blond haired and
Nordic looking - allegations still yet to be confirmed.

This suggests the attack might have been the work of an individual or
individuals closer in outlook to the Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh driven
by their own ideology, a theory backed up by a Norwegian police official who
told the Associated Press the man suspected of the attacks does not appear to be
linked to Islamist terrorism. He went on to say that the attacks probably have
more in common with the 1995 attack on a US federal building in Oklahoma City
than the September 11 2001 attacks.

The suspect appeared to have acted alone, he said, and "it seems like that this
is not linked to any international terrorist organisations at all." He added
that the investigation is still ongoing and that things can change.

The official was speaking on condition of anonymity because that information had
not yet been released by Norway's police.

Another threat, largely discounted by state security spokeswoman Janne
Kristiansen earlier this year, is right-wing extremism. "Neo-nazis aren't a big
threat but we have seen some increased activity," she said.

One thing is certain, however and that is the perception in Norway's security
services that Islamist terrorism is a bigger threat than the almost unheard
domestic terrorism, despite the existence of far right and anarchist groups who
of late are alleged to have improved their international contacts.

Terrorism analyst Will McCants told the New York Times that a group calling
itself Ansar al-Jihad al-Alami, or the Helpers of the Global Jihad, issued a
statement claiming responsibility for the attack, saying it was a response to
Norwegian forces' presence in Afghanistan and to insults to the prophet Muhammad
- a claim later withdrawn.

A report earlier this year by the Norwegian intelligence noted the increasing
risk of a jihadi terrorist attack, with Norwegian citizens reportedly being
trained abroad.

"Although few people in Norway support Islamic extremism, there are activities
within some groups that could contribute to heightening the security risk in
2011," the report said. Some individuals in Norway taken part in training or
fighting in countries such as Afghanistan, Pakistan, Somali and Yemen, it added.

The United States, European Union, Nato and the UK, all quickly condemned the
bombing, which Britain's Foreign Secretary William Hague called "horrific" and
Nato Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen deemed a "heinous act."

"It's a reminder that the entire international community has a stake in
preventing this kind of terror from occurring," President Barack Obama said.

Obama extended his condolences to Norway's people and offered US assistance with
the investigation. He said he remembered how warmly Norwegians treated him in
Oslo when he accepted the Nobel Peace Prize in 2009.

Peter Beaumont

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday

Front: Norway terror attacks: Reaction: Stoltenberg: 'No bomb will silence us'

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 532 words


Norwegian prime minister Jens Stoltenberg promised last night that Norway would
not be "bombed into silence" after the attacks in the Scandinavian country.

At a press conference in Oslo, Stoltenberg, pictured, said that those guilty for
the atrocities would be brought to justice and that the attacks would bring
"more openess and more democracy" to the country.

"No one will bomb us to silence. No one will shoot us to silence. No one will
ever scare us away from being Norway," Stoltenberg said.

"You will not destroy us. You will not destroy our democracy or our ideals for a
better world," he added.

"Attacking one of the most peaceful places, a political youth camp, is
especially brutal - an act of cowardice," he said. The country's priority now,
he added, was to "comfort and care for people who have lived through a nightmare
which very few of us can imagine".

The United States, European Union, Nato and the UK all quickly condemned the
bombing, which foreign secretary William Hague called "horrific" and Nato
secretary-general Anders Fogh Rasmussen deemed a "heinous act".

"It's a reminder that the entire international community has a stake in
preventing this kind of terror from occurring," said President Barack Obama.

Obama extended his condolences to Norway's people and offered American
assistance with the investigation. He said he remembered how warmly Norwegians
had treated him in Oslo when he accepted the Nobel peace prize in 2009.

David Cameron said he was outraged by the attacks: "My thoughts are with the
wounded and those who have lost friends and family, and I know everyone in
Britain will feel the same."

He added: "These attacks are a stark reminder of the threat we all face from
terrorism.

"I have called Prime Minister Stoltenberg this evening to express my sincere
condolences and to let him know that our thoughts are with the Norwegian people
at this tragic time.

"We can overcome this evil, and we will."

Labour leader Ed Miliband said: "I'm horrified by events in Norway. These
senseless acts are an affront to decent people everywhere. All my thoughts are
with the Norwegian people."

Norwegian foreign minister Jonas Gahr Store told the BBC he had been on Utoya
taking part in debates with the students yesterday.

"This is a tradition in the Labour party movement," he said. "It's been going on
for decades."

French president Nicolas Sarkozy condemned the bomb attack that hit downtown
Oslo earlier in the day, killing several people and injuring

many others.

In a brief statement, Sarkozy told Norwegian prime minister Jens Stoltenberg
that he condemned "with the utmost gravity this odious and unacceptable action"
that had taken place, and conveyed French sympathy to the Norwegian people.

"At this dramatic time, I wish to pass on the profound sympathy of the entire
French people for the Norwegian people," he said.

Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper said: "Canada condemns these barbarous
and senseless acts of violence and our thoughts and prayers are with the
victims, witnesses and all those affected by these attacks," he said in a
statement. "On behalf of all Canadians, Laureen and I wish to express Canada's
sincere condolence to the Norwegian people."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 July 23, 2011
                                 First Edition

Norway stunned by terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 16 words


At least 7 dead in huge Oslo blast

Gunman kills up to 30 at youth camp

Police arrest wounded suspect P4

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday

Norway left reeling by twin terror attacks

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 333 words


A Norwegian man was arrested last night and police are investigating the
possibility of the car bomb and shootings being linked.

The Irish Embassy in Oslo last night said they did not believe any Irish were
killed or injured during the bombing of the government quarter in the capital or
on the island of Utoya, west of the capital.

Police said seven lives were claimed in the Oslo bombing which took place at
about 3.30pm local time while local media were reporting 10 more deaths at Utoya
last night.

President Mary McAleese last night expressed her sympathies to the Norwegian
people.

A statement issued last read: "President McAleese extended her condolences to
King Harald of Norway and the Norwegian people, on behalf of the Irish people,
in light of the terrible atrocity which was inflicted on them earlier today. The
message was passed though Ireland's ambassador to Norway, Mr Gary Ansbro."

Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, whose Oslo offices were among those
damaged by the bomb, described the situation as "very serious".

No group has claimed responsibility.

Mr Stoltenberg's Labour Party youth section were holding their annual gathering
on the island at the time.

US President Barack Obama described the attacks as "horrible" and said "our
hearts go out to the people of Norway".

Norway daily newspaper VG said on its website a man dressed as a policeman was
shooting wildly and had hit many people.

But in one unconfirmed report, the London-based Exclusive Analysis risk
consultancy said the man in the shooting incident apparently infiltrated the
party gathering on the pretence that he had been sent by the police as a
security measure in the wake of the Oslo explosion.

"It is likely he was ethnically Norwegian. This could indicate the involvement
of a far-right group rather than an Islamist group, though it is also the case
that the Labour Party would be a favourable target for Islamist groups due to
its role in authorising Norwegian military deployments in Afghanistan," it said.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday

Norwegian man arrested over terror attacks

LENGTH: 459  words


A gunman identified as a local Norwegian has been detained after shootings and a
bombing in Norway on Friday.

Justice Minister Knut Storberget confirmed that seven people had died in the
bombing and 10 people were injured, although the death toll is likely to rise.

Speaking of the shooting on Utoeya Island north-west of Oslo, police chief
Sveining Sponheim said a man detained by police was aged 32 and "ethnic
Norwegian".

Described by a police official as tall and blond, the suspect dressed as a
police officer was reported by local media to have taken advantage of the
confusion caused by the bombing in Oslo's city centre to attack the summer camp
of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's Labour party youth section.

Sponheim told reporters that the gunman in the Utoeya shootings had been
disguised in a blue police-style uniform but had never been employed by the
police.

He said that the police also believed that the man may have been involved in
both the Oslo bombing and the shootings.

Several people were killed and others wounded in the shooting on the island.

Mr Sponheim also confirmed that: "Undetonated explosives has also been found on
the island," leading to speculation of further attacks.

A young woman at the camp told reporters: "There was a lot of shooting ... We
hid under a bed. It was very terrifying".

A witness who said he had gone to the island on his boat to help people evacuate
said he saw at least 20 bodies.

Police declined to comment on the number of casualties at the youth camp at
Utoeya and there was no independent confirmation.

On footage broadcast on local television, several people could be seen
attempting to swim away from island.

There was no clear claim of responsibility and while the attacks appeared to
bear some, but by no means all, of the hallmarks of an Islamist militant
assault, analysts said it was too early to draw any conclusions.

Geir Bekkevold, an opposition parliamentarian for the Christian Peoples Party
said: "This is a terror attack. It is the most violent event to strike Norway
since World War Two."

Lilit Gevorgyan, analyst at IHS Global Insight, said the most likely suspects
were al-Qaeda-linked or inspired groups, but added: "As the news continues
trickling in from Utoeya, however, right-wing extremist groups or even a lone
perpetrator with army training or access to ammunition and weaponry could be
behind the plot."

Prime Minister David Cameron has expressed outrage at the attacks in Norway
pledging  Britain's help to track down the "evil" perpetrators behind them.

"My thoughts are with the wounded and those who have lost friends and family,
and I know everyone in Britain will feel the same," he said.

"These attacks are a stark reminder of the threat we all face from terrorism,"
he added.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2011 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday

Twin Norway Terror Attack Kills Dozens

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 474 words


Michael Black

ABOMB ripped open buildings in the heart of Norway's government yesterday before
a man dressed as a police officer opened fire at an island youth camp connected
to the ruling party, leaving at least 17 dead in the attacks.

Seven people were killed in the bomb blast and at least nine more in the camp
shootings, the peaceful nationls worst violence since the Second World War.

Oslo police said nine or 10 people were killed at the camp on Utoya island,
where the youth wing of the Labour Party was holding a summer camp for hundreds
of teenagers.

Acting Police Chief Sveinung Sponheim said the two attacks were belived to be
linked   the  man  arrested for the shooting had been spotted in Oslo before the
explosion there.

Aerial images broadcast by Norway's TV2 showed members of a SWAT team dressed in
black arriving at the island in boats and running up the dock.

Behind them, people stripped down to their underwear swam away from the island
toward shore, some using flotation devices. One eyewitness claimed that they
were shot at as they tried to escape.

The shooting suspect, who was said to be dressed in a police uniform when he
opened fire into a crowd of youths, is believed to be Norwegian.

The youth wing of Stoltenberg's Labour Party organises an annual summer camp on
the island, 60 miles northwest of Oslo. Stoltenberg had been scheduled to speak
there tomorrow.

"There are at least five people who have been seriously wounded and have been
transported to a local hospital," said party spokesman Per Gunnar Dahl.

He said the shooting "created a panic situation where people started to swim
from the island" to escape.

In Oslo, the capital and the city where the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded, the
bombing left a square covered in twisted metal, shattered glass and documents
expelled from surrounding buildings.

Most of the windows in the 20-floor high-rise where Prime Minister Jens
Stoltenberg and his administration work were shattered. Other buildings damaged
house government offices and the headquarters of some of Norway's leading
newspapers.

Stoltenberg was working at home Friday and was unharmed.

Police said the explosion was caused by "one or more" bombs. They later sealed
off the nearby offices of broadcaster TV 2 after discovering a suspicious
package.

The United States, European Union, Nato and the UK, all condemned the bombing.

The attacks come as Norway grapples with a home-grown terror plot linked to al
Qaida. Two suspects are in jail awaiting charges.

Last week, a Norwegian prosecutor filed terror charges against an Iraqi-born
cleric for threatening Norwegian politicians with death if he is deported from
the Scandinavian country.

The indictment centred on statements that Mullah Krekar   the founder of the
Kurdish Islamist group Ansar al-Islam   made to various news media, including
American network NBC.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Seventeen die as terror attacks shock Norway;
HORROR: BLAST IN OSLO AND KILLING SPREE AT YOUTH CAMP

BYLINE: PA NEWS STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 437 words


Seventeen people were killed in twin terror attacks in Norway, police confirmed
last night.

Police say that 10 people were feared dead last night after a gunman dressed as
a policeman opened fire at a youth camp outside Oslo. The deadly attack on the
island of Utoya followed a terror bomb blast in the capital which is believed to
have left seven dead and at least 15 others injured.

Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg told Norwegian broadcaster NRK: "Co-workers have
lost their lives today - it's frightening. That's not how we want things in our
country.

"But it's important that we don't let ourselves be scared. Because the purpose
of that kind of violence is to create fear."

EXPLOSION Police confirmed that a man had been arrested at the Labour Party camp
shooting in Utoya.

Eyewitness Andre Scheie said he saw bodies on the shore of Utoya island The
youth wing of the Labour Party was holding a summer camp, which was attended by
hundreds of people. Mr Scheie said he also saw bodies in the water.

Party spokesman Per Gunnar Dahl said panicked teenagers had tried to flee the
island by swimming as the gunman opened fire.

In Oslo, the powerful bomb tore into the heart of Norway, ripping open
buildings, including the prime minister's office.

Mr Stoltenberg was working at home at the time and was unharmed, according to
senior adviser Oivind Ostang.

The square, where the bomb exploded, was covered in twisted metal and shattered
glass, and carpeted in documents expelled from the surrounding buildings, which
house government offices and the headquarters of some of Norway's leading
newspapers.

Oslo police said the explosion was caused by "one or more'' bombs, but declined
to speculate on who was behind the attack.

They later sealed off the offices of broadcaster TV 2 after discovering a
suspicious package.

"So far, police cannot say anything about the scope of the damage, aside from
that there's been one or several explosions,'' said a police statement.

US President Barack Obama said the bombing was a reminder that the world had a
role in stopping such terror from happening.

He expressed his condolences to Norway's people.

Nato Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen called the blast a "heinous act".

About 400 Norwegian soldiers are serving as part of the Nato-led international
force in Afghanistan. Ten Norwegians have died in the country.

The attacks come as Norway grapples with a home-grown terror plot linked to
al-Qaida. Two suspects are in jail awaiting charges. Last week, a Norwegian
prosecutor filed terror charges against an Iraqi-born cleric for threatening
Norwegian politicians with death if he is deported.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATING: An injured woman is treated after the blast which rocked
Oslo. Below right, Utoya island
PICTURES: PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2011 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Seventeen feared dead in terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 182 words


A BOMB ripped open buildings in the heart of Norway's government before a man
dressed as a police officer opened fire at an island youth camp connected to the
ruling party, leaving at least 17 dead in the attacks.

Seven people were killed in the bomb blast and at least nine more in the camp
shootings, the peaceful nation's worst violence since the World War II.

Oslo police said nine or 10 people were killed at the camp on Utoya island,
where the youth wing of the Labour Party was holding a summer camp for hundreds
of teenagers.

Acting Police Chief Sveinung Sponheim said the two attacks were believed to be
linked - the man arrested for the shooting had been spotted in Oslo before the
explosion there.

Aerial images broadcast by Norway's TV2 showed members of a SWAT team dressed in
black arriving at the island in boats and running up the dock. Behind them,
people stripped down to their underwear swam away from the island toward shore,
some using flotation devices.

Sponheim said the shooting suspect was dressed in a police uniform when he
opened fire into a crowd of youths.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  HORROR: The scene after the explosion in Oslo and (inset) help for a
young victim

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      July 23, 2011 Saturday 12:07 PM BST

HOW NORWAY TERROR ATTACK UNFOLDED

BYLINE: Tim Moynihan, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 717 words


Here is a timeline of the terror attacks in Norway (times in BST).

Friday July 22:

1430: A loud explosion shatters windows and leads to evacuations of office
buildings near the government headquarters in Oslo city centre. The buildings
include the office of prime minister Jens Stoltenberg, who is soon confirmed to
be safe, as he was working at home.

1545: There are reports that at least one person has been killed in the
explosion.

1615: It is confirmed that the explosion was caused by a bomb.

1645: It is confirmed that there are injuries in addition to the death and some
people are trapped at the bomb site.

1700: Police confirm two people are dead and 15 injured.

1745: Police say they are sending anti-terror police to a youth camp on an
island outside Oslo after reports of a shooting there. The news site VG reports
that a man dressed in a police uniform has opened fire at the camp at Utoya, and
several people are injured.

1815: Norway Labour Party spokesman Per Gunnar Dahl says a man has been shooting
at youths assembled for the party's annual youth camp at Utoya. Unconfirmed
reports are that five people were hit. He says around 700 people, mostly
teenagers aged 14 to 18, were assembled for the camp.

1835: It is reported that one person has been arrested after the youth camp
shooting.

1845: Britain condemns the ``horrific'' bomb blast. Foreign Secretary William
Hague says the UK stands ``shoulder to shoulder'' with Norway following the
attack.

1850: Police say they suspect the two incidents in Norway are linked.

1900: It is confirmed that seven people died in the bomb blast.

Nato Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen calls the blast a ``heinous act''.

Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, expresses his
``utmost shock'' over the blast. He says an attack of this magnitude was not
``something one would expect in Norway, famously associated with peace at home
and peacemaking abroad''.

In Washington, State Department spokeswoman Heide Bronke Fulton calls the
violence ``despicable''.

1920: US President Barack Obama says the bombing is a reminder that the world
has a role in stopping such terror from happening.

1945: An eyewitness to the shootings says he saw more than 20 bodies.

Mr Stoltenberg says: ``Co-workers have lost their lives today... it's
frightening. That's not how we want things in our country. But it's important
that we don't let ourselves be scared. Because the purpose of that kind of
violence is to create fear.''

2035: Prime Minister David Cameron says he was ``outraged'' to hear about the
two attacks. He says: ``My thoughts are with the wounded and those who have lost
friends and family, and I know everyone in Britain will feel the same.''

2050: Police say the man arrested after the shooting is linked to the bombing in
Oslo. It emerges that Mr Stoltenberg had been due to speak at the summer camp on
Saturday.

2055: Police say that nine or 10 people were killed in the shooting.

2150: Norway's justice minister says the gunman is Norwegian.

2340: Police say the attacks do not appear to be linked to Islamist terrorism,
saying they were more Norway's ``Oklahoma City'' than ``World Trade Centre''.

Saturday July 23:

0040: It emerges that bomb disposal teams are searching for unexploded devices
on Utoya. A police source says there is at least one device at the camp which is
being disarmed. The gunman is named in reports as Norwegian Anders Behring
Breivik, 32.

The suspect is said to have acted alone, with no links to international
terrorist organisations.

0250: At least 80 people were killed in the shooting, police say.

0450: Police say the suspect had right-wing and anti-Muslim views, but the
motive for the attacks was unclear. They warn the death toll from the shootings
could rise, and others are severely injured. ``This seems like a madman's
work,'' an official says.

0850: The suspect posted on websites with Christian fundamentalist tendencies,
police say. The man is co-operating with police and wants to explain himself,
they add.

The death toll from the shooting stands at 84 and with the bombing it is 91.

1015: Buckingham Palace says the Queen has written to the King of Norway to
express her shock and sadness at the attacks in his country. She said her
thoughts, and those of the Duke of Edinburgh, were with the Norwegian people.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2011 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

30 TEENS KILLED IN TERROR ATTACK;
Holiday camp bloodbath

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 40 words


AT LEAST 30 people, including many teenagers, were slaughtered in two terror
attacks yesterday.

A gunman shot at hundreds of youngsters on an island camp in Norway, while
Government buildings were bombed in the capital Oslo.

Full story: Page 2

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Norway terror attacks leave at least 25 dead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 418 words


MORE than 25 people were feared dead last night after a bomb ripped open
buildings in the heart of Norway's government and a man dressed as a police
officer opened fire at an island youth camp connected to the ruling party.

At least seven people were killed in the blast in Oslo. A witness said more than
20 teenagers died in the camp shootings on the island of Utoya, the peaceful
nation's worst violence since World War II.

Andre Scheie told Norwegian broadcaster NRK that he saw "very many dead by the
shore" of the camp on Utoya, where the youth wing of the Labour Party was
holding a summer camp for hundreds of youths.

He said some victims were shot in the water after trying desperately to swim
away. "There are about 20 to 25 dead," he said.

Police did not immediately confirm the account, but Acting Police Chief Sveinung
Sponheim said a suspect in the shooting has been arrested.

He said police were still trying to get an overview of the camp shooting and
could not say whether there was more than one gunman.

Aerial images broadcast by Norway's TV2 showed members of a SWAT team dressed in
black arriving at the island in boats and running up the dock. Behind them,
people stripped down to their underwear swam away from the island toward shore,
some using flotation devices.

Sponheim said the arrested man was linked to the bombing in Oslo, the capital
and the city where the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded. A square was covered in
twisted metal, shattered glass and documents expelled from surrounding
buildings, which house government offices and the headquarters of some of
Norway's leading newspapers.

Most of the windows in the 20-floor high-rise, where Prime Minister Jens
Stoltenberg and his administration work, were shattered. Stoltenberg was working
at home and was unharmed.

A spokesman for Stoltenberg's Labour Party, Per Gunnar Dahl, said he could not
confirm that there were fatalities at Utoya, about 60 miles northwest of Oslo.

The party's youth wing organises an annual summer camp on the island, and
Stoltenberg had been scheduled to speak there today.

"There are at least five people who have been seriously wounded and have been
transported to a local hospital," Dahl said.

He said the shooting "created a panic situation where people started to swim
from the island" to escape.

Police blocked off roads leading to the lake around Utoya.

In Oslo, police said the explosion was caused by "one or more" bombs, but
declined to speculate on who was behind the attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ The aftermath of the devastating explosion in Oslo, which killed at
least seven people

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: sw


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 24, 2011 Sunday

Israel expresses "shock" at Norway "terror" attacks, offers assistance

LENGTH: 144 words


Text of report in English by Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on 23
July

[Press release:  "Israel Condemns Oslo Terror Attacks"]

Israel expresses its shock at the revolting terror attacks in Oslo, which have
taken the lives of innocent victims. Nothing at all can justify such wanton
violence, and we condemn this brutal action with the utmost gravity.

We stand in solidarity with the people and government of Norway in this hour of
trial, and trust Norwegian authorities to bring to justice those responsible for
this heinous crime.

Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. We send our
condolences to the bereaved families, and our wishes for prompt recovery to the
injured. We remain at the Government of Norway's disposal for any assistance it
may require.

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Jerusalem, in English 23 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 24, 2011 Sunday

Four Yemeni soldiers killed, 21 wounded in "terrorist attack" in Aden

LENGTH: 70 words


At 1023 gmt on 24 July, Republic of Yemen Television in Arabic carries the
following "breaking news" as a screen caption:

"Four soldiers were martyred and 21 others from the military were wounded in a
terrorist attack when an Al-Qa'idah suicide bomber attacked with a booby-trapped
vehicle a military convoy in Al-Mansurah, Aden, that was heading to Abyan."

Source: Republic of Yemen TV, Sanaa, in Arabic 1023 gmt 24 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 24, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Police guard aided terror attack on Kabul hotel

BYLINE: Miles Amoore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26,27

LENGTH: 903 words


THE terrorists who launched a commando assault on one of Kabul's leading hotels
received help from three insiders, including a police officer, according to the
man who planned the attack.

Eight suicide bombers armed with rocket-propelled grenades, heavy machineguns,
assault rifles, grenade launchers and suicide vests stormed the InterContinental
Hotel on the night of June 28, triggering a battle that lasted more than seven
hours and left 20 dead.

The attack highlighted the inability of Kabul's security forces to thwart
attacks on high-profile targets in the Afghan capital as Nato begins to hand
over control of parts of the country to the Afghan government.

Closed-circuit TV footage taken from the InterContinental on the night of the
attack showed the commander of the hotel's police force asleep as the first
shots were fired. After he awoke to the sound of gunfire, he could be seen
fleeing the hotel with his men.

Last Sunday, militants assassinated an Afghan politician and a close aide of
President Hamid Karzai's. The attack underlined the threat insurgents pose to
security in the capital. It also hinted at the role Pakistan plays in stoking
insecurity in Afghanistan.

Mobile phone intercepts made during the initial stages of the InterContinental
attack show the attackers were communicating directly with their commander,
Badruddin Haqqani, who is based in Pakistan, where the attack was planned.

Badruddin is the deputy leader of the Haqqani network, which is considered the
most sophisticated insurgent force in Afghanistan. The Haqqanis maintain close
ties with Al-Qaeda and are often accused of receiving support from the Pakistani
military and intelligence services.

"It's like a PlayStation game," said an Afghan intelligence official. "Pakistan
always holds one of the controllers so they can play their games whenever they
want."

Police investigating the attack are baffled by how the InterContinental
attackers were able to break into the well-guarded hotel with such a large
arsenal. One insurgent was caught on camera carrying 16 RPG warheads in a quiver
on his back. "How they got into the hotel with this much ammunition is still a
mystery," said an Afghan security official.

The deputy head of the Haqqani network's Kabul cell, which is responsible for
planning and co-ordinating attacks in the Afghan capital, told The Sunday Times
that the attackers were aided by a police officer, an interpreter and the
bodyguard of a senior government official who was staying at the hotel.

The policeman, whose job was to guard the hotel grounds, was bribed by the
Haqqanis to lead the attackers into the hotel kitchen, according to the deputy,
who used the name Habibullah Rahman.

At about 10.30pm, the policeman cut a hole in the perimeter wire to allow the
insurgents inside the grounds. Meanwhile, the bodyguard of a senior Afghan
official chatted with a group of hotel security staff. His job was to alert the
attackers via text message if they were spotted, Rahman said.

Once inside the kitchen, the attackers were met by the interpreter, who worked
for a group of foreign businessmen staying at the hotel, according to Rahman.
His job was to guide the suicide squad to the rooms where foreigners slept.

"We told the attackers to kill foreigners. That was their main priority," said
Rahman. "They were also supposed to kill government officials at the
conference."

But video footage from the hotel, which security officials reviewed after the
assault, shows the attackers in a state of confusion. At one stage, the gunmen
descend a flight of stairs leading to the basement, apparently lost.

Despite months of planning, the attack was launched on the wrong day - a
security conference of high-ranking Afghan officials was scheduled for the
following day.

"We're not sure what happened," said Rahman. "We were angry that we made this
mistake. We wanted to cause maximum embarrassment for the government by showing
them that even their security conferences were not safe from attack."

During the initial stages of the assault, the attackers were in direct contact
with Badruddin Haqqani. Mobile phone intercepts made by Afghanistan's
intelligence agency recorded Badruddin speaking to the attackers from a call
centre in the Pakistani city of Miran Shah.

"He was urging on the attackers, telling them that this was the first stage of
their life in paradise," said an Afghan security official.

Rahman said he had met Badruddin on numerous occasions in North Waziristan.

"Badruddin surrounds himself with Pakistani and Arab advisers and often travels
to Pakistan's capital, Islamabad, in a convoy of brand new Land Cruisers,"
Rahman said.

"If the Pakistanis weren't supporting him, then how is it possible he can travel
so freely?" he asked. "The explosives we use are military grade. We couldn't get
them without Pakistan's help."

No arrests have been made in connection with the assault on the hotel, which
lasted until New Zealand special forces soldiers and Nato attack helicopters
joined the fight.

In recent weeks Afghanistan's intelligence agency has arrested 11 men belonging
to three groups who planned to assassinate Bismillah Mohammadi, the minister of
the interior, according to officials.

"Our men are tired," said a senior intelligence official. "They are at full
capacity and the insurgents just keep coming and coming even when we are
successful."

'' THE SECURITY CHIEF FLED WHEN HE HEARD THE SOUND OF GUNFIRE

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The gun battle at the InterContinental hotel did not end until New
Zealand special forces and Nato helicopters were called in
PEDRO UGARTE/REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Sunday Sun (UK)

                                 July 24, 2011
                                  1st Edition

HOW HORRIFIC NORWAY TERROR ATTACK LEFT AT LEAST 92 DEAD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 422 words


FRIDAY: 1430: A loud explosion shatters windows, leading to evacuations of
office buildings near the government HQ in Oslo city centre.

1545: Reports that at least one person has been killed in the explosion.

1615: It is confirmed that the explosion was caused by a bomb.

1700: Police confirm two people are dead and 15 injured. 1745: Police send
anti-terror police to a youth camp on Utoya island outside Oslo after reports of
a shooting there. The news site VG reports that a man dressed in a police
uniform has opened fire at the camp, and several people are injured.

1815: Norway Labour Party spokesman Per Gunnar Dahl says a man has been shooting
at youths assembled for the party's annual youth camp at Utoya - around 700
people, mostly teenagers aged 14 to 18, assembled for the camp.

1845: Britain condemns the "horrific" bomb blast. Foreign Secretary William
Hague says the UK stands "shoulder to shoulder" with Norway following the
attack.

1850: Police say they suspect the two incidents in Norway are linked. Confirmed
seven people died in the bomb blast. 2035: PM David Cameron: "My thoughts are
with the wounded and those who have lost friends and family" 2055: Police say
that nine or 10 people were killed in the shooting.

2340: Police say the attacks do not appear to be linked to Islamist terrorism,
saying they were more Norway's "Oklahoma City" than "World Trade Centre".

YESTERDAY: 0040: Bomb disposal teams are searching for unexploded devices on
Utoya. A police source says there is at least one device at the camp which is
being disarmed. The gunman is named in reports as Norwegian Anders Behring
Breivik, 32. The suspect is said to have acted alone, with no links to
international terrorist organisations.

0250: At least 80 people were killed in the shooting, police say. 0450: Police
say the suspect had right-wing and anti-Muslim views, but the motive for the
attacks was unclear. They warn the death toll from the shootings could rise, and
others are severely injured. "This seems like a madman's work," an official
says.

0850: The suspect posted on websites with Christian fundamentalist tendencies,
police say. The man is co-operating with police and wants to explain himself,
they add. The death toll from the shooting stands at 84 and with the bombing it
is 91.

1015: Buckingham Palace says the Queen has written to the King of Norway to
express her shock and sadness at the attacks in his country. She said her
thoughts, and those of the Duke of Edinburgh, were with the Norwegian people.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ss


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

Saudi-based Pan-Islamic body condemns Norway terror attacks

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

["OIC Secretary General Condemns Terrorist Attacks in Norway" - SPA headline]

Jedda, Sha'ban 22, 1432, Jul 23, 2011, SPA - The Secretary General of the
Organization of the Islamic Cooperation (OIC) Prof. Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu has
expressed shock and horror at the terrorist attacks in Norway on July 22, 2011.

Prof. Ihsanoglu strongly condemned the sad incidents and offered his condolences
to the families of the victims, the Government and the people of Norway over
this tragedy.

The Secretary General reiterated the principled position of the OIC against all
forms of terrorism and urged the international community to remain steadfast in
combating this phenomenon.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 0000 gmt 23 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

Kyrgyz leader sends condolences to Norway king over terror attacks

LENGTH: 133 words


Text of report by state-owned Kyrgyz news agency Kabar

Bishkek, 25 July: Kyrgyz President Roza Otunbayeva has sent a message of
condolence to Norwegian King Harald V over the tragic events in that country,
the Kyrgyz presidential press service has told Kabar.

The message in particular says: "I am deeply shocked at double terror attack in
Oslo and Utoya Island, which killed and injured tens of people. On behalf of the
people of Kyrgyzstan and personally, I express deep condolences over the tragic
events. Kyrgyzstan resolutely condemns such inhumane acts of violence -
terrorism has never had and does not have any justification. Please convey my
condolences to the kith and kin of the dead and wishes of soonest recovery for
the injured people."

Source: Kabar, Bishkek, in Russian 0321 gmt 25 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

Terror Attacks: Key Implications For Europe

LENGTH: 847 words


BMI View: Norway's terror attacks will place European far-right organisations -
including some political parties - under greater scrutiny. However, the bigger
risk is copy-cat attacks, whether by Islamist militants, other far-right
European groups or disaffected individuals.

Although the investigation into Norway's twin terror attacks is still in its
early stages and the suspect, Anders Behring Breivik, has been captured, a
number of implications is already emerging.

The Terror Attacks Will Place Europe's Far-Right Organisations Under Greater
Scrutiny: Although it appears that Breivik acted alone, he was clearly motivated
by ultra right-wing politics, in particular his vehement opposition to
multiculturalism, Islam and 'cultural Marxists' in the Norwegian establishment.
These forces, Breivik apparently believes, are undermining Europe's heritage.
Given that there are only 65,000 Muslims in Norway, or little more than 1% of
the country's population (according to a Pew Research Center survey published in
2009), Breivik's concerns would appear to have no basis in fact, yet his fears
of Islam seem to apply to Europe as a whole. Indeed, in his 1,500-page
manifesto, Breivik speaks of his 'love for Europe, European culture and all
Europeans'. He goes on to say that in around 2000 he concluded that the
democratic struggle against the 'Islamisation of Europe' was lost, especially
after the NATO alliance attacked Christian Serbia (in 1999) on behalf of
Kosovo's Muslim Albanians. After that, he came into contact with 'Serbian
cultural conservatives' through the internet, resulting in contacts with key
individuals 'all over Europe'. Consequently, it would be reasonable to believe
that Breivik had ties with extremist organisations across the continent. This
will force law enforcement agencies to scrutinise such far-right groups more
carefully, most of which are little known and have very small followings.
Security will probably be tightened around political leaders, especially given
that Breivik had reportedly planned to target former Norwegian prime minister
Gro Harlem Brundtland, who had visited the island of Utoeya on the day of the
massacre.

Far-Right Politics Will Receive Greater Attention: Although Breivik's attacks
will discredit far-right ideologies, there is nonetheless considerable
consternation in many European countries about the influx of immigrants,
especially those from Muslim nations. Indeed, even mainstream politicians such
as UK Prime Minister David Cameron, French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German
Chancellor Angela Merkel have all recently declared that multiculturalism has
failed, albeit emphasising the benefits of immigration. Elsewhere, right-wing
parties have performed strongly in elections in the Netherlands and Finland over
the past year. Although 'mainstream' right-wing parties will be quick to condemn
Breivik and distance themselves from his violent politics, and although some
groups may now temper their rhetoric (at least for the time being), there is a
risk that if the immigration debate is ignored by the political mainstream, this
could eventually give a renewed boost to the far-right.

Initial Fears Of Islamist Culpability Underscore Europe's Fear Factor: There
were some parallels between the Norway atrocities and the terror attack in
Oklahoma City, US in 1995. In both cases, initial fears focused on Islamist
extremists as organisers of the bombings, before a blue-eyed fair-haired man was
revealed as the perpetrator. Indeed, in the hours following Breivik's detonation
of a car bomb in central Oslo, before he went on to massacre youths in Utoeya,
suspicions turned to al-Qaeda cells (owing to Norway's participation in the NATO
war against Libya) and even Colonel Qadhafi's agents. Several media outlets and
commentators hastily suggested that Muslims were behind the attacks. This
underscores the sense of threat that European countries feel from Islamist
militancy. Admittedly, given that there have been several Islamist terror
attacks carried out on European soil in recent years and several more foiled
plots, including a suicide bombing in Sweden last year, such assumptions were to
be expected. Nonetheless, knee-jerk reactions will have added to inter-communal
tensions.

The Biggest Risk For European Security Is Copy-Cat Attacks: Norway's terror
attacks demonstrated that one person - seemingly acting alone - can cause
unspeakable death and significant destruction completely out of the blue.
Although Breivik's attacks can probably be regarded as a 'freak event', we see a
possibility that other individuals or groups - be they Islamists, European
far-rightists, anarchists or even disaffected individuals - could seek to carry
out copy-cat attacks. Indeed, if this sort of incident can happen in peaceful,
stable and wealthy Norway, then other European countries, which typically have
more socioeconomic problems, are probably more vulnerable to extremism,
especially considering that many of them are facing their most uncertain future
(owing to colossal economic challenges) for many years.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political Risk Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2011 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

National: Norway terror attacks: The questions

BYLINE: Simon Tisdall

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 477 words


Were the attacks the work of a lone gunman?

Police say Anders Behring Breivik, who has admitted responsibility for the bomb
and gun attacks, claims to have acted alone. Investigations are continuing into
unconfirmed reports of a second gunman on the island of Utoya and possible
connections between Breivik and far-right international groups. The police
chief, Sveinung Sponheim, said they were "not at all certain" whether Breivik
had acted alone and that was one of the things the investigation would
concentrate on. As yet, no evidence has emerged implicating anybody else.

Why did he do it?

Breivik appears to have developed a pathological hatred of the Norwegian
"establishment", principally the political class symbolised by the ruling Labour
party, whose youth camp on Utoya he attacked. His political views were too
extreme for the rightwing Progress party, of which he was once a member. An
ethnic Norwegian, he was strongly opposed to government policies favouring
multi-culturalism. Although an apparent racial supremacist and Islamophobe, he
adopted the language of Muslim jihadists. A Norwegian website has provided a
link to a 1,500-page electronic manifesto and a book which Breivik was said to
have written. "Once you decide to strike, it is better to kill too many than not
enough, or you risk reducing the desired ideological impact of the strike," the
book said.

Could more have been done to prevent the attacks?

Police said it took them an hour to stop the massacre on Utoya, from the moment
they were told of the shootings to the point when they arrested Breivik. "The
response time from when we got the message was quick," Sponheim said after
criticism that there had been an unacceptable delay. "There were problems with
transport out to the island." One unanswered question is why police drove,
instead of using a helicopter. Utoya is a lake island about 26 miles north-west
of Oslo. The government buildings in Oslo appear to have been relatively
unprotected compared with their equivalents in London or Washington DC. This is
certain to force a security rethink.

How was the gunman captured?

Police have not given any details of Breivik's capture but said he gave himself
up to armed officers when they arrived on Utoya. He does not appear to have
attempted to escape. This suggests he was determined that his actions would have
the maximum political impact, including what is certain to be a high-profile
trial.

How will Norwegians respond?

The initial reaction among Norwegians has been one of shock that such a tragedy
could occur in a country where crime rates are low - and that the perpetrator
was one of their "own". The sense of national disorientation increased when
assumptions that Middle Eastern terrorists or Islamists were responsible proved
wrong. The prime minister, Jens Stoltenberg, said: "Those who try to scare us
shall not win."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

National: Norway terror attacks: Gunman claims London connection: Road that led
to massacre began at 2002 meeting of extremists in Britain

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor, Mark Townsend, Oslo

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 958 words


Anders Behring Breivik, the man behind the Norway killings that left 93 people
dead, began his journey in extremist rightwing politics at a small meeting in
London in 2002, according to his online manifesto, and may have attended a far
right demonstration in the UK as recently as last year.

In a 1,467-page document that contains chilling details of his preparations for
Friday's attacks, Breivik outlines his UK links, claiming he met eight other
extremists from across Europe in London in 2002 to "re-form" the Knights Templar
Europe - a group whose purpose was "to seize political and military control of
western European countries and implement a cultural conservative political
agenda".

The manifesto, signed "Andrew Berwick London 2011", contains repeated references
to his links to the UK far right group the English Defence League. On Sunday
there were unconfirmed reports from one of the organisation's supporters that
the 32-year-old had attended at least one EDL demonstration in 2010.

"(B)ar one or two doubt the rest of us ever met him, altho he did come over for
one of our demo in 2010 . . . but what he did was wrong," said an EDL member
online.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said that the Metropolitan police is liaising with
Norwegian authorities and an officer has gone to the country to help the
investigation.

In the manifesto titled 2083: A European Declaration of Independence, Breivik
writes: "I used to have more than 600 EDL members as Facebook friends and have
spoken with tens of EDL members and leaders. In fact; I was one of the
individuals who supplied them with processed ideological material (including
rhetorical strategies) in the very beginning."

The EDL - which has staged a series of street demonstrations, many of which have
turned violent, since it was formed two years ago - issued a statement yesterday
condemning the attacks and denying it had any links with Breivik. It added that
the league was a peaceful organisation which rejected all forms of extremism.

"There has never been any official contact between him and the EDL, our Facebook
page had 100,000 supporters and receives tens of thousands of comments each
day," it added. "And there is no evidence that Breivik was ever one of those
100,000 supporters."

The group pointed out that Breivik was critical of the EDL in the "manifesto",
describing it as "dangerously naive".

Another UK-based organisation, Stop Islamisation of Europe , told Reuters that
Breivik had tried to join their Facebook group but had been rejected over his
apparent neo-Nazi links. However, they said it was possible he had attended one
of its demonstrations.

Emblazoned with a red Iron Cross and published in English, the manifesto
appeared online a few hours before the attacks. It appears to be a mixture of
bomb-making manual, diary and political rant against a range of perceived
enemies from "cultural Marxists" to Muslims, liberals and journalists.

It includes an detailed diary covering the 82 days leading up to the attacks
which reveals Breivik's mood swings, his attempts to make explosives on a remote
farm and even his favourite DVDs.

On the day of the killings, Breivik wrote: "The old saying; 'If you want
something done, then do it yourself' is as relevant now as it was then." A few
hours later he added: "I believe this will be my last entry. It is now Fri July
22nd, 12.51." Berwick signed off "AB Justiciar Knight Commander, cell 8, Knights
Templar Europe."

The document details Breivik's isolated life on the farm as he carried out
meticulous preparations for the attack, testing explosives and obtaining
weapons.

It reveals an obsession with the Crusades and a supposed threat to Christian
Europe posed by Muslim immigrants and mainstream political leaders. Breivik
predicts a European civil war will take place in three stages, ending in 2083
with the execution of "cultural Marxists" and the deportation of all Muslims.

Friday's attack was being planned for at least 18 months, according to the
document. Breivik expresses concern that preparations for the attack and the
manifesto would alert the security services.

"I do fear sometimes that my endeavours relating to the research of the book,
and acquisitions of these addresses has resulted in me being put on various
watch lists," an entry dated March 2010 reads. "The question is; have they
flagged me? I guess I will find out eventually."

In one section Breivik argues that is better to kill civilians than those who
would offer more resistance, writing: "It is much more rational and pragmatical
to focus on the easier unprotected targets instead of sacrificing good men on an
impossible target . . . we should target unprotected category A and B traitors
first and foremost." He goes on to outline plans for a possible attack on a
gathering of investigative journalists which he says is one of the "most
attractive" potential targets.

"To illustrate; in Norway, there is an annual gathering . . . where the most
notable journalists/editors from all the nations media/news companies attend
(500 delegates - 98% of them are considered 'quality category B traitor
targets'."

He sets out a detailed plan for a car or lorry bomb "covered with layers of
projectiles for maximum damage" followed by an attack with rifles and flame
throwers.

Breivik advocates attacks on traitors across Europe. "(W)e should under normal
(optimal) circumstances not exceed (per 2010) approx. 45 000 dead and 1 million
wounded cultural Marxists/multiculturalists in Western Europe." UK Anti-racist
groups said they were not aware of the Knights Templar Europe.

Captions:

Massacre aftermath

A body is unloaded from a ferry after it was brought over from Utoya. Breivik
killed at least 86 people attending a youth camp

Photograph: Frank Augstein/AP

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

National: Norway terror attacks: Gun controls: Norway's tough firearms laws
prove easy to evade

BYLINE: Simon Tisdall

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 301 words


The massacre on the island of Utoya is certain to lead to a security review,
with particular stress on how Anders Behring Breivik obtained his weapons.
Norway already has some of the toughest gun laws in the world, but they were
apparently easily circumvented by the killer.

A licence is required to own a gun, and the owner must provide a written
statement saying why he or she wants one. Many categories of guns, including
automatics and some powerful handguns, are banned from sale altogether.

Hunting and outdoor sports are popular in Norway. But the laws are strict.
Shotguns and rifles must be stored in a secure place, typically a specially
designed gun safe, as must ammunition. Police have the right to inspect an
owner's home to ensure the law is being followed.

Transporting a weapon to a public place is also covered by legislation. The
owner must have a good reason, must ensure it is unloaded and concealed from
view, but not worn on the body, and must keep the weapon under constant
supervision.

Under the Firearm Weapons Act, only "sober and responsible" persons over the age
of 18 may obtain a gun licence. For handguns, the age requirement is 21.

Perhaps because the laws are already so strict and gun crime is relatively rare,
gun control is not generally considered a political issue in Norway, unlike
countries such as the US where a citizen's right to bear arms is guaranteed by
the constitution and fiercely defended.

American bloggers were quick to note that Norway's regulations did not stop
Breivik carrying out the attacks.

One poster on democraticunderground.com commented: "All this did not stop a guy
from carrying a 'handgun, automatic, and a shotgun' at a no-gun zone in Norway."

Neighbouring Finland announced that it was fast-forwarding tougher gun laws
following the Norway attacks.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

National: Norway terror attacks: Breivik's diary: Murderer's musings as he
counts down to attacks: Anders Behring Breivik's diary, written in English,
details his meticulous planning in the 82 days leading up to the attacks. These
are extracts

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 933 words


Mon 2 May Day 1

I drove up to the farm with all the equipment and gear/clothing I needed. I
spent most of the day moving and getting my equipment and gear into place.

Wed 11 May Day 10

When I returned from the southern town later that day, I saw two military 12-man
teams, armed to the teeth, just 2000m south of my farm. The largest military
base in the country is just a few kilometres north-east of my farm and their
territory extends almost all the way down to my property. They have notified all
their neighbours, me included, that they are conducting a large military
training session to prepare a new division of soldiers for the war against the
Taliban and al-Qaida in Afghanistan.

Sat 14 May Day 13

It's the Eurovision finale today. I just love Eurovision . . . ! :-) It's a lot
of crap music but I think it's a great show all in all. I've seen all the semi
finals and will take the time of to watch it later today, online. My country has
a crap, politically correct contribution as always. An asylum seeker from Kenya,
performing a bongo song, very representative of Europe and my country . . . In
any case; I hope Germany wins!

Thurs 19 May Day 18

It's essential to create as much goodwill you can from the neighbours. Use any
opportunity to generate goodwill from them. This goodwill will be returned
indirectly by them not probing and investigating. If you get a visit from
neighbours, be polite and friendly, offer sandwiches and coffee, unless it will
jeopardise the operation.

Sat 21 May Day 20

Went to the capital to pick up a few parcels . . . On my way home to the farm I
noticed what I believed to be a civilian police vehicle south of the southern
town . . . As I came closer to the farm I noticed what I believed to be another
civilian police car . . . What should I do if I was about to be SWAT raped by a
6 or 12 man team? I didn't have any weapons available as they were all inside
the main house. Should I make a run for it, if so, where would I go? . . . The
barn door had probably been opened by the wind. I decided then and there that I
would not allow paranoia to get the best of me again. If they were to come for
me one day, there was really nothing I could do about it, so it would not be
constructive to worry.

Sat 11 June Day 41

. . . I prayed for the first time in a very long time today. I explained to God
that unless he wanted the Marxist-Islamic alliance and the certain Islamic
takeover of Europe to completely annihilate European Christendom within the next
hundred years he must ensure that the warriors fighting for the preservation of
European Christendom prevail.

Sat 18 June Day 48

I woke up at 11.00 and checked my phone. There was an SMS sent 09.30 from Tonje,
the owner's girlfriend. She said she was ON HER WAY UP to pick up some equipment
from the barn!!! Omfg; considering the fact that it's a 2-2.5 hour's drive from
the capital she would be here in about half an hour!!! She has a large storage
room in the back of the barn and she would need to pass all my (equipment) to
get there. I called her up. Luckily she hadn't left yet. Thank God! I fed her a
story which resulted in us agreeing that she would come on Monday around 20.00.

Wed 29 June Day 59

Completed last batch . . . Watching Spartacus: Blood & Sand, a brilliant series
:-). It's my favourite one, in addition to Rome, Battlestar Galactica, Caprica
and Stargate Universe! <3. The Shield, Dexter, Sleeper Cell, Vampire Diaries and
True Blood are good as well. All the series adhere to the multiculti ideology
but such is life for the time being.

Thurs 30 June Day 60

This house is infested with beetles. Just now I was about to reach for a
chocolate in my goodie bag and a beetle had crawled in, ffs. . .

Sat 2 July Day 62

Going over the travel route for both plan A and B for the upcoming event,
familiarising myself with the driving routes and plotting in destinations in my
Garmin GPS. I went to the gym and did a really hard workout.

Sun 3 July Day 63

. . . Noticing that the testosterone withdrawal is contributing to increased
aggressiveness. As I'm now continuing with 50mg it will most likely pass. I wish
it would be possible to somehow manipulate this effect to my advantage later on
when it is needed.

Mon 4 July Day 64

Updated log for a few hours. I then began the preparations for a trip to extract
the armour cache, I had dug down a year ago in July 2010. I am really concerned
that someone has somehow found the cache.

Mon 11 July Day 71

Considering the fact that I am currently working on the most dreadful task, I
bought a lot of exquisite food and candy today. I really need to recharge my
batteries

Tues 19 July Day 79

. . . Started packing down gear. . . Went to a higher quality restaurant in the
southern town and feasted. Yummy! I've been working extremely hard the last few
days and I'm completely exhausted.

Thurs 21 July Day 81

Drive 11 hours straight to Kautokeino, sort out cheap hotel

Fri 22 July Day 82

Initiate blasting sequences at pre-determined sites. If all fails, I will
initiate my career with a private security firm in conflict zones to acquire
maximum funds in the shortest period of time to repay the debts. First coming
costume party this autumn, dress up as a police officer. Arrive with insignias
:-) Will b awesome as people will be very astonished :-) Side note; imagine if
law enforcement would visit me the next days. They would probably get the wrong
idea and think I was a terrorist, lol :o)

I believe this will be my last entry. It is now Fri July 22nd, 12.51.

Sincere regards, Andrew Berwick/Justiciar Knight Commander/Knights Templar
Europe/Knights Templar Norway

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

National: Norway terror attacks: Paranoid ideology that links mass killer to
European and US far right

BYLINE: Andrew Brown

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 665 words


The Norwegian mass murderer Anders Behring Breivik, who shot dead more than 90
young socialists at their summer camp on Friday after mounting a huge bomb
attack on the centre of Oslo, has been described as a fundamentalist Christian.
Yet he published enough of his thoughts on the internet to make it clear that
his ideology had nothing to do with Christianity but was based on an atavistic
horror of Muslims and a loathing of "Marxists", by which he meant anyone to the
left of Genghis Khan.

Two huge conspiracy theories form the gearboxes of his writing. The first is
that Islam threatens the survival of Europe through what he calls "demographic
Jihad". Through a combination of uncontrolled immigration and uncontrolled
breeding, the Muslims, who cannot live at peace with their neighbours, are
conquering Europe.

But these ideas, however crazy, are part of a widespread paranoid ideology that
links the European and American far right and even elements of mainstream
conservatism in Britain.

In an argument on the rightwing Norwegian site Dokument.no, Breivik wrote: "Show
me a country where Muslims have lived at peace with non-Muslims without waging
Jihad against the Kaffir (dhimmitude, systematic slaughter, or demographic
warfare)? Can you please give me ONE single example where Muslims have been
successfully assimilated? How many thousands of Europeans must die, how many
hundreds of thousands of European women must be raped, millions robbed and
bullied before you realise that multiculturalism and Islam cannot work?"

He posted statistics showing the growth of Muslim populations in Lebanon,
Kosovo, Kashmir and Turkey over the centuries in order to demonstrate the same
process was under way in Oslo.

The second is the idea that the elite have sold out to "Marxism", which controls
the universities, mainstream media, and almost all the political parties, and is
bent on the destruction of western civilisation. "Europe lost the cold war as
early as 1950, at the moment when we allowed Marxists/anti-nationalists to
operate freely, without keeping them out of jobs where they could seize power
and influence, especially teaching in schools and universities," he wrote.

These grand conspiracies are linked by the "Eurabia" conspiracy theory, which
holds that EU bureaucrats have struck a secret deal to hand over Europe to Islam
in exchange for oil.

Such extreme ideas are distributed among far-right blogs in Europe and America.
The American anti-Muslim agitator Robert Spencer was namechecked when Breivik
listed his intellectual influences on Dokument.no, along with a pseudonymous
Norwegian who calls himself Fjordman and the equally pseudonymous Bat Ye'or, who
invented the Eurabia conspiracy. Spencer, along with his sidekick, Pamela
Geller, was responsible for the campaign against the so-called "Ground Zero
Mosque".

Fjordman, who may be several people writing under a pseudonym, is at least one
Norwegian Islamophobe who has for years been predicting civil war between
Muslims and their neighbours. He is sufficiently paranoid that he refused to
meet Breivik, according to these papers, but their ideas overlap so much that
Fjordman was briefly and wrongly suspected of being the gunman. He has also
written for the Brussels Journal, a fanatically anti-EU blog where Daniel
Hannan, the Conservative MEP, was on the masthead for a while.

Obviously these people cannot be held responsible for the use to which their
ideas were put. But anyone tempted to take them seriously should consider what
were almost Breivik's last words on Document.no: "For the last three years I
have been working full time on a cultural conservative work which will help to
develop and market these political ideas."

That "cultural conservative work" was the PDF he mailed out as he set off on his
murder spree.

Captions:

Conspiracy theorist

Anders Behring Breivik in a uniform bearing insignia associated with the extreme
right and Knights Templar. He also posed with guns for a YouTube video and
manifesto

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

National: Norway terror attacks: Oklahoma parallels

BYLINE: Andrew Gumbel, Los Angeles

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 203 words


Anders Brehing Breivik appears to have taken more than just inspiration from
Timothy McVeigh, the Oklahoma City bomber.

Breivik possessed the same types of firearm, used very similar explosive
materials, and even followed the American far right's model of "leaderless
resistance" - sharing a common ideological goal with a broader movement but
planning his criminal acts in secret.

McVeigh, a Gulf war veteran who believed American freedoms were under threat
from gun control and unchecked federal police forces, was arrested with a Glock
.45 semi-automatic pistol on the morning of the Oklahoma City bombing in April
1995; Breivik was also reported to possess a Glock. McVeigh's assault rifle of
choice was a Ruger mini-30; Breivik possessed a similar Ruger mini-14. Both are
.223 calibre rifles that are dependable, easy to load, convertible to fully
automatic and cheaper than AR-15s.

Breivik's journal and manifesto show that he bought six tonnes of ammonium
nitrate with which to manufacture explosives, and it appears that ammonium
nitrate-based bombs were used in the Oslo blasts. The Oklahoma City bomb was
made with about two tonnes of ammonium nitrate mixed with nitromethane and a
smaller quantity of diesel fuel.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Iran official accuses Israel of terror attacks on scientists

LENGTH: 196 words


Iran's Foreign Ministry spokesman accuses Israel of carrying out terrorist
attacks against Iranian scientists in order to halt the country's scientific and
industrial progress.

"Support for terrorism, which is a Zionist step with regard to the youth of our
country, is aimed at halting the great movement of our people towards scientific
and industrial changes in our country," Ramin Mehmanparast said during his news
conference on 26 July which was broadcast live by Iran's state news channel
(IRINN).

"When they see that they failed to prevent the growth of our nation through
illegal steps such as sanctions and when news of our country's scientific and
industrial progress is continuously announced, they resort to terrorism against
researchers," he said.

Mehmanparast urged all countries to make more efforts to condemn and eradicate
terrorism worldwide. "There should be global cooperation in order to root out
this phenomenon," he said. The Foreign Ministry spokesman also urged Western
countries to stop supporting terrorist groups as they cause the "greatest damage
to global security".

Source: Islamic Republic of Iran News Network, Tehran, in Persian 0539 gmt 26
Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Lebanese Hezbollah terms Norway attacks "Zionist terrorism"

LENGTH: 773 words


Text of report in English entitled "Hezbollah: Norway attack shows Zionism's
perils" published by privately-owned Lebanese newspaper The Daily Star website
on 26 July

Hezbollah condemned Monday [25 July] the recent attack in Norway that left at
least 76 dead as "proof" of the racism of Zionist culture.

"The terrorist act committed by a right-wing extremist, who supports Zionists in
Norway, is additional proof that the culture stemming from the Zionist enemy, or
ideas that support it, is deeply tied to the racism of its leadership," a
statement released by the party said.

In several online postings, Anders Behring Breivik, the confessed perpetrator of
the attack, promoted fiercely anti-Islamic and far-right Zionist views, calling
for "the deportation of all Muslims from Europe" as well as from "the West Bank
and the Gaza Strip".

Hezbollah's statement said "Zionist terrorism" poses a danger to Palestinians
and Arabs as well as to Europeans and warned against "attempts to overlook
terrorism tied to Zionism".

"Concerning this assault, standards differ within the international community
and positions are taken based on the identity of those accused of terrorism. If
they were Muslims, then their culture and society would be condemned, whereas if
they were close to Zionists, justifications and excuses would be sought," it
added.

Hezbollah said attempts to overlook the incident's link to Zionist terrorism
would encourage further attacks.

Other Lebanese officials attributed the attack to the degradation of moral
values and to the lack of dialogue among communities, which they said promoted
extremist movements that could only be confronted with a culture of openness and
exchange of ideas.

President Michel Sulayman said the attack was due to the weakening of family
values and ties, which countries in the East, and Lebanon in particular, still
hold in high regard.

"Massacres by some extremists and maniacs against civil groups are due to the
fading of some values and family ties, which the East still enjoys," Sulayman
said.

The bombing in the centre of Oslo is thought to have been the result of a car
packed with explosive chemicals which was set off outside government offices,
killing eight and severely damaging the surrounding buildings.

He is thought to have then driven to the small island of Utoya, 45km away, where
he shot at young people who were attending a youth summer camp of the ruling
Labour Party.

Despite having bullets remaining, Breivik surrendered to police when he was
finally confronted on the island after shooting dead 68.

Condemning the attack, Progressive Socialist Party (PSP) leader MP Walid
Jumblatt called on Lebanese political leaders to learn from the incident, which
Jumblatt attributed to sternness and lack of compromise within parties,
communities and regimes.

"Sternness could push some individuals to act as insane, violent terrorists,
bringing misery on others," Jumblatt added. The PSP leader said "Norway's
massacre" highlights the importance of maintaining openness and dialogue,
particularly when it comes to controversial issues, in a bid to bridge the gap
and allay fears among the Lebanese.

Jumblatt added that dialogue among the Lebanese was necessary until an agreement
over a national defence strategy could be reached, which would eventually lead
to the "containment of Hezbollah's weapons within the state's official
framework".

"The PSP has stressed the importance of [upholding] the tripartite equation of
the army, people and resistance until an agreement is reached over a
comprehensive national defence strategy," Jumblatt added, in reference to the
disputed issue of Hezbollah's weapons.

While March 14 parties insist the possession of weapons should be restricted to
the state, Hezbollah maintains its weapons are necessary to protect Lebanon
against Israeli aggression.

"Norway's massacres should also be a lesson to some regime leaders who fail to
understand the importance of political reform, instead of resorting to violence
to confront righteous popular demands," Jumblatt said in a veiled reference to
the ongoing popular uprisings in the Arab world.

A statement released by the PSP's media office later in the day condemned the
"criminal act carried out by some extremists in Norway," and "expressed its
condolences to the families of the victims who lost their lives in this cowardly
and extremist assault".

The PSP media office also expressed its gratitude to those "who congratulated
the party on the safe return of Basil Oud, a member of the PSP youth
organization, who was taking part in the Utoya camp".

Source: The Daily Star website, Beirut, in English 26 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Afghan intelligence official says terror attack on Kabul foiled

LENGTH: 437 words


Text of report by privately-owned Noor TV on 26 July

[Presenter] The National Directorate of Security [NDS] say they have launched
necessary investigations into the killing of Ahmad Wali Karzai, the head of the
provincial council of southern Kandahar Province and President Karzai's brother,
Jaan Mohammad Khan, an advisor to President Karzai, and a terror attack on the
Intercontinental Hotel and these investigations have also produced positive
results. While speaking at a press conference in Kabul today, NDS spokesman
Lotfollah Mashal said they have also detained a terrorist group who had planned
to attack the Kabul International Airport and take passengers hostage.

Shafiqollah Salangi reports:

[Correspondent] At a press conference in Kabul today, the NDS spokesman said
their investigations into the killings of Ahmad Wali Karzai and Jaan Mohammad
Khan and a terror attack on the Intercontinental Hotel are almost finished and
they have also detained some suspects in connection with the assassinations and
terror attacks.

[Lotfollah Mashal, captioned as NDS spokesman] In fact, we have made
eye-catching achievements in the investigations we launched into the killings of
Ahmad Wali Karzai and Jaan Mohammad Khan and a terror attack on the
Intercontinental Hotel in Kabul city. Although we have almost finished our
investigations and have also identified and detained some circles who were
involved in the assassinations and terror attacks, we have not yet detained all
those terrorists involved in recent terror attacks and we are still trying to
detain the remaining terrorists, so we cannot give detailed information to you
now.

[Correspondent] Lotfollah Mashal also said that they have recently detained a
terrorist group who wanted to launch a terror attack on the Kabul International
Airport and take some passengers hostage.

[Lotfollah Mashal] The government's armed opponents had placed different kinds
of weapons in some areas around the Kabul International Airport and wanted to
launch different kinds of terror attacks such as suicide attacks, armed attacks
and targeting of passenger planes. In fact, NDS forces have managed to foil a
major terror attack and detained those terrorists who wanted to achieve their
ominous goals in Kabul.

[Correspondent] NDS spokesman also said they have detained a terrorist group,
led by a woman, in eastern Ghazni Province and added that the detained terrorist
group has been involved in different terror attacks and abduction cases in that
province.

[Video shows NDS spokesman speaking at a press conference in Kabul today].

Source: Noor TV, Kabul, in Dari 1300 gmt 26 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Bournemouth Echo

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Wife terrorised in ex-Marine attack

BYLINE: Julie Magee

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (BE LATEST NEWS)

LENGTH: 321 words


A FORMER Royal Marine Commando has been jailed for 21 months after a court heard
how he had "terrorised" his estranged wife.

Geoffrey Chick, 59, admitted affray, having a bladed article and two counts of
breaching a non-molestation order.

Prosecuting at Bournemouth Crown Court, Jason Spellman said Carol Chick had
taken out an order banning her husband of three years from her home in
Parkstone, after their marriage broke down in October last year.

On April 17 this year, four days after receiving a suspended prison sentence for
flouting the order, Mrs Chick noticed plants in her back garden had been moved.

Mr Spellman added: "She had installed a CCTV camera to protect herself; on
viewing footage she could see a shadow and recognised the swagger as that of her
former husband.

"She phoned the police and was working in her garden when she saw Mr Chick
coming towards her with a kitchen knife in his right hand, pointed at her.

"Mrs Chick was terrified and screamed, managing to break free from his grasp."

Her two sons and a neighbour wrestled Chick to the ground and, during a tussle,
his estranged wife managed to prise the knife from his grasp.

Following his arrest, Chick told police officers: "She's got worse things
coming. She deserves the worst."

Defending, Nigel Mitchell said Chick had been a Royal Marine for 22 years,
serving in the Falklands and Northern Ireland, adding: "He has had an exemplary
career in the Forces and is a decorated veteran with long service and good
conduct medals."

Mr Mitchell stressed that his client had now come to terms with the break-up of
his second marriage and divorce proceedings were underway.

Sentencing Chick, Recorder Don Tait told him: "Luckily no-one was seriously
injured.

"You have terrorised your ex-wife and flown in the face of court orders. A
prison sentence is inevitable."

Recorder Tait imposed a restraining order on Chick banning him contacting Carol
Chick or her two sons.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Front: Norway terror attacks: Viewpoint shrine: The island in the distance

BYLINE: Helen Pidd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 270 words


Just outside the village of Sundvollen, a shrine has formed on a rocky viewpoint
overlooking Utoya island. Throughout yesterday afternoon and into the evening,
locals arrived to pay their respects - couples holding hands, mothers clutching
their children tight as they lay flowers tagged with messages lamenting lives
lost.

Beside a bunch of irises and some scented candles there was a picture of two
beaming teenagers dressed in ballgowns. One smiling face had been circled.
Underneath, her friends expressed disbelief that she had gone.

Although police boats stopped anyone sailing close to Utoya itself, the
bouquet-strewn rock gave a fine view of the tiny, wooded island, populated only
by forensic investigators.

Gunda Bakken, 70, and her son Ole Henrik Christensen, 46, had driven from Oslo
to see Utoya for themselves, taking the E16, the same road Brevik used. "We
wanted to see it with our own eyes," said Bakken.

"It is so difficult to grasp how this can happen, and we thought coming here
might help," said Christensen.

As they considered the short distance from the shore to the island, they
insisted it was too early to blame the police for any shortcomings. "It's
something to think about, yes, but there are very few police officers in a small
community like this and, remember, there had just been a major bomb in Oslo. No
one ever thought it would be followed by something like this," said Bakken.

"I think we should show respect for the great work that was done," said her son,
gesturing to the campsite by the shore where brave holidaymakers put their lives
on the line by trying to rescue survivors by boat.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Front: Norway terror attacks: Anger and then dignified grief on a day of high
emotion in Oslo: Crowds gather to direct feelings at gunman as he arrives for a
closed court hearing, before capital turns out for heartfelt vigil

BYLINE: Mark Townsend Oslo

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 966 words


Someone shouted, then the crowd surged forward. A man yelled that he had spotted
Anders Behring Breivik inside an armoured police van heading towards the rear of
Oslo's central court.

Screams of "traitor" and "betrayal" rang out. People began chasing the vehicle,
banging on its doors. Inside, on the right-hand passenger seat, Breivik could be
seen wearing a pink shirt and red jumper. Subsequent photographs caught him with
a faint smile as the convoy inched through the jeering masses.

One of those thumping the vehicle was a teenager whose friend, it later emerged,
had been shot dead by Breivik three days earlier on Utoya island.

Local book editor Marius Wulfsberg, 54, pointed at a man who was among the crowd
of onlookers as the vehicle containing Breivik went by. "That man lost three
friends on Utoya Island, what do you have to say now?" he shouted at the van.

The man in question just stood there, quietly monitoring the vehicle as it
negotiated the furious throng.

"People were really angry, some were really hitting the door of the vehicle,"
said Wulfsberg afterwards.

Around 1.40pm local time, the van pulled up to the courthouse, its flag lowered
halfway before the suspect's arrival. It drove inside and Breivik was marched
under police escort into the bowels of the building. Then, handcuffed, the
32-year-old was taken into an underground tunnel that led through the basement,
up an elevator and into courtroom 828, high up on the 8th floor.

There, inside the sealed room - the hearing was ordered to be held behind closed
doors after the judge was informed of last-minute police concerns about safety
and security - the man responsible for Norway's worst postwar attacks confessed
to the atrocities but pleaded not guilty. As the hearing began, all that the
world's media could do was hover on the landing outside, waiting in vain for a
close-up glimpse of Breivik.

Court officials explained that the reason for the closed hearing was not that
they were fearful of Breivik airing his anti-Islam, anti-immigration extremism,
views that Breivik claims he had carefully rehearsed to recite on the day he
would appear in court.

Instead, Judge Kim Heger said the reason for banning the public and media was
less esoteric. "It is clear that there is concrete information that a public
hearing with the suspect present could quickly lead to an extraordinary and very
difficult situation in terms of the investigation and security," he said.

The admission that further investigations were under way prompted a wave of
rumour among reporters amid apparent developments in the police inquiry.

Minutes before Breivik's hearing began, reports started to circulate that
Interpol was involved in an operation that indicated the plot behind the attacks
in Norway last Friday might be larger than previously thought.

It was understood that officers had received a tip-off that Breivik bought the
fertiliser thought to have been used in creating the Oslo bomb from Poland. The
bomb destroyed the city centre, just five minutes walk from the court where
Breivik sat.

Then, suddenly, about 35 minutes after the hearing began, a court official
emerged and told reporters that Breivik had left the building. Outside, the
crowd waited impatiently. Breivik, it seems, may have been smuggled through an
underground car park that surfaced some distance from the court.

For those assembled outside the court, the news that Breivik had eluded them
induced an immediate sense of anticlimax. Some shuffled away, back towards Oslo
cathedral, where a much larger crowd had been standing since daybreak in memory
of the 68 now known to have been killed.

Edom Haila, 23, from Oslo, said: "We feel so sad. I am here to support the
people, the victims' families need our support." Student Hans Christian Hoff,
17, who had travelled an hour by bus, admitted a voyeuristic streak had drawn
him to the scene.

"I just wanted to have a look, see what was happening, maybe even see Breivik.

Two hours earlier, there had been no indication whatsoever that the people of
Oslo would respond so furiously to Breivik's court arrival. All those who were
asked for a view of the suspect had, remarkably, refused to condemn a man who,
less than three days earlier on Utoya Island, had committed one of the biggest
killing sprees by a single gunman in modern history.

Tove Baust, 72, from Oslo was typical of the response, preferring instead to
talk about their need to show compassion for the victims than about the figure
responsible. "I want to show sympathy for the parents, all those involved. They
are the people I think about," she said wiping her eyes.

At midday, the city fell silent. A minute's silence, dedicated to the dead,
lasted at least four times the length. Even after a quarter-of-an-hour,
thousands remained standing in tribute outside the city's cathedral. Across the
city, Jens Stoltenberg, the prime minister, stood on the steps of a city
university next to a flame and called for solidarity.

All day, the huge crowd remained and as the light began to fade, yet more came,
converging upon the vast field of flowers that has steadily grown in the heart
of Oslo since Breivik struck. By nightfall at least 150,000 people, many
carrying white or red roses, were at the rally, one of many held around Norway.

"Tonight the streets are filled with love," Crown Prince Haakon told the crowd.

Once again, the people of Oslo seemed calm, their brief anger gone, replaced by
the dignity that has characterised a nation in mourning.

Captions:

Thousands of people gather outside Oslo's city hall, as part of a vigil in
memory of the victims of the city centre bomb and the mass shootings on Utoya
island. Earlier in the day the man responsible, Anders Behring Breivik, had
appeared at a closed court hearing Photograph: Aleksander Andersen/AFP

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Front: Norway terror attacks: Victims: Princess's stepbrother shot dead while
shielding his son

BYLINE: Lizzy Davies

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 581 words


Off-duty police officer Trond Berntsen was working as a guard on Utoya when
Anders Behring Breivik arrived at the shore. Unarmed and unaware of the horror
that was about to be unleashed on the island, Berntsen succeeded in protecting
his 10-year-old son but could do nothing to save himself. The father-of-two
became one of Breivik's first victims when he was shot dead within minutes.

In a sign that the killing spree has left no sector of Norwegian society
untouched, the royal court announced yesterday that the 51-year-old was the
stepbrother of Mette-Marit, Norway's crown princess.

"The crown princess's thoughts go to his closest family," a spokesman for the
palace told Dagbladet newspaper.

As they continued to trawl through water and rubble for the missing, police last
night said they had reduced the number of people believed to have died in the
Utoya massacre from 86 to 68 - the vast majority of them teenagers taking part
in a leftwing political summer camp. Eight people, rather than the seven
previously stated, had died in the Oslo bomb blast, they added.

A full list of the dead and missing has not been made public. A team of nearly
40 police officers is working to identify all the bodies found so far. But in
his tearful address in the national cathedral on Sunday, Prime Minister Jens
Stoltenberg mentioned the names of several victims known to have been shot dead
while at the Labour party (AUF) youth camp.

One of them, Tore Eikeland, was "one of our most talented youth politicians," he
said; a 21-year-old local councillor and the leader of Young Labour in the
south-western Hordaland region. At a recent party conference, the prime minister
added, Eikeland had been given a standing ovation from the entire auditorium.

The names of other victims - both known and suspected - have been reported
locally. Among those still missing yesterday was Hanne Kristine Fridtun, a
21-year-old AUF activist who had made herself known in her local town of Stryn,
western Norway, for her social conscience. "I know Hanne Kristine very well. We
have had a close political co-operation . . . so for me it is now completely
unreal that she is missing," the mayor of Stryn, Nils P Stoyva, told Norwegian
broadcasters NRK. Fridtun had shown a touching sympathy for the least well-off
in society, he added, and had recently raised awareness of the difficulties
faced by disabled people in Stryn. "This is terribly hard for everyone," he
said.

She was not the only one to be praised for her political commitments.
Eighteen-year-old Tarald Mjelde, Eikeland's deputy who was last night missing
presumed dead, was described on a blog by a friend and fellow youth activist as
"the little boy with an enthusiasm that infects everyone around you." Erik Dale
wrote: "All the people who wish they had your energy. Your eagerness. If you
hadn't been such a great little politician, I am sure you could have been an
athlete." He added: "You love your football, even if you support the wrong team.
How did you end up with Chelsea anyway? Please come home safe so you can tell
me. We need you."

One of the youngest feared dead has been named as Johannes Buo, a 14-year-old
AUP activist from southern Norway, whose father confirmed he was missing. A
Facebook page for friends, family and well-wishers to write messages of sympathy
was yesterday filling with tributes.

Captions:

Trond Berntsen, stepbrother of Norway's crown princess, shielded his 10-year-old
son but was one of the first to die on Utoya

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Front: Norway terror attacks: 'You've already killed my dad. I'm too young to
die': Stories from survivors

BYLINE: Lizzy Davies and Andrew Boyle

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 617 words


They ran over rocks; they held their breath under water. They cowered under beds
and climbed trees. The details of how hundreds of young people managed to escape
the dum-dum bullets being fired by Anders Behring Breivik emerged yesterday as
those who survived the Utoya massacre struggled to come to terms with how close
they had come to death.

Jaran Berg, a Labour party member from Ostfold in south-eastern Norway,
described running for safety after hearing the first shots ring out, racing
between hiding places and then suddenly confronting the abject horror of
Breivik's murderous activities.

"(I) come round a bend and there I see that there are bodies lying; I can't be
sure how many, at least 10 young people," he wrote. "One image has burned itself
into my mind: I guess she must have been 16 or 17, just lying there with a hole
on the top of her head, absolutely the most horrific sight I have ever seen.

"I have to throw up, then take a moment or two to gather myself again."

Berg was not the only one to witness bloodshed on the way to safety. From a
viewpoint on the pier, Kjetil Vevle, 23, saw the first shots taken by Breivik.
As soon as he realised the truth - that the blond man in the police uniform was
not the officer he had been expecting - he ran. He hid first in a bush and then
in a small room in the main hall, then found himself running past a person who
had been shot.

"On the road, I saw a shooting victim lying down and bleeding. But none of us
were in any condition to help someone who bleeds so much. And we heard shots
behind us. So we just had to continue," he told the Aftonbladet newspaper.

Having reached the south-west of the island, Vevle eventually hid in a hollow in
the rock for what "felt like many hours". "I hear the shots being discharged
closer and closer now . . . it feels as if the gunman is standing right over the
spot where I was sitting. I say to myself that it's over, now my end has come."

Vevle, like many of his fellow camp participants, sent a text message to his
parents saying he loved them. "I was in no doubt it was the last time they would
hear from me," he said.

Hiding under a bed in a woodland cabin, Vegard Geroslaven Slan, also feared the
worst. He told the BBC he saw "people fall to the ground" and be shot "in the
head" by Breivik. "We were a group of almost 40 people hiding in this cabin and
we could hear gunshots all the time," he said.

"I knew he was going for the kill. It was terrible because I was thinking that
he was shooting my friends while I was lying there but I was just praying and
hoping that he wouldn't come into the cabin where we were and, thankfully, he
didn't."

Not all the survivors were able to hide. In a remarkable witness account, an
11-year-old boy was said to have confronted Breivik and told him: "Don't shoot
me, you've been shooting enough. You've already killed my dad. I'm too young to
die."

The account, told to NRK, the Norwegian state broadcaster, by 21-year-old
survivor Adrian Pracon, has not been independently verified. Pracon himself, who
was shot in the shoulder by Breivik, said he managed to avoid being killed by
lying still and feigning death.

After a terrifying wait for the shooting to finish, Berg emerged from his hiding
place to find a policeman shouting "Hello, is anyone down there?" Having been
shaken by Breivik's uniform, he was unsure what to think. "I went gingerly out,
still shaking from nerves, look up, straight into the face of a policeman," he
wrote.

"He's got his weapon trained on me and shouts that I should put my arms up. I do
so, hoping that this is the real police. And, thankfully, it was."

Captions:

Breivik on Utoya island, near to Oslo where he shot fleeing party members

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Front: Norway terror attacks: Funding a massacre

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 290 words


Anders Behring Breivik's meticulous plans for last Friday's atrocities include a
detailed description of how he says he raised the money to prepare for and carry
out the twin assaults. His 1,500-page "manifesto" claims that as far back as
2002 he launched a nine-year plan that saw him start his own business, dabble
unsuccessfully in the markets and use at least nine credit cards to fund the
attack.

Breivik, pictured above on his way to court, says that he started a "computer
programming" business, E-Commerce Group, in 2002, when he was working full-time
at a customer services company. He claims the company grew and at one time had
six employees, and he made his "first mill" by 24. However, he writes that a
combination of a downturn in 2005-06 and 2m Norwegian krone (£227,000) lost on
stock speculation meant that he was forced to file for bankruptcy. Despite this
Breivik claims that by 2008 he was left with around 2m NOK which allowed him to
"proceed with planning the assault operation".

Breivik then sets out how he devised "an overview of various providers of
credit" to avoid sending multiple credit card applications to the same
organisation. He says he identified 25 credit cards but traced them back to 12
providers and in the end was successfully granted nine cards - giving him access
to euros 26,000 in credit. At one point he sets out his funding requirements,
estimating he needed euros 30,000 (£26,462) for armour and weapons, euros
100,000 for explosive materials, euros 20,000 for "logistics/transport/lodging"
and "euros 140,000 for the creation of the compendium".

On 23 June Breivik says he paid the outstanding amount on his nine credit cards
to ensure he would have access to funds as he continued his preparations.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Front: Norway terror attacks: Scotland Yard called in over killer's claims he
met 'mentor' in UK: Breivik wrote of visit to London for secret far-right
gathering

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd and Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 857 words


Police attempting to piece together Anders Behring Breivik's links to far-right
groups in the UK and Europe have written to Scotland Yard asking for more
officers to help with the investigation.

A specialist unit has been set up in The Hague to trawl through a database of
known high-risk, rightwing extremists and assist the Norwegian police as they
examine evidence from Breivik's 1,500-page "manifesto" published online hours
before he launched one of the worst mass killings in peacetime Europe.

Rob Wainwright, director of Europol, told the Guardian he had written to the
Metropolitan police's new head of counter-terrorism, Cressida Dick, asking for
more officers from Scotland Yard after Breivik boasted of his links to far-right
groups in the UK.

"What we've seen is an active extremist scene across European countries,
including the UK," said Wainwright. "There are some signs the extreme right have
been more active, especially on the internet. They are more sophisticated and
using social media to attract younger people."

There are up to 50 officers already assigned to the specialist unit in The
Hague, including a small number of detectives from the UK.

Breivik's alleged links to the UK emerged in his manifesto, which details his
years of meticulous planning prior to Friday's attacks. The document was signed
"Andrew Berwick" (an anglicised version of his name), written entirely in
English, and datelined "London, 2011" - although security services and police
say there is no further evidence at this stage to suggest it was written in the
UK.

In the manuscript Breivik describes his "mentor" as an Englishman he identifies
as "Richard", and says his journey into violent extremism began at a small
meeting in London in 2002 where a group of like-minded extremists met to
"reform" the Knights Templar Europe, a military group whose purpose was "to
seize political and military control of western European countries and implement
a cultural conservative political agenda".

The group's name is a reference to the medieval Christian military order
involved in the Crusades. It has no connection to the Knights Templar
International, a long-established organisation aiming to build "bridges
throughout the world for peace and understanding", and which has issued a
statement deploring Breivik's "senseless acts of terrorism".

In his manifesto Breivik said the gathering in London was "not a stereotypical
'rightwing' meeting full of underprivileged, racist skinheads with a short
temper". Instead, he claimed those present were successful entrepreneurs,
"business or political leaders, some with families, most Christian
conservatives, but also some agnostics and even atheists".

Breivik said the handful of far-right activists had travelled from across
Europe, and most had not met before. He did not name those present, but claims
two of them, including the host, were English, as well as one French, one
German, one Dutch, one Greek, one Russian and one Serbian. "They obviously
wanted resourceful, pragmatical (sic) individuals who were able to keep
information away from their loved ones and who were not in any way flagged by
their governments."

At 23 years old, Breivik says he was the youngest person at the meeting, and had
first been put in contact with the group by a "Serbian crusader commander". At
the end of the sessions, he says, he was "ordinated as the 8th justicar knight
for the PCCTS, Knights Templar Europe".

It was at this meeting that he also claims to have struck up his friendship with
his mentor. Breivik says he and "Richard", who took the pseudonym in reference
to Richard the Lionheart, had a "relatively close relationship".

According to the document, the meeting in London was followed by two larger
events held in "Balticum", which attracted people from all over Europe. He says
there was a high level of security at the gatherings, adding that those
attending were told not to communicate to people outside.

"Some of us were unfamiliar with each other beforehand, so I guess we all took a
high-risk meeting face to face . . . electronic or telephonic communication was
completely prohibited, before, during and after the meetings. Any type of
contact with other cells was strictly prohibited."

Breivik also boasted about links to the UK far-right group the English Defence
League. He mentioned them several times in the manifesto and claimed he had
"spoken with tens of EDL supporters and leaders . . . (supplying) them with
processed ideological material in the beginning."

The EDL - which has staged a series of street demonstrations, many of which have
turned violent, since it was formed two years ago - issued a statement on Sunday
condemning the killings and denying any links with Breivik.

Stephen Lennon, the founder of the English Defence League (EDL), last night told
Newsnight that attacks like those perpetrated in Norway could happen in the UK
in the coming years.

"God forbid this ever happens on British soil. It's a time coming. It's probably
five or 10 years away," he told Jeremy Paxman. "It's not a threat, it's a
wake-up call. It's a wake-up call to say: Listen, we don't want this to happen."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Front: Norway terror attacks: Scotland Yard called in over killer's claims he
met 'mentor' in UK: Breivik wrote of visit to London for secret far-right
gathering

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd and Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 855 words


Police attempting to piece together Anders Behring Breivik's links to far-right
groups in the UK and Europe have written to Scotland Yard asking for more
officers to help with the investigation.

A specialist unit has been set up in The Hague to trawl through a database of
known high-risk, rightwing extremists and assist the Norwegian police as they
examine evidence from Breivik's 1,500-page "manifesto" published online hours
before he launched one of the worst mass killings in peacetime Europe.

Rob Wainwright, director of Europol, told the Guardian he had written to the
Metropolitan police's new head of counter-terrorism, Cressida Dick, asking for
more officers from Scotland Yard after Breivik boasted of his links to far-right
groups in the UK.

"What we've seen is an active extremist scene across European countries,
including the UK," said Wainwright. "There are some signs the extreme right have
been more active, especially on the internet. They are more sophisticated and
using social media to attract younger people."

There are up to 50 officers already assigned to the specialist unit in The
Hague, including a small number of detectives from the UK.

Breivik's alleged links to the UK emerged in his manifesto, which details his
years of meticulous planning prior to Friday's attacks. The document was signed
"Andrew Berwick" (an anglicised version of his name), written entirely in
English, and datelined "London, 2011" - although security services and police
say there is no further evidence at this stage to suggest it was written in the
UK.

In the manuscript Breivik describes his "mentor" as an Englishman he identifies
as "Richard", and says his journey into violent extremism began at a small
meeting in London in 2002 where a group of like-minded extremists met to
"reform" the Knights Templar Europe, a military group whose purpose was "to
seize political and military control of western European countries and implement
a cultural conservative political agenda".

The group's name is a reference to the medieval Christian military order
involved in the Crusades. It has no connection to the Knights Templar
International, a long-established organisation aiming to build "bridges
throughout the world for peace and understanding", and which has issued a
statement deploring Breivik's "senseless acts of terrorism".

In his manifesto Breivik said the gathering in London was "not a stereotypical
'rightwing' meeting full of underprivileged, racist skinheads with a short
temper". Instead, he claimed those present were successful entrepreneurs,
"business or political leaders, some with families, most Christian
conservatives, but also some agnostics and even atheists".

Breivik said the handful of far-right activists had travelled to London from
across Europe, and most had not met each other before. He did not name those
present, but claims two of them, including the host, were English, as well as
one French, one German, one Dutch, one Greek, one Russian and one Serbian.

"They obviously wanted resourceful, pragmatical (sic) individuals who were able
to keep information away from their loved ones and who were not in any way
flagged by their governments."

At 23 years old, Breivik says he was the youngest person at the meeting and had
first been put in contact with the group by a "Serbian crusader commander". At
the end of the sessions, he says, he was "ordinated as the 8th justicar knight
for the PCCTS, Knights Templar Europe".

It was at this meeting that he also claims to have struck up his friendship with
his mentor. Breivik says he and "Richard", who took the pseudonym in reference
to Richard the Lionheart, had a "relatively close relationship".

According to the document, the meeting in London was followed by two larger
events held in "Balticum" which attracted people from all over Europe. He says
there was a high level of security at the gatherings, adding that those
attending were told not to communicate to people outside.

"Some of us were unfamiliar with each other beforehand, so I guess we all took a
high risk meeting face to face . . . electronic or telephonic communication was
completely prohibited, before, during and after the meetings. Any type of
contact with other cells was strictly prohibited."

Breivik also boasted about links to the UK far-right group the English Defence
League. He mentioned the group several times in the manifesto and claimed he had
"spoken with tens of EDL members and leaders . . . (supplying) them with
processed ideological material (including rhetorical strategies) in the very
beginning."

The EDL - which has staged a series of street demonstrations, many of which have
turned violent, since it was formed two years ago - issued a statement on Sunday
condemning the killings and denying any links with Breivik.

In the closed court hearing yesterday, Breivik claimed he belonged to an
organisation with two more cells that remain at large, although he did not give
more details. Wainwright, the Europol director, said police were working flat
out to try and establish whether Breivik had help from far-right groups and
activists in the UK and across Europe.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended

Front: Norway terror attacks: Columnist in 'manifesto': Writer quoted by killer
hits back

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 251 words


Anders Behring Breivik's purported manifesto, a lengthy anti-Muslim tirade
published on the internet on the day of the attacks and entitled A European
Declaration of Independence, drew on numerous published sources, carefully
annotated at the end of each chapter.

In an apparent attempt to give respectable underpinning to his views, Breivik
quoted, among others, Winston Churchill, Bernard Lewis, Edmund Burke, Thomas
Jefferson, Mahatma Gandhi, John Locke, George Orwell, Roger Scruton and Frank
Field.

One of Breivik's sources, Daily Mail columnist and blogger Melanie Phillips, has
taken exception to references and quotations in the manifesto from two of her
columns, and what she claims is a suggestion on Twitter and by fellow bloggers
that somehow her writings may have influenced Breivik's actions.

"A concerned reader has sent me a post by Sunny Hundal on the Liberal Conspiracy
blog," Phillips wrote. "Hundal brings us what he clearly considers to be the
most important news about the Norwegian atrocity. This is that, in the
'manifesto' reportedly published by the terrorist suspect Anders Behring
Breivik, two of my articles are quoted.

She goes on to complain that Hundal's blog "gives the impression that I play a
major role in this supposed manifesto.

"In fact, there are only two references to me or my work in its 1,500 pages . .
. Why has he singled me out in this way? It looks like yet another crude attempt
to smear me."

Captions:

Melanie Phillips: 'there are only two references to me or my work'

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 2, 2011



CORRECTION: * An article about the sources Anders Behring Breivik drew upon in
compiling his manifesto listed Frank Field MP among a group of people whom the
Norwegian gunman had quoted. In fact, Breivik did not highlight Mr Field
specifically; he reproduced in full an article about immigration from the Daily
Telegraph, which contained a quote from Mr Field (Norway attacks: writer quoted
by gunman hits back, 26 July, page 7).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Front: Norway terror attacks: Father's reaction: 'He should have taken his own
life. I will live with this shame forever'

BYLINE: Kim Willsher Paris

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 748 words


Sitting in his villa in the French village of Cournanel - population 500 -
surfing the internet for news of the bomb blast and massacre back home, retired
Norwegian diplomat Jens Breivik had no idea that, for him, the worst was to
come.

Yesterday the country home near the Pyrenees in south-west France, where he had
hoped to spend his retirement in peace, was surrounded by gendarmes "for his own
protection".

And the most obscure details of his 70-year life were being picked over for
clues to why his son, "a very ordinary boy", turned into an assassin. The truth
is that Jens Breivik has no more idea than anyone else. Possibly less. Anders
Breivik had never lived with his father and had not seen him since he was a
teenager.

"I view this atrocity with absolute horror," his father told Norwegian
journalists. "My condolences go out to all those who have suffered because of
this. I am in a state of shock. I have not recovered."

In an interview with the Swedish tabloid Expressen, Breivik said he wished his
son had killed himself.

"I don't feel like his father," Breivik said. "How could he just stand there and
kill so many innocent people and just seem to think that what he did was OK? He
should have taken his own life, too."

Breivik said he first learned the news of his son's attacks from media websites.
"I couldn't believe my eyes," he said. "I will have to live with this shame for
the rest of my life. People will always link me with him."

Jens Breivik was an economist at the Norwegian embassy in London and had already
been married and had three children when he met Anders's mother, Wenche Behring,
a nurse living in the city with her daughter Elisabeth from a previous
relationship. Within a year of the boy's birth, in February 1979, the couple had
split. Jens Breivik remained in London and Behring moved back to Oslo with
Anders and his elder half-sister.

Anders's mother married a Norwegian army major and settled in Oslo. His father
married a fellow embassy worker, Tove Overmo, and moved to Paris.

Breivik and his new wife wanted to bring the child up in France, but a Norwegian
court gave custody to Behring. Anders visited his father and stepmother in
France until they divorced when he was 12 years old. "We never lived together,
but we had contact during his childhood," Jens Breivik said. "When he was young
he was a very ordinary boy. He was quite inward and wasn't interested in
politics."

Father and son appeared to have got on during the early years. When Anders
reached adolescence his behaviour became more rebellious and wayward. A fan of
hip-hop music, Anders and his gang of friends would reportedly spend their
evenings hanging around Oslo, spraying tags and graffiti on buildings. He is
said to have stopped seeing his father in 1995.

In his "manifesto", Anders Breivik blames his father for the estrangement, which
he claims came after he was caught spraying graffiti. "I have not spoken to my
father since he isolated himself when I was 15. He was not very happy about my
graffiti phrase from 13 to 16," he wrote.

Several newspaper reports described Breivik as a "mummy's boy", claiming he had
few friends, no serious girlfriends, and had lived with his mother, who is now
64, until two years ago, when he was 30.

While close to Behring, he is said to have railed against her liberal views.
Breivik wrote that his parents supported the policies of the Norwegian Labour
party and that his mother was a moderate feminist. He wrote: "I do not approve
of

the super-liberal, matriarchal upbringing as it completely lacked discipline and

has contributed to feminising me to a

certain degree."

His descriptions of his stepmother, Tove, who worked at the embassy in Paris
dealing with applications from immigrants, were even more chilling. He wrote
that she was "very intelligent" but obviously "a traitor" and a willing
participant in the "indirect genocide of Norwegians through the continued
Islamisation of Norway . . . although I care for her a great deal, I wouldn't
hold it against the (Knights Templar) if she was executed during an attack," he
wrote.

After leaving his mother's home in Oslo two years ago, he moved to Rune,
north-east of the Norwegian capital, and set up an organic farming business.
This gave him the cover to buy the fertiliser used to make the bomb that
exploded near the prime minister's office in Oslo on Friday.

Captions:

Jens Breivik, the father of Anders Behring Breivik, is protected by gendarmes at
his home in Cournanel, south-west France

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Front: Norway terror attacks: Home secretary urged to review threat of far
right: UK terror links

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt Vikram Dodd Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 523 words


Theresa May, the home secretary, is under pressure to review Britain's
counter-terrorism strategy amid fears that Anders Behring Breivik may have had
contact with far-right extremists in Britain.

As David Cameron said he was taking "extremely seriously" Breivik's claims of
links to the far right in Britain, the shadow home secretary, Yvette Cooper,
called on the government to examine the anti-terror Prevent strategy.

Cooper is understood to have written to the home secretary asking her to
reassess the strategy, which is designed to tackle the causes of terrorism, in
light of the attacks in Norway by Breivik. A review of the Prevent strategy,
published last month, ruled out far-right terror attacks on the scale planned by
al-Qaida and its sympathisers.

"People involved in extreme rightwing terrorism have not received the same
training, guidance or support as many of those who have engaged with al-Qaida or
al-Qaida-influenced organisations," it said. "Nor have they ever aspired or
planned to conduct operations on the scale of those planned by their al-Qaida
counterparts."

A Muslim police officer said yesterday that British authorities had been in
"denial" about rightwing extremists and had failed to do enough to stop their
ability to launch terrorist violence.

"We've been too busy looking at the threat from Islamist extremists and taken
our eye off the ball on tracking the extremist right," said Zaheer Ahmad,
president of the National Association of Muslim Police.

He said his group's warning in private meetings with officials to take the
threat of extremist rightwing violence more seriously had been rebuffed.

The prime minister, who chaired a meeting of the national security council
yesterday to decide whether to step up monitoring of far-right groups, said he
was concerned by Breivik's claims of links to the British far right.

The prime minister said: "We are still investigating these claims, so I don't
want to give out partial information. We want to get to the bottom of this
before making public announcements. But we take these things extremely
seriously."

Cameron added: "After such a dreadful event, the British government must of
course review our own security at home. That is what the national security
council started to do this morning when we met."

Cameron last night visited the Norwegian embassy in London to sign a book of
condolences. He wrote: "Everyone in Britain stands with the people of Norway at
this time of great sadness and mourning. We remember those who lost their lives
in Oslo and Utoya on 22 July in an act of appalling barbarism. We know that the
courage, the decency and the resilience of the Norwegian people will overcome
this evil."

Since the attacks, anti-racist campaigners have called for the English Defence
League, who Breivik claimed links with, to be formally classified by the
government as an extremist organisation.

Nick Lowles, director of anti-extremist campaign group Hope Not Hate, said the
decision not to classify the EDL as an extremist rightwing group severely
limited the capacity of the police to "gather intelligence on the EDL, its
members and its activities".

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Evil rapist admits terror sex attacks

BYLINE: Anthony Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 434 words


young women in south Manchester when he appeared at Manchester Crown Court.

Police believe he may have planned a number of other attacks.

In both the attacks to which he has now confessed, the Dixy Chicken worker
prowled the streets of Didsbury, Chorlton and Fallowfield looking for lone women
victims before carrying out vicious rapes.

The attacks both on young women walking home after nights out prompted
university unions to organise self-defence classes and hand out free rape alarms
to students.

They also sparked a huge police investigation codenamed Operation Hatton after a
DNA match linked the two attacks.

Thirty officers worked on the case, enlisting a Cracker' style psychological
profiler.

Police also released the revolutionary moving evo-fit' image which sparked a
huge public response with many people saying they recognised Javed from the Dixy
Chicken shop in Chorlton. Javed, of Chorlton, attacked his first victim after
approaching her at the Abbey National bank in the village in December 2009.

After offering to drive her home, he even telephoned her father to say she was
safe.

Instead he drove her to nearby Hardy Lane and carried out a brutal attack.

In the second attack in September 2010 he bundled a student into the back of his
car as she walked along Amherst Road in Fallowfield. After driving to Atwood
Road in Didsbury he whipped and threatened to rape her with a metal implement
thought to be a meat skewer or knitting needle before forcing her to carry out a
sex act on him.

He then dumped her naked in the street before driving off.

Following yesterday's hearing, Andy Tattersall, a senior investigating officer
working on the case, told how a huge police operation swung into action to catch
Javed.

He said: Once DNA from the second attack came up matching the first it linked a
series of rapes.

We felt students were at great risk and launched a massive police operation.

A psychological profiler was also brought in to help us build up a picture of
the offender we were dealing with.

We also knew the age and physical description and there was a high chance the
offender would be in the [south Manchester] area in the early hours of the
morning.

We also knew he had access to different vehicles and produced the evo-fit which
got a huge response when it went in the press.

Officers were sent out to interview the offender and he gave a DNA sample which
matched that from the two attacks.

It was thanks to the detective work of officers at the Major Incident Team which
meant we were able to identify the

offender and make the arrest so quickly.

Javed is due to be sentenced on September 23.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: manhunt Rapist Asim Javed was caught after a huge police investigation
codenamed Operation Hatton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Evil rapist admits terror sex attacks

BYLINE: Anthony Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 434 words


young women in south Manchester when he appeared at Manchester Crown Court.

Police believe he may have planned a number of other attacks.

In both the attacks to which he has now confessed, the Dixy Chicken worker
prowled the streets of Didsbury, Chorlton and Fallowfield looking for lone women
victims before carrying out vicious rapes.

The attacks both on young women walking home after nights out prompted
university unions to organise self-defence classes and hand out free rape alarms
to students.

They also sparked a huge police investigation codenamed Operation Hatton after a
DNA match linked the two attacks.

Thirty officers worked on the case, enlisting a Cracker' style psychological
profiler.

Police also released the revolutionary moving evo-fit' image which sparked a
huge public response with many people saying they recognised Javed from the Dixy
Chicken shop in Chorlton. Javed, of Chorlton, attacked his first victim after
approaching her at the Abbey National bank in the village in December 2009.

After offering to drive her home, he even telephoned her father to say she was
safe.

Instead he drove her to nearby Hardy Lane and carried out a brutal attack.

In the second attack in September 2010 he bundled a student into the back of his
car as she walked along Amherst Road in Fallowfield. After driving to Atwood
Road in Didsbury he whipped and threatened to rape her with a metal implement
thought to be a meat skewer or knitting needle before forcing her to carry out a
sex act on him.

He then dumped her naked in the street before driving off.

Following yesterday's hearing, Andy Tattersall, a senior investigating officer
working on the case, told how a huge police operation swung into action to catch
Javed.

He said: Once DNA from the second attack came up matching the first it linked a
series of rapes.

We felt students were at great risk and launched a massive police operation.

A psychological profiler was also brought in to help us build up a picture of
the offender we were dealing with.

We also knew the age and physical description and there was a high chance the
offender would be in the [south Manchester] area in the early hours of the
morning.

We also knew he had access to different vehicles and produced the evo-fit which
got a huge response when it went in the press.

Officers were sent out to interview the offender and he gave a DNA sample which
matched that from the two attacks.

It was thanks to the detective work of officers at the Major Incident Team which
meant we were able to identify the

offender and make the arrest so quickly.

Javed is due to be sentenced on September 23.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: manhunt Rapist Asim Javed was caught after a huge police investigation
codenamed Operation Hatton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UK links to terror attacks?;
National newsround

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 68 words


DETECTIVES investigating Norway's bomb attack and shootings are thought to be
probing the suspect's possible links to the British far right.

Anders Breivik has reportedly claimed he was recruited by two English right-wing
extremists in the UK in 2002. The 32-year-old appeared in court yesterday
charged with terrorism following the blast in Oslo and gun attack at a youth
camp on the island of Utoya on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWP


                    Copyright 2011 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday

Romanian editorial sees Norway attacks as act of "irrational terrorism"

LENGTH: 370 words


Text of report by Romanian newspaper Jurnalul National on 26 July

Editorial by Miruna Munteanu: "Irrational Terrorism"]

Nothing can justify terrorism, but its reasons and pretexts are usually quite
clear. The Norway tragedy is shocking because it remains impossible to
understand, at least outside the strict sphere of pathology.

Not accidentally, immediately after the carnage, the press and the public
investigated the usual suspects. The first hypotheses referred to the possible
revenge of Al-Qa'ida for killing Usama Bin Ladin, Al-Qadhafi's threats, or the
anger of the Muslim fundamentalists outraged by the cartoon scandal. The authors
were sought in the classic laboratories of international terrorism, where
despair, poverty, and lack of education or prospects produce individuals willing
to die with a bomb attached to their belly. The Norway horror attack, however,
was not the work of a Muslim born in a refugee camp or brain-washed in Afghan
madras. Neither can it be linked to a clear claim or ideology.

Anders Behring Breivik hates Islamism and feminism, Marxism and globalization,
multiculturalism, and political correctness. His vast writings posted on the
internet are an irrational mixture of frustrations and truisms collected from
essentially incompatible areas. However, distorted by a diseased mind, all
doctrines start resembling one another. Fanatic Christianism can display equally
odious shapes as Islamic fundamentalism. The Norway tragedy demonstrates one
thing: Blood-thirsty mad people can be born anywhere. They are not necessarily
the result of an underprivileged environment or of a certain ideology. Not even
the most prosperous and progressive societies in the world are spared from such
malignant outgrowths. The poverty in US' Columbine did not account for the
murderous madness of the two teenagers who killed their colleagues in cold blood
in August 1999. The Virginia Tech massacre of 2007, committed by a silent and
sage South-Korean student remains impossible to explain, as well. Unfortunately,
irrational terrorism (unlike the international one) is completely unpredictable.
In consequence, it is almost impossible to prevent.

Source: Jurnat National, Bucharest, in Romanian 26 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Derry Edition

House bomb attack terror;
Neighbours tell of shock after OAP's home is targeted

BYLINE: BRENDAN MCDAID, bmcdaid@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 392 words


NEIGHBOURS have spoken of their shock after a 68-year-old man's home was
attacked with a pipe bomb in Londonderry.

A masked man is being blamed for throwing the bomb at the man's terraced
bungalow on Glenbank Road in the cityside.

The occupant turned up just minutes after the explosion caused extensive damage
to his home at around 11.15pm on Monday.

The bungalow was boarded up yesterday and the man was not at home.

Neighbour Brian Porter said he was watching television when the blast blew a
picture off his living room wall.

Mr Porter said: "I knew it was a real explosion and I knew it was close at hand.

"I was the first out the door. There was dust and smoke and then someone else
ran out.

"People were asking 'Is he in there?' but I had seen him going up the road a few
hours earlier.

A second man was also woken by the blast.

He said: "I was in my bed and it was a very big bang.

"I think it is wrong doing that on someone -- he could have been killed. It
doesn't matter who you are, that is wrong."

Neighbours said the man's property had been targeted in the past. Police have
confirmed a masked man threw the device, thought to be a pipe-bomb, through the
front window of the bungalow.

Foyle MLA Mark H Durkan lives nearby and heard the explosion.

He said: "This attack has endangered the lives of vulnerable people in our
community and has left many elderly people shaken.

"I appeal to anyone with information about this incident to pass it onto the
police immediately."

Sinn Fein councillor Maeve McLaughlin added: "While it is not yet known what
group or individual may have been responsible for throwing this device, what is
known is that it was detonated in a built-up area and caused damage to the house
and could have caused serious injury to anyone in the vicinity of the blast at
that time.

"I am making it clear to those responsible that the Glen community does not want
this and those behind it need to stop."

She added: "Those behind this bomb attack need to consider their actions.

"In throwing this device they have shown no regard for the wider community."

A PSNI spokesman appealed for anyone with information about the incident to
contact them on 0845 6008000.

CAPTION: The house on the Glenbank Road in Derry which was badly damaged after a
masked man threw an explosive device at it Martin McKeownNeighbour: Brian Porter
was first on the scene

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday

Norway will not be intimidated by terror attacks, vows prime minister

BYLINE: James Meikleguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 744 words

ABSTRACT

Jens Stoltenberg condemned Anders Behring Breivik's brutal assault and said
country 'would stand firm in defending values'

FULL TEXT

Norway's prime minister Jens Stoltenberg says his country will "not be
intimidated or threatened" by Friday's terror attacks that left 76 people dead.

The country would "stand firm in defending our values" and the "open, tolerant
and inclusive society", he said on Wednesday. "The Norwegian response to
violence is more democracy, more openness and greater political participation."

The "horrific and brutal" attacks were an assault on Norway's "fundamental
values", added Stoltenberg. "We have to be very clear to distinguish between
extreme views, opinions that's completely legal, legitimate to have. What is not
legitimate is to try to implement those extreme views by using violence," he
said.

Earlier, police detonated a cache of explosives at a farm rented by Anders
Behring Breivik. Detectives believe the 32-year-old made the bomb that killed
eight people in Oslo on Friday using fertiliser he purchased under the guise of
being a farmer.

The controlled explosion on Tuesday night came after police named four of the
victims, including three caught up in the city centre bombing and a 23-year-old
shot dead on Utøya island. Police would not reveal the quantity of explosives
found at the farm in Rena, about 100 miles north of the capital, Oslo.

As the investigation continues, security officials have cast doubt on Breivik's
claims that he had accomplices who were still at large. At his first court
appearance in Oslo on Monday, he told a closed courtroom that he had links to
"two other terror cells".

But Norway's domestic intelligence chief, Janne Kristiansen, said no proof has
yet been found to link Breivik to right-wing extremists in the UK or elsewhere.
She told the BBC: "I can tell you, at this moment in time, we don't have
evidence or we don't have indications that he has been part of a broader
movement or that he has been in connection with other cells or that there are
other cells."

Kristiansen added that she did not believe the killer was insane, but
calculating and evil, and someone who sought the limelight.

At a press conference in Oslo on Tuesday, Johan Fredrikson, the chief of Oslo
police, said that he still had no evidence that there was an accomplice or
network behind the attacks, despite an international investigation involving
British police.

On Wednesday morning, Oslo's main station was closed after a suspicious suitcase
was discovered on a bus. All train and bus services out of the centre were
halted while police investigated the suspect case, which turned out to be
harmless.

Oslo police also caused panic by putting out an alert saying they were looking
for a "dangerous and unstable" man who claimed a connection with Breivik. But
shortly after releasing the alert, police said they had wrongly connected a
mentally ill man with Friday's massacre. "This has nothing to do with Friday's
case," a police official said. "The news release was sent out in error. This is
a routine mission by the police."

The police have been criticised for their failure to reach Utøya sooner on
Friday, after Breivik's lawyer revealed his client was surprised to have reached
the island youth camp without being stopped by police - who took 90 minutes to
arrive. It has emerged that the nearest police helicopter available was not able
to intervene because its pilots were on holiday.

On Wednesday, the leader of Norway's emergency delta force police unit defended
its response to the atrocities, claiming the breakdown of the team's boat did
not cause any significant delay in efforts to reach Utøya.

Anders Snortheimsmoen told reporters that even though the assigned boat quickly
broke down, the team immediately jumped into another, better boat. He says his
team arrived at the harbour at the same time as local police and that the boat
mishap caused "no delay".

Norwegian investigators have assigned a whole unit to pore over the 1500-page
manifesto Breivik emailed to more than 1,000 contacts less than 90 minutes
before he launched his attacks.

One paragraph in the diatribe describes a detailed "survivor's kit", including
weapons, ammunition, nutrition and cash, which he claimed to be preparing in
advance to help him break out of prison.

The Norwegian tabloid VG reported how Breivik describes plans for another
terrorist attack, should he manage to escape from jail, including a "hit-list"
of targets.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday

Norway terror attacks: No weapons, just words: youngsters who wanted a better
world: Young activists pay tribute to friends lost and ideals shared on Utoya
island

BYLINE: Helen Pidd and Andrew Boyle Oslo

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 890 words


For Lejla Selaci and her family, Norway was a sanctuary, a safe haven away from
the men with guns who were trying to wipe Kosovans out of existence.
Transplanted from Mitrovica to Fredrikstad, a coastal town south of Oslo, Lejla
got involved in politics, convinced that words and not weapons were a way to
make the world a better place.

That's how the 17-year-old came to be on the island of Utoya last Friday when
Anders Behring Breivik arrived dressed as a policeman with a pistol in his belt
and a hunting rifle slung over his shoulder, telling the campers he was there to
protect them following the bomb in Oslo - only to open fire over the course of
90 minutes, killing 68 people.

Lejla was attending the youth convention on Utoya as head of the Fredrikstad
branch of Norway's youth labour movement, Arbeidernes Ungdomsfylking, or AUF. On
Thursday night she sat with friends around the campfire as they practised a pop
song they hoped to perform for the rest of the group the following night. The
performance never happened.

Now Lejla is missing, presumed dead at the bottom of the Tyrifjorden, just one
of dozens of young activists tipped for the top of Norwegian politics who will
never reach adulthood, let alone the Stortinget, Norway's parliament.

Lejla was one of the close friends Jaran Berg lost in the massacre. "Lejla was
an extraordinarily warm person," said the 24-year-old, who had to clamber over
10 bodies as he fled to hide in a cave by the shore. "She was the sort of
special person who was unstoppable in her will to get things done. I'm confident
that she was bound for great things as a politician. It is unbelievably sad that
I won't be getting a call from her again."

Berg sat with Leija on Thursday evening, learning to sing Chris Medina's What
Are Words, which includes lyrics that could be considered unbearably trite were
they not now so fitting: "And I know an angel was sent just for me, And I know
I'm meant to be where I am, And I'm gonna be, Standing right beside her
tonight." Berg and other survivors now plan to sing the song at one of the
remembrance services.

The loss of Lejla and other nascent political stars has led to suggestions that
the massacre has created a "talent vacuum" for Norway's left. But like many who
survived, Berg said the horrors he witnessed would make him and his party
stronger. "I and all the other survivors I've talked to want to dedicate our
lives to the values and work we had started. It will be our way of making sure
they didn't die in vain."

In an interview on Tuesday evening, Marit Nybakk, a Labour MP, was adamant that
though the labour movement was in mourning, Breivik had not succeeded in
obliterating an entire generation of potential politicians. "Yes, he killed a
lot of our youth leaders - activists from all but one of Norway's 19 counties
are reported dead or missing. But the youth labour movement is very big, very
strong, very well organised, and in time, will recover."

The AUF has more than 10,000 members across Norway.

Another activist missing from Utoya is Hanne Kristine Fridtun, 20, from
Sognefjord, who sent out an SOS on her mobile phone before trying to swim across
the water away from Breivik's bullets. "We are 20 people hiding at the water's
edge," she wrote. "We are talking quietly so as not to be heard."

In April, Hanne addressed the Labour party conference and discussed her dream of
a better future. "We want the right to live in the best possible world," she
said. "We want openness, better work conditions and a better deal for
pensioners."

Another victim was Tore Eikeland, 21, president of the AUF, whom the Norwegian
prime minister, Jens Stoltenberg, has described as "one of the most promising
politicians of the next generation".

Then there was Sverre Flate Bjorkavag, 28, a committed party activist who stood
for mayor in his small town of Sula, on Norway's west coast. Tarald Mjelde, the
18-year-old vice-chair of the AUF in Hordaland and Nordhordland, was described
on a blog by a friend as "the little boy with an enthusiasm that infects
everyone". He is also missing and presumed dead.

At 6pm on Tuesday local time, police confirmed the first four of the deaths.
Among them was the son of Roald Linaker, an army chaplain and powerful regional
labour figure. Gunnar, 23, has been hailed as one of the "heroes of Utoya" by
the Norwegian press after it emerged that he shielded younger campers from
Breivik's bullets and sacrificed his own life in the process.

The other three confirmed deaths occurred in the Oslo bomb blast. They were Tove
Ashill Knutsen, a 56-year-old administrator in the energy ministry, Hanna M
Orvik Endresen, 31, a government worker, and Ida Marie Hill, 34, of the justice
department.

As more names are confirmed in the coming days, there will be further soul
searching from survivors.

Hakon Sandbakken, 22, who hid in a toilet, wrote on his blog: "I've watched a
lot of films with hostage situations,shoot-outs, bank robberies. A and I always
wondered how I would react in a crisis. Friday I got the answer. I might have
thought that I would have stormed out, with no thought of my own safety, to
rescue those who needed me most. The bitter and stone-hard truth is that I, like
all others, didn't dare do anything other than lie quiet as a mouse on the floor
for three-and-a-half hours until the police found us."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday

Norway terror attacks: Faces of the dead and missing First pictures of 30 Utoya
massacre and Oslo bomb victims

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 169 words


Captions:

Lejla Selaci 17 (of Fredrikstad)

Monica Iselin Didriksen 19 (of Sund)

Ismail Haj Ahmed 20 (singer/rapper)

Aleksander Aas Eriksen 16 (from Meraker)

Tarald Mjelde 18 (of Osteroy)

Snorre Haller 30 (of Trondheim)

Anders Kristiansen 18 (of Bardu)

Hanne Kristine Fridtun 20 (of Stryn)

Gunnar Linakar 23

Sondre Dale 17 (of Haugesund)

Sverre Flate Bjorkavag 28 (of Sula)

Torjus Blattmann 17 (of Kristiansand)

Andrine Bakkene Espeland 17 (of Sarpsborg)

Hanne Lovlie 30 (of Tyristrand)

Trond Berntsen 51 (policeman of Hokksund)

Jamil Rafal Yasin 20 (Iraq-born, of Egersund)

Tove Knutsen (government worker)

Gizem Dogan 17 (of Trondheim)

Tore Eikeland 21 (youth wing president)

Syvert Knudsen 17 (of Lyngdal)

Simon Saebo 19 (of Salangen)

Havard Vederhus 21 (of Oslo)

Johannes Buo 14 (of Mandal)

Marianne Sandvik 16 (of Hundvag)

Guro Vartdal Havoll 18 (of Orsta)

Monica Bosei 45 (camp organiser)

Tamta Liparteliani (Georgian young socialist)

Emil Okkenhaug 15 (of Levanger)

Espen Jorgensen 17 (of Bodo)

Hanne Anette Balch Fjalestad 43 (of Lunner)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday

Norway terror attacks: 'Hitler Youth' jibe

BYLINE: Ben Quinn

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 200 words


Glenn Beck, below, the rightwing US broadcaster and Tea Party favourite, has
compared those who were massacred on the Norwegian island of Utoya to the Nazi
party's youth wing.

"There was a shooting at a political camp, which sounds a little like the Hitler
Youth, or, whatever. I mean, who has a camp for kids that's all about politics?
Disturbing," said Beck on his syndicated radio show.

The comments were condemned by Torbjorn Eriksen, a former press secretary to
Jens Stoltenberg, Norway's prime minister. Eriksen described the comment as "a
new low" for Beck, telling the Daily Telegraph: "Young political activists have
gathered at Utoya for over 60 years to learn about and be part of democracy, the
very opposite of what the Hitler Youth was about. Glenn Beck's comments are
ignorant, incorrect and extremely hurtful."

Beck's latest comments about the "disturbing" nature of political youth camps
may come as a surprise to his followers in the Tea Party. The anti-tax,
anti-immigration movement has been holding a number of summer camps in states
including Florida and Missouri where children have been taught a curriculum
based on God, the US constitution and "the defence of economic liberty".

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday

Norway terror attacks: British connection: Killer 'left messages on EDL web
forum'

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 721 words


Anti-racism campaigners believe they may have evidence that Anders Behring
Breivik was in touch with activists from the English Defence League as recently
as March.

Searchlight said that the 32-year-old killer used as a pseudonym the name of a
Norwegian king who led a crusade in the 12th century to communicate on an EDL
forum, before retreating to a remote farm to prepare for last week's attacks. In
one posting, on 9 March, the author called on UK activists to "keep up the good
work".

"Hello. In these dark times all of Europe are looking to you in such (sic) of
inspiration, courage and even hope that we might turn this evil trend with
islamisation all across our continent. Well, just wanted to say keep up the good
work it's good to see others that care about their country and heritage. All the
best to you all. Sigurd."

Breivik boasted of his links to the UK far-right group in his 1,500-page
manifesto, written in English under his Anglicised name, Andrew Berwick. But the
EDL says the manifesto also makes clear he viewed as naive their commitment to
democratic methods.

In the document, he says he was given the codename "Sigurd (the Crusader)" at a
founding meeting of a group called the Knights Templar Europe in London in 2002.
There is no confirmation that the author is Breivik. In messages, "Sigurd" says
he attended a football match in the UK and expresses his admiration for the EDL,
adding he would like join one of its demonstrations: "well thinking about taking
a little trip over the sea and join you in a demo. would be nice with a
norwegian flag alongside with union jack or the english flag, that is if a
norwegian would be welcome offcourse?"

In another message, he says: "The biggest problem in Norway is that there is no
real free press, there is a left-wing angle on all the political topics so most
people are going around like idiots. And offcourse with our norwegian labour
party beeing in power for most of the last 50 years dont help. but i i think
there is an awakening now at least i hope so."

In his manifesto published on the eve of the attack, Breivik repeatedly refers
to the EDL, stating at one point: "I used to have more than 600 EDL members as
Facebook friends and have spoken with tens of EDL members and leaders. In fact,
I was one of the individuals who supplied them with processed ideological
material (including rhetorical strategies) in the very beginning."

The EDL has staged street demonstrations, many of which have turned violent,
since it was formed two years ago. But it denies any links to Breivik and
condemned the killings, stating it is a peaceful organisation that rejects all
forms of extremism. Last night it did not respond to questions about the
postings by "Sigurd".

Since the attack there have been unconfirmed reports Breivik attended EDL
demonstrations last year, possibly in London and Newcastle upon Tyne. One
apparent EDL activist posted a comment online on Sunday stating: "(B)ar one or
two doubt the rest of us ever met him, altho he did come over for one of our
demo in 2010 . . . but what he did was wrong."

In a separate forum a woman suggested she had come across Breivik in the UK.
"OMG (Oh, my God) . . . HIM?! He wrote some books and did talks didn't he?"

Stephen Lennon, leader of the EDL, told the BBC on Monday he had never met
Breivik and did not believe he had attended any EDL demonstration.

He also pointed out that at one point in his manifesto Breivik described the EDL
as "naive fools". Lennon told Jeremy Paxman that Breivik's manifesto noted "the
EDL harshly condemns any movement that uses terror as a tool, such as mine; this
is why we (sic) view the EDL as naive fools. The EDL is a democratic movement
that still believes that the democratic system can solve British problems, they
have non-European background members, African and Asian . . ."

There also appears a dispute among some figures associated with the EDL over who
Breivik's mentor "Richard" may be. In his manifesto the Norwegian said he met
the man at the meeting in London in 2002.

Searchlight's editor, Nick Lowles, claimed there was now "clear evidence" of a
direct link between Breivik and the English Defence League and called on the
Home Office to formally classify it as an extremist organisation, and ban a
proposed EDL march in Tower Hamlets in east London in September.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday

Norway terror attacks: Breivik's mindset: Killer was surprised at not being
stopped

BYLINE: Mark Townsend and Helen Pidd Oslo

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 715 words


The man behind Norway's terror attacks has told his lawyer he was surprised he
was not stopped straight after he bombed Oslo city centre, and that he expected
to be killed before he reached the island where he shot dead 68 people.

Anders Behring Breivik was a "very cold" man who had taken drugs to keep himself
awake during the shootings, the lawyer, Geir Lippestad, told a press conference
yesterday.

Breivik, who has confessed to killing 76 people in the atrocities in Oslo and on
Utya island, told Lippestad he was at war with the world, and that killing was
justified in a war. "He was a little surprised he succeeded - in his mind
succeeded," Lippestad said. "He was expecting to be stopped earlier by the
police or someone else during the actual day. He was surprised that he reached
the island.

"He thought he would be killed after the bombing, after the action in the
island, and he also thought he would be killed at the trial. He believes someone
will kill him."

Breivik also claimed that he was part of an anti-Islam network that has two
cells in Norway and "several" more abroad.

Asked to explain Breivik's mindset, Lippestad said: "He says he is sorry he had
to do this but it is necessary. He looks upon himself as a warrior. And he
started this war, and takes some kind of pride in that.

"He believes this is the start of a war that will go on for 60 years," Lippestad
said. "He believes the other cells will continue the war."

Lippestad said that after several meetings with his client, he believed Breivik
was mentally ill. "This whole case indicated that he is insane," he said of the
32-year-old, who denies he is a criminal.

The lawyer, a member of Norway's Labour party whose youth wing was targeted by
Breivik, said he did not know why the killer had chosen him to represent him. He
added that if his client were to refuse to take psychological tests he would
quit from his defence. Two psychiatric experts will now evaluate Breivik's
mental state.

According to Lippestad, Breivik remains unaware of the revulsion his attacks
have sparked and does not know the number of people he killed last Friday.

Focus continues to intensify on links between British far-right groups and
Breivik, with London the city where the suspect claimed to have launched his

so-called organisation to "save Europe from Muslim takeover".

Johan Fredrikson, the chief of Oslo police, said that despite an international
investigation, including involvement by British police, they still had no
evidence that there was an accomplice or network behind the attacks.

Breivik's claims that he was surprised not to have been stopped earlier will add
to pressure on police, who have been criticised for taking more than an hour to
reach Utya island.

It emerged yesterday that the nearest police helicopter available was not able
to intervene because its pilots were on holiday.

Teenagers trapped on the island during the shootings last Friday claimed that
they were told to stay off the line because authorities were dealing with the
earlier Oslo bombing, according to relatives and local reports.

Broader questions have since emerged concerning the failure of Norwegian
intelligence over the attacks. Breivik was allegedly placed on a watchlist after
buying fertiliser in Poland that may have been used to build the Oslo bomb. It
is thought that no further action was taken.

Last night, Norwegian police detonated a cache of explosives found at a farm
leased by Breivik. "Explosives were found at the farm," police prosecutor Trine
Dyngeland told Reuters. "The police carried out a controlled detonation of the
explosives." She said no one was hurt in the controlled blast, at Rena, about
100 miles (160km) north of Oslo.

Yesterday officials confirmed they have opened an investigation into a Polish
chemist after he admitted supplying chemicals to Breivik.

The internal security agency in Warsaw said that a Polish man faces up to eight
years in prison for selling to Breivik via the internet "substances that could
be potentially dangerous to the life and health of many people".

The device that exploded on Friday had a devastating ferocity. Since the blast,
the justice minister, Knut Storberget, has revealed that employees from his
department still remain missing in the ruins of the destroyed government
building.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

First victims of Norwegian terror attacks are named

BYLINE: MARTIN WILLIAMS

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 626 words


NORWEGIAN police yesterday began releasing the names of the first of the 76
victims of Friday s twin terror attacks, putting faces to the numbers as the
country continued to reel with shock and grief.

Most were 25 or younger.

They included three who were killed in the Oslo car bomb and a 23-year-old man
who died on the island of Utoya, where right-wing extremist Anders Breivik went
on a shooting spree.

The lawyer for the killer, who has confessed to both crimes, said his client
appeared to be insane, believing his attack would launch a necessary revolution.

Meanwhile, police defended their handling of the attacks after it emerged it was
an  hour-and-a-half before an armed unit reached the island.

I don t think we think we could have done this faster,  Police Chief of Staff
Johan Fredriksen said.

The bomb in Oslo targeted buildings connected to Norway s Labour Government, and
the youth camp on Utoya was run by the party.

Just four of the victims  identities were confirmed yesterday by Norway s
National Police Directorate.

They included Gunnar Linaker, 23, from Bardu in northern Norway, who was at a
Labour Party summer camp on Utoya island where most of the victims were shot to
death.

Mr Linaker was talking to his father by phone when the massacre started, and
told him:  Dad, dad, there is a shooting, I have  to go.

Also confirmed dead were Tove Ashill Knutsen, 56, Hanna M Orvik Endresen, 61 and
Kai Hauge, 32.

Ms Knutsen was executive secretary of the Norwegian electricians and IT workers
union and was on her way home from work when the bomb went off.

Other Norwegian publications unofficially identified victims through friends and
family.

They included Monica Bosei, a 45-year-old who was a well-known organiser at the
camp, Crown Princess Mette-Marit s stepbrother Trond Berntsen, 51, and Ismail
Haji Ahmed, a 19-year-old dancer who appeared on Norway s Got Talent.

Tore Eikeland, 21, was named by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg at a memorial
service on Sunday as one of those who died on the island.

Breivik is said to have told his lawyer he was surprised and satisfied by the
number of people he had killed.

This whole case has  indicated he s insane,  Geir  Lippestad told journalists.

He also said his client was surprised he was not stopped earlier in the shooting
on Utoya island or killed on the way to court on Monday.

He is sorry he had to do this but it was necessary to start a revolution in
(the) Western world,  Mr Lippestad said, adding that he shows hate to anyone who
is not an extremist.

The lawyer said it was too early to say if Breivik would plead insanity at his
trial, and that he would quit representing him if he did not agree to
psychological tests.

Mr Lippestad also said Breivik claims he is part of an anti-Islam network.  He
talks about two cells in Norway, but several cells abroad,   said the lawyer.

A leading Norwegian forensic psychiatrist and police adviser said it was
unlikely Breivik would be found to be psychotic and therefore unaccountable for
his actions, or even to be able to claim diminished responsibility.

In Norway you are not accountable for crime and getting sentenced to jail if you
display a typical psychosis with hallucinations, delusional ideas or
disturbances,  said Yngve Ystad, a consultant in forensic psychiatry at Oslo
University Hospital.

Meanwhile, it was claimed the interrogation of Breivik was moving slowly, with
the killer silent on his claims about sleeper cells or other potential
collaborators.

Yesterday Justice Minister Knut Storberget met police chiefs who were facing
criticism for their allegedly slow response.  It is very important that we have
an open and critical approach   but there is a time for everything,  Mr
Storberget said after the talks.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: shock: Breivik s lawyer Geir Lippestad at a press conference. Above,
victims Tore Eikeland, top, and Gunnar Linaker. Main picture: Reuters Anders
Breivik: Said he was satisfied with number he killed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 28, 2011 Thursday

Indian intelligence officials warn of terror attack at airports in key cities

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "LeT Planning Fidayeen Attack on Indian
Airports?" published by Indian private news channel Zee News website on 26 July

New Delhi: Even as the perpetrators of the deadly blast in Mumbai are yet to be
brought to book, intelligence agencies, Tuesday [26 July], warned of a
Lashkar-i-Toiba plan to target airports in key cities.

Top intelligence sources told Zee News that there are specific inputs of LeT
planning to attack Delhi and Mumbai airports - the busiest in the country. The
attacks may be of fidayeen [terror missions which may lead to the death of the
attackers] nature, sources claimed.

Following the alert, the Ministry of Home Affairs has issued an advisory to
states besides beefing up security at the airports.

Source: Zee News TV website, New Delhi, in English 26 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             July 28, 2011 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Norway s leader pledges security review in wake of terror attacks

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 551 words


NORWAY S Prime Minister has pledged a security review after a mourning period
for at least  76 people killed by a far-right zealot in bombing and shooting
attacks that shocked the world.

Norwegians tried to restore some normality five days after the attacks, but a
security alert forced the evacuation of Oslo train station, keeping nerves on
edge.

PM Jens Stoltenberg said that many European intelligence services had joined the
investigation into Norway s bloodiest massacre since the Second World War.

(Police) organisation and capacity will be part of an evaluation,  he said,
adding that he expected the attacks to stimulate political engagement.

I believe the result of this will be more participation, more political
activity,  Mr Stoltenberg said.  Our commitment to core values will grow
stronger.

Confessed killer Anders Breivik is said to have given varying accounts of his
actions, first saying he operated alone and then telling a judge he was part of
a wider network.

Norway s domestic intelligence chief said she believed Breivik operated alone
and contested his lawyer s claim that his client was probably insane.

One Cabinet minister, Rigmor Aaserud, returned to her office in Oslo s
government district where Breivik detonated a powerful home-made bomb that
killed eight people on Friday.

The bomb blew a hole in Mr Stoltenberg s office, and for now he will work from
the defence ministry in another area of Oslo with Cabinet meetings held in a
medieval fort near the waterfront. It is not clear whether the 17-storey
building will be rebuilt or torn down.

Norwegians, unused to violence in a quiet country of 4.8 million, must now
struggle with how to improve security without jeopardising the freedom and
openness of their society.

Our challenge will be to reconcile those two things,  Mr Stoltenberg said,
denying that Norway had been naive.  It is very important to distinguish between
naivety and openness.

He said he welcomed a debate about security measures and the police response to
the emergency. Some critics have accused the police of taking too long to reach
the island north-west of Oslo where Breivik shot 68 people, mostly youngsters at
a summer camp for the ruling Labour Party s youth wing.

Mr Stoltenberg said Norway had special forces designed to deal with violent
attacks, even if these had not occurred before.

We are even more aware of any dangers now than before the attack. But in general
Norwegians want to defend themselves against violence by showing they are not
afraid of violence.

One of the officers involved in the operation on Utoeya island said yesterday
that Breivik threw down his gun and put up his hands in surrender when police
approached him.

Policeman Jacob Bjertnaes said he joined a special forces team of eight officers
to stop the killing at Utoeya island, where 650 youths were camping.

Arriving in two groups of five, the first police unit went towards the north end
of the island, while the second saw the shooter was on the opposite side.

We ran towards the south end of the island,  Mr Bjertnaes said of his group.
Suddenly, the perpetrator stood in front of us with his hands above his head.
The weapon lay on the ground  15 metres away from him.

Breivik has been charged under the terrorism act, which carries a maximum
penalty of 21 years.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MARK OF RESPECT: Floral tributes have been left at a temporary memorial
site on the shore overlooking Utoeya island. Picture: Fabrizio Bensch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 July 28, 2011
                                 First Edition

The day before the attack, unaware of the terror to come

BYLINE: JEROME TAYLOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 141 words


A gathering of politically aware youngsters listen to speeches, as they bask in
the summer sunshine.

This was the scene on the island of Utoya, 24 hours before Anders Behring
Breivik arrived on a ferry pretending to be a police officer and began his
terrible slaughter. For more than two decades, members of the Norwegian Labour
Party's youth wing - the AUF - have flocked to the island for an annual summer
camp.

This picture, released by the AUF yesterday, was taken during a visit to Utoya
by Norway's Foreign Minister, Jonas Gahr Stoere, on Thursday afternoon. Little
did any of the youngsters know, that the following day would bring a tragedy of
quite catastrophic proportions. At bottom right wearing a turban sits Prableen
Kaur, who survived by playing dead. "I must have had a guardian angel watching
over me," she later wrote. JEROME TAYLOR

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             July 28, 2011 Thursday

Manchester's tribute to victims of terror attacks

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 251 words


MANCUNIANS can now offer their sympathy over the Norway twin terror attacks by
signing a book of condolence.

It has been set up in the north aisle of Manchester Cathedral.

The Dean of Manchester, the Very Reverend Rogers Govender has invited members of
the public to spend a few moments of silent prayer for those who died.

We are saddened by the tragic events in Oslo and send our love and prayers to
the people of Norway. The Norwegian government has announced the creation of a
22 July Commission' to investigate the bomb and gun attacks which left 76 people
dead.

Prime minister Jens Stoltenberg said the commission would analyse everything
that happened.

The speed of the police response to Anders Behring Breivik's second attack, on
Utoeya island, had come under scrutiny.

Police have released the names of 13 more victims who died in the attacks. Ten
were teenagers and the youngest was 14-year-old Sharidyn Svebakk-Bohn. They were
all on the island. Mr Stoletenberg also announced a national memorial, and said
the government would contribute to the cost of funerals of the victims.

Relatives and victims would also be entitled to payments from the state under a
new law on compensation for victims of crime.

Mr Stoltenberg said Norway would not be intimidated or threatened by the attacks
and that Norwegians would stand firm in defending their values.

The attacks were directed at Norway's fundamental values' - democracy and
openness - and that the response would be more democracy, more openness,' he
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STANDING TOGETHER The Dean of Manchester, the Very Reverend Rogers
Govender signs the book of condolence at the cathedral Photograph Phil Tragen
CATHEDRAL OFFERS SUPPORT TO PEOPLE OF NORWAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             July 28, 2011 Thursday

Manchester's tribute to victims of terror attacks

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 251 words


MANCUNIANS can now offer their sympathy over the Norway twin terror attacks by
signing a book of condolence.

It has been set up in the north aisle of Manchester Cathedral.

The Dean of Manchester, the Very Reverend Rogers Govender has invited members of
the public to spend a few moments of silent prayer for those who died.

We are saddened by the tragic events in Oslo and send our love and prayers to
the people of Norway. The Norwegian government has announced the creation of a
22 July Commission' to investigate the bomb and gun attacks which left 76 people
dead.

Prime minister Jens Stoltenberg said the commission would analyse everything
that happened.

The speed of the police response to Anders Behring Breivik's second attack, on
Utoeya island, had come under scrutiny.

Police have released the names of 13 more victims who died in the attacks. Ten
were teenagers and the youngest was 14-year-old Sharidyn Svebakk-Bohn. They were
all on the island. Mr Stoletenberg also announced a national memorial, and said
the government would contribute to the cost of funerals of the victims.

Relatives and victims would also be entitled to payments from the state under a
new law on compensation for victims of crime.

Mr Stoltenberg said Norway would not be intimidated or threatened by the attacks
and that Norwegians would stand firm in defending their values.

The attacks were directed at Norway's fundamental values' - democracy and
openness - and that the response would be more democracy, more openness,' he
said.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STANDING TOGETHER The Dean of Manchester, the Very Reverend Rogers
Govender signs the book of condolence at the cathedral Photograph Phil Tragen
CATHEDRAL OFFERS SUPPORT TO PEOPLE OF NORWAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Post Magazine

                             July 28, 2011 Thursday

News - Oslo terrorist attacks.

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 177  words

DATELINE: UK


A market observer has said last week's terrorist attacks in Oslo, pictured
above, which have left 76 dead are a reminder to the insurance industry of the
risks of a lone act of terrorism in Western European countries.

Pepe Egger, head of Western Europe forecasting at Exclusive Analysis, said
one-man terrorism operations, such as that perpetrated by Anders Breivik in
Norway on Friday, would not lead to an immediate re-assessment of risk by the
insurance industry, as such attacks were not new. Referring to David Copeland,
who detonated a nail bomb in London in 1999, he said: "We don't have to
reconsider the risks stemming from them because we always knew a lone guy could
do this amount of damage. But it is a reminder of what an individual can achieve
if they are extremely dedicated and skilled in what they are doing." Mr Egger
concluded: "We often speak about the risk of lone actors perpetrating Jihad and
right-wing terrorism, because they are the most likely candidates not to be
caught by the police, but such events like the Norway attacks are rare."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright 2011 Timothy Benn Publishing Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                                 July 29, 2011

Terror attacks comments outrage

BYLINE: Asian Image reporter

SECTION: NEWS - UK

LENGTH: 265 words


A Islamic student organisation has expressed outrage at comments made by the
founder of the English Defence League (EDL) on BBC's Newsnight.

The Federation of Student Islamic Societies (FOSIS) has expressed concern at
comments made by Stephen Lennon, founder of the English Defence League on Monday
night's BBC Newsnight, in the wake of the recent terrorist attacks in Norway.

FOSIS spokesperson Amandla Thomas-Johnson said, "The statements of Stephen
Lennon in his recent interview with Jeremy Paxman are as troubling as they are
revealing, in that Mr Lennon not only rationalises Anders Behring's horrifying
acts of terrorism by blaming the Muslim community, but he also takes the
unprecedented step of citing the religion of Islam as a key precipitant of the
massacre rather than violence in the name of Islam".

"It is unfortunate that such Islamophobic rhetoric, fuelled by far-right
politicians and sensationalist media has become increasingly normalised in
mainstream European and British politics.

"This growing trend of irrational hate against Muslims and Islam has been
permitted to fester, resulting in senseless violence of distressing consequence,
yet it remains largely undiscussed."

Thomas-Johnson concluded that, "We can no longer afford to dismiss the issue of
anti-Muslim racism and its significance in the breaking down of a multicultural
and harmonious society.

"As British people, Europeans and members of humanity we must continually oppose
the scourge of racism which surfaced so tragically in Germany in the 1930s as
well as the Balkans in 1990s and continues to do so today."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 29, 2011 Friday

Iran paper says Oslo bombing "not different" from terror attack

LENGTH: 767 words


Text of report headlined "Europe in fear of right-wing extremists" published by
Iranian newspaper Iran on 24 July

The deadly attacks on Friday [22 July] night in the Norwegian capital Oslo
engulfed entire Europe with the right-wing terror. The most peaceful European
capital city became the scene of explosions and firing while the Western media
have continuously been warning against possible revenge by Al-Qa'idah in Europe
since the killing of Usamah Bin-Laden until date.

During the early hours [on the day] of the two abovementioned attacks, Norwegian
police emphasized that according to their investigations these attacks have no
connection with Al-Qa'idah and clues lead to the involvement of right-wing
extremists. These remarks led the political observers to name the Friday night
incident as Europe's Oklahoma City [incident] which was committed in 1995 by a
right-wing US extremist Timothy McVeigh.

The European right-wing extremists, who consider resistance against Islam and
immigrants as their biggest objective, have expanded the domain of their
propaganda activities in recent years and are pursuing their activities
professionally through internet networks. Thus, it could be said that, although
the threat of possible criminal actions of the right-wing extremists in Europe
was low but recent explosions and armed attack in Norway showed that they can
become as audacious as the Al-Qa'idah. While their propaganda suggests that
far-right groups are thinking of spreading their thoughts and ideology in
Europe, which can be a warning bell for all the Europeans, especially when the
right-wing extremists have also succeeded in reaching parliaments and centres of
power in Europe by expanding the area of their activities, for example the
emergence of Geert Wilders in Holland.

The far-right violence in Europe is more worrying when this region is getting
flooded with waves of Muslim immigrants in the wake of outbreak of revolutions
in North African countries. The Islamophobic nature of these far-right
extremists could be a real threat to these immigrants and other European
citizens. Limited and small-scale physical violence should be taken as terrorist
threats like the incident of Friday night that occurred in Norway. In a speech
in September 2010, Director General of British Security Services Jonathan Evans
had warned against the activities of far-right extremist groups and said: Small
and unethical acts of the right-wing extremists can result in huge losses one
day. The Norwegian security services of police prepared an unclassified report
which had warned against increased activities and power of right-wing extremist
militia. The report had stated that the far-right Norwegian extremists are in
contact with right-wing extremists in Sweden and other such groups across
Europe. There is a possibility of relationship between them and far-right
extremists in East Europe. All these groups can make the society bipolar and
become reason of violence in various congregations.

This concern also prevails in Britain. Police and Islamic groups in this country
are worried about attacks by right-wing extremist groups. In a meeting with a
group of Muslims in London in 2009, Sean Xaviers [as published] of London
police's anti-terrorist department informed of these groups concerns' for
increased police monitoring over the right-wing extremist groups and had said
that the police is also concerned about certain speculations regarding terror
attacks by these [rightist] groups which could lead to death of many British
citizens. During that time some of the analysts had also warned that the
right-wing extremist groups are attracting European youth by exploiting the
emotions of European people, especially for defending European values and other
such slogans.

The rightist extremists of Europe should not be considered different phenomena
from the Al-Qa'idah. Their tactics exhibited in bombing and armed attack in
Norway are not different from the attacks by Al-Qa'idah. Attempt on the life of
Swedish prime minister [preceding words as published] was possibly a political
justification but the killing of the youth in the youth camp of the ruling party
has no justification other than the group, which committed [the crime], is a
terrorist outfit. The Norwegian incident showed that instead of exaggerating the
threat of Muslims living in Europe, it is better for the Europeans to think of a
way out for their own extremist groups who have no fear of their terrorist
activities even in the most prosperous countries of Europe.

Source: Iran, Tehran in Persian 24 July, p 6

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 29, 2011 Friday

Russia: Norway terror attack may have impact on North Caucasus emigres

LENGTH: 167 words


If Norway toughens its migration laws following the 22 July terror attack, this
may impact North Caucasus emigres, Russian pundit Nikita Mkrtchyan told the
Regnum news agency on 29 July.

He noted that although there are no statistics in Russia about the exact number
of North Caucasus emigres to the country, many people travelled there during the
Chechnya war.

"As for Norway, it is a known fact that many residents of Chechnya travelled
there during the war in the republic. At the moment, the number of those willing
to travel there may have somewhat decreased. After all, the war in Chechnya
ended and the current Chechen government was established a while ago. This
however is only speculation. There is no statistical data to make it possible to
make judgments in a more professional way" Mkrtchyan said.

The agency added that the number of North Caucasus residents who permanently
reside in Norway ranges from six to ten thousand people.

Source: Regnum news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1147gmt 29 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 30, 2011 Saturday

Syrian railways chief terms attack on line "a professional terrorist act"

LENGTH: 350 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Railways Director General Explains Criminal Act That Targeted Train from
Damascus to Aleppo" - SANA Headline]

(SANA) - DAMASCUS, (SANA) - Director-General of Railways George al-Mukabari on
Sunday [date as published] explained the criminal act that targeted the train
from Aleppo to Damascus, using illustrations and diagrams to show that this act
is a professional terrorist act as it was intended to kill all the train's
passengers.

During the explanation which was broadcast by the Syrian TV, Al-Mukabari pointed
out that the location of the incident is 11 km before the city of Hims on a
bridge 35 metres long and 4 metres high located over a water surface.

He said that bike tracks indicate that the saboteurs disconnected a connector
between two metal bars and six concrete rafters, causing the tracks to be
misaligned which led to the derailing of the train which had 11 carriages each
with a capacity of 50 passengers.

Al-Mukabari said the tampering caused the locomotive to shake violently and
flip, separating the locomotive from the carriages and causing it to burn,
killing the driver Abd-al-Kadir Layla and injuring his assistant severely.

He noted that the carriages also derailed except the last three, adding that the
passengers were saved by divine intervention, going on to explain that two other
potential scenarios of this incident would have caused both the locomotive and
the carriages to flip and burn, while the second could have led to the carriages
falling into the water source beneath the bridge.

Al-Mukabari said that any of these two scenarios could have cause the death of
the 485 passengers who were on board, who included children, women and elderly
people, affirming that the General Establishment of Syrian Railways is working
in cooperation with relevant authorities to ensure the safety of its trains
across the country.

16 passengers were injured during this incident, which also caused damages
estimated at around USD 6 million.

H. Sabbagh

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 30 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 30, 2011 Saturday

Passengers recount "terrorist attack" on Syrian train

LENGTH: 217 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Passengers on Ill-Fated Train Recount Details of the Terrorist Crime" - SANA
Headline]

(SANA) - Idlib, (SANA) - Some of the passengers on the train which was targeted
by a terrorist attack in Al-Suda area, north to Hims City, talked about the
crime of the armed terrorist groups which nearly claimed the lives of hundreds
of innocent people.

In an interview with the Syrian TV, Khalid Jasim, one of the passengers, said
"The accident took place around 03:15 a.m. We got off the trailers and tried to
help women and children leave the burning train," noting that fire engines and
police cars couldn't reach the first trailer and save the driver on time.

He described the accident as a criminal and sabotage act which aims at derailing
the train to fall off the bridge into the Orontes River and killing the 500
passengers.

Another passenger, Kazim Isa Sattuf, said we felt the brakes strongly slammed on
and the train derailed to the left side and then turned to the right side, which
caused the train to set on fire.

He added that they were able to get one man out from the burning trailer but the
high intensive flames prevented them from helping the driver.

R. Raslan/H. Said

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 30 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              July 31, 2011 Sunday
                                  Eire Edition

MONSTERED;
IRISHMAN'S VICIOUS TERROR ATTACK BY 300LB DEADLY JAWS ON THE HIGH SEAS

BYLINE: VICTORIA MCMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 546 words


IT was the one that DIDN'T get away.

This 8ft shark bit off more than it could chew when it came up against Co Antrim
fisherman Hamish Currie.

The 52-year-old skipper struggled for two hours to land the 300lb monster, which
his crewmates dubbed "The Beast".

Hamish had to call on every one of his 45 years of experience as a fisherman as
the dangerous porbeagle shark rammed his 30ft rigid inflatable boat, sunk its
teeth into the port side and bit into one of his crewmates' boots.

Yesterday he described the moment he knew something out of the ordinary had
taken a bite on his line.

"When she started ramming I knew she was a real bad fish, a wicked girl," he
said. "She took two bites and punctured the boat. I think she lost a couple of
teeth when she took those chunks.

"I've landed loads of sharks over the years but she was by far the worst. They
can be aggressive but she was really, really angry. She was unbelievable."

Porbeagles - which are closely related to the Great Whites featured in Hollywood
thriller Jaws - have been known to attack humans, although it is rare. Three
non-fatal attacks were recorded in 2009.

Hamish had set sail from Cushendall last week with the four-man crew of The
Predator.

They crossed the Irish Sea and hooked the shark - which is off the Scottish
coast at Portnahaven in the Hebrides. And their struggles didn't end once they
had hauled the shark on to the boat.

"When we landed her she took a bite of one of the guys' boots," said Hamish, who
is from Saltcoats, Ayrshire, but is based in Northern Ireland.

"She left a couple of teeth in it. He couldn't believe it. He came off the boat
and was left picking teeth out!" Hamish, who runs sharkfishing trips, said: "My
main worry is always my passengers on board and their safety.

"You can easily lose an arm or a leg to them. They'd snap it off no bother and
when you are 40 miles away from home you could bleed to death. Bringing her in
was my hairiest experience."

Once the crew had landed the deadly shark on deck Hamish knew it was vital to
calm her down.

"I put a towel over her eyes and it settled her a bit," he said. "She didn't
come to any harm. We had her on the boat for no more than five minutes before we
threw her back.

"I was totally shattered after it all. Thankfully we got back home and got the
boat patched up."

Hamish's crew-mate Brian Menary, who initially hooked the shark, said: "It was
unbelievable. She scared the bejesus out of me.

"Pulling her in nearly killed me, it was some struggle. Thank goodness I'm 6ft
and 20 stone because if I was 5ft 8in and nine stone I would have been overboard
and away swimming."

The fisherman, from Bangor, Co Down, added: "At the time you are running on
adrenaline. She was violent but you don't think about that at the time and
besides, Hamish was in full control.

"When I saw her down in the boat I thought 'Christ!' We had to be careful
because they can sideswipe you very easily and she had some set of gnashers on
her.

"She was a fish of a lifetime. I've caught sharks before but nothing like her.
She'll be hard to beat."

The porbeagle shark, which eats mainly mackerel and herring, is relatively rare
in British waters.

The European Union has proposed listing the shark under the United Nations
Convention on trading in endangered species.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Monster gnash... shark's huge jaws Skipper... Hamish Currie
Jaws-dropping ... shark is hauled aboard the Predator (above)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wales on Sunday

                                 July 31, 2011
                                  1st Edition

Extremist considered more attacks in reign of terror on Norway

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 349 words


THE anti-Muslim extremist who confessed to a bombing and youth camp massacre
that killed 77 people in Norway has told investigators he also considered
attacking other targets linked to the government or the prime minister's Labour
Party, police said yesterday.

During a 10-hour questioning session on Friday, Anders Behring Breivik, right,
asked interrogators how many people he had killed in the July 22 attacks, and
"showed no emotion" when they told him, police attorney Paal-Fredrik Hjort Kraby
told a news conference in Oslo.

The 32-year-old Norwegian has confessed to setting off a car bomb that killed
eight in Oslo and then gunning down scores of youths from the Labour Party at
their annual retreat on an island north-west of the capital. Sixty-nine of them
died.

Kraby said Breivik had considered other possible targets to attack as he
prepared what Norway's Police Security Service has described as meticulously
prepared by a "lone-wolf" attacker.

"The other targets were government and Labour Party targets," Kraby said.

He declined to confirm a report in Norwegian tabloid VG saying Breivik had
described the Royal Palace and the Labour Party's head office as potential
targets.

"They were targets that one would say are natural for terror attacks," Kraby
told reporters.

Breivik released a 1,500-page manifesto before the attacks in which he ranted
against Muslims and a left-wing political elite he claims is destroying Europe's
cultural heritage by allowing unfettered immigration.

Norwegian authorities say he wasn't on their database of right-wing extremists
and appears to have prepared his attacks for years without telling anyone. They
haven't found anything to support his claims of being part of a militant network
of modern-day crusaders plotting a series of coups d'etat across Europe.

Norway started burying the dead on Friday and Cabinet ministers have honoured
the victims in tearful memorial services. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has
called for unity across ethnic and religious lines in the face of the greatest
tragedy Norway has faced in peacetime.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ws


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 1, 2011 Monday

"Mastermind" of several terror attacks arrested in Pakistan capital - minister

LENGTH: 489 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 31 July: Denying a statement attributed to him against "Tablighi
Markaz" of Raiwind, Minister for Interior A. Rehman Malik on Sunday [31 July]
said that he and his family have great respect for the Markaz where message of
Allah, holy prophet (Muhammad peace be upon him) and teachings of Islam are
preached. Talking to mediapersons here, the interior minister said that he had
not given any remarks against Raiwind Markaz in London.

He said that only Lashkar-i-Jhangvi was discussed. He was against any outfit
which was involved in attacking Pakistanis, including children and personnel of
the law-enforcement forces. Without naming a leader of Pakistan Muslim League -
Nawaz (PML-N) from Punjab, he said that his statements were always fabricated by
this particular leader whenever he talked about Lashkar-i-Jhangvi. "I have great
respect for the Tablighi Markaz and some members of my family are involved in
the noble mission of preaching Islam," he said, and added that the statements
issued by his opponents in that regard had hurt him. "I have explained to the
religious scholars that I have never given any statement against Raiwind," he
said. The interior minister said that a question about Malik Ishaq was asked and
he answered that he (Malik Ishaq) had faced imprisonment for 14 years. He
appealed to media to report any event in its full context, instead of
highlighting some parts.

To a question, he said that Islamabad Police had arrested a mastermind of
several terror attacks in the country and his accomplices from a house in Golra
area, and recovered grenades, suicide jackets and other weapons from their
possession. He said the terrorist was identified as Khalil-ur-Rehman, who was
involved in attacks at the office of intelligence agency in Qasim Bela, Multan
and schools in Swat. The minister said investigations were under way from him
and the police were expecting to get important information from him. He had also
planned to attack Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences and Islamabad Sports
Complex. "I have directed the IGP (inspector general police) to issue video of
their confession so that people may know who are their enemies and want to
destabilize the country," he added. The minister appealed to owners of houses
and estate agents to get complete verification about the tenants, and said that
Khalil-ur-Rehman had told the owner of house that he was a dealer in Sabzi
Mandi, Islamabad. He said that Islamabad Police was an icon for other
law-enforcement agencies, and its achievements in the fight against terror were
appreciable. The minister said that 42 personnel of Islamabad Police had laid
down their lives in the line of duty.

Regarding de-weaponization campaign in Karachi, he said legislation was required
for the purpose.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1836gmt
31 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 1, 2011 Monday

Syrian state-run news agency: One killed, 15 injured in Homs "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 180 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Woman martyred, 15 people wounded by armed terrorist group attack on bus"]

Homs, 31 July: A woman was martyred and 15 people wounded during an attack
launched by an armed terrorist group on a bus heading from Damascus to Masyaf.

One of the wounded people told the Syrian TV that a large terrorist group fired
randomly from all sides at the bus at al-Hulih district, Homs province, which
led to wounding him.

He added that the armed group killed a woman who was holding her daughter and
that the armed group tried to kill the daughter but they couldn't because some
people took her to hospital.

Another person said the terrorist group members were carrying various weapons,
including machineguns, rifles, handguns and shotguns and fired at the bus
randomly in addition to knives and cleavers.

A third person said that the group consisted of 150 people including adolescents
and that most of them were masked and wearing clothes similar to army uniforms.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 31 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             August 1, 2011 Monday

Attacks 'carried out by terror group'

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 137 words


Two people had hijacked a lorry on Sunday and used it to attack pedestrians in
the city, killing eight, while later other attackers set fire to a restaurant
and then set upon passing civilians, killing four. Police then arrived and shot
four of the attackers dead, the city government said. Arrest warrants were
issued today for two others who escaped. Pan Zhiping of the Xinjiang Academy of
Social Sciences said that the ETIM was "the most violent and dangerous among the
separatist forces" in the region. The group, which the United Nations views as
an "international terrorist organisation," calls for the region to secede from
China and adopt Islamist rule. Xinjiang Communist Party chief Zhang Chunxian
said people in the region should "remain vigilant" as "terrorist attackers are
the common enemy of all ethnic groups."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             August 1, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

EX-PAISLEY FISCAL IS NEW SCOTS SHERIFF;
Terror attack was part of his remit

BYLINE: ANDY NEWPORT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 522 words


AN ex-crime-fighting legal eagle who was responsible for many Paisley criminals
being locked away has been named as Scotland's newest sheriff.

Scott Pattison spent two years in the town as Renfrewshire's district procurator
fiscal and headed up several high-profile prosecutions.

He has now been appointed a sheriff in the Grampian and Highland and Islands
region by Her Majesty The Queen.

However, the 41-year-old will serve as an all-Scotland "floating" sheriff with
his base court to be arranged at a later date.

Mr Pattison became the new head of Paisley's procurator fiscal office in July
2006 and, shortly after taking up his new role, clinched a major victory over
local drug dealers when he secured convictions resulting in 70 people going to
jail for a total of more than 100 years.

Codenamed Operation Triplicate the big crackdown also ensured pounds 100,000
worth of lethal substances - including kilos of cocaine and heroin - were
seized, while a pounds 80,000 haul of assets belonging to the evil traffickers
was also confiscated under the Proceeds of Crime legislation.

More than 500 cops were involved in a series of swoops and Mr Pattison and his
team of prosecutors ensured the drug pushers were prosecuted and sent down.

He also led the charge against Islamic extremists who brought terror to Paisley
a year later when two men tried to blow up Glasgow Airport.

His office were called into action after terrorists Bilal Abdulla and Kafeel
Ahmed struck when they drove a car into the terminal's main entrance.

Some 18 months later, evil Abdulla - who worked as a doctor at the Royal
Alexandra Hospital in Paisley - was convicted at Woolwich Crown Court of
conspiracy to cause explosions and conspiracy to murder.

He was sentenced to life imprisonment and told he must serve a minimum of 32
years behind bars before he could be considered for release.

Abdulla's accomplice Ahmed was engulfed by flames during the airport attack in
June 2007 and died from his injuries a month later.

He and his team were handed awards for the part they played in both operations.

Married father-of-one Mr Pattison was nominated for his new job by First
Minister Alex Salmond on the basis of a report by the independent Judicial
Appointments Board.

The Glasgow University graduate took his first steps in the legal profession
when he was admitted as a solicitor in 1994.

His career to date has been within Scotland's prosecution service, the Crown
Office and the Procurator Fiscal Service.

Mr Pattison initially served as a Procurator Fiscal Depute in Lanark and
Hamilton prior to undertaking a lead role for the prosecution service in 1999 on
Human Rights law and devolution issues under the Scotland Act 1998.

He was then appointed as a Divisional Prosecutor Fiscal in 2002 with
responsibility for prosecutions in the north of Glasgow and thereafter as Head
of Policy at the Crown Office in 2005, before taking up his role in Paisley for
two years between 2006 and 2008.

Since then, he has been Director of Operations at the Crown office in Edinburgh.

His new job as a sheriff comes with a salary of pounds 130,000.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  LEGAL EAGLE: Scott Pattison

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday

Czech terrorism experts draw lessons from Norway attacks, note legal obstacles

LENGTH: 875 words


Text of report by Czech privately-owned independent centre-left newspaper Pravo
website, on 30 July

[Report by Radka Kovarova: "Breivik's Profile Will Help Identify Fanatics in
Czech Republic"]

The Czech Police and secret services are doing their best to learn from the
horrific events in Norway where, more than a week ago, Anders Breivik  - with
his attack in the Oslo government district and the massacre on the island of
Utoya - caused the death of 76 people.

Detectives from the Unit for Uncovering Organized Crime (UOOZ), for example, now
focus on the profile of the shooter as well as on his lifestyle. Breivik has
been described as a callous person who had spent years preparing for his act.

A lone wolf, Breivik was neither too active on the extremist scene, nor did he
arouse any significant attention when he tried to get hold of weapons and
explosives.

Legislation Makes Uncovering Risks More Complicated

"We are trying to figure out what sort of person he was, where he moved, and
whether such people live in the Czech Republic as well," UOOZ chief Robert
Slachta told Pravo. He says, however, that Czech detectives lack a key
instrument that would enable them to uncover an attack being prepared by an
individual in time.

"When it comes to the crime of illegal possession of weapons, we can only deploy
operative equipment [term referring to wiretapping and surveillance technology]
in the most severe cases, that is, if an organized group is involved in it,"
said Slachta.

In practice this means that if an individual is trying to get hold of submachine
guns or explosives, for example, the police cannot deploy an agent to uncover
the case, place the person under surveillance or wiretap him.

This is because the sentences are too low. A person procuring and possessing a
weapon is facing two years in prison in the Czech Republic. And if someone
produces a large amount of explosives or a weapon of mass effect, he can only be
sentenced to between six months and five years in jail.

Only if the police manage to prove that an organized group is involved, can the
sentence reach up to eight years behind bars.

"The sentences are too low, in my opinion" noted Slachta.

Just like the UOOZ chief, Jan Subert, spokesperson for the civilian
counterintelligence service, BIS [Security Information Service], points to
another issue as well. Ever since the May verdict of the Constitutional Court,
cell phone service providers have all but stopped cooperating with the police.
They do not provide to them lists of phone calls that make it possible to find
out who made calls to whom at certain times, and possibly also from where he
made them. This is because Czech lawmakers are taking a long time preparing new
legal regulations that the Constitutional Court ordered them to approve.

"Norway has shown that a crazed act does not necessarily have to come from
militant Muslims, which is why it is important for our people to watch out for
certain things even outside the high-risk environment in which they operate. At
first sight, these things need not be related to anything else but, as soon as
they are placed within a certain mosaic, they might acquire an interesting
value," said Subert.

He therefore believes that the secret service must improve its analytical
activity. It is equally important for the relevant information to be delivered
on time and to the right place. "We put emphasis on good internal
communication," added Subert.

Key Role of Local Policemen

A debate is currently under way in Norway on whether or not the local security
forces failed. Criticism is directed primarily at the fact that the
fast-deployment unit could not get hold of a helicopter that would transport it
fast to the island of Utoya where Breivik was shooting into young people for an
hour and a half.

Representatives of the Czech Rapid Deployment Unit [URNA] are now therefore
trying to come to an agreement with the Army command that would enable them, in
case of need, to borrow military helicopters promptly and without needless
bureaucratic delays.

"In contrast to a police helicopter, a military helicopter has a large capacity.
While a police helicopter can transport only 12 combatants, a military
helicopter will transport an entire unit, that is, about 20 people plus
equipment. However, there is one disadvantage that comes with military
helicopters: Regulations do not allow the so-called fast rappelling out of
military helicopters, whereas it is possible out of police helicopters," said
Libor Lochman, chief of the rapid deployment unit. He says that - since the
terrorist attack of Mumbai in 2008, in which gunmen seized four luxury hotels
and killed over 100 people - his people have made an effort to practice more
interventions against assassins in the streets.

"What matters as well, however, is who arrives first at the site of such an
incident. Although each region has a rapid deployment unit of its own, often it
is the local policemen who arrive at the site first. They should react right
away - before the rapid deployment unit arrives - and try, for instance, to
locate the perpetrator and drive him, for example, into some room and thereby
cut off his access to more victims," remarked Lochman.

Source: Pravo website, Prague, in Czech 30 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday

Wounded Syrian soldiers narrate details of attack by armed "terrorists" in Hama

LENGTH: 277 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Army Wounded Soldiers Tell Details of Armed Terrorist Gangs' Attacks" - SANA
Headline]

Hama, (SANA) -A number of soldiers wounded in Hama Governorate at the hands of
armed terrorist gangs on Monday [1 August] told the stories of their injuries.

Sergeant Major Husam Muhammad told the Syrian TV "While we were on patrol west
of Suran Bridge in Hama, we were requested to relieve a number of wounded
soldiers and to bring back the bodies of army soldiers martyred at a security
post after being attacked by armed groups in Hama".

He added "When we arrived there, the armed terrorist gangs started to throw us
with Molotov cocktails to burn our vehicle, we saw martyrs and wounded soldiers
on the floor, the post was completely burned. We escaped to a room at the post
to protect ourselves from these gangs which started to throw us with grenades
and Molotov cocktails".

Muhammad continued "While we were in the room, the armed gangs shot us with
machine-guns, we all fell wounded, me, the colonel and the sergeant major. Then,
we saw about 16 armed men beside the door of the room, they had military
machine-guns and pistols, we shot them and injured a number of them, the others
escaped. About 15 minutes later, reinforcements arrived and we were rescued".

For his part, Issa al-Jouma, said: "At 3 a.m. and while I was on patrol guarding
a military store in al-Hamra area in Hama, I saw a light coming from a mobile
phone, when I went to check, one of the armed terrorist gangs opened fire and
then stabbed me with knives several times."

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 2 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday

Syrian clan elders slam attacks by "armed terrorist groups" on security forces

LENGTH: 163 words


Text of report by R. Raslan/ Ghossoun published in English by state-run Syrian
news agency SANA website

["Elders of Clans in Syria Condemn Armed Terrorist Attacks on Army and Law
Enforcement Forces"]

Dara'a, (SANA) - Elders of the Northern al-Lajaat clans in Daraa governorate,
Shaykh of Musa al-Zahir clan Bakri al-Hadi, from al-Afawla Tribe and Shaykh
Kamal al-Shaykh Faris on the behalf of al-Bukamal clans condemned the criminal
acts perpetrated by the armed terrorist groups and their attacks on the army,
law enforcement forces and the police.

In their statement, the elders also condemned the vandalism of public and
private properties committed by the armed gangs, stressing the failure of these
gangs in their attempts of undermining Syria's sovereignty.

They concluded their statements by stressing the necessity of enhancing the
national unity and supporting the reform programme led by President Bashar
al-Asad.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 2 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday

Experts on TV show say Pakistan terror attacks directly linked to drone attacks

LENGTH: 1042 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1700 GMT on 1 August aired live regularly
scheduled: "Today with Kamran Khan" programme. Prominent Pakistani journalist
Kamran Khan reviews, discusses, and analyzes major day-to-day developments with
the government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and prominent
analysts in the programme.

Programme:: "Today With Kamran Khan"

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Khan begins the programme saying: "The government seems to have gained its lost
self-confidence once again because of the soft verdict of the Supreme Court
despite the fact that the government is flouting its orders. Prime Minister
Yousaf Raza Gilani has delivered speech in the National Assembly on 2 Aug in a
bid to lower the temperature and assure the people that the government will
complete its tenure." Khan further says that Gilani has informed the National
Assembly that the government implements all the decisions of the courts. Terming
Gilani's claim incorrect Khan refers to several other cases in this regard.

Khan has connected analyst Dr Farrukh Saleem over telephone and asked him about
the lasting of government's confidence with regard to the completion of its
tenure. In response, Saleem says: "Both the state and central government of
Pakistan are passing through a difficult time. The media should consider sons of
Gilani and senior minister Chaudhry Pervaiz Elahi innocent till they are proven
guilty in the court. It is the responsibility of the court to ensure that the
investigation is transparent. The government of the Pakistan People's Party will
try to use different tactics including those of making the Supreme Court
//controversial// and //politicizing// it to cash in on the public
support.//will//" and "//capacity//" are required to make the government affairs
transparent and these two attributes are not visible in the government. The
Supreme Court needs to work hard to maintain its credibility that the government
wants to damage."

Segment II

Khan says that 16 more people have been killed in the Karachi violence and the
situation seems to be going out of control of the law enforcement agencies. He
adds that an angry mob set over 100 motorcycles belonging to the factory workers
on fire outside a textile mill in Ahsanabad, Karachi. Khan quotes Sindh Home
Minister Manzoor Wasaan as saying that the terrorists have entered the ranks of
the political parties. He further adds Wasaan also visited Nine Zero, the
headquarters of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement, and Mardan House, the office of
the Awami National Party in Karachi.

Khan talks to Talha Hashmi, the correspondent of Geo News, over telephone and
seeks more details. Hashmi replies that the owners of the textile mills informed
the media over phone that armed people have attacked their factory and the
security guards of the factory are resisting them.

Hashmi adds: that The fire brigade vehicles have stood at some distance from the
factory when the media reached there. When asked why the fire tenders are not
trying to extinguish the fire, they have replied that they cannot do that
because even police is not going ahead for help saying that the armed people are
firing indiscriminately. The workers of the factory have remained besieged
during this period. Huge enforcement of Rangers and police has just reached on
the site of the incident."

Khan says that around 300 people were killed in the month of July and asks
Hashmi what is the over all situation in the city today. In respond Hashmi sys:
"Over a dozen people have been gunned down in various parts of the city today.
The police say miscreants are involved in the incidents and claim arresting
several of them and recovering huge cache of weapons from their possession but
shows nothing to media or people."

Segment II

Khan says that the State Bank of Pakistan [SBP] cut half a percent interest rate
on Saturday and adds that businessmen term it a tiny but good step in the right
direction.

Khan establishes telephone link with Arif Habib, Chairman of Arif Habib
Investment Group, and asks him whether in his view the cut in interest rate will
help accelerate trade activities. Habib replies that this is a good beginning
and will help in establishing new industries and attracting investors. He hopes
cut in the interest rate will expedite activities in all the sectors of
business. Habib says: "The government should further lower the interest rate."

Segment III

Khan says: "The drone and terror attacks inside Pakistan have somewhat reduced."
He quotes former CIA official Dennis Blair demanding halt to drone attacks on
Pakistan on the plea that these attacks are affecting the bilateral relations
badly. Khan says that Blair's statement has unnerved the US Administration and
media.

Khan connects Rahimullah Yusufzai, Bureau Chief daily The News in Peshawar over
telephone, and asks him if in his view less drone attacks mean less terror
incidents inside Pakistan. Yusufzai replies: "The Drone and terror attacks
inside Pakistan are directly interlinked. Pakistan's security agencies are
attacked in retaliation to the drone attacks."

Khan says: "The drone attacks are carried out under the instructions of the US
Government and the CIA but in the retaliatory terror attacks innocent Pakistanis
are killed." Khan asks Yusufzai why we should believe that the terrorists kill
innocent people in retaliation to the drone attacks. Yusufzai replies: "The
terrorists take responsibility when the security personnel are killed in their
attacks but they do not claim civilian deaths and put blame on the US agencies.
The drone attacks kill militants but cause //collateral damage// in the shape of
killing of civilians and that is why even the people in the United States itself
are demanding an end to the drone attacks. The militants claim that the drone
attacks are carried out with the cooperation of Pakistan and the United States
and therefore they are attacking Pakistani security forces and the government
installations. The militants do not say that they will stop their attacks if the
drone strikes come to an end rather they demand that Pakistan should break its
military cooperation with the United States."

Khan concludes the programme.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1700gmt 01 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday

Russia's Putin on US debt, security services and terror attacks

LENGTH: 264 words


Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has commented on the agreement reached by
the US parties on the default ceiling and its impact on the global economy. He
was talking to participants in the pro-Kremlin Seliger-2011 youth forum in
central Russia on 1 August, as shown by state-controlled Russian Channel One.

"The contemporary economy is globalized, to a considerable extent, and all
countries depend on each other in some way. The US economy is the one of the
driving forces of the world economy, this is an obvious fact, and if a systemic
failure occurs there, it has an impact on everyone. But thank God, this has not
happened. They had enough common sense and responsibility to come to a balanced
decision. But in general, there is nothing good about it, " Putin said.

Answering a question from one of the participants in the forum, Putin
emphatically denied the possible involvement of US security services in the
terrorist attacks of 11 September 2011, Russian news agency Interfax quoted him
as saying on the same day.

"It is utter nonsense, it is impossible," he said. "Imagining that US security
services did it deliberately, with their own hands is complete insanity," he
added.

Only people who are not familiar with the way special services work can talk
like this, he added: "It is impossible to conceal this." He could not imagine
that "an idea like this could occur to any of the incumbent or former US
leaders", the agency quoted Putin as saying.

Sources: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 1721 gmt 1 Aug 11; Interfax news
agency, Moscow, in Russian 1500 gmt 1 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            August 2, 2011, Tuesday

TERROR OF CAR ATTACK;
COURT TOLD HOW MAN REVERSED OVER VICTIM

BYLINE: Catherine Shanks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 157 words


A MAN went on trial yesterday accused of hitting his alleged victim with a car
and then robbing him.

Philip Swarbrick, 36, is said to have knocked Andrew Robertson to the ground and
reversed over him before getting out of the car.

He then allegedly seized hold of Mr Robertson and repeatedly hit him on the head
and body with an unknown implement to the danger of his life.

A court heard Swarbrick then demanded money from Mr Robertson before robbing him
of his mobile phone, keys and wallet.

Mr Robertson was severely injured and left impaired for life.

The incident is alleged to have happened on November 15 last year in Ann Street,
Aberdeen.

Swarbrick, who has lodged a special defence of self defence, is also said to
have attempted to pervert the course of justice by giving a false name to police
on the same day at Fraser Court in Aberdeen.

He denies the allegations against him.

The trial in front of temporary judge William Dunlop continues.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday

Care home cleared at inquest on fall woman ; Attack terror of cash van security
guard

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 328 words


A SECURITY guard was attacked with a sledgehammer during a raid on a van
delivering cash to a shop.

Three masked robbers targeted the guard as he carried cash into the Co-op store
on Woodsend Road, Flixton.

He was struck around the head with the sledgehammer before the gang escaped with
cash in a black Renault Laguna. The car was found abandoned on Parsonage Road.
The guard was unhurt. Anyone with information about the robbery on Friday at
7.25am can call police on 0161 856 7667.   AN elderly woman died from a head
injury after falling out of bed, an inquest heard. Ninety-seven year-old Hilda
Holland was found by care home staff with severe bruising and a cut to her head.
The former housewife who had been one of the first people ever to have a hip
replacement during the 1960s was taken to hospital but died a month later. A
safeguarding investigation was undertaken by police and social services after
Hilda's family questioned whether she had the mobility to move in bed and could
have been mishandled by care home staff. But an inquest ruled no malpractice had
taken place at Lindenwood Residential Care Home in New Moston where Mrs Holland
lived for two years. Care staff on night duty at the Nuthurst Road home said
they checked on Mrs Holland at least once an hour during the night to turn her
due to bedsores. But after going into the bedroom in the early hours of June 16
last year they found her lying on the floor with a cut to the head and severe
bruising to the face and body. Mrs Holland was rushed to North Manchester
General where she stayed for a month and appeared to make progress. But on July
16 she suffered a seizure and became unresponsive, dying three days later. A
pathologist's report found a blood clot in her brain which was likely to have
caused the episode. Coroner Leonard Gorodkin ruled Mrs Holland's cause of death
was an accident, through seizures brought on by a brain injury after hitting her
head after falling out of bed.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

SWIM STAR'S PITBULL ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 77 words


A GOLD-MEDAL winning swimmer is lucky to have escaped unscathed after her dog
was savaged and killed by a pit bull-type dog.

Stephanie Millward was walking towards her Sketty home with her Yorkshire
terrier Maisie when her dog was suddenly attacked by a dog, which police suspect
might be a breed which it is illegal to own.

The 29-year-old Paralympian said: "The dog tried to bite me twice even though it
had my dog in its mouth - it was horrible."

?Full story - page 5

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Escape ... Stephanie Millward.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWP


                    Copyright 2011 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 3, 2011 Wednesday

Report says security tightened to avert terror attacks in Pakistan's Rawalpindi

LENGTH: 2833 words


Background briefing by BBC Monitoring on 3 August


Pakistan's southern metropolis of Karachi has seen an unprecedented surge in
violence in the last month, in which political activists and ordinary people
have been targeted alike. July alone has seen over 300 people being killed in
Karachi, according to a report in English-language daily Dawn on 3 August. Even
as the government scrambles to prevent a descent into complete lawlessness,
there is rampant speculation that the Taleban or some foreign elements may be
involved. The failure of the government to check the escalating violence has
prompted calls from various quarters for the army to be called in. In view of
the deteriorating law and order situation, the paramilitary Rangers and the
Frontier Constabulary have been given police powers to tackle the "reign of
terror" in the city. The issue has also resonated in the National Assembly with
lawmakers from different political parties staging a walkout from parliament
over what they say is the government's "indifference" to the Karachi violence.
The chief of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM), Altaf Hussain, one of the key
players in Karachi, has now asked President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister
Yusuf Raza Gillani to end the "bloodshed" in the city within 48 hours. In the
wake of the unabated violence, the Pakistani president has summoned provincial
ministers in Islamabad to discuss the issue.


What triggered the fresh spate of violence?

Historically, Pakistan's southern port city of Karachi has been prone to
violence, but the year 2011 has been particularly bloody. According to the Human
Rights Commission of Pakistan, 1,138 people were killed in the city during the
first six months of the year, 490 of whom fell prey to what are termed "targeted
killings" based on political, ethnic and sectarian grounds. The scale of the
escalation becomes clear when we consider the comparable figure for the previous
year, which at 109 was a fifth of this year's toll. The most violent spell
during this period followed an attack on the information secretary of the Awami
National Party (ANP), Raheem Swati, on 5 July which saw 30 people being killed
in the span of 24 hours.

While it may be difficult to pin down a cause, it is significant to note that
only a week earlier the Sindh-based party Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) parted
ways with the government, both at the federal and provincial levels, over the
"undemocratic" postponement of elections in two seats of the Kashmir Legislative
Assembly. The daily The News reported on 29 June that the "real issue" that made
the MQM quit the government was the planned reorganization of Karachi into five
districts, which would spell "political death" for the party. However, the
government denies any links between the recent violence and the MQM quitting the
coalition, with Sindh Home Minister Manzoor Wassan maintaining that target
killings had not begun after the MQM parted ways with the government.

On 2 August, English-language daily The Express Tribune reported that the MQM
accused "some elements backed by the Sindh government of trying to take over its
stronghold", triggering fresh violence in Karachi. Tension spread when two
groups clashed in the city and the violence extended to adjoining areas,
English-language daily The Pakistan Tribune on the same day. Following the
unrest, police exchanged fire with the clashing groups and armed men who
indulged in arson and aerial firing.

What is the nature of the violence?

A commentary by Naveed Masud Hashmi published by the Urdu daily Ausaf on 15 July
said that the two political parties that are being blamed for the bloodshed in
Karachi are the MQM and the ANP. However, this political violence has clear
ethnic underpinnings. The MQM is the party of the Urdu-speaking Mohajirs, who
are descendants of the migrants who came to Pakistan from India when the
division of British India took place in 1947. The MQM dominates the political
scene in Karachi as the Mohajirs constitute the majority of the city's
population. But the turmoil in northwest Pakistan has seen an increasing influx
of Pashto-speaking Pashtuns into Karachi in recent times. However, the ruling
Pakistan People's Party (PPP) is also not seen as an innocent bystander. Rifaat
Hamid Ghani, in an article published in The News on 12 July, says: "The Pathan
demographic element and the Mohajir element are now played off against each
other by an incumbent PPP administration" with a "sinister dexterity". Dr
Hussein Ahmed Paracha, in an article published by the Urdu daily Nawa-i-Waqt on
11 July, explains the situation thus: "The three major parties of Karachi keep
on staging carnage every other day to secure their vote banks... "

This web of violence is further complicated by the element of organized crime.
There exists a complex, mutually dependent relationship between political
parties and assorted criminal syndicates variously engaged in extortion, illegal
arms trade, drug trafficking and land grabbing. The Express Tribune on 2 August
reported that Sindh Home Minister Manzoor Hussain Wassan was briefed about the
"nexus between various terrorist groups, mafias and their modus operandi",
following which he said he would take action against "all mafias, land-grabbers
and drug dealers" to restore peace in Karachi.

Are the Taleban involved?

Federal Interior Minister Rehman Malik raised the spectre of Taleban involvement
when he said on 8 July that the government had received intelligence reports on
the presence of the Taleban in the city. Arrests of Taleban members from Karachi
have often been reported in the past. The most noteworthy among these was the
high-profile arrest of the Afghan Taleban chief's top aide Mullah Abdul Ghani
Beradar in February 2010. According to the daily Dawn, Beradar was reportedly in
charge of the Taleban's financial operations. It is believed that the city has
seen fewer terror attacks, as compared to the north and west of the country,
because it is used by militant groups as a "logistical and organizational hub".
They are also believed to use Karachi as a base for criminal activities such as
arms smuggling, drug trafficking and kidnapping to raise funds for jihad (Dawn,
14 November 10).

Though there is no firm proof of the Taleban being behind the violence in
Karachi, they are often blamed by the government and certain parties,
particularly the MQM. Sindh Home Minister Manzoor Wassan restated this
oft-repeated charge when he said on 12 July that elements of the Taleban were
disrupting law and order in the city. MQM chief Altaf Hussain has also
previously warned of the "Talebanization in the city". But these claims are
strongly contested by the ANP, an ethnic Pashtun party based in the northwest.
The ANP sees the finger-pointing at the mostly-Pashtun Taleban as part of an
attempt to expel Pashtun migrants from Karachi. Shahi Syed, a leader of the ANP,
in an appearance on the Dunya News channel on 13 July, appealed: "Every Pashtun
is not Taleb and no-one should link all Pashtuns with the Taleban."

Is there a foreign link to the violence?

Speculation about the involvement of foreign powers in the violence in Karachi
was fuelled after Interior Minister Rehman Malik said Israel-made weapons had
been recovered from the city, which he declared "proves that a foreign hand is
behind the unrest in Karachi". Such views about the people behind these killings
receiving support from Afghanistan, India and the US are often reported in the
media, especially in the conservative English-language and Urdu press. The
pan-Islamist Urdu daily Ummat carried an interview with the former
Inter-Services Intelligence chief Hamid Gul on 19 July, in which he said that
Israel was using the Indian intelligence agency Research and Analysis Wing to
funnel weapons into the city. This same allegation was also made by the
editor-in-chief of the conservative nationalist English-language daily The
Nation, Majid Nizami on 18 July. However, in reaction to Malik's statement on
the discovery of Israeli weapons, former Interior Minister Lt-Gen (retd)
Moin-ud-Din Haider said that blaming foreign powers for the spiralling violence
in Karachi was an "easy approach to adopt".

What is the stand of the various political parties?

The statements emanating from the major parties in Karachi on the ongoing
violence are mostly in the nature of mutual recrimination. After the killing of
five people during a strike in early June, the MQM said that the incident proved
that the ANP was a terrorist party (Pakistan Observer, 6 June). Such accusations
have, expectedly, evoked outrage from the ANP. However, similar allegations are
also levelled at the MQM, which are furiously contested. MQM leaders say such
accusations are part of the "propaganda" peddled by their political opponents to
"defame" the party.

Speaking at a news conference, the provincial president of the ANP, Shahi Syed,
blamed extortion gangs and land mafia, who were using the "umbrella" of
political parties, for the violence in the city. However, senior journalist
Talat Hussain, on his show "News Night with Talat Hussain" on 14 July, noted
that the provincial leadership of the ANP has repeatedly accused the MQM of
violence in Karachi.

Meanwhile, the PPP, the ruling party at the federal and provincial level,
attempts to play the role of peacemaker. On 14 July, PPP's Information Secretary
Qamar Zaman Kaira called on all parties to avoid the "blame game" and cooperate
to restore peace in Karachi. The PPP's stand is in line with the federal and
provincial government's position on the violence in the city. Earlier on 8 July,
the federal Minister for Information and Broadcasting Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan said
much the same thing when she advised that the "blame game... was not the
solution of any problem" and called for the "cooperation of all political
forces" towards building a consensus on the situation in Karachi. Echoing her
words, Sindh Home Minister Manzoor Wassan said: "It would not be justified to
blame anyone for recent violence as I don't believe in politics of blame game."

Of late, most political parties have hardened their stance in the wake of what
they say is the "indifference" and "non-serious attitude" shown by the
government about the Karachi issue. According to English-language newspaper
Daily Times on 2 August, MQM lawmakers staged a walkout from the lower house of
parliament to protest against the government's "indifference" to the violence in
Karachi. Lawmakers of the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz and
Jamiat-i-Ulema-i-Islam - Fazlur Rahman group parties also criticized the
government's "non-serious attitude" in handling Karachi's law and order
situation. MQM chief Altaf Hussain has given a 48 hour notice to President Asif
Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gillani to stop end the bloodshed in
Karachi. The Islamist Jamaat-i-Islami (JI) party is also mulling a national
conference on the Karachi situation "to build pressure" on the government to
restore peace in the city. According to JI Secretary-General Liaquat Baloch, the
authorities are not "serious in combating crime" in Karachi. However, federal
law minister Moula Bakhsh Chandio, while admitting that the law and order
situation in Karachi has become "a matter of anxiety and worry", noted that all
political parties had "a moral and national obligation" to work for peace in
Karachi. English-language daily The Nation on 3 August reported that most
political and religious parties, during a meeting, called for "deweaponization"
of Karachi to ensure peace in the city. They proposed destroying arms production
factories in tribal areas and ensuring strict vigilance at entry points in
Karachi to stop illegal weapons from entering the city.

What measures has the government taken?

Several political, administrative and security measures have been taken so far
to curb violence in Karachi. Promising to "take the killers to the task",
Interior Minister Rehman Malik announced on 8 July that the worst-affected areas
of the city had been handed over to the paramilitary Rangers, who had been given
a "free hand" to conduct raids to nab the culprits. He also announced that 1,000
personnel of the Frontier Constabulary, largely drawn from the Pashtun-dominated
northwest, would reach the city by 10 July. Sindh Chief Minister Syed Qaim Ali
Shah had earlier further empowered the law-enforcement agencies by issuing
shoot-at-sight orders to the police and the Rangers on 7 July. A number of
arrests have also been made in an effort to curtail the spiralling violence. On
14 July, the Sindh home minister disclosed that 213 people had been held in
connection with the killings in the city.

A change of leadership has also been effected at the very top of the Home
Ministry, responsible for maintaining law and order in the state, with the
appointment of Manzoor Wassan as the new home minister. In addition, on 10 July
the Sindh government also restored the previously existing police, municipal and
commissionerate systems in the province in an effort to improve governance and
law-enforcement in the province. Interior Minister Rehman Malik on 2 August said
that the government will not refrain from taking any action to restore peace in
Karachi. In this respect, the minister has also ordered aerial surveillance of
the city.

Will the army be called in?

Many political parties have urged the government to deploy the army to restore
order in Karachi. On 7 July, the spokesperson of the ANP, Qadir Khan, declared
that it was "imperative to call the army to take charge of Karachi" to prevent
further damage. Nawaz Sharif, chief of the main opposition party Pakistan Muslim
League - Nawaz, too backed the call to bring in the army on 9 July, saying an
"army operation can be launched in Karachi on a letter of the district
coordination officer". Chief of the Pakistan Muslim League - Functional (PML-F),
Pir Pagara, too said the military must be called in to control the worsening law
and order situation in Karachi.

However, on 7 July Interior Minister Rehman Malik ruled out an operation but
said that "targeted action" would be taken instead. Sindh Home Minister Manzoor
Wassan was similarly ambiguous when he said on 12 July that the government would
take "stern action" to check the unbridled killings, without specifying the
nature of the intended action.

But according to a report by the moderate English-language daily The Express
Tribune on 13 July, the military leadership has reportedly advised against the
use of "coercive means against the MQM". The MQM has often expressed
apprehensions about an army operation in Karachi. Previously, the army and the
Rangers had carried out a military operation in Karachi between 1992 and 1994
called "Operation Clean-up". At the time, MQM chief Altaf Hussain had fled to
London a month before the operation began. Commenting on the 1992 army action
during Operation Clean-up on the show "Off the Record", Raza Harun, a member of
the MQM, said that party workers and the family members of Altaf Hussain were
targeted under the guise of the military operation (ARY News, 24 January 11).

With the violence continuing unabated in Karachi, the paramilitary Rangers and
the Frontier Constabulary forces have been given police powers and directed to
take "immediate action" in troubled areas. According to a report on private
English-language Geo News website on 2 August, Sindh Province's Inspector
General of Police Wajid Ali Durrani said that so far, 91 alleged "target
killers" had been arrested and that the police were hopeful of breaking up the
criminal networks involved in the Karachi "carnage". Top police officials have
also announced a reward of 5m rupees (or 57,778 dollars) for information about
those behind the Karachi killings.

What is the importance of Karachi to Pakistan?

The importance of Karachi to Pakistan cannot be overstated. Its pre-eminent
position was acknowledged by PM Syed Yusuf Raza Gillani himself. While appealing
to all sections of society to help restore peace in Karachi, Gillani described
the city as a mini-Pakistan that was the financial jugular vein of the country.
By some accounts, this city alone generates around 20 per cent of the country's
GDP. But the prevailing lawlessness and frequent strikes and market closures
have taken a heavy toll on the city's economy. This naturally raises concerns
over the stability of the already tottering economy of Pakistan. Speaking in the
National Assembly on 22 July, PM Gillani said: "Karachi is Pakistan's economic
hub, where we cannot afford a breakdown of law and order."

There are also apprehensions about the impact the chaos will have on the war
effort in Afghanistan as the port city is used by the US to ship supplies to its
troops deployed in the country. Ambassador Cameron Munter voiced these fears in
a statement released on 8 July, which said the US was "deeply concerned about
the escalating violence in Karachi".

Source: Jang, Rawalpindi, in Urdu 01 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 3, 2011 Wednesday

Pakistan PM visits Norway embassy to condole deaths in terror attack

LENGTH: 186 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 3 August: Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gillani on Wednesday [3
August] expressed his deep sorrow and grief over the horrific killings in Norway
and urged all the peace-loving countries to stand united against extremism and
take collective measures to counter it.

The prime minister visited the Norwegian Embassy and conveyed his sympathy and
condolence with the Charge d'Affaires of Norway Tere Thodesen. He expressed deep
grief over the loss of precious lives in the twin attacks at a youth camp and in
the capital Olso, that led to deaths of around 100 people.

The prime minister said the people of Pakistan, also being the victim of
extremism and terrorism, fully understand the shock and grief of the people of
Norway. He said the extremist approach needs to be countered as these acts were
not confined to one country or region but negatively impacting the humanity.

The prime minister also signed the condolence book and wrote his remarks.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1006gmt
03 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Newham Recorder

                            August 3, 2011 Wednesday

Redbridge born author tells story of terror attack on Olympic Games

SECTION: ENF

LENGTH: 309 words


'A high-paced action plot which sees an anti-cancer drug cause havoc across the
world has been penned by a Redbridge-born author.

David Albert, a father of three, started writing Chameleon 2012 more than 20
years ago when he was a stockbroker in London.



Years later, he unearthed the story after publishers reading his short stories
suggested he should write a novel.

He added the topical element of the Olympic Games, and within weeks he was
signed to a publisher and commissioned to write a trilogy.

The book tells the story of a Scottish scientist who has discovered a cure for
cancer, and names it chameleon.

But world leaders, realising their people will live longer with it, therefore
increasing costs, choose not to buy it.

Following this, an international group called Tentacle plots to overthrow all
world governments, using the drug at the Olympic Games.

David said his book is a must for fans of action films.

"It's like the Bourne and James Bond films," he said.

"It's a real page-turner and what makes it different is there are two different
endings, which readers can vote for."

The book, available from Amazon, has been such a success that David, who now
lives in Kent, has only been able to secure one copy for himself and his family.


"The whole thing is very surreal. The success of this book just seems to be
booming day after day," he added.

He grew up in Newbury Park and attended Gearies Junior School in Cranbrook Road,
Gants Hill, where he flourished in English and story-telling.

After meeting his wife, he moved to Maidstone, and then Chislehurst.

"There have been thousands of votes for favourite endings," he said. "People are
asking me what happened to some of the characters in the story - they will have
to wait for the follow-up."

n Chameleon 2012 is available from www.amazon.co.uk, www.waterstones.com,
www.whsmiths.co.uk and www.tesco.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NRC


                      Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday

"Terrorist groups" attacking state offices in Syria's Hama city

LENGTH: 330 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Information Source: Armed Groups in Hama Continue Terrorist Acts 26Channels'
Blackout on Gunmen's Crimes Evidence on Involvement" - SANA headline]

Damascus, 3 August (SANA) - An information source on Tuesday [2 August] said the
armed terrorist groups in the city of Hama continue targeting the official
institutions and public and private properties, blocking roads and terrorizing
citizens.

The source stated that the armed groups attacked the Justice Palace of Hama and
burned its contents and also attacked the Agricultural Bank and a number of
other service institutions.

"The groups set tires on fire to create a mantle of thick smoke to give the
impression that the city is being shelled by the army and to cover the acts of
killing, terrorizing citizens and attacking the security and police forces
committed by the gunmen," said the source.

It added that despite that live videos were screened showing the armed groups'
violation of the city of Hama in terms of opening fire on citizens, terrorizing
them and burning their houses, some satellite channels continue to ignore these
facts, make up allegations and proceed with more instigation sometimes through
reporting false eyewitnesses, and through fabricated comments and analyses in
other times.

The source said instigation and falsifying facts have become the main job of
some media which have strived to incite against Syria and implement a blackout
on the gunmen's crimes and embarked on defending their alleged 'peacefulness',
which was refuted beyond all doubt through the screened videos that showed the
gunmen shooting in many places and throwing the bodies of the martyrs from off a
bridge into the Orontes River.

"This constitutes additional evidence on these channels' involvement and sharing
the gunmen's goals of undermining security and stability in Syria," the source
concluded.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 3 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday

"Terrorist" groups attack border guards in eastern Syria - TV

LENGTH: 71 words


Damascus Syrian Satellite Channel Television in Arabic at 1938 gmt on 3 August
carries the following "breaking" news as a screen caption:

"Terrorist armed groups attack a border guards post near Al-Furat Oil Company in
Dayr al-Zawr [eastern Syria]. The terrorist armed groups kidnap three guards of
an oil well and seize their weapons."

Further as warranted.

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 1938 gmt 3 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Dissident threat 'puts UK at a higher risk of terror attack than US'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 425 words


Britain is now at greater risk from terrorist attacks than any other Western
nation, according to research.

The heightened threat in Northern Ireland has resulted in the UK being ranked
higher than the US, France, Spain, China and Sri Lanka in the Terrorism Risk
Index compiled by respected analysts Maplecroft.

The index, setting out which countries are considered most likely to suffer an
attack, was topped by Somalia, followed by Pakistan, Iraq, Afghanistan and the
new nation of South Sudan, with Britain in 38th place.

Analysis of the data revealed that the number of terrorist attacks worldwide in
2010-11 shot up by about 15% on the previous year to 11,954, although the number
of people killed fell 7% to 14,478. Researchers also found incidents of
terrorism in Afghanistan increased by more than 50% to 3,470 in 2010-11, a trend
that will concern the Nato coalition as it seeks to reduce troop numbers and
hand over security to Afghan forces.

Britain was judged to be at "medium risk" of an attack, and ranked above "low
risk" countries including Spain (53rd), the US (61st) and Germany (62nd).

The analysts recorded 26 terrorist attacks in the UK between April 2010 and
March 2011 -- all but one of them in Northern Ireland -- although they did not
cause any deaths.

Last year, when the results were calculated using a slightly different
methodology, the UK was ranked 47th, behind both the US (33rd) and France
(44th).

Maplecroft's analysis noted: "The UK continues to face terrorist threats posed
by Islamist militants and dissident Irish republicans.

"The Islamist terrorist threat has both international and domestic elements.

"International Islamist groups such as al Qaida and, specifically, al Qaida in
the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) present a continuous security risk.

"The growing danger presented to Western states, including the UK, by AQAP is
reflected by the increasingly international nature of their attacks," the report
added.

"A October 2010 bomb plot in which plastic explosives were loaded into printer
toner cartridges and placed on planes destined for the United States is a case
in point. Nevertheless, the majority of perpetrated attacks continue to be
committed by dissident Irish republican terrorists."

The assessment of the threat from dissident republican and loyalist terrorists
in Northern Ireland was increased to substantial in September last year, meaning
an attack was a "strong possibility".

But last month the UK's Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre reduced the
international terrorism threat level from severe to substantial.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday

Guided busway bosses prepared for terrorist attack

LENGTH: 302 words


Guided busway bosses have drawn up contingency plans for a possible terrorist
attack on the controversial transport scheme, the News can reveal.

Instructions for emergency incident controllers, released after a Freedom of
Information request, shows bosses are prepared for threats against the project
as well as fires, breakdowns and medical crises.

Cllr Ian Bates, the county council's planning chief, said nothing was being left
to chance ahead of the opening on Sunday.

He told the News: "It is important for any large transport system to have plans
in place to deal with a range of possible emergency situations.

"Some emergencies, such as a passenger being taken ill on a bus, will be more
common but, as on rail, we have plans in place for some situations that are much
less likely."

In the document, a flowchart titled Terrorist Threats reveals that, in the event
of an incident, the all-clear would not be given until police and the busway
duty manager had given their consent and a council quick response team had
checked the track.

If there is a medical emergency, the driver will be instructed to go to the next
road junction or park and ride site and to await an ambulance.

In the event of a fire on board, the driver will be told to put out the flames
with an extinguisher if possible, and then to head on to the next stop and
evacuate passengers before returning to the depot.

In the event of an onboard fire which cannot be easily tackled, or a blaze on
the track, the busway will be closed in both directions and passengers will be
evacuated.

Firefighters and a rescue bus would be despatched.

Drivers will be instructed to proceed with caution if traffic lights fail in
most locations.

Contingency plans have also been drawn up for guideway obstructions, vehicle
failure and "severe infrastructure damage".

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2011 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

UK IS  GREATEST TERROR ATTACK RISK IN WEST

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: UKP; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 217 words


Britain is now at greater risk from terrorist attacks than any other Western
nation, according to research.

The heightened threat in Northern Ireland has resulted in the UK being ranked
higher than the US, France, Spain, China and Sri Lanka in the Terrorism Risk
Index compiled by respected analysts Maplecroft.

The index, setting out which countries are considered most likely to suffer an
attack, was topped by Somalia, followed by Pakistan, Iraq, Afghanistan and the
new nation of South Sudan, with Britain in 38th place. Analysis of the data
revealed that the number of terrorist attacks worldwide in 2010-11 shot up by
about 15% on the previous year to 11,954, although the number of people killed
fell 7% to 14,478.

Researchers also found that incidents of terrorism in Afghanistan increased by
more than 50% to 3470 in  2010-11, a trend that will concern the Nato coalition
as it seeks to reduce troop numbers and hand over security to Afghan forces.

Britain was judged to be at  medium risk  of an attack, and ranked above  low
risk  countries including Spain (53rd), the US (61st) and Germany (62nd).

The analysts recorded that 26 terrorist attacks were carried out in the UK
between April 2010 and March 2011   all but one of them were in Northern Ireland
although they did not cause any deaths.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

UK facing greater threat of attack by terrorists

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: NWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 250 words


Britain is now at greater risk from terrorist attacks than any other Western
nation, research shows.

The heightened threat in Northern Ireland has resulted in the UK being ranked
higher than the US, France, Spain, China and Sri Lanka in the Terrorism Risk
Index compiled by analysts Maplecroft.

The index, setting out which countries are considered most likely to suffer an
attack, was topped by Somalia, followed by Pakistan, Iraq, Afghanistan and the
new nation of South Sudan, with Britain in 38th place.

The data revealed the number of terrorist attacks worldwide in 2010-11 rose by
about 15% on the previous year to 11,954, although the number of people killed
has fallen 7% to 14,478.

Researchers also found incidents of terrorism in Afghanistan increased by more
than 50% to 3470 in 2010-11, a trend that will concern the Nato coalition as it
seeks to reduce troop numbers and hand over security to Afghan forces.

Britain was judged to be at  medium risk  of an attack, and ranked above  low
risk  countries including Spain (53rd), the US (61st) and Germany (62nd).

The analysts recorded 26 attacks in the UK between April 2010 and March 2011
all but one of them in Northern Ireland   although they did not cause any
deaths.

Last year, when the results were calculated using a different methodology, the
UK was ranked 47th, behind both the US (33rd) and France (44th).

Maplecroft s analysis noted:  The UK continues to face terrorist threats posed
by Islamist militants and dissident Irish republicans.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday

Britain Now Most At Risk Of Terrorist Attack

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 234 words


BRITAIN is now at greater risk from terrorist attacks than any other Western
nation, according to research.

The heightened threat in Northern Ireland has resulted in the UK being ranked
higher than the US, France, Spain, China and Sri Lanka in the Terrorism Risk
Index compiled by respected analysts Maplecroft.

The index, setting out which countries are considered most likely to suffer an
attack, was topped by Somalia, followed by Pakistan, Iraq, Afghanistan and the
new nation of South Sudan, with Britain in 38th place.

Analysis of the data revealed that the number of terrorist attacks worldwide in
2010-11 shot up by about 15% on the previous year to 11,954, although the number
of people killed fell 7% to 14,478.

Researchers also found incidents of terrorism in Afghanistan increased by more
than 50% to 3,470 in 2010-11, a trend that will concern the Nato coalition as it
seeks to reduce troop numbers and hand over security to Afghan forces.

Britain was judged to be at "medium risk" of an attack, and ranked above "low
risk" countries including Spain (53rd), the US (61st) and Germany (62nd).

The analysts recorded 26 terrorist attacks in the UK between April 2010 and
March 2011   all but one of them in Northern Ireland   although they did not
cause any deaths. Last year, when the results were calculated using a slightly
different methodology, the UK was ranked 47th, behind the US and France.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Greater terror attack risk in the UK;
UKBULLETINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 118 words


BRITAIN is at greater risk from terrorist attacks than any other Western nation,
analysts say.

The heightened threat in Northern Ireland has resulted in the UK being ranked
higher than the US, France, Spain, China and Sri Lanka in the Terrorism Risk
Index by analysts Maplecroft.

The index, setting out which countries are considered most likely to suffer an
attack, was topped by Somalia, followed by Pakistan, Iraq, Afghanistan and the
new nation of South Sudan, with Britain 38th.

Maplecroft's analysis noted: "The UK continues to face terrorist threats posed
by Islamist militants and dissident Irish republicans. The Islamist terrorist
threat has both international and domestic elements," it said.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2011 Friday

UK-based firm lists Thailand among countries at "extreme risk" of terror attacks

LENGTH: 237 words


Text of report by Bangkok Post headlined "Thai terrorism risk 'extreme'"
published by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 5 August

Thailand has been identified as an "extreme risk" country for terrorist attacks
by a UK-based risk analysis and mapping firm.

The latest Terrorism Risk Index [TRI], released by Maplecroft on Wednesday [3
August], rates 20 countries and territories as "extreme risk", with the five
most risky nations being: Somalia (1), Pakistan (2), Iraq (3), Afghanistan (4)
and South Sudan (5).

Thailand is 12th on the extreme risk list.

The other countries are: Yemen (6), Palestinian Occupied Territories (7), DR
Congo (8) Central African Republic (9), Colombia (10), Algeria (11), the
Philippines (13), Russia (14), and Sudan (15).

"Although some countries are rated as 'extreme risk', terrorism attacks can be
limited to a specific region or a relatively small number of areas. 'Thailand is
a case in point, where the majority of attacks take place in the southern
states," said Anthony Skinner, an associate director at Maplecroft.

Maplecroft developed the TRI to enable businesses to identify and monitor risks
posed by terrorism to employees and their assets in various countries.

The company says the index draws on comprehensive data to calculate the
frequency and severity of terrorism incidents during the 12 month period leading
up to 1 April.

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 05 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2011 Friday

Israeli air force attacks "terrorists" targets in Gaza Strip after rocket fire

LENGTH: 155 words


Text of report by Israeli public radio station Voice of Israel Network B on 5
August

The air force last night attacked two terrorist targets in the Gaza Strip and
three tunnels to be used to carry out terrorist attacks, in the wake of the
rocket fire at the Lakhish region last night. The IDF spokesman told our
correspondent Karmela Menashe that accurate hits were discerned.

Palestinian sources reported that a training camp west of Dayr al-Balah
belonging to HAMAS's military arm and two other targets were hit, one near the
site where HAMAS films its propaganda films.

Our correspondent Gal Berger reports that the Palestinians did not report on
casualties.

The rocket that crashed last night in the Lakhish region did not harm anybody
but two people suffered shock.

The air force attacked the gang that launched the rocket and the Palestinians
reported two casualties.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 0400 gmt 5 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                             August 5, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Driver's terror after attack by road rage OAP

BYLINE: PAUL LEWIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 442 words


A ROAD rage victim has relived the terrifying moment a man reached into her car,
grabbed her by the throat and threatened to kill her.

The 42-year-old health worker at Singleton Hospital managed to break free from
her elderly attacker by putting her car into reverse and driving off.

She was left shaken but unhurt, other than a minor injury to her lip.

Police are now appealing for witnesses to the incident, which happened at the
mini roundabout at the top of Sketty Lane.

"I went to turn right but saw him coming across the roundabout and hit the
brakes," said the health worker, who does not want to be named.

"It wasn't even a near-miss or anything, but I raised my hand and mouthed 'I'm
sorry'.

"He stopped his car in front of mine. I could see he was shouting at me but I
couldn't hear what he was saying.

"I thought he would vent his anger at me for a moment to get it out of his
system and that would be that but he seemed to be getting more and more angry.

"I beeped my horn to try to get people's attention and he got more enraged."

She said she remembered looking in the mirror to see if the way behind was clear
for her to reverse. When she looked up again the white-haired man, who was in
his late 60s or early 70s, was getting out of his car.

"I was getting more and more panicky and worried. I tried to make my escape but
I stalled the car. He was at the car window while I was still faffing around
with the gears.

"Both windows were open about four or five inches. His arm came through and he
grabbed me by the throat and said, 'I'm going to kill you, bitch'.

"I managed to start the car and reversed from him. He had to let go then. I then
drove off."

She said she was left with a minor injury to her lip but was otherwise unhurt in
the incident, although shaken up by what happened.

"It was very frightening at the time," she said.

"I'm OK now, but I would hate for him to do it to someone else, especially if it
was someone old and frail or with a heart condition. They could have had a heart
attack."

The incident happened about 9.40am on Tuesday.

The health worker was driving a dark blue Peugeot 206, while the other car was a
silver-coloured Vauxhall Zafira.

Sergeant Carl Price, of Townhill police station, said: "This incident happened
at a very busy roundabout with vehicles and pedestrians either going to or
returning from Singleton Hospital.

"I am appealing to anyone who was in the vicinity and saw the assault, which was
a very frightening experience for the lady concerned, or can assist in
identifying the assailant, to come forward."

?Can you help? Call police in Swansea on 101 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

? paul.lewis@swwmedia.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWP


                    Copyright 2011 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            August 6, 2011, Saturday

POLAR BEAR MAULS BRIT PUPIL TO DEATH;
PUBLIC SCHOOL KID KILLED IN ARCTIC ATTACK J CAMP ATTACK TERROR ON ADVENTURE TRIP
POLAR PREDATOR RIPS THROUGH POLAR PREDATOR RIPS THROUGH TENT AND KILLS ETON
PUPIL, 17 TENT AND KILLS ETON PUPIL, 17 BEAST TEARS INTO TEENAGER'S TENT CAMP
ATTACK TERROR ON ADVENTURE TRIP POLAR PREDATOR RIPS THROUGH POLAR PREDATOR RIPS
THROUGH TENT AND KILLS ETON PUPIL, 17 TENT AND KILLS ETON PUPIL, 17

BYLINE: Andrew Gregory

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 1257 words


A BRITISH public schoolboy has been savaged to death by a polar bear that tore
through his tent in a camp in the Arctic.

Horatio Chapple, 17, was in his sleeping bag when the 39-stone bear attacked.

The youngster, a pupil at Eton who Turn To Page 4

In the land of the polar bear, you are travelling in its territory... and it is
a predator.

They will actively seek humans and eat them because they are hungry and we are
food.

To them, a tent looks like a seal pup in its den and they will break in.

They I've faced many bears. I've had a grizzly within three feet of me, same
with black bears, but the only place I'd carry a firearm is in the far north
where polar bears are.

actively humans.

are hungry They are enormous animals who move fast and have a tremendous sense
of smell, good eyesight and can swim we are very well. But the worst thing you
can do is run away - you will trigger a deep-set response for it to run after
you and treat you as prey.

What has happened here is a tragedy and I feel so sorry for the boy's family.

will seek They and Details are still coming out, but I can say that the British
Schools Exploring Society are an extremely worthy organisation, not some
fly-by-nights pretending to have more experience than they do.

food Even the Inuit, who are experts and sometimes hunt the polar bear, can
become its victim.

Going into an area with predators can have serious consequences.

in. I've They will Details can actively seek fly-humans. They are hungry and and
bear, we are food can From Page One wanted to be a doctor, died at the scene.
Two other boys, and two leaders of the schools adventure holiday on the island
of Spitsbergen, were mauled on their heads and arms as they tried to fight the
animal off.

Doctors said two of the survivors were "severely" injured. A group leader risked
his own life to run to the tent and shoot the bear dead.

One of the wounded leaders, Andy Ruck, 28, is from Edinburgh.

The father of one of the boys hurt, Patrick Flinders, 16, described the carnage
in the tent when the bear struck early yesterday.

Terry Flinders, who lives on Jersey, said: "The bear got into the tent and
grabbed hold of the other boy and just killed him.

"He then grabbed Patrick's head and his arm. I don't know how Patrick got out.

"According to the doctor and the other people, Patrick was trying to fend off
the polar bear by hitting it on the nose. Why, I don't know, but he did.

"There were three of them in a tent. I don't know why the bear chose the other
boy - perhaps he was the closest one.

"If he looked at Patrick, he was the BLOOdYJ Bear was shot dead during tent
attack chubbiest one. He probably had more meat on him, bless him."

Thirteen people were in the British Schools Exploring Society expedition camp
site on the Von Postbreen glacier on Spitsbergen - the largest of the
Norwegian-owned Svalbard islands in the Arctic Ocean.

The group raised the alarm in a satellite phone call at 7.36am yesterday.

The area where they were camping has a large polar bear population. Tourists are
advised not to go there unless they are carrying high-powered rifles.

The bears, which can be eight-feet long and weigh four-fifths of a ton, are the
largest land predators in the world. They will actively hunt humans and are
particularly dangerous in summer, when food is scarce.

The British party had already seen several bears on their five-week trip.

Team member Marcus Wright wrote on a blog last week: "There was a P.bear
sighting across the fjord about a mile away.

"We encountered another P.bear floating on the ice.

"This time we were lucky enough to borrow a kind Norwegian guide's telescope to
see it properly.

"After that experience everyone dreamed of P.bears that night." Horatio and his
party had laid a trip wire around their tents which should have set off a rocket
to scare off any bear that invaded the camp. For some reason, the system failed
to work.

Kyle Gouveia, 17, who returned home early from the pounds 2900-a-head trip after
suffering the early stages of frostbite, said all the youngsters had been taught
about the risk of a bear attack.

He added: "We learned about letting off bear flares around your camp, firing
shotgun rounds, making loud noises so the bears are scared off.

"I knew all the people there, I had started mingling with them and started
making friends.

"I'm worried about the injured people and how the polar bear managed to get
them."

SHOCK There are no roads around the camp, so the Svalbard authorities sent
helicopters to help the survivors.

The injured were taken to the islands' capital, Longyearbyen, then on to
hospital in the Norwegian city of Tromso.

As well as Andy and Patrick, doctors were treating Scott Smith, 17, of Saltash,
Cornwall, and leader Michael Reid, who is in his 20s.

The rest of the group were said to be suffering from shock.

The chairman of the Exploring Society, Edward Watson, said staff had offered
their "utmost sympathy" to Horatio's family.

He added: "Horatio was a fine young man who wanted to go on to read medicine
after school. By all accounts he would have made an excellent doctor.

"We and the Norwegian authorities are establishing the full circumstances of his
tragic death, and will not be releasing this until we have discussed this fully
with the family."

Horatio's dad David, a 49-year-old spinal surgeon, and mum Susan, 46, were too
upset to comment. The family live in Salisbury, Wiltshire.

Staff at Eton, where Princes William and Harry both studied, said their prayers
were with Horatio's loved ones.

Wounded leader Andy moved to Edinburgh after studying for a PhD in Aberdeen and
working as a part-time instructor at a climbing wall.

Tim Rankin, who manages the Transition Extreme sports centre, said: "Andy was
one of our best. He had a fantastic way with the children and clients.

"He would have done anything to keep the people he was looking after safe."

Andy's friends in Scotland are waiting for news of his condition.

Former flatmate and climbing partner Sean Peatfield said: "We're trying to get
an update. This has come as a real shock to everyone who knows him."

The BSES are linked to the Royal Geographic Society and have been running
expeditions for at least 75 years. They specialise in giving teenagers a taste
of life in the most remote and testing corners of the world.

The youngsters in Svalbard, mainly aged 16 to 23, began their trip on July 23
and were due to come home on August 28.

There are about 80 people in the main party, which had split into smaller
groups.

Students on the expedition spent time hunting fossils, cleaning beaches and
taking part in green projects, including work to install hydro and solar power
systems.

The excited youngsters were warned to get as fit as possible before leaving
Britain and to prepare for a diet of freeze-dried meals.

CHALLENGE Patrick pulled tyres on a rope round his waist on a local beach to get
ready for the physical challenge of the expedition.

Five people have been killed by polar bears in Svalbard since 1973.

Local resident Liv Rose Flygel, 55, said: "Last summer a man was attacked by a
polar bear and there have also been attacks on a man from Austria and a girl.

"Only the man in the attack last summer survived. He was taken in the mouth of
the bear and his friend ran after it and shot it.

"The problem is, when the ice goes, the bears lose their way and cannot catch
food.

"People don't realise how dangerous they are. One came down to the sea recently
and people were running down to take pictures."

The boys fought 39 stone bear as it mauled their friend, but he had no chance

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLOOdYJ Bear was shot dead during tent attack HORROR SCENE J Bear's
body lies in the circle of tents advENtuR J E Excited group at airport. Andy is
at back on left and Patrick is sitting down CORPSE J Shot polar bear is dragged
away by rescuers Andy Ruck, 28, hurt after running to save the lads Terrified
Patrick punched bear as he battled for his life Leader Michael Reid, in 20s, was
badly mauled ISOLatEd J Beautiful island of Spitsbergen 300

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TERROR OF POLAR BEAR ATTACK ON STUDENTS

BYLINE: By David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 844  words


Eton pupil dies and four badly injured as British tourists are mauled in their
tent

AN ETON schoolboy was mauled to death and four other Britons seriously injured
yesterday by a polar bear.

Horatio Chapple, 17, was killed after the animal charged into a tent where three
students were sleeping on the remote Norwegian island of Spitsbergen in the
Arctic Circle.

A second teenager, Patrick Flinders, 16, was mauled but miraculously survived
after he fought off the starving bear by punching it on the nose.

The marauding animal bypassed a special tripwire warning system at the camp and
dodged bullets fired by members of the expedition team. It was finally shot by
one of the leaders of the five-week expedition, run by charity the British
Schools Exploring Society. He managed to kill the bear despite being badly
mauled.

Last night dramatic details of the attack were revealed by survivor Patrick's
father, Terry, who told how his son fought off the killer bear.

Mr Flinders, from Jersey, said: "The bear got into the tent where Patrick was
and two friends and he just grabbed hold of the other boy and just killed him.

"There were three of them in a tent and I don't know why he chose the other boy,
perhaps he was the closest one. If he looked at Patrick he was the chubbiest
one, he probably had more meat on him, bless him.

"Patrick, I think, was probably in the middle, because it grabbed hold of his
head next and then his arm.

"According to the doctor and the other people, Patrick was trying to fend off
the polar bear by hitting it on the nose. The polar bear attacked him with his
right paw across his face and his head and his arm."

Mr Flinders told how Patrick suffered head and arm injuries but was not
seriously hurt.

He said: "What they have round the tents are trip wires with bullets in to stop
the polar bears trying to get in. If they trip it, bullets go up in the air and
scare them away. This time it didn't happen, apparently, and one of the other
chaps came out with a rifle and tried to kill the polar bear and didn't do it.
Then the leader tried to kill the bear, but just before he killed him,
apparently, the animal mauled him and he's really, really bad."

The attack happened at 7.25am yesterday on the island which Prince Harry visited
on a charity trip last March. The victims were among a party of 13 youngsters
camped near the Von Post glacier.

As the teenagers came under attack they made a desperate call for help via
satellite phone.

Rescue helicopters were scrambled but medics could not save the teenager's life.
The other injured boy was named yesterday as Scott Smith, 17.

Trip leaders Michael Reid, 29, and Andrew Ruck, 27, from Aberdeen, were also
hurt. Last night two of the casualties were described as having severe head
injuries.

Tragic Horatio, who was named after Naval hero Lord Nelson, dreamed of studying
medicine at university once he had finished his exams.

In a bitter irony, as a 15-year-old midshipman, Horatio Nelson fought off a
polar bear on Spitsbergen after his musket misfired. Last night the youngster's
parents, surgeon David Chapple and his wife Sue, of Salisbury, Wiltshire, were
trying to come to terms with the tragedy. Mr Chapple is consultant orthopaedic
and spinal surgeon at Salisbury hospital.

Teddy Watson, chairman of the British Schools Exploring Sociey, said at their HQ
in Kensington, west London:

"Horatio was a fine young man hoping to go on to study medicine after school. By
all accounts he would have made an excellent doctor."

An investigation was under way last night into how the bear was able to enter
the camp.

The students were part of a larger group of 80 aged between 16 and 25 who each
paid GBP 2,900 to join the expedition, which began on July 23 and was scheduled
to run until August 28.

Spitsbergen is more than 1,200 miles north of Norway's capital Oslo.

Governor Lars Erik Alfheim said:

"There were 13 young people staying at the camp - boys and girls - and they were
all in their tents when the animal struck. The young man who died had severe
head wounds. The four injured males also had head wounds but their injuries are
not believed to be life-threatening.

"It is not unusual to have polar bear attacks in the area. Ten per cent of the
world's polar bear population is here. Last autumn two people were badly mauled
but they survived.

"The polar bear may have travelled up towards the camp on drift ice. It may have
been hungry, we do not know. The people were asleep in their tents and were
taken by surprise.

"It is always daylight here in summer, so it was not a case of them being
attacked in the dark."

Teenager Kyle Gouveia, who returned home early over fears he was developing
frostbite, told how the group was given shooting practice on the second day of
the trip to be prepared for a potential bear attack.

Kyle, 17, said they took turns on "bear watches" at their base camp.

The British Schools Exploring Society was founded in 1932 by a member of Captain
Scott's final Antarctic expedition of 1910-13. Patrons and honorary members
include Sir David Attenborough and David Cameron.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The camp yesterday where the boys were sleeping when the polar bear
attacked
Victim Horatio Chapple, right, survivor Patrick Flinders, above, and expedition
leaders Michael Reid, top left, and Andrew Ruck
A fully grown male bear can be 10ft tall
The dead polar bear is hauled away by rescuers yesterday as survivors told how
one of the expedition's leaders was badly mauled before he managed to shoot it
One of the injured is carried on a stretcher from the helicopter yesterday after
being flown to hospital on the mainland
A photo taken at a briefing meeting for the 80-plus young people aged 16-25 who
paid GBP 2,900 each to join the expedition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

TERROR OF POLAR BEAR ATTACK ON STUDENTS

BYLINE: By David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 836  words


Eton pupil dies and four badly injured as British tourists are mauled in their
tent

AN ETON schoolboy was mauled to death and four other Britons seriously injured
yesterday by a polar bear.

Horatio Chapple, 17, was killed after the animal charged into a tent where three
students were sleeping on the remote Norwegian island of Spitsbergen in the
Arctic Circle.

A second teenager, Patrick Flinders, 16, was mauled but miraculously survived
after he fought off the starving bear by punching it on the nose.

The marauding animal bypassed a special tripwire warning system at the camp and
dodged bullets fired by members of the expedition team. It was finally shot by
one of the leaders of the five-week expedition, run by charity the British
Schools Exploring Society. He managed to kill the bear despite being badly
mauled.

Last night dramatic details of the attack were revealed by survivor Patrick's
father, Terry, who told how his son fought off the killer bear.

Mr Flinders, from Jersey, said: "The bear got into the tent where Patrick was
and two friends and he just grabbed hold of the other boy and just killed him.

"There were three of them in a tent and I don't know why he chose the other boy,
perhaps he was the closest one. If he looked at Patrick he was the chubbiest
one, he probably had more meat on him, bless him.

"Patrick, I think, was probably in the middle, because it grabbed hold of his
head next and then his arm.

"According to the doctor and the other people, Patrick was trying to fend off
the polar bear by hitting it on the nose. The polar bear attacked him with his
right paw across his face and his head and his arm."

Mr Flinders told how Patrick suffered head and arm injuries but was not
seriously hurt.

He said: "What they have round the tents are trip wires with bullets in to stop
the polar bears trying to get in. If they trip it, bullets go up in the air and
scare them away. This time it didn't happen, apparently, and one of the other
chaps came out with a rifle and tried to kill the polar bear and didn't do it.
Then the leader tried to kill the bear, but just before he killed him,
apparently, the animal mauled him and he's really, really bad."

The attack happened at 7.25am yesterday on the island which Prince Harry visited
on a charity trip last March. The victims were among a party of 13 youngsters
camped near the Von Post glacier.

The youngsters made a desperate call for help via satellite phone.

Rescue helicopters were scrambled but medics could not save the teenager's life.
The other injured boy was named yesterday as Scott Smith, 17.

Trip leaders Michael Reid, 29, and Andrew Ruck, 27, from Aberdeen, were also
hurt. Last night two of the casualties were described as having severe head
injuries.

Also last night neighbours spoke of Horatio Nelson Chapple as a "bright" boy
from a "lovely" family.

He dreamed of studying medicine at university. His parents are both doctors in
Salisbury, Wiltshire. David, a consultant orthopaedic and spinal surgeon at the
town's hospital, and his wife, Susan, were trying to come to terms with the
tragedy last night.

Horatio also leaves two younger brothers, Titan and Magnus.

His grandfather was a former head of the British Army. Field Marshal Sir John
Lyon Chapple, GCB, CBE, served as Chief of the General Staff from 1989 to 1992.
He was also Governor of Gibraltar from 1993 to 1995.

He was also the president of the BSES which ran the tour Horatio died on. The
boy was named after Nelston because he had once fought off a polar bear on
Spitsbergen when he was a 15-year-old midshipman after his musket misfired.

Sarah Wilde, who lives a few doors away from the family's large country home in
leafy Bishopstone, said:

"They are a lovely family. It is just so tragic."

A group called RIP Horatio Chapple was set up on the social networking site
Facebook.

His aunt Rachel Chapple posted:

"Horatio, I think of you tall and strong and smiling in your quiet, charming
way. You were an astonishing nephew.

I remember the day you were born.

You were so sick. And you fought and grew and filled your family with so much
love. . . sending you Horatiosized hugs. Love Aunt Rachel x."

Holly Kirkham said: "My sister is on the same expedition with you. My thoughts
are with your family for getting the one answer saying their child was not safe
this morning."

An investigation was under way last night into how the bear got into the camp.
The students were part of a group of 80 aged between 16 and 25 who each paid GBP
2,900 to join the expedition, which began on July 23 and was scheduled to run
until August 28.

Governor Lars Erik Alfheim said:

"There were 13 young people staying at the camp - boys and girls.

"It is not unusual to have polar bear attacks in the area. Ten per cent of the
world's polar bear population is here. Last autumn two people were badly mauled
but they survived."

The British Schools Exploring Society was founded in 1932 by a member of Captain
Scott's Antarctic expedition of 1910-13.

Patrons include Sir David Attenborough and David Cameron.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The camp yesterday where the boys were sleeping when the polar bear
attacked
Victim Horatio Chapple, right, survivor Patrick Flinders, above, and expedition
leaders Michael Reid, top left, and Andrew Ruck
A fully grown male bear can be 10ft tall
The dead polar bear is hauled away by rescuers yesterday as survivors told how
one of the expedition's leaders was badly mauled before he managed to shoot it
One of the injured is carried on a stretcher from the helicopter yesterday after
being flown to hospital on the mainland
A photo taken at a briefing meeting for the 80-plus young people aged 16-25 who
paid GBP 2,900 each to join the expedition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TERROR OF POLAR BEAR ATTACK ON STUDENTS;
Eton pupil dies and four badly injured as British tourists are mauled in their
tent Starving bear's bloody rampage

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 841 words


AN ETON schoolboy was mauled to death and four other Britons seriously injured
yesterday by a polar bear.

Horatio Chapple, 17, was killed after the animal charged into a tent where three
students were sleeping on the remote Norwegian island of Spitsbergen in the
Arctic Circle. A second teenager, Patrick Flinders, 16, was mauled but
miraculously survived after he fought off the starving bear by punching it on
the nose.

The marauding animal bypassed a special tripwire warning system at the camp and
dodged bullets fired by members of the expedition team. It  was finally shot by
one of the leaders of the five-week expedition, run by charity the British
Schools Exploring Society. He managed to kill the bear despite being badly
mauled.

Last night dramatic details of the attack were revealed by survivor Patrick's
father, Terry, who told how his son fought off the killer bear.

Mr Flinders, from Jersey, said: "The bear got into the tent where Patrick was
and two friends and he just grabbed hold of the other boy and just killed him.

"There were three of them in a tent and I don't know why he chose the other boy,
perhaps he was the closest one. If he looked at Patrick he was the chubbiest
one, he probably had more meat on him, bless him.

"Patrick, I think, was probably in the middle, because it grabbed hold of his
head next and then his arm.

"According to the doctor and the other people, Patrick was trying to fend off
the polar bear by hitting it on the nose. The polar bear attacked him with his
right paw across his face and his head and his arm."

Mr Flinders told how Patrick suffered head and arm injuries but was not
seriously hurt.

He said: "What they have round the tents are trip wires with bullets in to stop
the polar bears trying to get in. If they trip it, bullets go up in the air and
scare them away. This time it didn't happen, apparently, and one of the other
chaps came out with a rifle and tried to kill the polar bear and didn't do it.
Then the leader tried to kill the bear, but just before he killed him,
apparently, the animal mauled him and he's really, really bad."

The attack happened at 7.25am yesterday on the island which Prince Harry visited
on a charity trip last March. The victims were among a party of 13 youngsters
camped near the Von Post glacier.

As the teenagers came under attack they made a desperate call for help via
satellite phone.

Rescue helicopters were scrambled but medics could not save the teenager's life.
The other injured boy was named yesterday as Scott Smith, 17. Trip leaders
Michael Reid, 29, and Andrew Ruck, 27, from Aberdeen, were also hurt. Last night
two of the casualties were described as having severe head injuries.

Tragic Horatio, who was named after Naval hero Lord Nelson, dreamed of studying
medicine at university once he had finished his exams.

In a bitter irony, as a 15-year-old midshipman, Horatio Nelson fought off a
polar bear on Spitsbergen after his musket misfired. Last night the youngster's
parents, surgeon David Chapple and his wife Sue, of Salisbury, Wiltshire, were
trying to come to terms with the tragedy. Mr Chapple is consultant orthopaedic
and spinal surgeon at Salisbury hospital.

Teddy Watson, chairman of the British Schools Exploring Sociey, said at their HQ
in Kensington, west London: "Horatio was a fine young man hoping to go on to
study medicine after school. By all accounts he would have made an excellent
doctor."

An investigation was under way last night into how the bear was able to enter
the camp.

The students were part of a larger group of 80 aged between 16 and 25 who each
paid £2,900 to join the expedition, which began on July 23 and was scheduled to
run until August 28.

Spitsbergen is more than 1,200 miles north of Norway's capital Oslo.

Governor Lars Erik Alfheim said: "There were 13 young people staying at the camp
- boys and girls - and they were all in their tents when the animal struck. The
young man who died had severe head wounds. The four injured males also had head
wounds but their injuries are not believed to be life-threatening.

"It is not unusual to have polar bear attacks in the area. Ten per cent of the
world's polar bear population is here. Last autumn two people were badly mauled
but they survived.

"The polar bear may have travelled up towards the camp on drift ice. It may have
been hungry, we do not know. The people were asleep in their tents and were
taken by surprise.

"It is always daylight here in summer, so it was not a case of them being
attacked in the dark."

Teenager Kyle Gouveia, who returned home early over fears he was developing
frostbite, told how the group was given shooting practice on the second day of
the trip to be prepared for a potential bear attack. Kyle, 17, said they took
turns on "bear watches" at their base camp.

The British Schools Exploring Society was founded in 1932 by a member of Captain
Scott's final Antarctic expedition of 1910-13. Patrons and honorary members
include Sir David Attenborough and David Cameron.

'Patrick was trying to fend off the bear by hitting it on the nose'

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The camp yesterday where the boys were sleeping when the polar bear
attacked
A fully grown male bear can be 10ft tall
One of the injured is carried on a stretcher from the helicopter yesterday after
being fl own to hospital on the mainland
A photo taken at a briefi ng meeting for the 80-plus young people aged 16-25 who
paid £2,900 each to join the expedition
The dead polar bear is hauled away by rescuers yesterday as survivors told how
one of the expedition's leaders was badly mauled before he managed to shoot it
Victim Horatio Chapple, right, survivor Patrick Flinders, above, and expedition
leaders Michael Reid, top left, and Andrew Ruck

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

THE BOYS FOUGHT 39 STONE BEAR AS IT MAULED THEIR FRIEND, BUT HE HAD NO CHANCE;
CAMP ATTACK TERROR ON ADVENTURE TRIP

BYLINE: ANDREW GREGORY; GREIG BOX TURNBULL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1088 words


IT was the adventure of lifetime and the youngsters had been chatting excitedly
about the possibility of seeing a polar bear.

But their dream turned to horrifying reality yesterday when one of the ravenous
beasts crashed into their flimsy tent and attacked them as they lay in their
sleeping bags.

The bear - said to weigh up to 39 stone - mauled 17-year-old Horatio Chapple to
death before turning on two of his friends.

Terrified Patrick Flinders, 16, and Scott Smith, 17, suffered severe head and
arm injuries as Patrick frantically tried to fight off the bear - by bravely
punching it on the nose.

He and Scott were rescued when trip leaders Michael Reid, in his 20s, and Andrew
Ruck, 27, burst in with rifles and one of them shot the animal dead - but not
before both had been badly mauled.

Last night Patrick's relieved dad Terry told of his son's miraculous escape
during the trip to Norway with the British Schools Exploring Society.

Mr Flinders, from Jersey, said: "The bear got into the tent and just grabbed
hold of one of the boys and killed him. Nobody knows why it chose him - perhaps
he was the closest. If he looked at Patrick he was the chubbiest one, he
probably had more meat on him.

"Patrick, I think, was probably in the middle, because he grabbed hold of his
head next, and then his arm. I don't know how Patrick got out to be honest.

According to the doctor and other people, he was trying to fend it off by
hitting it on the nose.

"The polar bear attacked him with its right paw, across his face, his head and
his arm. One of the leaders finally shot the bear, but by then the other poor
lad was dead."

Horatio's distraught parents David, 49, a spinal surgeon at Salisbury NHS
Foundation Trust, and surgery practice manager mum Susan, 46, were last night
said to be too upset to comment.

They were preparing to fly to Norway from their home in the village of
Bishopstone near Salisbury, Wilts.

Horatio, one of 13 British children on the trip, was a pupil at Eton.

BSES chairman Edward Watson said: "He was a fine young man who wanted to go on
to read medicine.

"We and the Norwegian authorities are currently establishing the full
circumstances of his tragic death and will not be releasing this until we have
discussed this fully with the family."

Following the attack, the horrified group made an emergency satellite call for
help from the island of Spitsbergen - a former whaling base - at 7.36am
yesterday.

Helicopter teams from the mainland took the injured to hospital and removed the
bear's body, which was slumped in the middle of the campsite on Von Postbreen
glacier.

Last night group leaders Michael and Andrew, from Edinburgh, Scott, of Saltash,
Cornwall, and Patrick were being treated for serious wounds after being
airlifted to the town of Longyearbyen 25 miles away. The group had used bear
flares and set up a trip wire between their tents, which apparently failed to
activate.

Kyle Gouveia, 17, who was on the expedition before being sent home early after
getting mild frostbite, said the group was given shooting practice on the second
day in case a polar bear attacked.

They also took turns on watch at their base camp and practised using bear
flares.

He said: "I knew all the people there, I had started mingling with them and
started making friends. I'm worried about the injured people and how the polar
bear managed to get them."

He added: "We learned about protecting ourselves from polar bears - letting off
bear flares around your camp, firing shotgun rounds, making loud noises so the
bears are scared off."

The island's vice-governor Lars Erik Alfheim said: "We sent helicopters as fast
as we could. When we got there we found serious injuries."

Spitsbergen is a haven for scientists, adventurers and tourists and was visited
by Prince Harry, 26, on a charity trip last March.

Just a few days ago the group had told of their excitement at the prospect of
seeing a bear. Team member Marcus Wright posted on a website: "We must have all
dreamed of polar bears because next day we eagerly waited for the ice floes to
break up so we could move on to base camp.

"There was sighting across the fjord about a mile away and we encountered
another floating on the ice. This time we were lucky enough to borrow a kind
Norwegian guide's telescope to see it properly. After that experience everyone
dreamed of polar bears that night." A spokesman for BSES, which offers adventure
travel for 16 to 25 year olds in the polar regions, deserts, mountains and
jungles, confirmed that two of the four people hurt in the attack had "severe"
injuries but that the rest of the expedition party were unharmed.

He said a senior member of the organisation was flying out to gather further
information.

The youngsters were on a five-week expedition, which began on July 23 and were
set to return home at the end of this month.

The pounds 2,900 trip promised that they would "venture into the untouched
beauty and wilderness of Svalbard". Local restaurant manager Sandra Swresser
said: "It's very sad. We have had attacks here before. It happened a year ago
when a Norwegian man was attacked. As it was early in the morning I can only
suppose the bear attacked the camp because it was looking for food."

Islander Liv Rose Flygel, 55, added: "It's not been the first time. Last summer
a man was attacked by a polar bear and there have also been attacks on a man
from Austria and a girl.

"Only the man in the attack last summer survived. He was taken in the mouth of
the bear and his friend ran after it and shot it. The problem is, when the ice
goes, the bears lose their way and cannot catch food.

"People don't really how dangerous they are. One came down to the sea recently
and people were running down to take pictures."

AGGRESSIVE

Polar bears are the biggest threat to humans on the island and up to 500 are
thought to roam the area. Five people have been killed by polar bears since
1973.

Svalbard tourism chief Kjersti Norås said: "Von Postbreen glacier is a common
place for tourists to go. You can also drive there on snowmobile in the winter."
She said locals were generally fond of the bears, which rarely attack humans.

She added: "As long as they have food they are not particularly aggressive.
Basically they will not eat people because we are too skinny."

The Svalbard group of islands are located in the Arctic Circle, 500 miles north
of the mainland Norway. A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "Our embassy in Oslo
is urgently looking into reports of this incident." Around 250,000 British
tourists visit Norway every year.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLOODY Bear was shot dead during tent attack INJURED Andy Ruck, 27,
hurt after running to save the lads HERO Terrified Patrick scared off the bear
by punching it on the nose INJURED Leader Michael Reid, in 20s, was badly mauled
TRAINING Patrick preparing for the expedition campJ Bear's body lies in the
circle of tents where it attacked ADVENTURE Excited group at airport. Andy is at
back on left and Patrick is sitting down PREDATOR Body of the polar bear is
dragged away by rescuers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                 1 Star Edition

THE BOYS FOUGHT 39STONEBEARAS ITMAULEDTHEIR FRIEND, BUT HE BARENTS SEA Y HAD NO
CHANCE;
CAMP ATTACK TERROR ON ADVENTURE TRIP

BYLINE: ANDREW GREGORY; GREIG BOX TURNBULL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1079 words


SHOCKED dad Terry Flinders told last night how his teenage son tried to fight
off a killer polar bear - by punching it on the nose.

Terrified Patrick, 16, had already seen his pal Horatio Chapple, 17, mauled to
death.

He was battling for his life as the 39st beast crashed into their flimsy tent
and attacked them as they lay in their sleeping bags.

Patrick and another youngster, Scott Smith, also 16, were left with severe head
and arm injuries.

But they survived after the group leaders of their educational adventure trip to
Norway burst in brandishing rifles.

Michael Reid, in his 20s, and Andrew Ruck, 27, drew the bear's attention and one
of them shot it dead - but not before both had been badly mauled.

Patrick's relieved father says it is a miracle his lad is still alive after the
horrific attack during his holiday with the British Schools Exploring Society.

Mr Flinders, from Jersey, said: "The bear got into the tent and just grabbed
hold of one of the boys and killed him. Nobody knows why it chose him - perhaps
he was the closest.

"If he looked at Patrick he was the chubbiest one, he probably had more meat on
him.

"Patrick, I think, was probably in the middle, because he grabbed hold of his
head next, and then his arm. I don't know how Patrick got out.

"According to the doctor and other people, he was trying to fend it off by
hitting it on the nose." He added: "The bear kept swiping at him with its right
paw, across his face, his head and his arm. One of the group leaders finally
shot the bear, but by then the other poor lad was dead."

Horatio's distraught parents David, 49, a spinal surgeon at Salisbury NHS
Foundation Trust, and surgery practice manager Susan, 46, were last night said
to be too upset to comment.

They were preparing to fly to Norway from their home in the tiny village of
Bishopstone near Salisbury, Wilts. Horatio, one of 13 British children on the
trip, was a pupil at Eton.

BSES chairman Edward Watson said: "He was a fine young man who wanted to go on
to read medicine.

"We and the Norwegian authorities are currently establishing the full
circumstances of his tragic death and will not be releasing this until we have
discussed this fully with the family." Following the attack, the horrified group
made an emergency satellite call for help from the island of Spitsbergen - a
former Arctic whaling base - at 7.36am yesterday.

Helicopter teams from the mainland took the injured to hospital and removed the
bear's body, which was slumped in the middle of the campsite on Von Postbreen
glacier.

Last night group leaders Michael and Andrew, from Edinburgh, Scott, of Saltash,
Cornwall, and Patrick were being treated for serious wounds after being
airlifted to the town of Longyearbyen, 25 miles away. The group had used bear
flares and set up a trip wire between their tents, which apparently failed to
activate.

flARES Kyle Gouveia, 17, who was on the expedition before being sent home early
after getting mild frostbite, said the group was given shooting practice on the
second day in case a polar bear attacked.

They also took turns on watch at their base camp and practised using bear
flares.

He said: "I knew all the people there, I had started mingling with them and
started making friends. I'm worried about the injured people and how the polar
bear managed to get them."

He added: "We learned about protecting ourselves from polar bears - letting off
bear flares around your camp, firing shotgun rounds, making loud noises so the
bears are scared off."

The island's vice-governor Lars Erik Alfheim said: "We sent helicopters as fast
as we could. When we got there we found serious injuries."

Horatio's grandfather, Field Marshall Sir John Lyon Chapple, was the former head
of the British Army between 1989 and 1992 and governor of Gibraltar between 1993
and 1995.

Spitsbergen is a haven for scientists, adventurers and tourists and was visited
by Prince Harry, 26, last March. Just a few days ago the group had told of their
excitement at the prospect of seeing a bear. Team member Marcus Wright posted on
a website: "We must have all dreamt of polar bears because next day we eagerly
waited for the ice floes to break up so we could move on to base camp.

"There was sighting across the fjord about a mile away and we encountered
another floating on the ice. This time we were lucky enough to borrow a kind
Norwegian guide's telescope to see it properly. After that experience everyone
dreamed of polar bears that night." A spokesman for BSES, which offers adventure
travel for 16 to 25 year olds in the polar regions, deserts, mountains and
jungles, confirmed that two of the four people hurt in the attack had "severe"
injuries but that the rest of the expedition party were unharmed.

He said a senior member of the organisation was flying out to gather further
information.

The youngsters were on a five-week expedition, which began on July 23 and were
set to return home at the end of this month. The pounds 2,900 trip promised that
they would "venture into the untouched beauty and wilderness of Svalbard". Local
restaurant manager Sandra Swresser said: "It's very sad. We have had attacks
here before. It happened a year ago when a Norwegian man was attacked. As it was
early in the morning I can only suppose the bear attacked the camp because it
was hungry."

Islander Liv Rose Flygel, 55, added: "It's not been the first time. Last summer
a man was attacked by a polar bear and there have also been attacks on a man
from Austria and a girl.

"Only the man in the attack last summer survived. He was taken in the mouth of
the bear and his friend ran after it and shot it. The problem is, when the ice
goes, the bears lose their way and cannot catch food.

DANGEROUS "People don't really how dangerous they are. One came down to the sea
recently and people were running down to take pictures."

Polar bears are the biggest threat to humans on the island and up to 500 are
thought to roam the area. Five people have been killed since 1973.

Svalbard tourism chief Kjersti Norås said: "Von Postbreen glacier is a common
place for tourists to go. You can also drive there on snowmobile in the winter."
She said locals were generally fond of the bears, which rarely attack humans.

The Svalbard group of islands are located in the Arctic Circle, 500 miles north
of the mainland Norway. A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "Our embassy in Oslo
is urgently looking into reports of this incident." Around 250,000 British
tourists visit Norway every year.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: eXamIned J The killer bear is said to weigh about 39 stone Andy Ruck,
27, hurt after running to save the lads INJURED Eton schoolboy Horatio died
after bear burst into the tent TRAGIC Leader Michael Reid, in 20s, was badly
mauled INJURED Terrified Patrick scared off the bear by punching it on the nose
HERO campJ Bear's body lies in the circle of tents where it attacked Andy is at
back on left and Patrick is sitting down adventure J Excited group at airport.
predator J Body of the polar bear is dragged away by rescuers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

TERROR OF POLAR BEAR ATTACK ON STUDENTS;
Eton pupil dies and four badly injured as British tourists are mauled in their
tent

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 846 words


AN ETON schoolboy was mauled to death and four other Britons seriously injured
yesterday by a polar bear.

Horatio Chapple, 17, was killed after the animal charged into a tent where three
students were sleeping on the remote Norwegian island of Spitsbergen in the
Arctic Circle.

A second teenager, Patrick Flinders, 16, was mauled but miraculously survived
after he fought off the starving bear by punching it on the nose.

The marauding animal bypassed a special tripwire warning system at the camp and
dodged bullets fired by members of the expedition team. It was finally shot by
one of the leaders of the five-week expedition, run by charity the British
Schools Exploring Society. He managed to kill the bear despite being badly
mauled.

Last night dramatic details of the attack were revealed by survivor Patrick's
father, Terry, who told how his son fought off the killer bear.

Mr Flinders, from Jersey, said: "The bear got into the tent where Patrick was
and two friends and he just grabbed hold of the other boy and just killed him.

"There were three of them in a tent and I don't know why he chose the other boy,
perhaps he was the closest one. If he looked at Patrick he was the chubbiest
one, he probably had more meat on him, bless him.

"Patrick, I think, was probably in the middle, because it grabbed hold of his
head next and then his arm.

"According to the doctor and the other people, Patrick was trying to fend off
the polar bear by hitting it on the nose. The polar bear attacked him with his
right paw across his face and his head and his arm."

Mr Flinders told how Patrick suffered head and arm injuries but was not
seriously hurt.

He said: "What they have round the tents are trip wires with bullets in to stop
the polar bears trying to get in. If they trip it, bullets go up in the air and
scare them away. This time it didn't happen, apparently, and one of the other
chaps came out with a rifle and tried to kill the polar bear and didn't do it.
Then the leader tried to kill the bear, but just before he killed him,
apparently, the animal mauled him and he's really, really bad."

The attack happened at 7.25am yesterday on the island which Prince Harry visited
on a charity trip last March. The victims were among a party of 13 youngsters
camped near the Von Post glacier.

As the teenagers came under attack they made a desperate call for help via
satellite phone.

Rescue helicopters were scrambled but medics could not save the teenager's life.
The other injured boy was named yesterday as Scott Smith, 17. Trip leaders
Michael Reid, 29, and Andrew Ruck, 27, from Aberdeen, were also hurt. Last night
two of the casualties were described as having severe head injuries.

Tragic Horatio, who was named after Naval hero Lord Nelson, dreamed of studying
medicine at university once he had finished his exams.

In a bitter irony, as a 15-year-old midshipman, Horatio Nelson fought off a
polar bear on Spitsbergen after his musket misfired. Last night the youngster's
parents, surgeon David Chapple and his wife Sue, of Salisbury, Wiltshire, were
trying to come to terms with the tragedy. Mr Chapple is consultant orthopaedic
and spinal surgeon at Salisbury hospital.

Teddy Watson, chairman of the British Schools Exploring Sociey, said at their HQ
in Kensington, west London: "Horatio was a fine young man hoping to go on to
study medicine after school. By all accounts he would have made an excellent
doctor."

An investigation was under way last night into how the bear was able to enter
the camp.

The students were part of a larger group of 80 aged between 16 and 25 who each
paid £2,900 to join the expedition, which began on July 23 and was scheduled to
run until August 28.

Spitsbergen is more than 1,200 miles north of Norway's capital Oslo.

Governor Lars Erik Alfheim said: "There were 13 young people staying at the camp
- boys and girls - and they were all in their tents when the animal struck. The
young man who died had severe head wounds. The four injured males also had head
wounds but their injuries are not believed to be life-threatening.

"It is not unusual to have polar bear attacks in the area. Ten per cent of the
world's polar bear population is here. Last autumn two people were badly mauled
but they survived.

"The polar bear may have travelled up towards the camp on drift ice. It may have
been hungry, we do not know. The people were asleep in their tents and were
taken by surprise.

"It is always daylight here in summer, so it was not a case of them being
attacked in the dark."

Teenager Kyle Gouveia, who returned home early over fears he was developing
frostbite, told how the group was given shooting practice on the second day of
the trip to be prepared for a potential bear attack.

Kyle, 17, said they took turns on "bear watches" at their base camp.

The British Schools Exploring Society was founded in 1932 by a member of Captain
Scott's final Antarctic expedition of 1910-13. Patrons and honorary members
include Sir David Attenborough and David Cameron.

Starving bear's bloody rampage

'Patrick was trying to fend off the bear by hitting it on the nose'

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The camp yesterday where the boys were sleeping when the polar bear
attacked
The dead polar bear is hauled away by rescuers yesterday as survivors told how
one of the expedition's leaders was badly mauled before he managed to shoot it
One of the injured is carried on a stretcher from the helicopter yesterday after
being flown to hospital on the mainland
A photo taken at a briefing meeting for the 80-plus young people aged 16-25 who
paid £2,900 each to join the expedition
A fully grown male bear can be 10ft tall
Victim Horatio Chapple, right, survivor Patrick Flinders, above, and expedition
leaders Michael Reid, top left, and Andrew Ruck

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             August 8, 2011 Monday

Comment: Let's ask less of our army: No nation is about to attack us; the only
threat is terrorism. Our defence bill should reflect that

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 597 words


Defence spending is precisely what it says on the tin: spending to defend this
country. So before you get too deep in scrapped aircraft carriers, slashed
regiments et al, answer the question on the other side of the label. What is the
threat we're defending ourselves against? Who's coming to get us? And here's
where the debate - whether led by old sea dogs short of a Harrier or now, the
relevant Commons' select committee - grows foggy, going on totally impenetrable.
We aren't convinced that our "armed forces will maintain the capability to
undertake all that is being asked of them", say the MPs. Well, ask for less . .
.

Are we, pliant planters of the Nato flag anywhere in the world the Pentagon
prescribes, going to get involved in another Iraq - or, worse, another
Afghanistan? Of course not, says bitter experience. Even America, saving its
trillions, can't be so foolishly heedless. Thirty-one more servicemen dead in a
single helicopter make a savage point. There is no winning or losing in far
foreign fields. Tea Party blackmail and S&P ratings are the real enemies now.

Modest ventures - say, bombing Libya's coast roads to stop too much slaughter -
are probably off any future agenda, too. The cash we pay for such minor
"defence" operations - counted in millions rather than the billions NHS
computers lose - isn't enough to keep planes in the air day after day without
top brass wailing that they need more.

Simply: saving lives in Libya is the most modest kind of out-of-area task you
could envisage. If we can't do that without calling for Wing Commander Twist,
then forget it. Leave the Libyans to a Syrian fate. Park consciences, wash
hands. Come back to fortress Europe.

Who, looking round there with due solemnity, is going to start attacking the UK
any time soon? Iceland, France, Germany? Ah! The old Muscovite hordes are on the
march, are they? Give me one believable scenario that makes sense. There could
be trouble in the Balkans, of course. (And no, vice-admiral, I haven't forgotten
the Falklands).

But the only true threat, if any, is terrorism, again; with maybe a pinch of
Tottenham-fuelled civil disorder and a spoonful of Northern Ireland thrown in.
Does that need £25bn a year? Does it need heavy tanks, nuclear subs and
Eurofighters? Both the bill and the shopping list are wholly out of proportion.
Indeed, they are only proportionate if you conjure up a wild menu of threats
that would, lumped ludicrously together, demand huge extra capacity.

Only two strands of debate support such a conclusion. One is the bog-standard
MoD concern that cuts mean fewer chaps on the ground and fewer billions to
spend. The other is that we shall lose "global influence". Cue the departing US
defence secretary, Robert Gates, and his warning that America can't do all the
world's "heavy lifting" alone.

But Gates, at the CIA, was a main proponent of the hollow "Soviet threat". He
was big on Saddam threats and Taliban threats, as well. He's an intervener and
cheque signer from the days when America poured zillions into "defence" because
that was its role - and what its defence industries demanded.

Be clear today, though, that this era is past. Be clear that defence spending is
what we need to spend - not what the heavy lifters say might be useful. And be
clear, too, about the Tripoli dither. If £25bn can't set bombing waves pounding
over a few months without second thoughts and escalating cost demands then
there's no point in "asking" for such operations any more. And, equally, no
point in providing the cash for them. No threat; no action; no argument.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday
                                  Eire Edition

KATE & WILLS' SAS TRAINING FOR TERRORIST ATTACK RISK;
SECURITY

BYLINE: RICHARD SMITH; CHRIS HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 225 words


PrincE William and wife Kate have made a secret visit to SAS headquarters for
training in terror and kidnap threats.

The couple, both 29, took a trip to the elite Army regiment's Herefordshire HQ
to receive safety briefings and meet injured soldiers and widows of fallen
members.

The SAS - which has the motto Who Dares Wins - has close links to royalty and
briefed William's parents charles and Diana after their 1981 wedding.

A source said: "This is incredibly delicate. it was Wills and Kate's first trip
to Hereford.

"The regiment has special access and their role in protecting the royals is well
known. Their advice and help is vital to the safety of the royal Family."

it is understood Wills and Kate will soon return to the barracks to take part in
a mock rescue mission from a building known as The Killing House.

SAS teams armed with loaded guns and stun grenades will storm the twostorey
building, which has four furnished rooms on each floor, and extract them.

The elite soldiers practise in the house daily using live rounds as senior
officers monitor the action on ccTV.

The royals will also take advanced driver training courses in case they need to
escape a threat by road.

The source said: "The training is designed to show ViPs exactly what to expect
if they are taken hostage and how to behave so that they do not interfere with
the rescue.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WEDDING J Royal couple

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 M2 EquityBites

                             August 12, 2011 Friday

-Gjensidige to book NOK60m costs in Q3 2011 due to terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 119 words


12 August 2011 - Norwegian insurer Gjensidige Forsikring ASA (OSL:GJF) said
Thursday that provisional estimates indicate that the group will incur claims
net of reinsurance of some NOK50-60m due to the terrorist attacks in the country
on 22 July.





The costs will be booked in the segments Private Norway and Commercial Norway in
the third quarter of 2011.



A number of Gjensidige's insurance customers and their next of kin were affected
by the terrorist attacks, the group said in its interim report. An emergency
response team was established to deal with enquiries from customers.



Gjensidige reported a pretax profit of NOK1.2bn in the second quarter of 2011,
up from NOK530m a year earlier.



(EUR1 = NOK7.9)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: EQB


                      Copyright 2011 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             August 12, 2011 Friday

The importance of highlighting fascist nature of terrorist attacks

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 89 words


Moreover "fascists in high places" do exist and can pull the strings which, for
example, established the BNP - to be replaced by the EDL once it became clear
that the British electorate would reject the BNP's hate-fuelled and Islamophobic
policies. Useful too for the Star to tell us that the September 3 demo against
EDL will start in Tower Hamlets. No doubt you'll tell us exactly where and when
later in this month. Chris PurnellOrpington The demonstration will take place
from 11am on Saturday September 3 at Weavers Fields, London E2.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday

Most terror attacks in Pakistan reported in Balochistan Province

LENGTH: 302 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 13 August: Balochistan has topped terrorist-related incidents as
compared to other provinces, with 1,424 such incidents being reported during
last three years (2009-11 till date).

As per latest countrywide statistics of reported crime, which were submitted to
the federal government, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) ranked second with 1,218 such
incidents, while in Punjab and Sindh, the number of terrorist incidents was 104
and 534 respectively during the period. The number of such cases registered in
Gilgit-Baltistan was 37, while in Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT) it was 19.

The comparative data of all provinces, including Gilgit-Baltistan [GB] and ICT,
shows the nature of crimes, including murder, abduction, abduction for ransom,
IED [improvised explosive device] explosives and terrorist incidents.

Punjab topped the murder crime with registered cases of 15,000 in the three
years. Sindh is second with 9,020 cases, while the number of such cases in KPK
was 6,676 and 1,355 in Balochistan. ICT with 305 and GB with 148 murder cases
were the fifth and sixth in the list.

Moreover, Punjab again topped in the registered abduction cases with 33,141,
Sindh 8,253 cases, KPK 956, Balochistan 511, ICT 159 and 32 abduction cases were
registered in GB during the period.

Similarly, in abduction for ransom crime, Punjab again on top with 416 cases,
Sindh 412, KPK 306, Balochistan 84, ICT 8 and GB with only one such case in
almost three years.

In crime of IED explosions, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa was on top with 326 registered
cases, Balochistan 188 cases, Punjab 27 cases, Sindh with 22 cases ,while the
number of such cases was two each in ICT and GB.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1109gmt
13 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 14, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Ireland

Police watchdog told to halt probes into terror attacks

BYLINE: Barry McCaffrey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 402 words


NORTHERN Ireland's police ombudsman should suspend investigations into historic
atrocities because there are "significant concerns" about how they are being
conducted.

A confidential inspection report by the Criminal Justice Inspection (CJI), an
independent state body, has also found the "flawed nature" of the watchdog's
investigative process has led to a lowering of its "operational independence" in
cases involving killings during the Troubles.

The full details of the CJI's draft review, seen by The Sunday Times, are
published online today by thedetail.tv, Northern Ireland's investigative
journalism website. The report, not due to be published until September, was
requested by Al Hutchinson, the police ombudsman, after Sam Pollock, the chief
executive of the Office of the Police Ombudsman Northern Ireland's (OPONI),
resigned in April and expressed concerns about the office's independence.
Hutchinson, at that time, said the OPONI, had "both real and practical
independence from the PSNI".

The CJI's inspectors examined the production process of reports on the 1972
Claudy bombings, the 1971 McGurk's bar bombing and the 1994 Loughinisland
shootings.

It found "a lack of consistency of approach with regard to how they were checked
for quality and inaccuracies".

The report states the perception that some OPONI staff and police officers had
"become too close" was raised after senior staff were seen mixing at social
events. It could find no evidence of "any senior management action that sought
to address this perception", but following assurances from both Hutchinson and
Matt Baggott, the PSNI chief constable, the report concludes there was "no
tangible evidence that relationships had been inappropriate". It states that a
"controversial narrative has developed in relation to the existence of personal
friendships between staff within the OPONI and the PSNI which has served to
undermine the operational independence of the office".

"It is apparent from the outset that there is no agreement on the extent to
which the work of the office has been compromised in its relationship with the
police," it also says.

The CJI recommends the OPONI should suspend historical cases until a strategic
plan for the unit which carries them out is adequately resourced and fully
operational. Any cases due for publication should be stalled until a review of
the most effective way of managing them is carried out.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 15, 2011 Monday

Macedonian paper rejects claims rightist ideology behind terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 1212 words


Text of report by Macedonian newspaper Dnevnik on 13 August

[Commentary by Zoran Dimitrovski: "The Right Wing Is Terrorist - It Should Be
Obliterated!"]

After the 11 September 2001 mega terrorist operation in the United States, which
killed 3,000 innocent civilians, all the current mass murders that appal the
world seem like a child's play. Still, the loss of even one human life as a
result of terrorism stirs consternation in the ordinary people's mind. This is
because, when it comes to terrorist acts, it is not the number of casualties
that matters but the message that no one is safe because they kill everything
that crawls without any criteria whatsoever, that is, women, children and
innocent senior citizens, rather than only the so-called legitimate military
targets. This is precisely why terrorism exists. It is a strong propaganda
device aimed at telling the ordinary people that their lives are not worth a
penny when it comes to attaining higher goals.

And what are these higher goals? The key lesson that we have learned since the
New York Twin Towers until the latest summer massacre on a Norwegian island and
in Oslo is that terrorism is merely a gory method for the purpose of achieving
the political, financial, economic, and geostrategic objectives of certain
states, large global financial and business corporations, powerful global or
regional lobby groups, and so forth. Terrorism is the least bit an ideology,
religion, belief, or the way of life of demented people, schizophrenics,
militarists, arms lovers, or totalitarian distorted minds who are ready to
commit atrocities in order to enjoy the victims' suffering. At the end of the
day, such characters may indeed commit the gruesome deeds, but they are not the
strategists, planners, let alone profiteers from the terrorist operations. On
the contrary, the mass murders, behind which there are allegedly certain
ideologies or religions, will bring most benefit precisely to those who want to
destroy them so that they could rule independently and thus draw financial and
political power, that is, the sworn enemies of contra-ideologies and religions!

For example, after Usamah Bin-Ladin's operations, Islam, which is generally
accepted as the religion of peace, has turned into a belief that we, the members
of the western or eastern Judeo-Christian civilization, should all fear since it
imperils our physical existence. It has been of no use that many benevolent
people have been saying ever since that, when it comes to Al-Qa'idah or the
other jihadist and Taleban groups in the Middle East, Iraq, Iran, Saudi Arabia,
Afghanistan, and so forth, Islam has been actually kidnapped by a group of
religious fanatics and militarists who deliberately misinterpret the Koran for
their caliphate-related purposes. Over the past decade the propaganda of the
strategists who are behind the Al-Qa'idah's abominable operations have succeeded
greatly in making even the most tolerant Western atheists assume a reserved and
sceptical attitude towards Islam as a religion, regardless of whether it is
traditional or peaceful, fundamentalist or military.

Norwegian Breivik's massacre several weeks ago is the most recent typical
example of the use of the 21st-century nuclear weapon - terrorism, or war with
ideologies and religions.

The same story as with Al-Qa'idah and Islam was repeated here, but now against
conservatism and the rightwing ideology. Following Breivik's bloody feast, his
Manifesto was posted on the Internet, in which he tried to explain to us the
ideology that was supposedly behind this terrorist act on 1,500 pages, which
were "a compendium," a collection of the works of many famous US and European
conservative authors. And this is actually the ideology of the conservative
right wing, which is perfectly legitimate and equal with the liberal and the
other ideologies of the democratic West. Still, it is conservatism that should
be the victim now! The patriarchic family with many children, the peaceloving
Christian souls, love towards the close ones, and respect for traditional
values, which are the values of conservative ideology, should now be erased
because they have allegedly been superseded by the horrible rightists' hatred
for Muslims, homosexuals, women, minorities, and so forth.

Crucial questions regarding Breivik's monstrous massacre, such as who may have
stood behind him as his logistic support or sponsor of this operation, are yet
to be posed. Serious analysts find it hard to believe the story that Breivik
organized and funded this all alone, regardless of his 100-page Farm Diary,
where this Norwegian described meticulously to the tiniest detail how he
prepared and combined the explosive, where he procured arms and ammunition, in
how many Oslo pharmacies he had to buy aspirin to collect 4 kilograms of raw
material for the domestic production of an important element for his explosive,
and so on and so forth.

In Macedonia, for example, some analysts from the so-called left wing have
rushed to use Breivik's massacre as a scarecrow on our ground because of the
ideology to which he referred. Allegedly, because of the open homophobic and
sexist stands (against homosexuals and for the women's subordinate position in
society) of some of our government supporters a certain Breivik may emerge in
Macedonia, too, who will kill and massacre "gays, lesbians, minorities, and
Muslims." God forbid!

In a nutshell, this is a direct example of how the propaganda that backs
terrorism manages to make a target not out of the person who committed the
terrorist act or those who might eventually stand behind him and have the
greatest profit from this act, but out of the ideology that is so openly
promoted as being behind the murders! This ideology - in Breivik's case, this is
the rightist, conservative one - should be obliterated. This is because it
itself propagates terrorism, just like Islam in Al-Qa'idah's case. And given
that the Macedonian Government is rightist, which is by default fascist, here is
a pattern for the heralding of our mass murderer and the tarnishing of the
government.

Still, why can we not think this way? In his Manifesto Breivik mostly attacks
the creators of the ideology of so-called political correctness (towards
religious and sexual minorities) and he denounces "the cultural Marxists" who
promote the new religion of the Western world, founded by the Frankfurt School
champions, Markuse, Adorno, and the lot. Did Breivik not attack primarily the
Muslims, among other things also with the truth that every third child born in
Oslo is called Mohammad? Yet, he killed Norwegians, anyway! What do you think -
who could profit most from the propaganda that he announced would commence
precisely with his arrest?

Only a day or two after the massacre the Norwegian Government decided to
withdraw the remaining troops from NATO's mission in Afghanistan. Will this mean
that radical Islam will benefit from this? What about liberalism, radical
feminism, and the movements for gay rights? How much will they gain if these
horrible murders simultaneously contribute to the silencing of the conservative
European right wing, which should now carry the label of being terrorist as
well?

Source: Dnevnik, Skopje, in Macedonian 13 Aug 11; p 11

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday

Israeli aircraft attack "terrorist" squad in Gaza Strip, five Palestinians hurt

LENGTH: 131 words


Text of report by Israeli public radio station Voice of Israel Network B on 16
August

The air force last night attacked four targets in the Gaza Strip.

The IDF spokesman reported that an IDF unit discerned a terrorist squad that
intended to fire mortars at Israel and an air force aircraft foiled the shelling
minutes before it was to take place.

Sources in the Gaza Strip reported that five Palestinians sustained serious
injuries in the air force attack east of Gaza city. The wounded are most likely
activists in Hamas's military wing.

According to Palestinian reports, the target of the attack was a rocket launcher
deployed at the site.

Last night, two rockets exploded in open fields outside Beersheba. Nobody was
hurt.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 0400 gmt 16 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday

Iraqi security forces impose curfew after wave of terrorist attacks - roundup

LENGTH: 651 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Satellite Television in Arabic, in its morning newscasts on
15 August, reports on the meeting held between Deputy Prime Minister Rozh Nuri
Shaways and US Ambassador James Jeffrey to discuss bilateral relations and the
Iraqi political process; a number of blasts which ripped across Iraq and claimed
the lives of dozens; and other political and security developments.

Political developments:

Within its 0600 gmt newscast, the channel reports the following:

- "Deputy Prime Minister Rozh Nuri Shaways has discussed with US Ambassador
James Jeffrey the bilateral ties between Iraq and the United States. During the
meeting, Shaways stressed the importance of respecting Iraq's sovereignty and
the political decision making. The two officials also tackled the political
process in Iraq and the recent discussions held among the political blocs to
finalize the implementation of Kurdistan Region President Mas'ud Barzani's
initiative."

Within its 0900 gmt newscast, the channel reports the following:

- "The Council of Representatives held today a new session chaired by Speaker
Usamah al-Nujayfi and attended by 231 parliament members. The agenda included
resuming discussions on the government platform, in the presence of the housing
and construction minister and the communications minister, as well as discussing
with Electricity Minister Ra'd Shallal the issue of the fake contracts signed
with the Canadian and German companies, and the Iranian Government shutting down
the Al-Wand River's flow into Iraq."

Security developments:

Within its 0900 gmt newscast, the channel reports the following:

- "Twenty-two people were martyred and 45 others were wounded when a car bomb
followed by an explosive device went off in the Al-Amil neighbourhood in the
centre of Al-Kut this morning. A police source said that the booby-trapped car
was parked in the Al-Abbasiyah area in the centre of Al-Kut, noting that the
bombing caused damage to a number of nearby stores. In the holy Al-Najaf, four
citizens were martyred and 58 others were wounded in the detonation of two car
bombs near the highway police headquarters in northern Al-Najaf this morning. In
holy Karbala, two citizens were martyred and 30 others were wounded in a car
bomb near the Al-Hindiyah Bridge.

- "Three police officers, one of whom is a lieutenant colonel, were martyred and
seven others were wounded in a terrorist attack against the counterterrorism
department in the Presidential Palaces complex in the centre of Tikrit. A
security source said that two terrorists wearing explosive belts and disguised
as policemen entered the department headquarters, noting that the security
forces killed one of them while the second blew himself up inside the
headquarters.

"A car bomb was detonated at an army checkpoint in Al-Taji. The casualties in
this attack are still unidentified.

"A citizen was martyred and 14 others were wounded in the explosion of a
booby-trapped motorcycle at the entrance to the Dumiz Market in southern Kirkuk.
Another car bomb went off in the Tis'in Market street in the centre of Kirkuk.

"Four soldiers were martyred in Ba'qubah and 22 others, including two police
officers, were wounded in several bombings which ripped across Diyala this
morning."

- "Following the wave of terrorist attacks in Iraq, the Iraqi security forces
imposed a curfew on Salah-al-Din, Wasit, Al-Najaf, Karbala, Kirkuk, and Diyala
governorates. In another development, Major General Adil Dahham, spokesman for
the Interior Ministry, said that the security forces succeeded in defusing five
car bombs in Diyala, Salah-al-Din, and Al-Najaf after killing all the terrorists
who were planning to detonate these cars. The Interior Ministry also issued
orders banning vehicles from parking on the side of the streets, in a preemptive
measure to thwart potential terrorist attacks."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 0600 gmt 15 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday

Survey shows 22 per cent of Kazakhs do not rule out possibility of terror attack

LENGTH: 192 words


Text of report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 16 August: Three in 10 of Kazakh people who were interviewed during a
social survey conducted by [Kazakhstan's] Institute of Political Solutions do
not rule out the possibility of terror attacks in the country.

In all, 22.5 per cent of Kazakh people believe that terror attacks are "quite
possible" in the country, and 8.8 per cent of them are confident that "they
cannot be avoided".

Terror acts under the guise of religious ideology are expected mainly by
[Kazakh] Muslims (31.8 per cent) and residents of the country's west (55.1 per
cent).

However, the majority of Kazakh people hope for stability and peace, and do not
expect any terror attack in the country.

Specifically, 41.1 per cent of the respondents believe that such attacks are
unlikely, and 16.3 per cent assert that such attacks are impossible at all.
These views are more typical of residents of Astana and Kazakhstan's north.

The survey involved 2,302 Kazakh people from 16 cities of the country.

Kazakhstan's population exceeds 16.5 million.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 1055 gmt 16 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday

Indian parliament told seven charged in US with Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 213 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 16 Aug: Seven persons, including those associated with Pakistani
intelligence agency ISI, were charged in the United States with the 26/11 Mumbai
terror attacks, the Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday [16 August].

"As per the available inputs, the indictment filed by the US authorities in the
district court, Northern District Illinois, seven individuals were charged with
the Mumbai terrorist attacks, including those the government believe, are
associated with the ISI," Minister of State for Home Jitendra Singh said in a
written reply.

The Minister said the testimonials during the trial drew attention to the links
between the ISI and the terrorists responsible for the Mumbai terrorist attacks.

Singh said the issue of support for terrorist organisations in Pakistan was also
discussed during the India-US strategic dialogue held in New Delhi on July 19,
2011 where the two sides reiterated that regional and global security requires
eliminations of safe havens and infrastructure for terrorism and violent
extremism in Pakistan.

"US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said that no terrorists should be given
safe havens and free pass by any government," he said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1050gmt 16 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Terror in the name of God: 10 years after 9/11 attacks;
Next month the world will mark the 10th anniversary of the September 11
terrorist attacks. But the fear unleashed on that day still burns across the
earth, warns leading Welsh expert on international relations Ken Booth

BYLINE: Ken Booth

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 923 words


¦ ERRORISM is political communication, and 9/11 saw it at its most brutal and
spectacular. As the tenth anniversary of the murderous attacks on the United
States approaches, discussion is imperative of what happened and why, and what
has been done and not done.

Other "spectaculars" cannot be ruled out. They have been planned, and if any one
of them had succeeded we would all be looking back on the decade of the
so-called War on Terror with far less confidence. Recall, for example, the plot
(fortunately disrupted by UK intelligence) to bring down seven passenger
aircraft over the Atlantic in 2006.

The recent killing of Osama bin Laden by US Special Forces gives the 9/11 decade
a rounded-off feel, but complacency should be resisted. Al-Qaeda - the global
jihadist group carrying out terror in the name of God, and responsible for 9/11
and other mass casualty attacks - was from its start identified with bin Laden,
and it was weakened by his death.

But killing al-Qaeda's charismatic and elusive leader is easier than eliminating
its basic ideas. These involve a cosmic struggle against the Near Enemy
(autocratic Muslim regimes failing to implement "true" Islam) and the Far Enemy
(the "Crusaders" led by the United States, which support Israel and are believed
to want to control Muslim lands in the Middle East).

The war al-Qaeda declared against the United States was in the name of God, but
was embedded in political struggle. Terror has been its method.

For America, the war against al-Qaeda could never be won while bin Laden was
alive, but al-Qaeda cannot be defeated simply because he is dead. In martyrdom
bin Laden might yet have more significance than he had as an increasingly
marginal fugitive.

What is more, the organisation's new leaders might demonstrate more strategic
skill, if not the same flair for publicity.

The shift to "micro-terrorism" might prove more politically successful than mass
casualty terrorism.

And the expulsion of al-Qaeda from Afghanistan, which resulted in the spread of
affiliated terror groups into various countries, has created smaller and more
agile opponents for the West.

The unavoidable reality is that while al-Qaeda never won over the vast majority
of the global Muslim population of 1.2 billion, even the violent radicalisation
of one person in a thousand still represents a huge army of recruits for suicide
missions and other terrorist activities.

Despite these worries, there are grounds for hope, for al-Qaeda was in decline
long before bin Laden's death. Importantly, this was the result of the
organisation's own mistakes and weaknesses rather than the wisdom of Western
policymakers.

Among al-Qaeda's strategic mistakes was the mayhem its supporters caused in Iraq
by inflicting mass atrocities against fellow Muslims. The organisation's
ultimate weakness though has been its inability to persuade millions of ordinary
Muslims of its call for terror in the name of God. This failure was even in the
face of key Western governments too often behaving in the manner of jihadist
propaganda - notably the invasion of Iraq, the photographs from Abu Ghraib, and
evidence of the use of rendition and torture.

No clearer sign of al-Qaeda's fading influence was its marginalisation during
the Arab spring in 2011, when people of the Middle East looked to democracy
rather than terror to bring down authoritarian regimes.

Overall, the major Western governments have been lucky rather than wise since
2001. The United States had warnings of trouble from al-Qaeda before 9/11, but
the Bush administration missed the signals.

Other mistakes followed. These included the unwise, unnecessary, and illegal war
in Iraq, and mission-creep in Afghanistan once the initial war aim of expelling
al-Qaeda had been achieved.

Everywhere, the administration's cavalier attitude to the rule of law made
America less free and less safe, while undermining US power and reputation.

The British government acted as its more or less willing accomplice.

These 10 years after 9/11 shook the world, with two major wars and well over 100
mass casualty terrorist actions internationally (those with more than 50
victims).

The costs of the War on Terror have been enormous and widely shared, in blood,
treasure, and tears.

Insecurity has been everywhere, from innocent Afghanis fearing they will become
"collateral damage" in the next US drone attack, to commuters on the metro in
Western cities wondering about the rucksack being held by the apparently nervous
young man sitting opposite.

Fear has been the mood music of our time. But while terrorism can and does cause
great disruption, it is unlikely ever to overthrow a state or change the basic
features of international politics.

The greatest danger to our security is not acts of terror, but disproportionate
and over-excited responses by the most powerful governments, acting out of fear.

To paraphrase President Roosevelt's famous speech of 1933 about the Depression,
we should not fear terrorism, despite its great dangers, because it can be
overcome; the only thing to fear is "fear itself", because fear can provoke
unreason and lead to rash and exaggerated responses.

Our leaders must remember this if we are ever again confronted by another 9/11.

¦ Ken Booth is Director of the David Davies Institute of International Affairs
in the Department of International Politics, Aberystwyth University. He has
written or edited around 25 books. His latest, with Tim Dunne, is Terror in Our
Time published by Routledge this month

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ Firefighters walk through smouldering debris at the site of the
World Trade Center ¦ The second hijacked passenger plane on its way to crashing
into the twin towers PICTURE: Getty

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday

Syria condemns "terrorist" attacks in several Iraqi cities

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Syria Condemns Terrorist Attacks in Several Iraqi Cities" - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) -"Syria's government and people received with deep concern and
grief the news of the terrorist bomb attacks took place in several Iraqi cities
which resulted in a large number of deaths among the brotherly Iraqi people," a
Syrian official source said on Tuesday [16 August].

The source added that Syria condemns these heinous crimes and stresses support
to the Iraqi efforts to prevent every sabotage act targeting the security,
stability and safety of Iraq and its people.

The source said: "We offer condolences to the families of innocent victims and
wish stability and strength to Iraq."

Bloody terrorist bomb blasts ripped through five Iraqi cities claiming the lives
of 66 people while 250 people were injured.

R. Raslan/ Ghossoun

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 17 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday

Practice for terror attacks

LENGTH: 163 words


The Junction

Counter-terrorism police put publicans, security and bar staff through their
paces in Cambridge in case of an attack in the city.

More than 50 staff from various licensed premises and security companies in
Cambridge attended the Project Argus workshop.

The free training session on counter-terrorism was held at The Junction, in
Clifton Road. It was organised by Cambridge Business Against Crime (Cambac) and
Cambridgeshire police.

Tony Harold, Cambac chairman and general manager of Hyline Security, which
protects some of the city's nightclubs and shops, wants traders to be ready for
any possible attack.

He said: "As a company operating within the city centre, it is important our
staff can react professionally to any terrorist attack to help prevent further
injuries, and to offer a calming effect in what would be difficult and uncertain
circumstances."

For information, see the National Counter Terrorism Security Office website, .

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2011 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     August 17, 2011 Wednesday 12:01 AM GMT

Terror attack families take on Börse;
Challenge to exchange deal over Beirut bomb

BYLINE: Alexandra Frean, US Business Correspondent

SECTION: BANKING AND FINANCE

LENGTH: 517 words


Deutsche Börse's proposed takeover of the owner of the New York Stock Exchange
is being challenged by the families of victims of a 1983 terror attack in
Beirut, who are suing a subsidiary of the German exchange operator for $250
million.

The case centres on Clearstream Bank, a securities depository owned by Deutsche
Börse. It is being sued by nearly 1,000 family members and survivors of the 1983
bombing of a US Marine Corps barracks in the Lebanese capital, which killed 241
US servicemen. A judge in Washington ruled in 2003 that Iran orchestrated the
bombing and later ordered Tehran to pay the victims' families $2.25 billion
compensation. Iran denies a role in the attack.

The families had little hope of getting their hands on the money until 2008,
when a federal court in Manhattan, acting on information provided by the US
Treasury Department, granted a restraining order to freeze $2.25 billion
allegedly held on behalf of Iran by Clearstream in accounts at Citibank.

Lawyers for the families are seeking to get the freezing order overturned and to
seize the assets as payment for their clients. In a two-pronged attack, they are
also suing Clearstream for an additional $250 million.

According to newly unsealed court documents, the families allege that in 2008
Clearstream helped Iran move $250 million of frozen Iranian assets out of
accounts at Citibank in New York. A second financial institution, said to be
controlled by the Iranian Government, was also involved in this allegedly
fraudulent transfer, but its name has been redacted from documents.

The families claim in their suit that Clearstream and the unnamed institution
transferred the $250 million "in a deliberate attempt to stave off creditors by
putting property in such a form and place that Iran's creditors could not reach
it". Clearstream said that it had a "duty to protect its customer's assets",
adding that it intends to "defend itself vigorously and to the fullest extent",
against the allegations. It added that it closed its Iranian customer accounts
outside the US in November 2007.

In its latest annual report, for 2010, Deutsche Börse noted the suit and also
said that Clearstream intended to "defend itself vigorously" against it.

The case threatens to embarrass Deutsche Börse as it tries to complete a merger
with NYSE Euronext. At a congressional hearing this year, Steve Austria, a
Republican congressman from Ohio, asked Timothy Geithner, the Treasury
Secretary: "Are you concerned that the New York Stock Exchange is going to be
owned by a company that's allegedly, and I think is, conducting business with
Iran?" Mr Geithner said he couldn't comment.

Lynn Smith Derbyshire from North Virginia, whose 30-year-old brother Captain
Vincent Smith, was killed in the attack, said that she and the other families
would not give up their fight no matter how long it took because it was
important to show terrorists that they could not get away with murder.

She said that she found it "incomprehensible on every level" that Deutsche Börse
should be allowed to buy the New York Stock Exchange.

Citibank declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2011 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Terror attack families take on Börse;
Challenge to exchange deal over Beirut bomb

BYLINE: Alexandra Frean

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 700 words


Deutsche Börse's proposed takeover of the owner of the New York Stock Exchange
is being challenged by the families of victims of a 1983 terror attack in
Beirut, who are suing a subsidiary of the German exchange operator for $250
million.

The case centres on Clearstream Bank, a securities depository owned by Deutsche
Börse. It is being sued by nearly 1,000 family members and survivors of the 1983
bombing of a US Marine Corps barracks in the Lebanese capital, which killed 241
US servicemen.

A judge in Washington ruled in 2003 that Iran orchestrated the bombing and later
ordered Tehran to pay the victims' families $2.25 billion compensation.

Iran denies a role in the attack.

The families had little hope of getting their hands on the money until 2008,
when a federal court in Manhattan, acting on information provided by the US
Treasury Department, granted a restraining order to freeze $2.25 billion
allegedly held on behalf of Iran by Clearstream in accounts at Citibank.

Lawyers for the families are seeking to get the freezing order overturned and to
seize the assets as payment for their clients. In a two-pronged attack, they are
also suing Clearstream for an additional $250 million.

According to newly unsealed court documents, the families allege that in 2008
Clearstream helped Iran move $250 million of frozen Iranian assets out of
accounts at Citibank in New York. A second financial institution, said to be
controlled by the Iranian Government, was also involved in this allegedly
fraudulent transfer, but its name has been redacted from documents.

The families claim in their suit that Clearstream and the unnamed institution
transferred the $250 million "in a deliberate attempt to stave off creditors by
putting property in such a form and place that Iran's creditors could not reach
it". Clearstream said that it had a "duty to protect its customer's assets",
adding that it intends to "defend itself vigorously and to the fullest extent",
against the allegations. It added that it closed its Iranian customer accounts
outside the US in November 2007.

In its latest annual report, for 2010, Deutsche Börse noted the suit and also
said that Clearstream intended to "defend itself vigorously" against it.

The case threatens to embarrass Deutsche Börse as it tries to complete a merger
with NYSE Euronext. At a congressional hearing this year, Steve Austria, a
Republican congressman from Ohio, asked Timothy Geithner, the Treasury
Secretary: "Are you concerned that the New York Stock Exchange is going to be
owned by a company that's allegedly, and I think is, conducting business with
Iran?" Mr Geithner said he couldn't comment.

Lynn Smith Derbyshire from North Virginia, whose 30-year-old brother Captain
Vincent Smith, was killed in the attack, said that she and the other families
would not give up their fight no matter how long it took because it was
important to show terrorists that they could not get away with murder.

She said that she found it "incomprehensible on every level" that Deutsche Börse
should be allowed to buy the New York Stock Exchange.

Citibank declined to comment.

Deadly attack on peacekeepers

Behind the story Alexandra

Frean Early on the morning of October 23, 1983, a truck loaded with six tonnes
of explosives smashed into a US Marine base at Beirut International Airport,
killing 241 Americans. Two minutes later there was a second attack, this time on
the French barracks 6km away, that left 58 paratroopers dead.

Only the cooks were up. Many of the Marines in the building were still in bed
sleeping and had removed their dog tags, making identification of the bodies
difficult.

President Reagan broke off a weekend golfing visit to tell a stunned nation: "I
know there are no words to properly express our outrage and the outrage of all
Americans at the despicable act."

The men had been deployed to Lebanon as part of a multinational peacekeeping
force that included Marines, French Foreign Legionnaires and British and Italian
soldiers, to provide stability during the Lebanese civil war, but many in the
Arab world resented their presence. The bombings, the deadliest attack on US
forces since the end of the Vietnam War, led to the peacekeepers' withdrawal.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Survivors of the 1983 bombing of American barracks in Beirut, blamed on
Tehran, are claiming compensation from Clearstream, owned by the German exchange

PHILIPPE BOUCHON/AFP/GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday

Israeli army spokesman issues statement 18 August on "ongoing" terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 280 words


Text of statement by IDF spokesman Yo'av Mordekhay broadcast live by Israeli
public radio station Voice of Israel Network B on 18 August

I will try to give a report on the situation as of now although the incident is
still in progress therefore I will talk with caution.

The incident started with an attack on a Number 392 Egged bus carrying soldiers
on its way from Shizafon to Elat. About 20 kilometres before Elat, fire was
opened on the bus. There are a number of light to medium casualties in this
incident.

There is a complex three-pronged attack. In addition, we know about another
attack, apparently the launching of explosives at an IDF force which arrived at
the scene. We have casualties there too.

A third incident we are being informed about is an attack on another vehicle,
possibly with an antitank rocket or mortar. The division commander is in charge
of the operation. The general commanding the front is on his way and will be
joined by the chief of staff.

The picture is still unclear. We know there are civilian and military
casualties.

The is an initial report on contact with the squad. Special forces were rushed
to the area.

We do not know how many people are in the squad, but it a three-pronged attacks.

We do not think they are Egyptian soldiers and tend to think they are terrorists
from Sinai. We have referred recently to Sinai as an outlying area in which
there is insufficient control in the wake of what has happened in Egypt.

I will report on fatalities after we report to the families if needed. At this
stage we know about casualties.

As of now we do not know about anybody being kidnapped.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1030 gmt 18 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday

Secretary-General deplores terrorist attacks in southern Israel

LENGTH: 133 words


August 18, 2011

Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has strongly condemned today's series of
coordinated terrorist attacks in southern Israel that have killed at least six
people and injured many more.



Media reports say gunmen fired at a bus travelling close to the Israeli-Egyptian
border, around noon local time, and that two other vehicles in the same area
were subsequently hit by either rocket fire or an explosive device.

In a statement issued by his spokesperson, Mr. Ban offered his condolences to
the families of the victims and wished a speedy recovery to the injured in the
attacks.

"The Secretary-General hopes that the perpetrators are swiftly identified and
brought to justice," the statement noted. "He is concerned at the risk of
escalation and calls for all to act with restraint."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2011 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 18, 2011 Thursday 5:26 PM GMT

Three terrorist attacks in southern Israel confirm worries about Sinai and Gaza

BYLINE: By Michael Weiss

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 574 words


At least 29 people were injured, and six killed, after three coordinated
terrorist attacks struck the southern Israeli city of Eliat this afternoon. A
combination of drive-by-shootings, mortar fire and roadside bombings, the
attacks only underscore the increased instability of the Sinai peninsula in the
aftermath of Egypt's revolution. Sinai's transformation from a pacified buffer
zone between Egypt and Gaza into an anarchic playground for jihadists and
pass-through point for weapons, has been well-attested in the international
media.

In June, Newsnight's Tim Whewell devoted a segment to security in peninsula
where conditions have badly deteriorated since the Egyptian revolution. Gun and
grenade assaults on government buildings, "mysterious explosions" on gas
pipelines running from Egypt to Israel, and inter-tribal shootings and
kidnappings have created a sort of Somalia-in-miniature. Not that Cairo is
helping matters much. Whewell spent two weeks seeking permission from
authorities to film in Sinai beyond his seaside hotel. He was rebuffed with the
lame excuse that recording would jeopardise his safety, owing to an ongoing
clash between two rival Bedouin tribes. OneBedouin sheikh, Musaad Abu Fajr, said
that Sinai had lately seen a brisk import business for "Iran, Al Qaeda,
Hezbollah," an accusation that gels with Egyptian intelligence.

Indeed, according to Egypt's independent newspaper al-Masry al-Youm, Salafist
gangs have formed "armed committees." The Salafi Group of North Sinai, the
co-founder says, is designed to combat drug and human trafficking but not,
revealingly, "the smuggling of basic commodities into Gaza as this is a
religious duty." A Salafist's definition of "basic commodities" deserves a
careful examintaion especially in light of the fact that the Rafah crossing
between Sinai and Gaza was recently re-opened after a five-year closure. Who
believes that as the peninsula succumbs to mob rule and Islamisation this
untrammeled conduit to Hamas is not being exploited by local and foreign
entities?

The mood in Gaza is one of expectation that a third intifada against Israel is
only a matter of time. If and when it does break out, this war won't be fought
with suicide bombers (or only suicide bombers) but with Russian-made anti-tank
missiles and other state-of-the-art hardware which Hamas and its jihadi
affiliates had no trouble acquiring before Mubarak fell or Rafah was re-opened.

In a July dispatch, "Special from Gaza: Factions vow imminent armed uprising,"
al-Masry al-Youm interviewed Islamic Jihad leader Khaled al-Batch who, when
asked about attacks against Israeli civilians, replied, "There are only valid
targets over there." Batch admits he's readying himself for another terrorist
escalation.Walla Karaja, an journalist attached to the UN Relief and Works
Agency for Palestine Refugees (UNRWA), told the newspaper that Gaza's notorious
smuggling trade - plied through a series of sophisticated and surprisingly
capacious underground tunnels that transport everything from horses to
automobiles - has been booming since the Hamas-Fatah unity accord was struck
last April. "Since the reconciliation, the military trainings have increased in
the Strip, and, we heard, that huge quantities of weapons arrived from the
outside," Karaja said.

Notably, Israeli Defence Minister Ehud Barak's public response to the
three-pronged attack in Eliat was marked for its dryness. He knew this was
coming.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 18, 2011 Thursday 2:02 PM GMT

Five dead in terror attack on Israeli bus;
At least five people were killed when militants fired at Israeli vehicles near
the Egyptian frontier today, sparking a heavy gun battle, Israeli TV said.

LENGTH: 607 words


There were also unconfirmed reports on Israel 's main television stations that
an anti-tank missile was fired across the border from Egypt.

The attacks are likely to raise concerns about the ability of Egypt's new
leadership to rein in militants along the border.

The gunmen first ambushed a civilian bus and wounded at least seven people, the
military said, on Israel's Highway 12, a desert road about 18 miles north of the
Red Sea resort of Eilat. The road passes within feet of the open frontier with
Egypt.

The gunmen fled and shortly afterwards, Israeli television and radio stations
reported a second attack on another bus further up the same road, with medics
saying another five people had been hurt.

This afternoon emergency services chief Eli Bin told public radio that five
people had died in the incident. Four of the dead were in a private car. It was
not clear where the fifth victim was killed.

Shortly afterwards, Israeli media reported that troops were engaged in a gun
battle with the suspected perpetrators of the two attacks at a location near the
border.

Israeli officials have voiced concern that militant groups in the Sinai have
been making use of a security vacuum left by the overthrow of President Hosni
Mubarak in February.

Kobi Arad, a doctor at Eilat's Yoseftal hospital said 10 people had been injured
in the two attacks, one of them seriously and nine who were only lightly
wounded.

Security sources initially said the gunfire appeared to come from the Egyptian
side of the border, which runs parallel to route 12 for several dozen miles.

Army spokeswoman Avital Leibovitch told AFP there was one shooting attack
against a bus, while a second bus had been hit by a roadside bomb.

"We are talking about two events: the first one is a bus that was heading from
Shizafon to Eilat," she said, referring to a location some 12 miles north of
Eilat.

"Heavy fire was opened towards the bus. We know there are wounded in various
manners from the bus," she said.

"The second event, which was not far away, was another bus. There was an IED
which was activated towards the bus and there were injuries as well in that
bus," she said, referring to a roadside bomb.

"There is still an ongoing exchange of fire between our forces and a terrorist
squad," she said, describing the two incidents as "a combined attack in a very
specific area approximately 20 miles north of Eilat."

Israel's Channel 2 television showed footage of the first bus standing on a
desert road with bullet holes in the windscreen, and several windows shot out.

Several ambulances and tens of soldiers could be seen milling around as two
military helicopters were dispatched to help the search for the attackers.

Security officials had no immediate information about the identity of the
attackers, although there was some speculation they may have infiltrated from
Egypt.

Worries over the attack sent the Israeli shekel down against the dollar and
stocks dipped today.

Egypt, which signed a peace treaty with Israel in 1979, recently stepped up
security activity in the Sinai desert, which borders the Jewish state and the
Gaza Strip.

Egyptian security sources said on Tuesday that an army crackdown on armed groups
in the northern Sinai had netted four Islamist militants as they prepared to
blow up a gas pipeline.

But after today's attack, Egyptian security sources said on it was unlikely that
the bus ambush had come from Egyptian territory.

Security patrols on the Egyptian-Israeli border had not picked up on "suspicious
movements" on the Egyptian side, a source said, adding that security had been
heightened on the border after news of the attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     August 18, 2011 Thursday 12:17 PM GMT

'Several' dead in terror attack on Israeli bus;
Several people were killed when gunmen fired at Israeli vehicles near the
Egyptian frontier today, Israeli TV said.

LENGTH: 239 words


The attacks are likely to raise concerns about the ability of Egypt's new
leadership to rein in militants along the border.

The gunmen first ambushed a civilian bus and wounded at least seven people, the
military said, on Israel's Highway 12, a desert road about 18 miles north of the
Red Sea resort of Eilat. The road passes within feet of the open frontier with
Egypt.

Israel television stations later said several other vehicles were ambushed and a
number of people killed.

Israeli officials have voiced concern that militant groups in the Sinai have
been making use of a security vacuum left by the overthrow of President Hosni
Mubarak in February.

Worries over the attack sent the Israeli shekel down against the dollar and
stocks dipped today.

Egypt, which signed a peace treaty with Israel in 1979, recently stepped up
security activity in the Sinai desert, which borders the Jewish state and the
Gaza Strip.

Egyptian security sources said on Tuesday that an army crackdown on armed groups
in the northern Sinai had netted four Islamist militants as they prepared to
blow up a gas pipeline.

But after today's attack, Egyptian security sources said on it was unlikely that
the bus ambush had come from Egyptian territory.

Security patrols on the Egyptian-Israeli border had not picked up on "suspicious
movements" on the Egyptian side, a source said, adding that security had been
heightened on the border after news of the attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 19, 2011 Friday

Polish Foreign Ministry condemns terrorist attacks in Israel

LENGTH: 127 words


Text of report in English by Polish national independent news agency PAP

Warsaw, 19 August: The Polish Foreign Ministry has firmly condemned a series of
terrorist attacks in southern Israel in the vicinity of Eilat which killed seven
Israelis and wounded more than 30.

The ministry conveyed heartfelt condolences to the authorities of Israel and
families of the victims sharing in their pain.

"Poland has persistently rejected terrorism deeming it a hideous, disgraceful
phenomenon deserving the utmost contempt irrespective of perpetrators motives,"
the ministry wrote in a communique.

The ministry also expressed the hope that perpetrators and masterminders of the
attacks will be disclosed and punished.

Source: PAP news agency, Warsaw, in English 0930 gmt 19 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 19, 2011 Friday

French Foreign Ministry condemns terrorist attacks in southern Israel

LENGTH: 145 words


Text of report by French Foreign Ministry website www.diplomatie.gouv.fr on 18
August

[Statement by Christine Fages, deputy spokeswoman of the Ministry of Foreign and
European Affairs: "Israel: Condemnation of Attacks"]

France condemns with the utmost firmness the series of terrorist attacks
committed in southern Israel today, which have caused, according to the
information we have at this stage, the death of seven Israelis and the wounding
of dozens of others.

We send our condolences to the families and the nearest and dearest of the
victims of these despicable acts and wish the wounded a rapid recovery. France
stands alongside the Israeli people at this particularly difficult moment.

Nothing can justify such acts, at a time when all energies should be galvanized
in the service of peace.

Source: French Foreign Ministry website, Paris, in French 0000 gmt 18 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 19, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Israelis attacked by terrorists out of Egypt

BYLINE: Phoebe Greenwood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 840 words


ISRAEL suffered one of its worst direct attacks in years yesterday when
militants launched a series of co-ordinated assaults from across its border with
Egypt, attacking commuter buses, killing eight people and wounding scores more.

In the first attack, a bus carrying civilians and soldiers from Beersheba to the
tourist resort of Eilat came under heavy gunfire as it travelled along Highway
12, close to the Egyptian border.

Then three terrorists disguised as members of the Israeli Defence Force (IDF)
opened fire on a second bus, using rifles and rocket-propelled grenades.

Meanwhile, a vehicle carrying genuine IDF members attempting to respond to the
first incident hit a roadside bomb. Several soldiers were injured.

Last night, the Israeli military responded with bombing raids on the Hamas-run
Palestinian enclave of Gaza, from where it said the attacks originated. Six
people were killed. The United Nations withdrew all its foreign personnel from
the enclave.

Two Egyptian Central Security personnel were killed during an Israeli raid on
militants along the Egyptian Israeli border, an Egyptian army official said.

"An Israeli plane had been chasing militant infiltrators along the border
between Taba and Eliat and one Egyptian Central Security officer and a Central
Security man were caught in the line of fire," the army official said.

Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, described the attacks as
"extremely serious" and had "violated Israel's sovereignity". The Israeli
authorities claimed that the attack squads had travelled from Gaza into Egypt
and from there recrossed the lightly-manned desert border from the Sinai
peninsula.

"The attack was organised by a terror squad that infiltrated Israel from Gaza.
We know this from our intelligence information and from the soldiers currently
engaged in gunfire with the terrorists," said Lt Col Avital Leibovich. Witnesses
gave dramatic accounts of the attack, the first serious cross-border incident
since the fall of Israel's ally, President Hosni Mubarak, in February.

One passenger, who identified herself as Anastasia, told Israeli army radio:
"Suddenly bullets were flying into the bus from everywhere. We all got down on
the floor. There were some soldiers travelling on the bus and they pointed their
guns out of the window, aiming at where the fire was coming from."

A man who had been driving towards Eilat described seeing a missile flying
overhead. He said he stopped his car and got out to signal a warning to other
drivers.

As he was standing beside the road, another missile narrowly missed his car with
his young daughter inside.

The Israeli army's 80th Division then fought a running battle with the
attackers, killing seven. They found an explosive device strapped to one of the
bodies.

Mortar shells were also fired from the Gaza Strip at Israeli soldiers carrying
out maintenance work on the security fence that separates Israel and Egypt.
Israeli troops sealed off the area. Lt Col Leibovich said army intelligence
could not yet confirm any connection with the attacks to a recent spike in
militant activity in the Sinai. However, militant groups have taken advantage of
the weakened security situation since Mr Mubarak's fall to establish themselves
in the area. Flyers have been distributed announcing the formation of "Al-Qaeda
in the Egyptian Sinai".

At the end of July, dozens of armed men attacked a police station in El-Arish, a
coastal city, killing one police officer. In response to this and attacks on
pipelines carrying gas from Egypt to Jordan and Israel, the Egyptian military
launched Operation Eagle earlier this week against the groups. More than 20 men
were arrested in raids in the El-Arish area, including several Palestinians from
Gaza. Egyptian military sources say they discovered an arsenal of explosives,
antiaircraft missiles, rocket-propelled grenades and tank mines.

Speaking after the attacks, Ehud Barak, the defence minister, said: "The event
reflects the weakening of the Egyptian hold on Sinai and the expansion of
terrorist action in the area".

Boaz Ganor, the head of the Policy Institute for Counter-Terrorism in Tel Aviv,
said there links between Islamic militant groups in Sinai and Gaza.

"While the IDF say the operation was co-ordinated in Gaza, there is no doubt in
my mind there was operational support if not co-ordination with al-Qaeda in the
Egyptian Sinai," he said.

"It is unclear what, if any, physical links they have with al-Qaeda's most
successful franchises in Pakistan and Yemen. But there are an estimated 10,000
Islamists from the radical Salafi movement operating within several distinct
militant groups in the Gaza Strip."

Hamas denied any part in the attacks.

Attacks near Netafim border crossing JORDAN 12 Eilat Aqaba ISRAEL RED SEA EGYPT
3 miles The three attacks 1 ISRAEL Bus carrying civilians and soldiers comes
under fire Gaza Strip WEST BANK 2 Beersheba Three terrorists disguised as
Israeli soldiers attack second bus EGYPT JORDAN 3 Detail Roadside bomb injures
Israeli soldiers Source Graphic News

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wounded Israeli soldiers are treated on the road after yesterday's
attacks, in which two buses came under fire
AP/ REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                August 19, 2011
                                 First Edition

'Gaza terrorists' blamed for attack on Red Sea resort;
ISRAEL

BYLINE: Donald Macintyre IN JERUSALEM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 355 words


At least seven Israelis were killed yesterday in coordinated attacks by gunmen
armed with assault rifles, mortars and a roadside bomb.

Israel said the group had infiltrated from Gaza through an increasingly lawless
Sinai peninsula before ambushing at least three vehicles near the city of Eilat.

It was the worst death toll on its citizens in a single day for more than three
years and also left up to 40 soldiers and civilians wounded.

Israel said the killings underlined concerns it had expressed in recent months
to post-Mubarak authorities in Egypt and the international community about the
capacity of militant groups to exploit instability in Sinai.

Defence minister Ehud Barak said: "The incident underscores the weak Egyptian
hold on Sinai and the broadening of the activities of terrorists.

"The real source of the terror is in Gaza and we will act against them with full
force and determination."

The Israeli reaction was swift. Up to six Palestinians were reported to have
been killed in Rafah before sunset yesterday in the first of what Gazans
expected to be a series of retaliatory air strikes.

Hamas, Gaza's ruling faction, strongly denied involvement in the killings and
promised "to defend the Strip and with all the strength it has against any
aggression" by Israel.

A senior Israeli defence official last night said gunfire from both sides of the
Israel-Egypt border had continued into the evening.

Unconfirmed reports said the dead Palestinians included members of the militant
group the Popular Resistance Committees, including the leader of its military
wing, named as Abu Awad Neirab.

The attacks began around noon when gunmen armed with AK-47 rifles fired on a bus
from Beersheeva to the Red Sea resort of Eilat after trailing it in a car on a
desert road along the Egyptian border.

Israeli said at least two other vehicles were hit nearby - one by a rocket, the
other by an explosive device. Some of the gunmen were killed in an ensuing
firefight, it added.

Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyhau's spokesman Mark Regev, said there was "specific
information" the attackers came from Gaza. "This is very, very precise
information."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                             August 19, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Couple tell of their terror at hands of violent thugs;
ATTACK: ROBBERS BEAT MAN ON THE HEAD WITH DOG CHAIN

BYLINE: SUZY GIBSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 416 words


A couple have told how they were attacked by two would-be robbers and a dog in
the street.

Gina Brooker, 17, and Martin Reed, 22, were told to hand over their possessions,
or they would be stabbed. Mr Reed was beaten around the head with a dog chain
during the assault in Alexander Avenue, Earl Shilton.

Miss Brooker, a student, was so traumatised afterwards she had counselling and
could not face college for a month.

The couple, who had just got off a bus and were on their way to have tea with Mr
Reed's parents, spoke out after the culprits were sentenced at Leicester Crown
Court yesterday.

Jonathan Oliver (23) and a 17-yearold youth both admitted attempting to rob the
victims at 6.20pm on Friday, February 11, this year. Oliver further admitted
common assault on an arresting officer, whom he kicked, and possessing a
cannabis cigarette.

Oliver was jailed for two years and 11 months yesterday.

The juvenile received a 12 month youth rehabilitation order with six months of
intensive supervision, and a three-month curfew.

After the hearing Miss Brooker, of Thurmaston, said: "We were both bitten by the
Staffordshire bull terrier and my jeans and handbag were ripped by the dog's
teeth.

"It was really frightening, especially when Martin was being beaten with the dog
chain.

"There was no reason for it, we were just walking along the street holding
hands."

Miss Brooker, who is studying hospitality at Loughborough College, suffered
bruising and a bitten leg. Her boyfriend was bitten on his arm and had head and
facial injuries.

Both had hospital treatment.

Mr Reed, of Earl Shilton, said: "I hope they've learned their lesson and won't
cause any more trouble.

"We just want to get on with our lives and put it behind us."

Catarina Sjolin, prosecuting, said Oliver had the dog with him and was carrying
a chain lead, which he used to hit Mr Reed several times. She said: "Both
defendants were extremely aggressive.

"Miss Brooker was also assaulted and the defendants threatened to stab them."

Another couple who saw what was happening intervened and the defendants ran off
empty-handed. Oliver, of Coniston Close, Earl Shilton, has previous convictions
for offences including burglary, public disorder, affray and robbery.

James Varley, mitigating for Oliver said the defendant was diagnosed with a
worrying medical condition to his brain earlier this year, which led to him
turning to drink and drugs.

Jonathan Longman, for the juvenile, said he had a troubled background.

He was "genuinely remorseful."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL: Victims Martin Reed and Gina Brooker yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2011 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             August 19, 2011 Friday

Terror as woman attacked crew on holiday flight

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 418 words


A passenger flew into a rage and attacked two members of cabin crew during a
holiday flight from Manchester to the Dominican Republic.

Charity worker Carol Close bit, kicked and punched flight attendants after going
berserk on the Thomson Airlines flight.

Her behaviour became so bad that her own husband, then passengers sitting
nearby, had to be moved for safety reasons.

She twice had to be forcibly restrained and put in handcuffs.

Eventually, the pilot became so concerned that he issued a Mayday call asking to
make an emergency landing in Bermuda.

Passengers were so relieved to be rid of Close they cheered when police officers
boarded to arrest her.

Manchester's Minshull Street Crown Court was told that Close, 45, bit a cabin
steward and hit him in the chest, and then bit a stewardess and kicked her in
the stomach during the fracas on November 5 last year.

Sentencing, Judge Timothy Mort told Close said he felt able to suspend her
six-month jail term for 18 months because it was a wholly exceptional' case.

Nicola Wells, prosecuting, said that Close admitted drinking half a pint of
lager and two Bacardis at Manchester Airport before boarding the aircraft.

Cabin crew and fellow passengers first noticed a problem half way through the
six-hour flight, when she began hitting her husband. He was moved, but Close got
up on her seat and began shouting.

Nearby passengers were also moved and the pilot ordered that she be restrained.
During attempts to put handcuffs on her, cabin steward Michael Dewitt was bitten
and hit.

The restraints were removed when Close calmed down, but she started shouting and
was cuffed again.

After Close continued to shout abuse, the captain decided to make an emergency
landing in Bermuda, which was nearer than their destination.

Continued efforts were made to calm the woman, but as stewardess Caroline Cross
tried to deal with her, she was also bitten and kicked.

Robert Mann, defending, said his client's actions were completely out of
character.

She suffered from anxiety and depression, which had been made worse by a 30-hour
delay, then a technical hitch once passengers had boarded.

He said she had taken anti-depressants, painkillers for arthritis, and a modest
amount of drink and was nervous.

Close, from Lytham St Annes, Lancashire, pleaded guilty to two charges of
assault, and a further charge of affray.

She was ordered to pay  £2,476 costs to the Bermuda Police and  £200
compensation to each of the cabin crew she assaulted. She must also observe a
two-month curfew.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ABUSIVE Carol Close, a charity worker, lost her temper and attacked two
attendants during a flight from Manchester

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 19, 2011 Friday 5:46 PM GMT

Pakistan suffers deadliest terrorist attack for three months;
A suicide bomber struck a crowded Pakistan mosque on Friday, killing 43 people
and wounding more than 100 during Ramadan prayers, in the country's deadliest
attack for three months.

BYLINE: By Our Foreign Staff

LENGTH: 383 words


Blood was splattered across the mosque's main hall and walls, while the
building's doors and windows were destroyed and its ceiling fans mangled by the
blast, agencies reported.

Ball bearings used in the suicide vest were also scattered across the mosque in
Jamrud town, 16 miles from Peshawar, the main city in the Khyber tribal district
where much of the violence in Pakistan is concentrated.

The attack took place as a US drone strike killed four militants in the
northwestern tribal area of Pakistan which is awash with Taliban and
al-Qaeda-linked networks and where US special forces killed Osama bin Laden on
May 2.

More than 500 people had packed into the mosque and a senior official from the
Khyber tribal district administration Sayed Ahmed Jan told AFP that the bomb had
exploded seconds after the main prayer ended.

The deputy chief of the semi-autonomous administration said that 43 people had
been killed and 117 wounded.

"It was a suicide attack. The bomber was wearing about 8-10kg of explosives and
was on foot. He detonated in the main prayer hall," said Khalid Mumtaz Kundi.

Top administration official Mutahar Zeb said that the injured had been taken to
nearby hospitals while a bomb disposal squad was at the scene.

Witness Gul Jamal Afridi, 46, a local truck driver said that he had been thrown
to the ground in the intensity of the blast.

"I saw smoke and fire. People were dying and crying for help, some were running
in panic. I saw body parts and human flesh, it was horrible," he said.

Student Saqib Ullah, 24, said he had tried to help those lying near him after
the bomb went off, but found most were already dead.

"I saw my uncle lying in a pool of blood. I ran towards him and picked him up to
carry on my back, but he had already died," he said.

Like the rest of the Muslim world, Pakistan is observing the holy month of
Ramadan in which faithful fast from dawn to dusk.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack but bombings
blamed on Taliban and al-Qaeda-linked networks have killed more than 4,550
people since 2007, destabilising the nuclear-armed state.

Friday's bomb was the deadliest since May 13 when two suicide bombers blew
themselves up outside a police training centre in a town about 30 kilometres
north of Peshawar killing 98 people.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 19, 2011 Friday 2:33 PM GMT

Kabul: a city of suicide bombs and terrorist spectaculars;
Kabul, the Afghan capital and home to thousands of expatriates, is often the
target of high-profile terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Raf Sanchez

LENGTH: 383 words


June 2011 - Intercontinental Hotel : A group of suicide bombers and gunmen slip
through a series of checkpoints to launch an assault on one of Kabul's premier
hotels. The 70 guests are told to hide in their rooms as the attackers prowl the
hallways and search bedrooms. The siege kills12 people before Nato special
forces backed by helicopters storm the hotel.

May 2010                     -                                            Rush
hour car bomb                                          : A Taliban suicide
bomber targets a Nato convoy as it weaves it way through the capital. The attack
kills 12 Afghan civilians and five US troops. The attack tips the American death
toll to over 1,000 in Afghanistan.

February 2010 - Safi Landmark Hotel : Taliban fighters launch a major raid
against the Kabul City Centre shopping area and the nearby luxury hotel, which
is popular with visiting diplomats and journalists. Gunmen and suicide bombers
kill 16 people, including nine Indian civilians and government officials.

January 2010 - Government buildings : The Taliban brings the Afghan government
to a grinding halt with coordianted attacks on the presidential palace, the
Justice Ministry and the Central Bank. Although casualties are relatively low -
three soldiers and two civilians were killed - the audacious day time attack is
designed to show how fragile the government's grip is on the capital.

October 2009 - Indian embassy : A car bomb explodes outside the Indian embassy
killing 12 people in one of Kabul's most heavily guarded districts. There are no
deaths inside the fortified compound but three guards at the front gate are
injured.

July 2008 - Indian embassy: A suicide bomber detonates a car rammed with
explosives into the gates of the Indian embassy, killing 41 people and injuring
more than 140. Among the dead is India's defence attache, a senior diplomat and
two security guards. The blast kills five Afghans at the nearby Indonesian
embassy.

January 2008 - Serena Hotel: Kabul's five-star hotel is hit by a car bomb and
then a wave of Taliban gunmen. They attack the hotel gym and kill six people,
including a Norwegian journalist.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             August 19, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gunmen launch series of terror attacks in Israel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 321 words


At least five people died when gunmen armed with heavy weapons, guns and
explosives launched three attacks in quick succession in southern Israel near
the border with Egypt's Sinai Peninsula.

About a dozen more were wounded, officials said.

The rare violence in that part of the country targeted a passenger bus, a
military patrol and a private car, officials said.

Channel 10 TV reported a fourth attack by gunmen, but there was no official
confirmation or details.

The military said a "large number" of attackers were working in multiple squads.

"We are talking about a terror squad that infiltrated into Israel," said Israeli
military spokeswoman Lieutenant-Colonel Avital Leibovich. "This is a combined
terrorist attack against Israelis." The violence near the resort city of Eilat
stoked concerns about growing lawlessness in the neighbouring Egyptian Sinai
Peninsula following the removal in February of longtime leader, Hosni Mubarak.
"The incident underscores the weak Egyptian hold on Sinai and the broadening of
the activities of terrorists," Israeli Defence Minister Ehud Barak said in a
statement.

"The real source of the terror is in Gaza and we will act against them with full
force and determination."

Bedouins in Sinai co-operate with anti-Israel militants in Gaza, just across the
border.

The driver of the bus said he had seen Egyptian soldiers open fire, but military
spokesman Brigadier-General Yoav Mordechai said he was not aware of any military
involvement.

He said Israeli security forces tracked down some of the assailants and fought a
gunbattle with them. The attackers fired mortars and an anti-tank missile.

The military spokesman's office said a roadside bomb was detonated when a
military patrol arrived at the scene of the bus attack and drove over the
device.

Mordechai said the nature of the attack indicated that it had been well planned.

The military said several attackers had been killed in the shootout.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2011 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 20, 2011 Saturday

Militant's audio recording aims to "justify" terror attacks - Pakistan paper

LENGTH: 674 words


Text of report by Saba Imtiaz headlined "Defending militancy: Why they kill
civilians, attack the state" published by Pakistani newspaper The Express
Tribune website on 20 August

Karachi: An audio recording explaining why militants attack the state, military
and civilians and engage in kidnappings and bank robberies has recently surfaced
online.

The conversation is described as being between Harkat-i-Islami Uzbekistan's
Mufti Abuzar Hifzullah and an unnamed religious scholar reportedly employed by
the Army. A website states that the conversation took place via a "wireless set"
in Shaktoi, South Waziristan.

Hifzullah could refer to Mufti Abuzar Khanjari, who BBC has reported as being
part of the Lashkar-i-Jhangvi's Qari Zafar group.

The two discuss issues such as the destruction of mosques, legality of killing
civilians and accepting US aid.

Inter-Services Public Relations Director General Major-General Athar Abbas said
he was unaware of any such recording. As far as the presence of religious
scholars or clerics with military units is concerned, Abbas said, "I don't know
how you would define a cleric, but the military has chaplains who are part of
each unit. They are non-combatants, so they remain part of the base camp. They
give sermons, but these are authorised, vetted and provided by the army. The
chaplains are supervised by the commanding officer and do not do anything that
is not in line with what he says."

The audio cannot be independently verified, since the individuals do not name
themselves and there is no time frame available for when the audio was recorded.

The recording begins with a discussion of the 2007 military operation at Lal
Masjid, after which there was a surge in suicide attacks. The military scholar
questions the existence of arms in Lal Masjid and asks why militants now attack
mosques.

Hifzullah justifies this by saying that killing "munafiq" [hypocrites] in
mosques is legitimate, as is killing religious scholars - or anyone else - who
does not agree with the Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan's stance.

The conversation is an interesting insight into how militants and the army use
religion to justify their work. Religious texts are cited by the men, albeit
with very different interpretations.

The men debate accepting US aid. Hifzullah says it is a sin to take aid from
infidels [referring to the US] to kill Muslims, which the military scholar
challenges with the assertion that militants took American aid to fight in
Afghanistan in the 1980s, which Hifzullah accepts. However, his justification is
that it is permissible to take aid from non-believers if it does not "harm Islam
and Shariat".

The scholar challenges Hifzullah, saying that the military works for its lawful
salary and does not take money from anyone.

According to Hifzullah, robbing banks is "legal" and their "right" because it is
"maal-e-ghanimat" [spoils of war]. Hifzullah says they attack banks which have
government accounts. "Emptying Pakistani banks is jihad ... the money has been
earned by selling our fighters," [likely referring to people handed over to US
custody after 9/11]. He also defends kidnapping people for ransom; but says they
do not kidnap minors.

The scholar asks how many Pakistanis have been killed compared to Americans.
Hifzullah's reply is that killing Pakistani officers is the same as killing
Americans, as they consider them as one.

The scholar repeatedly brings up attacks on civilians, such as those in Lahore's
Moon Market and the December 2007 attack in Kamra on a Pakistan Aeronautical
Complex bus that was transporting the children of air force employees. He asks
why militants attack women and children, when doing so is forbidden in Islam.

Hifzullah says these "children" were older and their deaths were a consequence
of the militants' campaign against the armed forces. "It is a military school;
children also die when you are killing adults."

Hifzullah thanks God for the 2005 earthquake which "killed thousands of military
personnel".

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 20 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     August 20, 2011 Saturday 12:01 AM GMT

How to write the first great play about the 9/11 terrorist attacks;
No politics, no crying, no love stories: Rupert Goold tells Andrew Billen how
he's tackling the tragedy, ten years on

BYLINE: Andrew Billen

SECTION: THEATRE

LENGTH: 1474 words


After the brush-off that New York gave Lucy Prebble's exuberant ENRON last year,
it perhaps takes some nerve for its director to tackle next an even greater
American disaster. Yet this is what Rupert Goold will do next month in Decade, a
multi-authored piece of vaulting ambition to be performed in a new space in
London Docklands. Its subject is 9/11 and how it changed the world. In mounting
it, Goold, the director currently of a bold Merchant of Venice at Stratford,
will be doing on September 11, 2011, what neither the RSC, the National, nor
even the Royal Court, let alone any theatre on Broadway, is doing: marking the
tenth anniversary of an event that was not transformative but, as he points out,
had, from the impact of the first aircraft to the fall of the second tower,
something of the unity of a Greek tragedy.

Goold's company, Headlong, is committed to exploring big political ideas on
stage, and with ENRON and Earthquakes in London, last year's climate-change
piece at the National, it has ticked off two of the biggest. The War on Terror
was always a potential third, Goold being Goold. At 39 he is still one of
theatre's new guard and was emboldened rather than discouraged when the American
producer of ENRON warned him that its twin towers scene would not "play" in New
York. In rehearsal, the American cast largely disagreed, although it had
concerns about taste and how well audiences would respond to the suggestion that
American capitalism had brought disaster upon itself.

In a break from rehearsing Decade in a chapel in North London, Goold says that
he believes there was a deeper reason for the nervousness. "I spoke to one very
intelligent actor who said the reason it was so sensitive was that next year
would be the tenth anniversary and Ground Zero was still a hole in the ground.
'There is nothing there and for New Yorkers that is a huge, unspoken shame. Even
the memorial there is not very powerful. Nothing has really galvanised and we
still feel shit about our country ten years on'."

The void in south Manhattan could be said to reflect the absence of a theatrical
memorial in midtown. But the artistic lacuna may not entirely be caused by faint
hearts. After all, where to begin transforming mass murder into art? Early in
the writers' workshops they discussed what a bad 9/11 play might look like.
Depicting the moment of impact would be tasteless, a word Goold uses often. A
too-emotional piece, full of "weeping and howling", would be horrific. So would
a political diatribe.

"One of the things the American writers said was that, for them, the absolute
definition of a bad 9/11 play would be one where 9/11 was the backdrop to
another story. There was a Neil LaBute play they didn't like [Land of the Dead]
and we have all seen those films that have the Holocaust as a background to a
love story or something."

Goold promises not only a direct look at 9/11 but also a "submersive" experience
in the St Katharine Docks venue - appropriately, once the London World Trade
Centre. Yet it is also, as it were, a multi-camera view, with at least eight
writers contributing. The "scenes" - by the Americans Christopher Shinn, Lynn
Nottage and John Logan, and the Britons Simon Schama, Abi Morgan, Samuel
Adamson, Mike Bartlett and Alecky Blythe - will run sequentially over two
70-minute halves, linked by dance choreographed by Scott Ambler. When I say that
a modern dance version constitutes my idea of a bad 9/11 play, Goold says that,
on the contrary, one American dance company's response to the disaster was among
the most satisfying he had seen.

As this suggests, there has, of course, been some 9/11 drama in the past ten
years. Recent Tragic Events, The Guys, The Mercy Seat and WTC View have all had
their strut upon the stage. Cinema has added Oliver Stone's World Trade Center,
United 93 and last year's Remember Me. On television, the network that brought
you The Tudors showed America DC/911: Time of Crisis, about the worst day of
George W. Bush's presidency. Steve Reich, employing voice recordings from the
day, has even written a string quartet, WTC 9/11, recently performed at the
Barbican, as a memorial. What is probably true is that 9/11 has, as yet,
inspired no great art.

John Logan, author of the Tony award-winning Rothko play, Red, who is currently
in London writing the new Bond movie, says that this was one of the reasons he
leapt at the chance to contribute to Decade. "For an American, it was such a
defining event in our national identity that to get to grapple with it in
theatrical terms was very exciting to me, precisely because not many people have
done it. It was a little bit of therapy for me and a little bit of an exorcism
too."

But why has theatre been so shy? "It is stupefying to me, because there are
Afghan war plays, Iraqi plays, Osama bin Laden plays, but for some reason,
perhaps because New York City has always been at the heart of American theatre
and was hit so hard, writers are responding to it in metaphorical or elliptical
ways rather than hitting it straight on. The event has an epic, harrowing
quality to it. To approach it theatrically is to approach it in terms of opera
or Greek tragedy, or else something like we are doing here, explor[ing] it from
a dozen different perspectives. To grapple with 9/11's legacy in a single play
is a monumentally challenging endeavour. To take a shard of it that speaks to a
writer is more manageable. At least, it was to me."

Logan's shard refracts his own 9/11, waiting at Los Angeles International for an
aircraft that would never come to take him back to Chicago. In the end he hired
a car and drove the three days home, but not before spending hours watching the
horror unfold on LAX's television screens and his fellow observers' reactions:
from despair, through shielding children from the sight of office workers
jumping to their deaths, to denial. In his dramatisation two of the would-be
passengers are Beatles impersonators. "I wanted a piece that would represent the
fractals I heard all around me."

Other mini plays will include Lynne Nottage's account of 9/11 from the vantage
of her local grocer's in Brooklyn; Abi Morgan, the screenwriter of The Hour, on
how under Piers Morgan the Daily Mirror encouraged dissent in the British media;
and a "formal experiment" by Mike Bartlett in which the soldier who killed bin
Laden is interviewed in the style of the famous Abbott and Costello sketch Who's
on first?. Alecky Blythe's piece will introduce a further element of fracture.
It is built out of interviews she conducted with residents of Royal Wootton
Bassett, the Wiltshire village famous for honouring soldiers killed in
Afghanistan and Iraq, and with British Muslims in London. Actors will then
deliver these vox pops, mimicking with the aid of earphones the interviewees'
exact speech rhythms and accents.

As author of the musical London Road, about the murder of the Ipswich
prostitutes, Blythe is used to exploring taboo subjects. The resistance in this
case came from her Muslim interviewees. "I would start talking to somebody and
as soon as I said the 9/11 word you could see their faces go 'Oh!' and they
would not want to go there. People thought I might have an agenda and be
prejudiced in some way. I just wanted to know how life had changed for them. Had
attitudes to them changed? You might think they'd want to share that, but I
think some felt they had all been tarred."

Her work's only agenda, she says, is to put on stage voices not normally heard.
Among those that will be heard in other parts of Decade are bin Laden's, as well
as Bush, Tony Blair and Donald Rumsfeld's. (Uncomfortably, Goold considers bin
Laden and Blair the outstanding rhetoricians.) But as that spread suggests, it
is not going to be an evening that takes political sides. "There is nothing
provocative about 'Bush is an idiot' - why put it on stage?" says Goold. "There
is politics in it, but to the writers what has turned out to be more interesting
is discussing anxiety, grief, tolerance. The best pieces in the show are led
from character rather than the perspective 'this is what I think about Iraq' or
whatever."

But is America ready for such a nuanced response? Will Decade transfer to New
York? "I don't know. It might be a slightly different show after the blowback
from ENRON," laughs Goold, who knows well that America was hot for Prebble's
satire to come to New York but not, after a couple of crushing reviews, on
seeing it. John Logan, however, is in no doubt it should: "It is high time that
we in the theatrical community grappled with this legacy in the art form in
which we practise." He even hopes that Decade finds room for a little
tastelessness.

Decade opens at Commodity Quay, St Katharine Docks, London E1, on Sept 1
(nationaltheatre.org.uk; 020-7452 3000)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2011 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     August 20, 2011 Saturday 12:00 AM GMT

Palestinians launch rocket attacks into Israel after terror attack

BYLINE: James Hider, Jerusalem

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 641 words


Palestinian militants fired a dozen rockets into southern Israel yesterday after
an explosion of violence in the area that left at least eight Israelis, 12
Palestinians and five Egyptians dead.

Most of the rockets landed in open spaces but two hit an industrial park in the
port city of Ashdod, injuring six people, two of them seriously. The attack
revived memories of rocket volleys that plagued the south for years, and which
Israel tried to stop with a large-scale offensive in late 2008 into Gaza that
killed about 1,400 people.

Israel's military hit back yesterday, bombing more targets in Gaza that it said
were weapons dumps and factories. The army had already carried out several air
raids overnight in response to deadly attacks on Thursday, near the coastal
resort of Eilat, which it blamed on a militant group calling itself the Popular
Resistance Committees (PRC). The army also blamed Gaza's Islamist rulers Hamas
for not preventing the attacks.

Brigadier-General Yoav Mordechai said that it was "too early" to say that an
escalation, similar to the massive 2008 campaign, was imminent. "If we see that
Hamas is choosing to escalate, we will not hesitate to expand the scope of our
actions, respond in strength and exact a price from Hamas," he said.

The PRC denied that it had launched the attacks, and accused Israel of trying to
"pin this operation on us to escape its internal problems."

Since Egypt's revolution in January, militants claiming links to al-Qaeda have
been flourishing in the lawless Sinai peninsular, close to Eilat. They have
blown up gas pipelines leading to Israel and Jordan, and last month attacked a
police station in the regional capital al-Arish. Egypt has flooded the region
with security forces in the past week to tackle the unrest.

A group calling itself al-Shabaab al-Islam, Youth of Islam, has called for an
Islamic emirate to be formed in Sinai, although it has not publicly received
recognition from any known al-Qaeda leaders internationally. Hamas has also been
battling al-Qaeda-inspired extremists in southern Gaza for at least two years.
The so-called Salafists believe Hamas is not religiously fundamentalist enough.

The latest round of violence in the south was triggered when at least seven
Palestinian gunmen infiltrated Israel near the popular holiday resort of Eilat,
on the Egyptian border. The attackers sprayed a passenger bus with gunfire then
detonated a roadside bomb next to a military vehicle that rushed to its
assistance. Later they fired an anti-tank missile at a private car on a highway
leading north of Eilat, killing six Israelis, including two sisters and their
husbands, all aged in their fifties, who were heading to the Red Sea resort for
a summer holiday.

Two more Israeli soldiers were killed in gunbattles along the border, which
killed at least five of the infiltrators.

Egyptian soldiers were believed to have killed as many as four more of the
attackers, who had used smuggling tunnels to enter Sinai from Gaza, then
travelled 120 miles through the desert to cross a poorly protected border area
into Israel. Israeli military officials, quoted in the press, said that as many
as 20 gunmen took part in the raid, which may have aimed to kidnap an Israeli
soldier.

In the confusion, two Egyptian security officers were killed by an Israeli
helicopter that was chasing the infiltrators, while there were reports that
several other Egyptian border guards were killed or injured by a Palestinian
suicide bomber on the Gaza border, possibly one of the raiders trying to return
to his base via the tunnels that crisscross the frontier.

Egyptian media said Cairo had lodged a formal protest over the deaths and
demanded an inquiry.

In retaliation for the raid, Israel bombed the southern Gaza Strip, killing five
militants but also a toddler and 13-year-old boy, Gaza medics said.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2011 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 21, 2011 Sunday

Israeli army foils "major abduction" attack by "armed terrorists" on 18 August

LENGTH: 449 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 21 August

[Report by Ya'aqov Katz: "Terrorists Planned an Abduction Attack, Says Officer
on Sinai Border"]

The terrorists who infiltrated Israel on Thursday [18 August] and carried out
the attacks near Elat were heavily armed, wore suicide bomb belts and came with
handcuffs, an indication they planned to abduct a soldier, deputy commander of
the Sagi Brigade along the Egyptian border said on Saturday. "We prevented a
major abduction attack," Lt.-Col. Liran Hajbi, deputy commander of the Edom
Division's Sagi Brigade, which is responsible for the Egyptian border, said on
Saturday. "They came heavily armed, with suicide bomb belts, grenades, and
handcuffs."

According to Hajbi, the terrorists were split into a number of cells, mostly
deployed along the border and still inside Egypt. Three terrorists who crossed
into Israel were killed by soldiers from the Golani Brigade's reconnaissance
battalion and another five were killed in subsequent gunfights with the police's
Yamam Counterterrorism Unit. "We were well-prepared," he said. "While the
beginning was bad with the murder of the civilians, the way the soldiers
operated when they arrived on the scene prevented a more difficult outcome."

Maj Ro'i Yonatan, commander of the Golani Brigade's Orev company, which was the
first to arrive at the scene, said his soldiers acted courageously when driving
straight into the line of fire and running over one of the terrorists. "The
soldiers then drove to the other end of the road, blocked it so Israeli cars
would not approach and returned to draw the fire away from civilians," Yonatan
said.

He said St.-Sgt. Moshe Naftali -the soldier who was killed on Thursday, was shot
when he and additional soldiers exited the jeep to begin engaging the terrorists
deployed along the border. "They were coming under fire from three different
directions and they saw one of the terrorists throw a grenade at them," Yonatan
said. "They stopped the jeep, got out and Moshe got hit."

[Hanan Greenberg's report, posted in Tel Aviv Ynetnews in English, a centrist
news site operated by the Yediot Media Group, at 2146 gmt on 20 August, adds:
"IDF officials admitted Saturday that the army's decision not to close Route 12
where Thursday's deadly terror offensive took place -despite intelligence
warnings of an imminent attack -was a mistake. The IDF has launched a full
inquiry into Thursday's multipronged attack on the Egyptian border that killed
eight Israelis and also left five Egyptian police officers dead in ensuing
border-area fire exchanges."]

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 21 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 21, 2011 Sunday 12:18 AM GMT

'End is very near' for Gaddafi as Tripoli is cut off;
Mortar attack spreads terror as a desperate regime attempts to halt rebel
advance on Libyan capital

BYLINE: By Kim Sengupta in Zawiyah

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1216 words


The first mortar round smashed into the upper floor of a building showering
shrapnel, shards of glass and concrete on to the people gathered on the street
below to celebrate victory. Three more followed in rapid succession. Muammar
Gaddafi's regime was lashing out in fury after a week of defeats which had left
it trapped and isolated in Tripoli.

One round, landing near a Libyan colleague and me in the garden of a square,
failed to detonate, spraying us with dust and clumps of earth instead. But
others worked, spreading terror and confusion in Zawiyah. A small crowd had been
chanting "Allah hu Akhbar" and "The blood of the martyrs was not wasted." Now
they ran for their lives, three men halting to come back and drag away two
others with blood streaming from their heads.

The attack was a desperate attempt to halt a rebel advance now just 28 miles
from the Libyan capital. The town was pounded for the next hour, the firing
indiscriminate, a shrill whistling noise announcing missiles landing in
residential areas. A fresh salvo appeared to target the only working medical
clinic in the town, the Bir Muammar. The main hospital was out of action, with
fresh bullet holes on the walls after a fierce battle.

The battle for Zawiyah had gone on for most of the night and the cost was
evident yesterday morning. In the Central Square, now renamed Martyr's Square,
lay the bodies of two of the regime's soldiers, their faces locked in grimace,
showing the terror of the last moments.

A hotel beside the square, the Jawhara Palace, was being used as a vantage point
by the regime troops. It had been partly destroyed. Abdul Basat Showas was
carrying away souvenirs - two live grenades. "I was thinking of giving these to
the Shabaab [volunteer rebel fighters] but I think I will keep them. The Gaddafi
men might come back and we need to defend ourselves."

The counter-attack by what is left of Libya's government is unlikely to reverse
the bloody endgame in this vicious civil war. Every day has led to the fall of
another town, with Tripoli's lifeline to the outside world cut, and its troops,
hammered for six months by Nato air strikes, in retreat. Even on the eastern
front, where opposition ineptitude had led to a military stalemate, rebel forces
declared they had seized the oil port of Brega.

Meanwhile, Nato military action, without which the rebels would have found it
impossible to overthrow Colonel Gaddafi, was stepped up, with air strikes on
Tripoli focusing, according to the Alliance, on nine military facilities,
Zawiyah and Zliten. Since Nato took command of air strikes, on 31 March, they
have flown more than 19,000 sorties, including in excess of 7,223 strike
sorties.

In Benghazi, the head of the opposition Transitional National Council (TNC),
Mustafa Abdel Jalil, declared, "the end is very near" for Col Gaddafi: "I expect
a catastrophic end ... and I expect he will create a situation within Tripoli,"
he warned. The US State Department said yesterday: "His days are numbered."

Members of the regime were taking the last exit out of the capital. The oil
minister, Omran Abukraa, decided yesterday not to return after attending an Opec
meeting in Tunisia in the place of his predecessor, Shokri Ghanem, who had
already defected. On Friday, Abdel-Salam Jalloud, Colonel Gaddafi's former
number two, who remained a senior figure in the hierarchy, fled with his family,
reporting in rebel-held Zintan that most of the checkpoints on the road out had
been abandoned.

Hundreds of Tripoli's residents were also leaving for the relative safety of the
mountains to the south, with soldiers and police making no attempts to stop
them. Others were openly discussing life after Col Gaddafi in the streets. The
Libyan leader's own plan remained unclear, an American TV channel, citing
anonymous US officials as source, claimed that he may depart for Tunisia with
his family.

Some of the foreign nationals left inside Tripoli are due to be evacuated by the
United Nations. Officials at the International Organisation for Migration said
yesterday that the operation would have to be by sea, and details were being
discussed with the Libyan administration and Nato, whose ships and aircraft are
carrying out a blockade of the Libyan coast.

Some rebel fighters have a timetable which would mean that the Libyan capital
would be captured before the UN manages to organise its mission. Khalid Ali
Hamdani, 27, who had taken time off from his job as an optometrist to join the
revolution, looked down at the Kalashnikov in his hands. "I have been carrying
this since February and we all want to get to Tripoli as soon as possible," he
said. "We have to get to the gates and wait. Our brothers inside will then rise
up. We should be able to do this in days."

However, the rebel commanders and their Western advisers ,who are evident in the
town of Zintan, are trying to curb the enthusiasm of their fighters. Previous
offensives have ended in retreat because of overstretched lines and small groups
running into ambushes by regime forces.

The final days: Libyan leader's options are fast running out

Mile by mile, he is being encircled. Road by road, his supply routes are being
cut. And one by one, some of his closest aides are defecting. The imminent
demise - feet-first, or on a plane or other vehicle of exile - of the man who
has ruled Libya for 42 years has been asserted many times in the past five
months, not least in one of Foreign Secretary William Hague's less distinguished
moments. But this time, unless some sandstorm of a sudden reversal takes place,
it really does look like the final days of Muammar Muhammad al-Gaddafi are
approaching.

The regime forces, after being pulverised for months by Nato, do not appear to
have the capabilities to break through the rebels and re-establish a lifeline to
the outside world. The rebels are still pretty inept, but they are receiving
training and considerable assistance from Western former forces contractors, who
are now planning and accompanying their missions.

The capture of the refinery in Zawiyah means the gasoline supply to Tripoli is
now cut. There is at least a month's worth of reserves, although some of it has
been destroyed in Nato attacks. Talks were held last Sunday and Monday in Tunis
and Djerba with both rebels and the regime saying they want to avoid the
bloodbath which will come if the opposition tries to storm Tripoli.

The sticking point is what happens to Col Gaddafi. So where is he? Almost
certainly not where anyone outside his inner circle expects him to be, otherwise
he would already have been killed by intensified Nato strikes. He has not been
seen in public since 30 May, or on television since 12 June. The only surfacing
has been a low-quality audio message broadcast last Monday. It contained no clue
as to when it was recorded.

But, wherever he is, his options are fast diminishing. NBC, citing US
administration sources, says Col Gaddafi and his family may go to Tunisia. But
this will still keep them within the reach of International Criminal Court
warrants. Other possible receptacles for him include Zimbabwe or Equatorial
Guinea. He might choose to go down fighting, but an 11th-hour deal is more
likely, with the threat of a bloodbath in Tripoli as the bargaining chip.

David Randall and Kim Sengupta

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 22, 2011 Monday

Jerusalem on high alert over planned terror attack - Israel TV

LENGTH: 186 words


Text of report by state funded, editorially independent Israel TV on 21 August

[Studio report by anchor Ya'aqov Ahime'ir]

[Ahime'ir] Is their confirmation of a cease-fire from Jerusalem?

[Political correspondent Ayala Hason] Israeli sources are participating in the
discussions in Egypt. Israel has officially not confirmed a cease-fire at 9
p.m.[1800 gmt] but I think that in the coming hours there will be confirmation.

[Military correspondent Yo'av Limor] The defence establishment is now convened
at the defence minister's office and will later hold consultations with the
prime minister to decide whether to join the cease-fire, which has so far been
achieved between Egypt and Hamas. We are reporting for the first time that the
Israeli who is conducting the contacts in Cairo is Major General Amir Eshel,
head of the IDF's Planning Branch, who went there for talks this evening.

[Daniel Ofir] There is a high alert in Jerusalem this evening for fear of a
planned terrorist attack. Large security forces have been deployed following an
early warning.

Source: Israel TV Channel 1, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1800 gmt 21 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 23, 2011 Tuesday

Russian security service said ineffective in preventing terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 1785 words


Text of report by anti-Kremlin Russian current affairs website Yezhednevnyy
Zhurnal on 22 August

[Article by Yuliya Latynina: "Smell of Ryazan sugar"]

The FSB [Federal Security Service] has reported that it prevented a major
terrorist act: Terrorists had intended to blow up the "Sapsan" high-speed train.
According to the FSB version, the organizer of the terrorist act was a certain
Islam Khamuzhev, a native of Kabardino-Balkariya who came from Dagestan to
Moscow as a rebel emissary. In one of the Moscow mosques, Khamuzhev met the
radically inclined young Chechens Murad Eldibiyev and Murad Umayev, who were
joined by a native of Mordovia, Fyarit Nevlyutov, to make a fourth.

At the instruction of the Kabardino-Dagestani emissary, Eldibiyev purchased
ammonium nitrate, wires and batteries. All this was brought to an apartment
rented by Khamuzhev in Losinoostrovskiy Rayon. At the end of June, the group
reconnoitered and found a place to plant the explosive -near the Firsanovka
platform, compiled a plan-diagram of the area, and devised escape routes.

Immediately after that, Khamuzhev had planned to go back to his homeland, and
appointed the young Eldibiyev as the senior leader of the terrorist act.
Eldibiyev brought everything -the ammonium nitrate, batteries, wires, etc. to
his house, but, having realized that something strange was going on, he took the
satchel to the park and tried to dump it. Right at that moment, the Chechen was
detained.

I cannot say that I do not believe that terrorist acts are sometimes averted.
For example, I believe that the terrorist act that Lithuanian citizen Egle
Kusayte was planning to perform was averted. First of all, because it was
prevented by the Lithuanian special services, which have little reason to lie.
And secondly, because they had made a recording of citizen Kusayte, in which she
tells of her desire to get to heaven. And although I understand that this
recording proves that there was an agent nearby, I can imagine why the agent
appeared: The Islamist group was all too noticeable in Lithuania, and fell under
scrutiny.

I also believe that Ruslan Ozniyev, who was arrested in 2009 for planning a
terrorist act, was actually trying to perform it. Do you know why? Because
Ozniyev had flown to Moscow from France, and the French special services tipped
off Russian authorities.

But in other cases -when terrorist acts were planned not on the territory of
Lithuania and not on the territory of France -which, you must agree, takes place
in the overwhelming majority of the cases -the FSB cannot brag of any particular
successes.

For example, Maryam Sharipova, who blew herself up in the Moscow metro on 29
March 2010, was the widow of a Jordanian rebel, Doctor Muhammad, and the third
wife of the leader of the Gubden Islamists, Magomedali Vagabov. Both of her
brothers were in the mountains, and her father, Rasul Magomedov, cooperated with
the "Mothers of Dagestan" organization, which passed itself off as a human
rights organization, but consisted mainly of the wives and sisters of rebels
who, among other things, supply wives to future shakhids [suicide bombers]. "I
have a Shariat marriage agency," one of the leaders of the organization, Gulnara
Rustamova, once said in this regard.

Evidently, knowing that Sharipova had such a service record, the FSB should not
have let her out of its sight, monitoring all of her calls. Even the one call
several days before the blast, which her father tells about (when Maryam left
for Makhachkala, and then called her father to tell him that she would spend the
night with a girlfriend) could have put the FSB on Vagabov's trail, which, in
turn, could have prevented the terrorist act. But the FSB missed it all.

Another example: After suicide bomber Magomed Yevloyev blew himself up at
Domodedovo Airport on 24 January 2011, his family, through human rights
defenders, spoke out with a remarkable statement. They said that Yevloyev had
gone to the forest over a broken heart: He had to send home his wife, whom he
loved passionately and had just married, because she either called another man
or looked at h im.

Such an unusual accusation (and in the Caucasus, to put it mildly, it is not
customary to discuss the behaviour of a woman who has been brought into the
home) forced the family of Yevloyev's wife to speak out with a reciprocal
statement. According to their version, the family itself took the wife back
home, understanding that Yevloyev was a suicide bomber, and so was the rest of
his family. The latter looks much more like the truth. And here, the question
arises: If even the wife's family understood that Yevloyev was capable of doing
something, then where was the hapless FSB looking?

The FSB was also unable to prevent one other terrorist act, which was to take
place on Manezhnaya Square: A female suicide bomber, who rented a hunter's lodge
in Kuzminki, blew herself up while making her shakhid belt on 31 December 2010.
Luckily, the skill of our terrorists corresponds to the skill level of our cops.
The explosion was a total surprise for the FSB.

And now, after the explosions of the Nevskiy Ekspress, metro, and Domodedovo
that were not averted, the FSB is reporting a success: A group of four men has
been exposed. They confiscated explosives, discovered the place where the
perpetrators had planned to derail the "Sapsan," and generally, every movement
of the terrorists was known to the valorous followers of the Iron Felix. All
these details, undoubtedly, did take place. The only problem is that the group
was clearly given up by an agent who had been planted in it. And who was this
agent?

The group consisted of only four people. Eldibiyev can be ruled out -he was the
one who stored the explosives, and Khamuzhev had assigned him the matter when he
left. If the second Chechen or the Tatar was the agent -this would have been
alright. Then it turns out that the agent planted among the young Wahhabites who
hung around the mosque, had managed to discover and prevent a real terrorist
act.

But matters are much worse if the agent was "the Kabardin native who came from
Dagestan," which too many indirect circumstances specifically point to.

First of all, Kabardin natives do not come from Dagestan. Despite the
theoretical internationalism, the Islamic underground is very strictly segmented
by ethnic groups at the operative level. Buryat Saids who come to the Caucasus
from as far away as Ulan-Ude meet each other quite rarely there. Usually, they
go to the forest to be with their friends, their relatives, or their fellow
villagers. This is not a question of intolerance, but a question of survival. A
fellow from Kabarda whom no one knows, who suddenly appears somewhere near Gunib
and shouts: "Here I am," risks getting a bullet in the forehead as the agent
which he most likely is. Because, what brought him to Dagestan? In Kabarda,
there are a bunch of his own Mojaheds. And he certainly would not be sent to
Moscow with the words: "Find someone there and blow something up."

Everything that we know about the modus operandi of terrorists testifies to the
fact that, in committing terrorist acts in Moscow, they relied on fellow
accomplices whom they knew well. The Iles and Islam Yandiyev brothers, who took
Yevloyev to the airport, knew both him and his relatives for a long time. Maryam
Sharipov, judging by all, was taken to the metro by her brother, who had moved
to Moscow after the amnesty. Achemez Gochiyev, who blew up houses in 1999, came
to Moscow together with other members of the Karachay Dzhamaat, of which he was
the amir: His brother-in-law Khakim Abayev, Bashkir Danis Saytakov and Tatar
Ravil Akhmyarov. This is some kind of an incredible picture: Some Kabardin
native comes to Moscow without any connections (!), says that he came from
Dagestan (!), goes to a mosque and recruits the first people he meets there.
Why? In order to run across an FSB agent?

It is much more probable that specifically Khamuzhev is the agent. He came to
the mosque, gathered a group of enthusiastic young people around himself, and
said: "I am here from the main leaders. I have an instruction to stage a blast."
It is not that such provocation does not seem entirely incorrect: After all, no
matter how you provoke me, for example, I would not agree to participate in
blowing up the "Sapsan." No one dragged the two Chechens and the enthusiastic
Tatar by the hair. Perhaps, had it not been for the provocateur, they would have
decided to exterminate infidels themselves. Or perhaps they would not have
decided to. They would have gotten over their madness, come to their senses,
married, and calmed down.

But the problem lies elsewhere. Despite the obvious and clear inability of the
FSB to effectively penetrate into Wahhabite groups, I am always hearing
remarkable stories from my various Caucasus friends, which are hard to ignore.

They tell me how the late Arip Aliyev, the head of the Buynakskiy ROVD [Regional
Internal Affairs Administration], arrested five rebels, but people from the FSB
came and demanded that the arrested men be released "due to operative needs." I
am told that Ibragim Gadzhidadayev, the leader of the Dagestani rebels, travels
around Makhachkala freely -and this is impossible without FSB participation. And
when I learn about the elimination of one of the most prominent and dangerous
rebels of Dagestan in Makhachkala -the Gunib native Abdullah Magomedaliyev, aka
Daud -I cannot help but recall that Gadzhidalayev and Daud had irreconcilable
differences (Daud, for example, did not like it when Gadzhidadayev kidnapped the
son of the head of Sulakenergo, and he said that this is against the shariat and
demanded that the fellow be returned without ransom), and, most likely, it was
specifically Gadzhidadayev who gave him up.

It is quite possible that some of these stories are exaggerated, and some
erroneous. But the problem is that there are too many of them, and that in all
cases when major terrorist acts were performed in Russia, double agents were
among the organizers -about whom the FSB thought that they were its agents, but
in fact it was just the opposite. That was the case also in Beslan with Vladimir
Khodov, and that was the case with Nord Ost.

So that, no matter how you look at it, this entire "Sapsana" incident smells of
"Ryazan sugar." This is when Patrushev did not find anything better than to send
several GRU [Main Intelligence Administration] in his personal car to Ryazan to
put bags of hexogen in a cellar, so as to later triumphantly find them and
"prevent" a terrorist act. The Kremlin is still sorting out the consequences of
this story -and rightly so.

Source: Yezhednevnyy Zhurnal website, Moscow, in Russian 22 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            August 23, 2011 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

Mum and son's hammer attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 144 words


A WOMAN and her son were terrorised by thugs who attacked their car with
hammers.

The 44-year-old woman and her 19-year-old son were sitting inside the car when
it was attacked in Dewsbur y.

Luckily, they were able to drive off without injury but the car was damaged.

Police said they wanted witnesses to the attack, which happened in Cross Foundry
Street on August 9. It was about 6.45pm that the attackers struck. The suspects
were two Asian men in their late teens or early 20s and around 5ft 10ins to 5ft
11ins tall. One was skinny, with short dark hair and wore a black T-shirt,
shorts and had a dark-coloured jumper over his shoulders. The second suspect had
a shaved head, medium build and wore a cream-coloured hooded top.

Witnesses are asked to contact Det Con Adrian Lever at Dewsbury CID on 01924
431012 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 24, 2011 Wednesday

Algerian "terrorist" group attacks clinic, steals medicines

LENGTH: 208 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 24
August

[Report by Amar Fedjkhi: "Soul El Ghozlane (Bouira): Armed Group Attacks a
Polyclinic"]

The polyclinic located in the Salah Abdelaziz neighbourhood in the city of Sour
El Ghozlane, 30 kilometres south of Bouira, was subjected to an armed attack
perpetrated this past Monday night, at about 2200 hours, by a terrorist group.

Security sources are talking about a group of eight elements that were armed to
the teeth. After having tied up the guard, the terrorists, who were all masked,
stole a major quantity of drugs, specialized materiel, a service vehicle, and
some computer materiel. Once their crime had been committed, the terrorists fled
towards an unknown destination. A search operation has been launched by the
security forces. It would be useful to add that in recent days a movement of
troops has been seen in the region. In early August, a major terrorist group was
reported in the Dirah region three kilometres south of Sour El Ghozlane. The
security situation still remains tense in the wilaya of Bouira. Several days
ago, two explosive devices were defused by the security agencies in downtown
Bouira.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 24 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                           August 24, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Officer to join 9/11 ceremony in New York;
HULL: Special constable in Guard Of Honour to mark 10th anniversary of terrorist
attacks

BYLINE: Adam Lovell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 399 words


A SPECIAL constable has been chosen to take part in commemorations marking the
10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks on New York.

Almost 3,000 people, including 67 from Britain, were killed when terrorists flew
two planes into the World Trade Centre in New York on September 11, 2001.

Special Constable Simon Cocklin from Humberside Police will be part of a Guard
Of Honour at ceremonies at Ground Zero, the site where the Twin Towers once
stood, and the British Memorial Gardens in Lower Manhattan.

He said: "It is a great honour to be representing the force and our country.

"It is something that means a lot to me. It is a privilege to wear the uniform
of the British police alongside colleagues in New York."

This trip will be the fourth time Special Constable Cocklin will have visited
New York for the commemorations - all of which he has paid for himself.

He said: "I was at the World Trade Centre two years before the attack and
remember standing on top of a viewing platfor m. "When the planes went into the
building and people started jumping out of windows, it struck a chord with me. I
felt I wanted to pay my respects.

"The force has always been supportive of me and the reception I get as a British
bobbie is great. I hope I do the service proud and I am certain the Americans
appreciate my presence." Special Constable Cocklin, who is from Hull, will also
meet some of the victims' families as he joins 15 other officers from police
forces in England.

He said: "I am very proud of being given this honour and I feel very humble
being able to pay my respects in this way.

"Meeting the families is a difficult experience, but being there shows we are
all thinking of them and we will never forget the tragedy that rocked the lives
of thousands of people across the world.

"I will march proudly, side by side, with other police officers from Britain and
members of the New York Police."

He said the 10th anniversary, expected to be acknowledged globally, will not be
his last.

"I hope to continue to go to New York to represent the British people who were
lost to show my support," he said.

"I have made many friends out there and will continue to represent the British
police and the Humberside force for as long as I can."

InShort Humberside Police Special Constable Simon Cocklin will be part of a
contingent at the 10th anniversary commemorations into the 9/11 terror attacks
in New York.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRIVILEGE: Special Constable Simon Cocklin on a previous visit to New
York for the September 11 commemorations.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDM


                         Copyright 2011 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           August 24, 2011 Wednesday
                                  2ND Edition

FAMILY'S ARSON TERROR IN RAID AT MIDNIGHT;
Attack shocks neighbours

BYLINE: KATIE OAKES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 335 words


A FAMILY-of-four managed to escape unscathed from their home after a suspected
arson attack.

Neighbours were woken up by smashing glass and saw black smoke billowing from
two semi-detached houses on Westbank Road, Kensington.

The family, including a baby, were inside the house watching a film when they
heard the front room window smash at around 12.15am yesterday.

Their terrified daughter was upstairs in her room and looked out of the window
to see flames leaping up the side of the house.

According to neighbours in the quiet residential street next to a children's
play area, there was no-one living in the house next door.

One concerned resident went out to make sure the family were safe while his wife
called the fire service.

He said: "I was in the back room playing on my Xbox so I didn't hear anything.
My wife heard it and saw the smoke and called the fire brigade. "They only took
seven minutes to arrive.

"I went over to see if the family were OK. They were coming out of the house
when I got there; four of them, including a baby."

Another neighbour, who was at home with his wife and parents, was woken up by
the fire engines. online Log on to echo.co.uk news, sport He said: "There was
black smoke billowing out of the top windows on the ground floor of both houses.

"We have lived here for a year and a half and nothing like this has ever
happened. We just don't know how it happened."

Westbank Road was sealed off at both ends until around 3pm yesterday.

A Merseyside Police spokesman said: "We are investigating after two suspected
arson attacks in the early hours yesterday.

www.liverpool for the latest and more "Both houses are to be forensically
examined, house-to-house enquiries are ongoing and CCTV is to be examined from
the area.

"A joint Merseyside Police and Merseyside Fire and Rescue Service investigation
is underway to determine the causes of the fires."

Anyone with information should contact Merseyside Police on 0151 777 5699 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SCARE: Police closed off Westbank Road after a house was attacked

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 25, 2011 Thursday

Terror attack kills two policemen in eastern Algeria

LENGTH: 308 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 25
August

[Report by Adlene B.: "Bordj Bou Arreridj: Two Policemen Assassinated and a
Young Man Wounded in Hasnaoua"]

At about 2100 hours on Tuesday evening, two policemen from the criminal police
of Hasnaoua, a community located nine kilometres northeast of the Bordj Bou
Arreridj Province [350 km east of Algiers], were assassinated and a young
citizen wounded by a bullet in a terrorist attack in the centre of the village.

According to our sources, the two policemen were surprised as they were
directing traffic in front of the village mosque. The attackers stripped their
victims of their weapons before fleeing separately on board two vehicles, a
Renault Express and a Golf Volkswagen. An indescribable wave of panic ensued.
While those who were at the scene were fleeing in every direction, merchants
hastened to close up shop and even the tarawih prayer did not take place. The
two victims, Amar D., 41; and Lahcen D., 29; this still according to the same
source, died on site, before their bodies were transferred to the morgue of
Bordj Bou Arreridj's Bouzidi Lakhdar hospital.

According to one medical source, one of the policemen took five bullets and the
second four in the thorax. A young man, Redouane B., who had been in the area,
was wounded in the knee during the attack. His days, however, are not in danger,
according to our sources. Let us note that this attack came after several days
of the operation carried out by the security agencies against a terrorist group
that had been active in the northern region of the province and during which a
terrorist who was a native of the Hasnaoua region was slain. According to
specialists, involved was allegedly vengeance for the death of that terrorist.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 0000 gmt 25 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 26, 2011 Friday

Polish Foreign Ministry condemns terrorist attack in Nigeria

LENGTH: 218 words


Text of report in English by Polish national independent news agency PAP

Warsaw, Aug. 26: The Foreign Ministry issued a statement Friday in connection
with the bloody attack on the UN building in the capital of Nigeria, Abuja. Here
is the text:

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs strongly condemns today's bloody terrorist
attack on the United Nations building in the capital of Nigeria, Abuja. The
blast killed many people and left dozens injured.

We hope that the identity of those behind the attack will soon be revealed and
that they will be punished. We offer our deepest sympathies and condolences to
the authorities of Nigeria and to the families of the victims. We feel
solidarity with them at this moment of pain and irreparable loss. We wish to
emphasize that Poland consistently rejects terrorism, viewing it as a
disgraceful and most contemptible phenomenon. We feel especially outraged at the
fact that the United Nations, which promote equality, social justice and
peaceful solutions to global disputes, became a target of this terrorist attack.

In this particularly sensitive region of multicultural and multidenominational
Nigeria, an act of terror like this might trigger far-reaching dangerous
repercussions for Nigeria and its neighbours.

Source: PAP news agency, Warsaw, in English 1536 gmt 26 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             August 26, 2011 Friday

M&S refund scam mum punched security guard ; Terror as car torched in racist
attack'

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 300 words


A mum picked up a pair of shoes in a shop without paying and then immediately
returned them to try and con a refund.

Yvonne Mellor, 28, then punched a security guard at a Marks and Spencer's store.

Magistrates were told Mellor, from Sharston, Wythenshawe, took a pair black
ladies' shoes off the shelf and put them in a pink bag in a shopping trolley.

Debbie Byrne, prosecuting, said she then walked over to the customer service
desk and asked if she could return the shoes. She was given a  £49.99 credit
note to spend in the store, at Handforth Dean, near Wilmslow.

But the whole episode was spotted on CCTV by one of the store's security guards
and he went to apprehend Mellor.

When she was taken into a holding room, an argument started and she punched him
in the face leaving him with a bloody nose.

There was a scuffle in which Mellor said Get off me, your blood's all over me
and you might have Aids'. She had to restrained by two guards until police
arrived.

Lyndsay Knaggs, defending, said a friend had told her about the scam just hours
earlier and that she intended to use the money to buy food for her
seven-year-old son.

Ms Knaggs added: She has recently split up with her partner. She was struggling
to support herself financially and a friend told her about this easy method' of
making money.

She was desperate to feed her son. She accepts she lashed out and her actions
went beyond self-defence. She is remorseful and is very sorry this ever
occurred.

Mellor, of Chaffinch Close, admitted fraud and assault. She was given a 12-month
community order and ordered to do 40 hours of unpaid work. She was also told to
pay  £100 in compensation and  £85 costs. Chairman of the bench, Dr Gwyneth
Edwards said: We must not forget the victim in this case. He was just doing his
job when you assaulted him.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REMORSEFUL' Yvonne Mellor at Macclesfield magistrates

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 27, 2011 Saturday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack on UN building in Nigeria

LENGTH: 177 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

["TURKEY-NIGERIA: Turkey condemns terrorist attack against UN building in
Nigeria" - AA headline]

ANKARA (A.A) -August 26, 2011 -Turkey has condemned today's bomb attack against
a United Nations (UN) building in the Nigerian capital of Abuja.

"Turkey deeply condemns the hateful terrorist attack against the UN building in
Abuja which appeared to have killed and wounded scores," said a statement from
the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Friday.

The ministry said Turkey attached great importance to UN's worthful activities,
as well as Nigeria's peace and stability.

The statement also noted that Turkey's support to UN's global activities and
Nigeria's efforts to achieve domectic stability and security would continue.

Earlier on Friday, a car loaded with explosives crashed into the main UN
building in Abuja.

At least 18 people were killed in the attack, as a radical Muslim sect claimed
responsibility for the bombing.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 2033 gmt 26 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 27, 2011 Saturday

Eighteen killed in "terrorist attack" on Algerian military academy - update

LENGTH: 178 words


Eighteen people were killed, and 26 wounded in a "terrorist attack" on 26 August
against the "outside canteen" at the heavily guarded Cherchell military academy,
90 km west of Algiers, the Algerian Defence Ministry said on 27 August, revising
its own toll given hours earlier. In a statement carried by the Algerian news
agency and published by the privately-owned French-language daily newspaper on
its website, the Defence Ministry said 16 officers and two civilians were among
the dead, adding that 20 wounded had been discharged but six people were still
in hospital, one in critical condition.

The Defence Ministry reiterated its "determination to eliminate these criminal
gangs and ensure peace and tranquillity in the whole of the country".

El Watan said two suicide bombers tried to cause as many casualties as possible
by targeting the officers' mess just as all the soldiers were assembled to break
the Ramadan fast.

Most attacks in Algeria are attributed to Al-Qaeda in the Land of the Islamic
Maghreb (AQLIM)

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 27 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 27, 2011 Saturday

OIC chief condemns "terrorist" attack on UN Nigeria building

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

Secretary-General of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) Prof
Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu has strongly condemned the terrorist attack at the UN
headquarters in Abuja which killed a number of people and injured scored of
others.

Prof Ihsanoglu, who described the attack as criminal act which cannot be
justified as it runs contrary to the noble Islamic values, reaffirmed the
principle position of the OIC against all forms and manifestations of terrorism.
He called on the authorities to identify the perpetrators and bring them to
justice.

The Secretary-General then conveyed his sincere condolences to the families of
the deceased as well as to the Government and people of Nigeria over the tragic
incident. He also prayed for the quick recovery of those injured.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 1124 gmt 27 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                            August 27, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Terror attack;
INSIDE

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 22 words


A PORT Talbot man threw disinfectant over his girlfriend and told her "if I put
a match to you, you would be alight."

?Full story - page 6

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWP


                    Copyright 2011 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wales on Sunday

                                August 28, 2011
                                  1st Edition

It's like being closer to my dad. It's his final resting place;
Teen visits site where his father died in 9/11 terror attacks

BYLINE: RACHEL MAINWARING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 707 words


A TEENAGER from North Wales has made a poignant pilgrimage to Ground Zero to
mark the 10th anniversary of his dad's 9/11 death.

Dherran Gilligan was just eight when his father Ron was killed in the Twin
Towers terror attacks.

With the landmark decade anniversary looming, he returned to the fateful spot in
New York as part of a Channel Five documentary.

And the 18-year-old, who lives on Deeside, said he took comfort from standing on
Ground Zero, where his IT expert dad Ron once worked. The dad of three's office
was in the North Tower, two floors above where the first plane struck.

"Being [there] is like being closer to my dad," he said. "It's his final resting
place. You are kind of torn between knowing this is where he was murdered and at
the same time it's one of the only places that can bring any comfort. It's
really hard to describe."

Dherran, who moved to Wales with his mum after the atrocity which claimed more
than 3,000 lives, vividly recalls that fateful September day his own world was
shattered, along with that of some many others.

"I was off school," he said, "And I remember when my mum put the telly on and it
looked to me as if it was a train tunnel so I was saying to Mum not to worry
because he won't be on the train anymore, he'll be in the office and then they
panned in the camera and showed it and Mum was struck straight away."

Rolling news carried the full horror of the al-Qaeda attacks throughout
September 11, 2001 - from the first reports of hijacked American Airlines Flight
11 being rammed into the World Trade Center's North Tower at 8.46am, to the
tower's collapse at 10.28am. In a terrifying 102 minutes that changed the world,
hijackers also crashed a plane into a South Tower - ultimately sending it too
crashing to the ground - rammed a flight into the Pentagon and hijacked a plane
that crashed into a Pennsylvanian field.

"It was a day of confusion for me because I never really knew what was going on
because I was too young to really understand. My mum was so distraught because
she couldn't stop to explain things so I was just trying to handle it myself. I
kept clinging on to the hope that maybe he had a knock on the head, that he had
amnesia and would be OK," Dherran said.

He would never see his dad alive again.

Despite only having a short time with Ron, who was originally from Liverpool,
Dherran has very fond memories of the IT expert.

The teenager - who has two older sisters Ainsley and Ashley - said: "He was a
really positive, happy father. There was an aura about him. He was all about the
family. If you take someone out of the family household it's not going to be the
same again. Because he had such a big presence not having him there made it very
eerie. We all retreated into ourselves just because it's difficult to be acting
and speaking to each other when you are so grieved."

The family have set up a Facebook tribute page to Ron, where their much-loved
dad is remembered as a man whose smile used to light up a room.

Ashley wrote that his laugh was one "that I will never forget and every time I
think about it, it lights me up like a Christmas tree".

Despite agreeing to take part in Children Of 9/11: Revealed, Dherran admits he
hates this time of year when there are news reports and documentaries
remembering the horrific attacks.

"I feel bruised by it this time every year," he says. "We just switch it off and
turn it straight over because we don't want to face it."

But he still gets comfort from visiting New York - and admits that it's where he
feels closest to his late father.

He says: "I don't think there will ever be a time when coming here doesn't feel
like tearing off a scab. I don't want it to change though. It makes me feel
closer to the time I last saw him. It's comforting in a weird, difficult to
understand way."

Meanwhile, he is looking to the future - he is hoping to go to university and
one day become the sort of father his dad was.

"The bad things are in the past now," he said. "Now I'm looking forward to my
sister Ashley's wedding and walking her down the aisle. We are all growing up
and that doesn't make me sad, it makes me proud of how far we have come." ¦
Children Of 9/11: Revealed is on Five on Tuesday at 8pm

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Dherran Gilligan, who lost his dad in the 9/11 terror attack on the
Twin Towers in New York, made a pilgrimage to Ground Zero Dherran pictured with
his father Ron who was an IT expert. Dherran was eight when his father was
killed in the Twin Towers attack, far left

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ws


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 29, 2011 Monday

Seven Israeli injured in "terror" attack in Tel Aviv

LENGTH: 329 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 28 August

[Report by Ya'aqov Lappin: "Seven Injured in Terror Attack Outside South Tel
Aviv Nightclub" 2345]

Seven people were injured in south Tel Aviv early Monday morning, when a
terrorist from the West Bank car-jacked a taxi and rammed it into a police road
block protecting a Tel Aviv nightclub, before going on a stabbing spree.

Police said the terrorist, a 20-year-old Nablus resident, entered a taxi near
the beginning of Salameh Street and carjacked the driver, stabbing him in the
hand. He then drove for approximately a kilometre down Salameh Street towards
the Haoman 17 nightclub, which was filled with high school children at an
end-of-summer party. At the time of the attack, almost all of the teenagers were
inside the club.

Border Police had set up a road block ahead of time at the entrance to the club
on Abarbanel Street, in Tel Aviv's Florentine neighbourhood. The terrorist
rammed the road block, and struck a number of civilians and a Border Policeman.
"He then got out of the car, screamed Allahu akbar, and went on a knife attack,"
a police spokeswoman said.

Of the seven people injured in the attack, five were Border Police officers and
one was a security guard. One was seriously injured and two were moderately
injured. The remainder were lightly injured. A police source said that the road
block prevented a far worse outcome. Israel Radio reported that the attack was
coordinated to strike large youth party being held in the area.

The suspect was tackled to the ground by Border Police officers and taken into
custody. He was taken to the Wolfson Medical Centre in Holon in light condition.

Police Insp-Gen Yochanan Danino said Monday morning that over 1,000 teenagers
were inside the club which was targeted. He said Border Police preparations
"were extraordinary and prevented a big disaster."

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 28 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             August 29, 2011 Monday
                                   1 Edition

Street attacks terror

BYLINE: By REBECCA GRAY

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 295 words


THREE men are in hospital after being seriously injured in separate attacks.

A 58-year-old was stabbed in the head and body during an unprovoked attack in
Hamilton, Lanarkshire.

He was on his way to visit a friend when he was  viciously  attacked in Meikle
Earnock Road at about 4.30pm on Saturday.

He was rushed to Hairmyres Hospital, East Kilbride, where his condition is
described as  stable . As well as stab wounds, he also suffered a fractured
shoulder.

A 30-year-old was attacked by two men and  a woman as he was walking along
Hawthornhill Road, Dumbarton, at about 7pm on Friday.

He was taken to the Royal Alexandra Hospital, Paisley, and was treated for head
and  facial injuries. Hospital staff said he was   critical, but stable .

Detective Constable Iain Lobban, of Dumbarton police office said:  A black car
was seen in Hawthornhill Road about the time of this attack. I would appeal for
its occupants to contact us on 01389 822000 because they may have vital
information.

Police in Glasgow are hunting a man who  attacked a 44-year-old as he walked
along Muirhead Road, Baillieston, at about 4pm on Friday.

The thug got out of  a silver car and attacked him before escaping in the
vehicle, which was driven by a woman.

The victim was taken to Glasgow Royal  Infirmary, where he is  receiving
treatment for serious head and facial injuries.

Police are studying CCTV footage and carrying out door-to-door  inquiries in an
effort to find out more about the attack.

Detective Constable Nicola Kilbane said:  We have yet to establish a motive for
this  assault   it is unclear  if the man was targeted or if it was a random
attack.

Anyone with information is asked to call Shettleston police on 0141 532 4800 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

rebecca.gray@ heraldandtmes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 29, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

I survived the 7/7 terror attacks to compete for the Olympics

BYLINE: By Colin Bateman and Simon Edge

SECTION: NEWS; 28

LENGTH: 1173  words


Martine Wright was told she would not walk again.

Exactly a year before the Paralympics start she tells of her sporting odyssey
WHEN Martine Wright took her seat towards the front of a busy Circle Line train
on July 7, 2005, there were two things she could not know. The first was that
she was sharing her London Underground carriage with Shehzad Tanweer, a
22-year-old Islamist fanatic with a rucksack of explosives strapped to his body.
The cruel chain of events that meant Martine was on this particular train,
rather than the previous or the later one or on another line altogether, would
cost her a year in hospital and both her legs.

The other is more heartening. When Tanweer's bomb went off, as part of a
concerted attack on the capital's rush-hour transport that would leave 52 dead
and 700 injured, Martine was reading a newspaper article about the Olympics. The
games had been awarded to London only the day before amid scenes of mass
jubilation and as she read the story she was making up her mind to get tickets.

What she could not foresee was that she may indeed be going to the games but as
a competitor rather than a spectator. Having thrown herself into sport as a way
of handling the trauma of 7/7, Martine is a strong contender to join the Great
Britain women's sitting volleyball squad in the Para lympics, which begin
exactly a year today.

"One day I was Martine Wright, international marketing manager, the next I was
disabled and my family and I entered this new world of amputees, " says the
39-year-old mother of one. "You lose your identity and your world is turned
upside down and what sport gives you is that goal in life, that drive, that
dream.

"No one should underestimate the power it can give someone, particularly when
you have been through a traumatic experience. Sport gave me my confidence back,
introduced me to a great bunch of girls: there's lots of black humour when we
play, they all have their own stories of how things happened to them. The big
thing for me is it has given me a dream that I never thought would have been
within reach, certainly not in my old life, and now it is."

The random chain of events that led Martine to be in the same carriage on the
same train as one of the suicide bombers started the day before, when news came
through that Lord Coe's team had won the Olympics for London. Staff at her media
company near Tower Bridge went out to celebrate after work.

"We were all jumping up and down and cuddling each other, " she says.

"Since I was born in London it was huge for me. We went out that night, had a
few beers to celebrate. I am not saying it was 100 per cent because of that, but
I got up late the next morning having had another 10 minutes in bed to get over
it."

Taking a later than usual overground train from her home in North London, she
was expecting to transfer to the Tube at Old Street. But the Northern Line was
down and she carried on to Moorgate where she decided to use the Circle Line.
She took the escalators at a run, as she always did, and the train was just
arriving when she reached the platform.

They had gone little more than one stop when Tanweer detonated his bomb, blowing
himself to bits - the first of the four co-ordinated attacks that terrible
morning. Pinned to her seat amid the mayhem, Martine remembers looking up and
wondering why her two new trainers were stuck in the mangled mess of the ceiling
of the carriage covered in blood.

It took rescuers 70 minutes to reach her, by which time she had lost a huge
amount of blood. She survived thanks to an off-duty policewoman who gave her a
makeshift tourniquet, something she calls a "miracle".

She woke up in hospital to find that her legs had been amputated. "I was taken
to the Royal London [hospital].

I had no ID on me. My family spent nearly 48 hours trying to find me. I was
missing. I can't imagine what they went through. My dad, a taxi driver, was
scouring the London hospitals. I woke up 10 days later and a nurse told me I'd
lost my legs and that was the start of the realisation of what happened."

She needed six operations and spent a year in different hospitals recovering
from the horrendous injuries that also almost cost her her left arm. In her
bleakest moments, her mother would console her by saying: "You're still Martine.
You could have had a knock on the head and you'd not be Martine now. But you're
still Martine. You've lost your legs but you can go out and get new legs."

That was what she did. Her ordeal cemented her relationship with her
photographer boyfriend Nick and they got married in a hugely emotional ceremony.
A determined Martine managing to walk down the aisle on her prosthetic legs
without the aid of sticks. They now have a two-yearold son, Oscar.

Having previously been a driven career woman, she wanted a new way of spurring
herself on. "After losing my legs and having my son I realised I needed the
ambition that work used to give me. Sport has done that and I think sport gives
more to the dis abled than the able bodied."

She tried wheelchair tennis first but realised she preferred a team sport. So
she fixed on sitting volleyball. Since it involves sitting on the floor rather
than in a chair, disabled players can play it on equal terms with able-bodied
ones (who would find it harder to manoeuvre a wheelchair).

The final selection for the GB squad who will compete at London 2012 will be
made next spring and will depend on each member's performance in a series of
championship events between now and then. But Martine is generally reckoned to
have an excellent chance of making the grade.

"All I kept thinking that day was, I've got to get tickets for the Olympics. Now
in a weird twist of fate I might be walking around in that opening ceremony, "
she says.

"In one way what's happened can be seen as an awful irony, or perhaps it could
be seen that I was always meant to do this. I was there that day and thank God I
survived. I don't know how I survived, that was a miracle. But there are too
many coincidences that point to why I should be doing this.

"For instance, I train with the girls at Roehampton University, which is facing
Queen Mary's Hospital where I spent nearly nine months. I also trained at
another club nearby which is by the Royal London Hospital where I also spent
time recovering.

And for my first international match I flew out on July 7 last year, just
another of the weird coincidences."

She now lives in Hertfordshire, but she is hoping that the Paralympics may
rekindle her relationship with her native city.

"If I go back next year to London, I will be doing something so positive after
being disillusioned by my home town after going through something so awful. It
would be amazing for me and my family and I think I am doing something I maybe
should have been doing in the first place."

Team 2012, presented by Visa, is raising funds to support 1,200 British athletes
as they prepare for a place at the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.

For athlete updates and to show your support, visit www.visa.co.uk/goldenspace

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HAPPY ENDING: Martine and Nick got married three years after the attack

POWER: Sport saved Martine
COURAGE: Martine spent a year recovering in various hospitals

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 29, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I survived the 7/7 terror attacks to compete for the Olympics;
Martine Wright was told she would not walk again. Exactly a year before the
Paralympics start she tells of her sporting odyssey

BYLINE: Colin Bateman , Simon Edge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28,29

LENGTH: 1482 words


WHEN Martine Wright took her seat towards the front of a busy Circle Line train
on July 7, 2005, there were two things she could not know. The first was that
she was sharing her London Underground carriage with Shehzad Tanweer, a
22-year-old Islamist fanatic with a rucksack of explosives strapped to his body.
The cruel chain of events that meant Martine was on this particular train,
rather than the previous or the later one or on another line altogether, would
cost her a year in hospital and both her legs.

The other is more heartening. When Tanweer's bomb went off, as part of a
concerted attack on the capital's rush-hour transport that would leave 52 dead
and 700 injured, Martine was reading a newspaper article about the Olympics. The
games had been awarded to London only the day before amid scenes of mass
jubilation and as she read the story she was making up her mind to get tickets.

What she could not foresee was that she may indeed be going to the games but as
a competitor rather than a spectator. Having thrown herself into sport as a way
of handling the trauma of 7/7, Martine is a strong contender to join the Great
Britain women's sitting volleyball squad in the Paralympics, which begin exactly
a year today.

"One day I was Martine Wright, international marketing manager, the next I was
disabled and my family and I entered this new world of amputees," says the
39-year-old mother of one. "You lose your identity and your world is turned
upside down and what sport gives you is that goal in life, that drive, that
dream.

"No one should underestimate the power it can give someone, particularly when
you have been through a traumatic experience. Sport gave me my confidence back,
introduced me to a great bunch of girls: there's lots of black humour when we
play, they all have their own stories of how things happened to them. The big
thing for me is it has given me a dream that I never thought would have been
within reach, certainly not in my old life, and now it is."

'A random events led The random chain of events that led Martine to be in the
same carriage on the same train as one of the suicide bombers started the day
before, when news came through that Lord Coe's team had won the Olympics for
London. Staff at her media company near Tower Bridge went out to celebrate after
work.

"We were all jumping up and down and cuddling each other," she says.

"Since I was born in London it was huge for me. We went out that night, had a
few beers to celebrate. I am not saying it was 100 per cent because of that, but
I got up late the next morning having had another 10 minutes in bed to get over
it."

Taking a later than usual overground train from her home in North London, she
was expecting to transfer to the Tube at Old Street. But the Northern Line was
down and she carried on to Moorgate where she decided to use the Circle Line.
She took the escalators at a run, as she always did, and the train was just
arriving when she reached the platform.

They had gone little more than one stop when Tanweer detonated his bomb, blowing
himself to bits - the first of the four co-ordinated attacks that terrible
morning. Pinned to her seat amid the mayhem, Martine remembers looking up and
wondering why her two new trainers were stuck in the mangled mess of the ceiling
of the carriage covered in blood.

It took rescuers 70 minutes to reach her, by which time she had lost a huge
amount of blood.

She survived thanks to an off-duty policewoman who gave her a makeshift
tourniquet, something she calls a "miracle".

She woke up in hospital to find that her legs had been amputated. "I was taken
to the Royal London [hospital]. I had no ID on me. My family spent nearly 48
hours trying to find me. I was missing. I can't imagine what they went through.
My dad, a taxi driver, was scouring the London /lmx hospitals. I woke up 10 days
later and a nurse told me I'd lost my legs and that was the start of the
realisation of what happened."

She needed six operations and spent a year in different hospitals recovering
from the horrendous injuries that also almost cost her her left arm. In her
bleakest moments, her mother would console her by saying: "You're still Martine.
You could have had a knock on the head and you'd not be Martine now. But you're
still Martine. You've lost your legs but you can go out and get new legs."

That was what she did. Her ordeal cemented her relationship with her
photographer boyfriend Nick and they got married in a hugely emotional ceremony.
A determined Martine managing to walk down the aisle on her prosthetic legs
without the aid of sticks. They now have a two-yearold son, Oscar.

Having previously been a driven career woman, she wanted a new way of spurring
herself on. "After losing my legs and having my son I realised I needed the
ambition that work used to give me. Sport has done that and I think sport gives
more to the disabled than the able bodied."

She tried wheelchair tennis first but realised she preferred a team sport. So
she fixed on sitting volleyball. Since it involves sitting on the floor rather
than in a chair, disabled players can play it on equal terms with able-bodied
ones (who would find it harder to manoeuvre a wheelchair).

The final selection for the GB squad who will compete at London 2012 will be
made next spring and will depend on each member's performance in a series of
championship events between now and then. But Martine is generally reckoned to
have an excellent chance of making the grade. "All I kept thinking that day was,
I've got to get tickets for the Olympics. Now in a weird twist of fate I might
be walking around in that opening ceremony," she says.

"In one way what's happened can be seen as an awful irony, or perhaps it could
be seen that I was always meant to do this. I was there that day and thank God I
survived. I don't know how I survived, that was a miracle. But there are too
many coincidences that point to why I should be doing this.

"For instance, I train with the girls at Roehampton University, which is facing
Queen Mary's Hospital where I spent nearly nine months. I also trained at
another club nearby which is by the Royal London Hospital where I also spent
time recovering. And for my first international match I flew out on July 7 last
year, just another of the weird coincidences."

She now lives in Hertfordshire, but she is hoping that the Paralympics may
rekindle her relationship with her native city.

"If I go back next year to London, I will be doing something so positive after
being disillusioned by my home town after going through something so awful. It
would be amazing for me and my family and I think I am doing something I maybe
should have been doing in the first place."

Team 2012, presented by Visa, is raising funds to support 1,200 British athletes
as they prepare for a place at the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. For
athlete updates and to show your support, visit www.visa.co.uk/goldenspace

HOW DISABLED GAMES BEGAN

WHEN the Paralympics come to London in 2012, they will be returning home. That's
because the games date back to a small gathering of British Second World War
veterans held at Stoke Mandeville Hospital in Buckinghamshire during the London
Olympics of 1948.

The games were held at the same venue in 1952 with Dutch veterans also taking
part.

In 1960 the first official Disabled Olympics were held in Rome. These were no
longer restricted to war veterans but were only open to athletes in wheelchairs.

More disability qualifications have gradually been included and they now fall
into six categories: amputee, cerebral palsy, intellectual disability,
wheelchair, visually impaired and "others".

In 1988 the summer Paralympics in Seoul were the first to take place using the
same facilities as the main games. That year was also the first time the term
Paralympics was officially used. The name was originally coined as a fusion of
"paraplegic" and "Olympics". That is no longer appropriate since the games are
open to so many more categories of disability.

The formal explanation nowadays is that the name derives from the Greek prefix
"para" and "Olympics", meaning "next to the Olympics".

The breadth of the disability qualifications has led to controversy, notably in
Sydney in 2000, where several members of the Spanish basketball team were found
to have cheated by falsely claiming they had learning difficulties. For a while
the games were closed to those with mental disabilities.

Participation has increased from 400 athletes in Rome in 1960 to more than 3,900
in Beijing three years ago. Britain's most celebrated Paralympian is Tanni
Grey-Thompson, who was born with spina bifida and has won 11 gold medals for
wheelchair racing. Ennobled as a life peer last year, she sits in the House of
Lords as a crossbencher (independent).

'A random chain of events led her to be on this train'

'It could be seen that I was always meant to do this'

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COURAGE: Martine spent a year recovering in various hospitals
Pictures: SUKI DHANDA/ Guardian; OBSERVER; TONY WARD/Scope
POWER: Sport saved Martine
HAPPY ENDING: Martine and Nick got married three years after the attack POWER:
Sport saved Martine

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             August 29, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

Polar bear attack survivor tells of terror;
UKBULLETINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 90 words


A TEENAGE adventurer who was left with horrific facial injuries after being
mauled by a killer polar bear on a school expedition to the Arctic said he
believed he was going to die during the terrifying ordeal.

Patrick Flinders defended himself by lashing out at the wild animal as it
rampaged through a camp of young British explorers trekking across the Norwegian
island of Svalbard earlier this month.

The 16-year-old's friend Horatio Chapple was killed during the savage attack,
while three other explorers were left seriously wounded.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday

MP says terror attacks in Iran funded by West - Press TV

LENGTH: 228 words


Excerpt from report by Iranian news channel Press TV website

A senior member of Iran's Majlis has said that terrorist attacks in Iran were
funded by the Western powers but were ineffective, Press TV reported.

Majlis National Security and Foreign Policy Committee Deputy Chairman Hoseyn
Ebrahimi said on Monday [29 August] that the enemies of the Islamic Republic,
particularly the terrorist Mojahedin-e Khalq Organization (MKO), are backed by
the colonialist powers.

The MKO carried out several terrorist acts in Iran with the goal of crippling
the Islamic Revolution, but their efforts have always been futile, and "they
will take their ambitions to the grave," he stated.

The MKO assassinated Iranian President Mohammad Ali Raja'i and Prime Minister
Mohammad Javad Bahonar in 1981.

They were killed in an explosion on 30 August 1981, about two months after Chief
Justice Seyyed Mohammad Hoseyni Beheshti was killed along with 72 state
officials and lawmakers in another MKO bombing in Tehran.

Iranian MP Javan Aryan-Manesh said that the assassinations were carried out to
topple the Islamic Republic, adding: "They never realized... [ellipses as
published] that each and every assassination they carried out would generate
greater support for the Islamic Revolution."

[Passage omitted: background information on MKO]

Source: Press TV website, Tehran, in English 0237gmt 30 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 30, 2011 Tuesday 2:06 PM GMT

David Hicks 'disgusted' by 9/11 attacks;
David Hicks, the "Aussie Taliban" who spent more than five years in Guantánamo
Bay, has spoken for the first time about the 9/11 terrorist attacks, saying they
disgusted him.

BYLINE: By Bonnie Malkin in Sydney

LENGTH: 351 words


Almost 10 years after the al-Qaeda attacks that killed nearly 3,000 Americans,
the former kangaroo skinner said watching New York's Twin Towers fall on live
television from Pakistan was "horrible".

"I think it was a disgusting act - so many people lost their life on that day,"
he told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.

"The devastation and the people jumping from the building and when they
collapsed and, just ... it was horrible."

Despite the horror of the attacks, shortly later Hicks made the decision to go
back to Afghanistan, where he was captured in December 2001 by US troops and
sent to Guantánamo Bay.

Hicks, now 36, spent five years and four months in the notorious prison, before
pleading guilty to a charge of supporting terrorism in exchange for returning
home to serve the remainder of his sentence in Australia.

Since his release in 2007, Hicks has denied firing a single bullet for the
Taliban or being involved in terrorist activities. He said his role in the
combat against US troops was to guard a tank, and that he had abandoned the
Taliban and was heading for Pakistan when he was captured.

In the television interview, he described the time he spent training with
militants in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

Maintaining that he did not know that al-Qaeda controlled the organisation he
was training with, he said Osama bin Laden had visited the camps and that he
seemed like a "kind figure". But in contrast to previous statements, he said he
never met bin Laden.

In a separate interview, he repeated claims that he was beaten for up to 10
hours at a time by US guards and that at Guantánamo Bay inmates were tortured
and given forced injections.

"Guantánamo Bay was a very horrific place," he told the 7PM Project.

"There was sleep deprivation, there was lights 24 hours there was waterboarding
some people were shocked with electricity."

The Australian government recently sued Hicks over royalties earned from his
memoirs, which it claimed are proceeds of crime.

However, his ordeal is regarded with sympathy by many in Australia and his book,
Guantánamo, My Journey, has sold 30,000 copies.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 30, 2011 Tuesday 9:30 AM GMT

Libya: Algeria braces itself for terrorist attacks following arrival of Gaddafi
family;
Algeria is bracing itself for "massive" terrorist attacks following the arrival
of members of Colonel Gaddafi's family from neighbouring Libya.

BYLINE: By Nabila Ramdani

LENGTH: 371 words


On Monday Gaddafi's wife Safia, his sons Hannibal and Mohammed, and his daughter
Aisha fled the raging civil war in their own country in an armed convoy, and are
now thought to be in the capital city, Algiers.

This was despite the fact that just three days before 36 people were killed by
al-Qaeda suicide bombers protesting against Algeria's support for Gaddafi's
crumbling regime.

The attack on the Chechell military academy, some 80 miles west of Algiers, was
one of the worst terrorist atrocities ever in the North African country, and
everything is now being done to try and avoid a repeat.

Security has been stepped up significantly because of the possibility of a
massive terrorist attack,' said an Interior Ministry source, who said that the
Gaddafis had been accepted on â humanitarian grounds.' Libya's new government,
the National Transitional Council (NTC), wants to try them for crimes against
humanity and has accused Algeria of an â act of aggression' by harbouring them.

The Algerian government source said al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), an
offshoot of the worldwide terrorist group which responsible for the massacre in
Chechell, had pledged further atrocities.

We have responded by putting 30,000 men on the streets of Algiers alone,
including an extra 20,000 police. They will be guarding everything from
government installations to mosques,' said the source.

The land borders between neighbouring countries, and especially Libya itself,
will be closed and secured.

A top priority will be the protection of the Gaddafi family, especially as
Libyan rebels may try and pursue them here. For this reason they are in a top
security area of Algiers.' Twelve soldiers were among those who died in
Cherchell, with the suicide bombers detonating themselves not long after
'Iftar', the time of day when Muslims break their fast during the holy month of
Ramadan.

The first device went off on a table in an officers' mess highlighting the
relatively weak security measures in place.

Algeria has not yet recognised the NTC, and none of its extradition treaties
apply to Libya.

This means that the Gaddafis could technically remain in Algeria for as long as
they like, with the Colonel himself eventually joining them there.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday

Iran condemns recent terror attack in Algeria

LENGTH: 207 words


Text of report by Iranian news channel Press TV website

Iran's Foreign Ministry Spokesman Ramin Mehmanparast has condemned the recent
terror attack on a military school in Algeria, which led to the death of 18
people.

Mehmanparast extended condolences to the nation and the state of Algeria and
expressed sympathy with the bereaved families of the victims.

The Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman also underlined the need for all
countries to resolutely combat terrorism as an international obligation.

Terrorists have no regard for and do not differentiate among divine religions
and people in their acts, he said.

On Friday, 26 August, two bombers drove up to army barracks housing a
prestigious military school in the coastal town of Cherchell, located 100
kilometres (60 miles) in the west of the Algerian capital, Algiers.

The attackers hit the barracks soon after Iftar - when Muslims break their daily
fast during the holy month of Ramadan.

The first assailant blew himself up at the entrance before the second one ran
into the front courtyard where officers were sitting down.

Sixteen soldiers and two civilians lost their lives in the attack. Thirty-five
people were also wounded.

Source: Press TV website, Tehran, in English 1705gmt 30 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday

Confirmed death toll of terrorist attack in Russia's Chechnya at eight

LENGTH: 377 words


Text of report by Gazprom-owned, editorially independent Russian radio station
Ekho Moskvy on 31 August

[Presenter] The number of the double terrorist attack in Groznyy is growing.
Eight people have died as a result, latest reports say. One of the suicide
bombers has been identified. Timur Olevskiy reports.

[Correspondent] [The head of Chechnya] Ramzan Kadyrov has given new details
about the blasts in Groznyy. One of the terrorists has been identified, it is a
brother of the suicide bomber who blew himself up outside the Groznyy theatre
centre one year ago. It turns out to be a family of terrorists, Interfax quoted
Kadyrov as saying [at a meeting with clergy].

Eight people, six policemen, an employee of the Emergencies Ministry and a
civilian, have died as a result of the blast, latest reports say. Another five
are in grave condition, Kadyrov said. He stressed that the terrorist attack
occurred on the first day of the Muslim holiday [Id al-Fitr]. He again spoke
about the necessary toughness towards members of illegal armed formations. For
their part, representatives of clergy spoke in favour of responsibility of
terrorists' families and called on parents to render harmless their sons who do
not obey them but shed the blood of innocent people.

[RIA Novosti news agency, at 0355 gmt on 31 August, reported, quoting the
republic's Interior Ministry, that three suicide bombers blew themselves up in
Groznyy on 30 August. "One [of the terrorists] blew himself up when a police
patrol tried to detain him. Another two blew themselves up when law enforcers
arrived and passers-by gathered at the scene of the first attack," a source at
the ministry said.

Interfax new agency, at 0555 gmt on 31 August, reported, quoting Vladimir
Markin, the spokesman of the Russian Investigations Committee, that the criminal
case launched under articles 317, 105, 30, 222 and 223 of the Russian Criminal
Code (infringement on law enforcers' life, murder, attempted murder, illegal
turnover and production of weapons) had been handed over to the main
investigations directorate of the Russian Investigations Committee in the North
Caucasus Federal District, following a decision taken by the committee.]

Source: Ekho Moskvy radio, Moscow, in Russian 0500 gmt 31 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday

Syrian army officials reportedly martyred in Algeria's "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 271 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Syrian Officers Martyred in Algeria" - SANA Headline]

Damascus, 31 August - Martyrs Lt-Col Anwar Sulayman Sa'd and Lt-Col Ahmad
Shawkat Ahmad, who were martyred in a terrorist attack in Algeria last Saturday
[27 August], were escorted Tuesday [30 August] from Tishreen Military Hospital
in Damascus to their final resting places in Lattakia and Hama Governorates in
dignified military ceremonies.

Eulogies delivered in the burial ceremonies highly lauded the good manners and
high morals of the two martyrs, who were martyred in a terrorist attack which
targeted the Military Academy in the Algerian city Cherchell.

The two Martyrs were attending a military training course at the Academy, which
was subject to a terrorist attack, which claimed the lives of a number of
military members and injured others.

In Lattakia governorate, Lt-Col Sa'd was laid to rest in the village of
Bayt-Aana in the Jiblah area in a solemn procession.

The martyr's mother voiced pride in her son's martyrdom, will his brother
decried the terrorist attack that claimed Anwar's life.

In Hama governorate, Lt-Col Ahmad was laid to rest in Al-Laqba village in Masyaf
area.

Ahmad's mother said that his son's sacrifice is the highest glory a person can
attain, stressing that such sacrifice, whether it Syria or Algeria, is a
sacrifice for the sake of the entire Arab nation.

In turn, Ahmad's siblings denounced the targeting of military personnel locally
and abroad, saying that their murder is one of the most heinous crimes.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 31 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday

Syrian TV says "terrorists" planning attacks on Lattakia

LENGTH: 148 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Voice recording of a terrorist unveils coordinations' schemes against Syria" -
SANA headline]

Damascus, 30 Aug, (SANA) - A voice recording between two persons of the so
called "Coordinations" unveiled the real plot of these organizations which calls
for targeting security and military posts and terrorizing citizens.

In the recording through a Paltalk room broadcast by the Syrian TV, terrorist
Mohammad Rahal, who claims he is the Chairman of the Revolutionary Council of
the Syrian Coordinations, asks terrorist Mohammad Khawindi, to try to make
people gather in Al-Sliebah area in Lattakia and attack all public institutions
in the city.

He also told Khawindi to fortify Lattakia and take control of the port, adding
that weapons will reach them in a week.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 30 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday

Israeli army general tours Egypt border amid terror attack fears

LENGTH: 351 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 31 August

[Report by Ya'aqov Katz: "General tours Egypt border as high alert maintained"]

The IDF maintained its high alert along Israel's border with Egypt on Wednesday
[31 August] amid fears that an Islamic Jihad terror cell will try to carry out
an attack in the coming days.

On Wednesday, OC Southern Command Maj-Gen Tal Russo toured the border and met
with troops that have been deployed there due to the terror alert to ensure that
they were prepared to thwart a potential terror attack from Sinai.

Israel has been working closely with Egypt in an effort to prevent the attack,
which officials said was slated to be carried out by a cell consisting of just
over 10 terrorists.

[Amir Buhbut and Rami Shani add at 1000 gmt in Tel Aviv Walla! in Hebrew, a
leading news and entertainment website: "A Golani Brigade officer said the IDF
is preparing for the possibility that the next terror attack won't resemble the
multi-staged attack of two weeks ago in which eight Israelis lost their lives.
The officer added that the terrorists might dress up as Sudanese refugees and
join a group of infiltrators at an unforeseen venue."]

During the tour of the border, Russo spoke with soldiers and residents, and said
he was looking into ways to minimize the impact that the current terror alert
was having on the lives of Israelis who live in communities near the border.

Community leaders have complained about the IDF decision to keep roads 10 and 12
closed for almost two weeks since the previous attack along the border on August
18, during which eight Israelis were killed. The decision to publicize the
terror alert was made as part of an effort to dissuade the terrorists from
continuing with their plans.

"Islamic Jihad is trying for a long time to perpetrate the attacks from the
Sinai, and the holiday of Id al-Fitr is a good time for attacks," Home Front
Defence Minister Matan Vilna'i said on Tuesday during a visit to an Elbit
Systems factory in Sederot.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 31 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Carmarthen Journal

                                August 31, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Couple relive terror of stranger's home attack

BYLINE: ROBERT DALLING

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 291 words


A TUMBLE couple have spoken of their horror after a man wielding a weapon
smashed through their window in the middle of the night.

Donna McCusker, 26, and partner Simon Yates, 35, were up late watching TV at
their Heol y Neuadd home when they heard someone knocking at their door.

"We answered the door at around 2am and there was a man who was stood there on
our doorstep asking if we had a party going on," Ms McCusker said.

"I told him there wasn't and closed the door. The next thing you know he decided
to carry on knocking.

"He looked drunk so I told Simon to turn the light off because he obviously
thought we were having a party."

The couple were quite light-hearted about the incident at first, until they
looked outside and noticed he was still there.

"When we looked outside he was still there, sitting on a wall across the road,
staring towards the house and looking angry," Ms McCusker said.

"We then saw him looking behind bins before he began walking toward our house
with what looked like a hammer. I thought, 'Oh my God, he's coming back'. He was
like an angry hulk and we could hear smashing noises." Ms McCusker called the
police. "I told them what was going on. It was so dark that I didn't realise it
was our window at first. It was quite a shock."

Ms McCusker said police arrived on the scene shortly after. "Police said they
had found the guy later on in the morning and blamed it on him being drunk. They
said he used a piece of wood to smash the window," she said.

"It was such a terrifying experience. He terrorised our home and I was scared
for my life.

Dyfed-Powys Police spokeswoman Catharine Evan Williams said: "A 56-year-old
local man was arrested on suspicion of causing criminal damage. He was later
released and cautioned."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARED: Donna McCusker, of Heol y Neuadd, Tumble, whose window was
smashed by a stranger in the night who demanded to be let in.
LLCE20110816A-009_C

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CRJ


                       Copyright 2011 Carmarthen Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 1, 2011 Thursday

Pakistan article analyzes claims of responsibility for terror attacks

LENGTH: 837 words


Text of article by Muhammad Rasool Dawar headlined "Who accepts responsibility
and why" published by Pakistani newspaper Nawa-i-Waqt website on 29 August

Admission of banned Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan [TTP] leaves behind many question
marks

Different chitchats often start making rounds with growth and decline in
untoward incidents in the homeland. The answer to this question is also sought
as to which factors may be behind the decline in the bomb blasts, suicide
attacks, and unrest to a great extent. And when new chapters of suicide attacks,
bomb blasts, and target killing are being written day by day, then the question
is raised as to whose hand can be behind these blasts. Some religious and
political parties, particularly Jamaat-i-Islami [JI], consider these blasts as
acts of Research and Analysis Wing[RAW], the Mossad, and the CIA [Central
Intelligence Agency]. Meanwhile, the responsibility of almost all the attacks is
put on the TTP. After repeated interviews with the central leadership of the
Tehrik-i-Taleban, it may be agreed that the Tehrik-i-Taleban may be involved in
all these attacks but when hundreds of the poor people are killed in attacks at
the public places, the TTP leadership does not take interest in claiming the
responsibility ,that is, when their leadership is asked in this regard, they
have the only answer that we carry out attacks in reaction to the ongoing
operations of the security forces and the government officials in the tribal
areas on the US behest.

As far as the suicide attacks at public places are concerned, the TTP leadership
is apparently not giving its stance but it is believed that the planners of the
suicide attacks are compelled to blow up their bombers despite not wanting so.
It is also believed that hundreds of people die because of threats of the arrest
before reaching the target, a minor mistake by planners of suicide attacks,
failing to reach the target on time amid tight security or accident of a suicide
vehicle. Because of this, the Taleban lose the public support. Its clear example
is the emergence of a new extremist organization by the name of the TTP Islami,
which is being described by the TTP Taleban as the government forces.

This question is also being raised with every attack that from where hundreds of
thousands of rupees come for spending on the explosives and vehicle used in
these attacks and arranging residences and other logistics. In response to this
question, the second senior most Taleban leader in the TTP Waliur Rehman, says
that with the expenditure on a suicide attack, the TTP can fight the forces in
the South Waziristan for one month. It is also being said that a total amount of
5m rupees or more is required for a suicide attack. In response to such a
question, the general belief is that the RAW, the Mossad, the CIA or other
foreign agencies provide funds for disturbing the situation in Pakistan but
besides vehemently rejecting this notion, the TTP leadership says that the
philanthropists within Pakistan and abroad are supporting the jihad and besides
they spend the proceeds from the sale of the goods seized during the fighting on
their operations.

Since 9/11, the most journalists associated with journalism are paying special
attention to the articles and reports of the US interest and have almost ignored
the public problems and difficulties. Although over 220 registered journalists
in the tribal areas are associated with the national and foreign media
organizations under the umbrella of the Tribal Union of Journalists but from
among them, there is a special restriction on the journalists in the North and
South Waziristan. They can neither write openly nor can they analyze things. The
local administration here is not ready to extend any cooperation except for the
reports about the imposition of curfew. The same is the situation with the
helpless people that two-way fear has compelled them to keep silent. So, what
facts will reach public except incomplete reports in such a situation, as the
life is also dear to a journalist like everybody else and for the same they try
to have good relations with the local Taleban and the officials of forces.

Last thing that is not understandable is that after all both the rivals, that
is, the forces and Taleban are thirsty for each other's blood whereas both are
the Pakistanis, the Muslims and claim to have immense love for the country. May
God forbid, if any foreign country attacks Pakistan, both of them will not
desist from jointly fighting the common enemy on the frontlines just as the
Taleban, while reacting to the Indian threats in the recent past, had announced
to fight shoulder to shoulder with the Pakistani armed forces. The Pakistani
nation is waiting for the pleasant day when the nation gets rid of the suffering
from the suicide attacks, kidnapping for ransom, bank robbery, murder on the
charge of spying, and operations and all get united for the protection of Islam
and Pakistan.

Source: Nawa-i-Waqt, Rawalpindi, in Urdu 29 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           September 1, 2011 Thursday

Great feat of City star who beat the bottle ; Knife attack terror of hair salon
boss

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 279 words


A HAIR salon manager says she was left terrified after masked men threatened to
stab her during a robbery.

The three thugs walked into Total Hair Concept in Sale in the middle of the day
and demanded the contents of the till.

One grabbed the manageress and threatened to stab her if she did not hand over
cash.

The attack took place in front of terrified customers and two teenage junior
stylists.

The 33-year-old boss, who asked not to be identified, said: I just looked up and
he was there, which was scary. I didn't even hear him come in as he did it quite
quietly.

He was pushing me around, he was extremely threatening and his language and
behaviour were awful.

They were just horrible, scrawny scallies. It's a lovely area and we always have
children in here though fortunately there were none in at the time."

The robbery took place at 3pm on Saturday at the salon on Framingham Road,
Brooklands.

After stealing cash the robbers ran out of the front door and down either
Framingham Road or Brooklands Road.

Staff and three customers were badly shaken up but not injured. The manageress,
who co-owns the business, added: I look back and wonder if I could have done
anything differently, but all that mattered was protecting the girls.

I've been back in to work since, but I'm looking behind me every time the door
goes. I just don't feel safe now.

Police say the men were white, aged 18-25, wearing balaclavas and hooded tops.

One was slim, about 5ft 7in tall, and wore a grey zip-up hooded top. The other
two were both in dark clothing.

Detectives believe the group had been hanging around in front of the salon
before the robbery, and are appealing for witnesses to come forward.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POUNDINGTHESTREET Former City player Jeff Whitley is running ten half
marathons in ten days for charity

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 1, 2011 Thursday 12:42 AM GMT

9/11 colouring book prompts row in US;
A colouring book designed to teach young children about the September 11
terrorist attacks has prompted a row in the US.

BYLINE: By Jon Swaine New York

LENGTH: 251 words


Timed to coincide with the attacks' tenth anniversary, 'We Shall Never Forget
9/11: The Kids' Book of Freedom', offers parents a tool for educating children
who were not born at the time, its publishers say.

Scenes outlined in the book include Osama bin Laden hiding behind a woman in a
hijab as a bullet from a Navy SEAL's rifle hurtles towards him during the raid
on his Pakistani compound in May.

"Children, the truth is, these terrorist acts were done by freedom-hating
radical Islamic Muslim extremists," a piece of accompanying text tells readers.

"These crazy people hate the American way of life because we are FREE and our
society is FREE." The book, which costs $6.99 (£4.30), "was created with
honesty, integrity, reverence, respect and does not shy away from the truth,"
according to Really Big Coloring Books, its Missouri-based publisher.

Dawud Walid, the executive director of the Council on American-Islamic
Relations, has described the book as "disgusting" and accused the publishers of
peddling intolerance and prejudice to children.

"All these characters are painted to the mind of a young person that perhaps all
Muslims may be somewhat responsible for 9/11 or that Muslims are an enemy," said
Mr Walid.

But Wayne Bell, the founder of Really Big Coloring Books, dismissed the
criticism, saying: "This is history. It is absolutely factual." "This is about
19 terrorist hijackers that came over here under the leadership of a devil
worshipper, Osama bin Laden, to murder our people," said Mr Bell.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 2, 2011 Friday

Poll shows majority of Russians feel vulnerable to terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 244 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 2 September: Seventy-eight per cent of Russians say it is impossible to
feel protected from terrorist attacks at the present time, experts at the
Superjob.ru portal's research centre have said.

A poll conducted on 1 September in all federal regions among 1,600 economically
active respondents has revealed that Russians have plenty of reasons for such
fears.

"Explosions happen several times a year. What safety is there?!"; "Terrorists
become more sophisticated and accurate"; "No one can be safe, only vigilance
will save us all..."; "I still get tears in my eyes on recollection of Beslan,"
Russians say, explaining their fears.

Just five per cent of the respondents feel protected from terrorist attacks.
However, based on their comments, their optimistic attitude is based more on
their hope for the best, rather than a conviction that the state is doing enough
to provide for their safety, sociologists say.

"I would like to believe in it"; "At least that is what they say in the media";
"It's hard to live without hope for the better," were the answers given by
Russians who are not afraid of terrorist attacks.

Seventeen per cent of Russians could not give a definite answer. [Passage
omitted]

On account of the tragic events in Beslan [in 2004], 3 September is declared a
day of solidarity in the fight against terrorism.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0721 gmt 2 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           September 2, 2011, Friday

ATTACK OF THE FLYING WINGERS;
AUSSIE BIRDS TERRORISE SCOTS

BYLINE: Roddy Duncan

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 65

LENGTH: 251 words


SCOTLAND'S rugby stars were left in a flap yesterday when they were dive-bombed
by dozens of big-beaked birds Down Under.

The encounter with the flock of giant ibis happened at their Australian training
base as they tried to step up preparations for the World Cup in New Zealand.

Two days earlier, a group of Scots stars playing golf had managed to sidestep a
kangaroo renowned for beating up humans.

But even the most fleetfooted members of the squad were unable to avoid being
targeted by the exotic flyers of Queensland's Gold Coast.

A Scotland spokesman said: "The local wildlife seemed to take notice of our
activities.

"The backs' warm-up on a bowling green was divebombed by some large ibis.
BENEFICIAL "We also had a flock of galahs, flaming or otherwise, magpies and
kangaroos taking an interest."

Andy Robinson and his men will hope to avoid any further terror from the skies
in their joint training session with Canada today. And the Scots will see some
familiar faces as Glasgow's Dan van der Merwe and former Edinburgh ace Ander
Monro are part of the Canadian squad.

Scotland attack coach Gregor Townsend said: "We'll run through a couple of plays
while the forwards do some line-outs and scrums.

"It's going to be controlled but it will be beneficial to run some of our plays
against a team that won't know what we're doing."

Canada supremo Kieran Crowley said: "It's like you're doing your own training -
but with an opposition that doesn't know your calls or anything like that. So it
will be good."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FEATHERED FIENDS 3 Andy Robinson, below, and his Scots stars were
dive-bombed by a flock of giant ibis in Australia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           September 2, 2011, Friday

ATTACK TERROR AT PRIMARY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 167 words


YOUNG children and their parents were forced to run for cover during a vicious
attack outside a school.

Thugs beat a man with chains and bats at Knightswood Primary in Glasgow's west
end.

Screaming bystanders grabbed their kids and ran back inside the school on
Wednesday afternoon.

Scores of parents witnessed the horrifying incident as they collected their kids
- some as young as six.

Three or four men jumped out of a 4x4 parked at the school gates and attacked a
man sitting in a BMW.

A woman passenger in the car was also assaulted.

A witness said: "It was absolutely terrifying.

"There were people screaming everywhere.

"Some of the parents just grabbed their kids and ran back inside the school.

"The guy in the BMW was getting quite a beating.

"A woman, who I presume was his partner, jumped out to confront the assailants
and ended up being attacked herself."

Police arrived on the scene minutes later, but the thugs had fled.

A police spokeswoman said inquiries were continuing but no arrests had been
made.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCHOOL J Knightswood

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday

Pakistan paper concerned over terror attacks during Id

LENGTH: 363 words


Text of editorial headlined "Violence on Eid" published by Pakistan newspaper
The News website on 3 September

As was feared, this year's Id al-Fitr festivities were disrupted by acts of
violence in the country. A day normally associated with prayer and celebration
became one of grieving for families who lost loved ones to various acts of
terrorism. Lives were cut short by bomb explosions and firing incidents in
Quetta, Karachi, Lakki Marwat and the Kurram Agency. The security alert that was
put in place ahead of Eid failed to prevent unfortunate incidents from occurring
in several parts of the country. This latest round of violence serves only to
illustrate the extent of the state's failure to perform its most basic duty -
that of protecting the lives of citizens.

In Quetta, a bomb planted outside a mosque where a Shia congregation had
gathered to offer prayers detonated just as people were leaving the mosque. A
total of 11 people were killed and 12 others were injured in what appears to be
a continuation of the sectarian violence that the city is all too familiar with;
the sporadic killings Karachi has been plagued with resulted in seven more
deaths over Eid; in the Kurram Agency where a military operation ended just
weeks ago, seven people were killed when a passenger van travelling from Lower
to Upper Kurram was ambushed; and in Lakki Marwat in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa a
suicide bomber detonated his vest after policemen tried to stop him at a
check-post. At least 12 people were killed and several others injured as a
result. Additionally, more than 40 houses and shops were damaged. In sum, Eid
was celebrated amid fear and apprehension. What is all the more disturbing is
that there appears to be no end in sight to this barbaric bloodletting. There is
no known course of action in place and any measures that may have been taken
have not yielded encouraging results. There are no answers available and no
solutions in sight. The murderers who perpetrate these heinous acts may be
disparate and motivated by different causes. But they are similar in that they
are ruthless and show no signs of stopping.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 03 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

US ATTACKS YEMEN WING OF AL-QAEDA;
TERRORISM

BYLINE: CHRIS HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 134 words


ThE US has stepped up air strikes against al-Qaeda terrorists in Yemen, with
reports of 30 insurgents killed in the last few days.

hellfire missiles fired from CIA unmanned drones were used against targets in
the city of Zinjibar, which was taken over by the Yemeni branch of al-Qaeda in
May.

It is also thought cruise missiles were fired from a US submarine off the coast.

There have been claims nasir al Wuhayshi, head of group al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula, was killed.

Brigadier General Mohammed al Sawmali, of Yemen's 25th Mechanised Brigade, said
the US was providing logistical support to his troops.

he said: "The Americans have parachuted a shipment of food supplies."

large parts of south Yemen are under al-Qaeda control after the group moved in
to recruit unemployed and disaffected young Yemenis.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNREST Rioting in Yemen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 4, 2011 Sunday

Pakistan paper says India may be behind terror attacks during Id al-Fitr

LENGTH: 347 words


Text of editorial headlined "Murder on Eid" published by Pakistani newspaper The
Nation website on 3 September

At a time when Muslims are supposed to celebrate the end of Ramadan, their month
of fasting, with Id al-Fitr, a time of general rejoicing, the suicide bombing in
Lakki Marwat and the car explosion in Kurram Agency, killing four and eight
people respectively are highly condemnable. While the former was most likely
part of the war on terror, the Kurram Agency deaths may be part of a family feud
or part of the sectarian killings which have been rife there before. A more
heinous crime was committed in Quetta where a bomb blast killed 12 people at
Eidgha.

However, the inability of the government to protect even the lives of its
citizens, leave alone their properties, has been highlighted by these incidents.
That these incidents occurred on Eid also highlighted the fact that, instead of
praying for the prosperity and progress of the country on this sacred occasion,
the perpetrators committed these deeds instead, making one doubt that they could
have been Muslims. This gives rise to the suspicion that the perpetrators of
these and other deeds of terrorism may well have been penetrated by India,
particularly after it obtained consulates in Afghanistan from the Karzai regime.

Previously, the militants, who claimed that they were following the precepts of
Islam, were careful enough to leave aside religious festivals, and it goes
without mentioning that the biggest religious festival of Islam was among them.
Now that this taboo has been broken, the government needs to be particularly
vigilant at the next Eid, due in just over two months, and Ashura and its
related gatherings. The vigilance must not consist only of administrative
measures, which after all just mean a series of cosmetic measures, but must be
based on properly obtained human intelligence, for which the network, if not
already established, can be laid in time for even Eidul Azha if the agencies
responsible get to work immediately.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 03 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 4, 2011 Sunday

Nigerian government says it will protect nation's airports from terrorist
attacks

LENGTH: 426 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper This Day website on 4 September

The Federal Government has said that every effort must be made to protect the
nation's airports from terrorist attacks, assuring that it would not leave any
stone unturned to ensure that passengers and other airport users are protected
from the nefarious activities of terrorists.

The Director General of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Dr Harold
Demuren, gave the assurance in Tanzania at the 17th Aviation and Allied
Leadership Conference in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania capital, which ended at the
weekend.

Demuren who noted that terrorism has become a universal problem, stressed
however, that security operatives in Nigeria are poised to stand against
terrorists who have killed hundreds of people in the country.

Demuren, who represented the Aviation Minister, Princess Stella Oduah at the
Pan-African conference said security in the aviation sector should be
continually improved upon as it is usually the targets of deadly terrorists'
attacks.

He called on the African leaders to implement the African Aviation Security
Roadmap, revealing that there would be a major security conference in Abuja in
December this year.

"The Federal Government has resolved to fight terrorism. The war on terror is
total. No country is immune and no industry is spared. We enjoin African
leaders, aviation agencies and other experts to be aviation security conference
coming up in December in Abuja. We know about the UN building bombing. We also
remember the underwear bombing incident. We have installed powerful screening
equipment in our airports. We're continually working to improve safety and
security in the sector", he said.

Demuren also spoke on the rate of air accident in Africa, noting that it still
remains the highest, although has abated over the years.

"Accident rate in Africa is high and must be addressed. Manpower is a challenge.
We also have a major problem of inadequate funding. Aviation is capital
intensive and the government is saddled with other responsibilities. So we must
encourage and embrace Public-Private-Partnerships (PPPs)", he said.

He lamented the domestic market in Africa, poor connectivity within Africa,
bilateral issues, incredible bureaucracy among other operational limitations
have made cooperation within African governments and institutions as regards
aviation rather difficult.

"We need good corporate governance. We must enthrone professionalism, honesty
and integrity to move forward", he stated

Source: This Day website, Lagos, in English 4 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            September 5, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cantor joins the fightback as downtown New York rebuilds;
With the 10th anniversary of the terror attacks approaching, Manhattan is
booming again 9/11 10 YEARS ON

BYLINE: James Quinn

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1129 words


IN 2001, Howard Lutnick occupied a corner office on the 105th floor of the north
tower of the World Trade Center, overlooking New York harbour to the south and
with the whole of Manhattan sprawling northwards.

Today, the chairman and chief executive of Cantor Fitzgerald has a sizeable
second-floor Park Avenue office which - though somewhat ornate - is nothing
compared to the old Cantor executive floor, replete with a collection of Rodin
sculptures.

Having watched his business almost crumble before his eyes as he stood as close
as he could to the base of the towers on the morning of September 11, Lutnick
was not about to make the same choices again.

Much has changed in the 10 years that have passed, not just for Cantor - which
suffered more than any other company on 9/11, losing 658 of its then 1,500
global employees - but for Wall Street as a whole. For Lutnick, the biggest
lesson he thinks the Street at large has learnt is the need for back-up.

"People need serious backup. They need multiple counter-parties for all the
things that they do, they shouldn't just rely on one monopoly, they should have
alternatives."

He argues that this lesson has made "the finance industry stronger and more
sustainable", hinting that it might not have survived the credit crisis had it
not been for 9/11.

A decade on from the tragedy of 2001, the area around the former World Trade
Center site has been revived and is booming.

Given the area was cordoned off for weeks and then took eight months for
"cleanup and recovery" the regeneration of downtown New York, Tribeca and
Battery Park City has been remarkable.

Part of this revival has been led by the willingness of companies to move back
to the area. Cantor itself has approximately 500 brokers and support staff at
its BGC offices on Water Street, less than a mile from the World Trade Center
sites.

Other former WTC tenants have also moved back to the area, including Morgan
Stanley which occupied a significant number of floors in the south tower below
the impact from United Airlines Flight 175. Nine staff members lost their lives.
In 2005, Morgan Stanley announced the move of 2,300 staff to the 50-story tower
at One New York Plaza, in what at the time was the biggest relocation of
employees downtown.

Other WTC occupants to move back include insurer AON and fund manager
Oppenheimer.

But the phenomenon has been bolstered by the rezoning of certain buildings as
residential, leading to a domestic property boom in the area.

Statistics show that in 2001 only 25,000 people lived "downtown". That figure
now stands at 56,000 following the gentrification of Tribeca, the building of
new luxury apartment blocks and the conversion of old warehouse buildings.

The second and perhaps more intriguing property phenomenon however has been the
return of the skyscraper.

Following the attacks on the WTC, commercial property tenants, perhaps
unsurprisingly, shunned tall buildings, leading developers, particularly in the
lower half of Manhattan, to look at alternative projects.

However, with the realisation that the 9/11 attacks were a horrific but,
nonetheless, once-in-a-lifetime incident, that has changed.

The most notable skyscraper project is the 1,776 ft high One World Trade Center,
which will be the centre-piece at the former site.

Formerly known as the Freedom Tower - the name was changed at the same time as a
lease was signed to house the China Centre, a space for Chinese businesses to
plan their assault on the US - the glass-clad building will rise 104 storeys
into the New York skyline.

To date, roughly 50pc of the building has been leased, although the bulk of
that, some 40pc, is to City and federal agencies.

Completion is not expected until the second-half of 2013 - due to a number of
disruptions earlier in its life over its design - some 12 years after the
destruction of the towers it replaces.

But that tower - and the five which will eventually surround it - are not the
only new tall buildings on Manhattan's lower reaches.

In the last eight years, 12 buildings above 600 ft have been built, with another
15 under construction. One of the most notable is the Bank of America Tower -
located in Midtown, alongside Bryant Park - which has stolen the title of the
city's second largest building from the Chrysler building.

At 1,200 ft, the tower is home to the currently troubled bank's New York
offices, including staff from its late 2008 acquisition of Merrill Lynch who
were formerly housed close to the old WTC site downtown.

But it is not just the physical make-up of the City which has seen changing
fortunes, so too have those business people whose lives were directly effected
on the day.

On September 11, 2001, Larry Silverstein, through Silverstein Properties, had
only recently taken control of the $3.2bn leases for the WTC site, only after
rival bidder Vornado Realty withdrew its bid. Although at the time, the decision
to take on the leases may have seemed unfortunate, in reality it was one of the
shrewdest moves he could have made. He insured the buildings, and in 2007, after
a series of drawn-out legal wrangling, a group of insurers were forced to hand
over $4.55bn in insurance for the site.

At the same time, the octogenarian's company has been instrumental in rebuilding
the new properties that will replace the Twin Towers, guaranteeing future
further success.

Lutnick himself is also a man who has come back from a terrible low.

The rebuilding of the Cantor umbrella of companies, and the forthcoming float of
Cantor Fitzgerald - as disclosed in The Sunday Telegraph yesterday - reflects
the determination with which he and the firm as a whole have been able to turn
around its financial fortunes.

Lutnick still sees New York as central to Cantor's future fortunes. The events
of 9/11 have not changed his view on the city as a place to operate - judging by
the advertising banners outside his office which boast that NYC is 'THE' place
to do business.

"I think New York is a great place to do business. I think London is a great
place to do business," he said.

"There are spectacularly talented people in large quantities in New York. And
when you're in the human capital business, one needs to find highly talented
people, often quickly."

Despite everything he has been through in the past decade, he also shows no
signs of hanging up his boots.

"We've always had a policy that we want to work with people that we like. If you
work with people that you really like, while business is challenging, it's also
quite a bit of fun."

As the tenth anniversary of the terror attacks approaches - and that fun turns
to more painful memories - it would probably be a good trade to bet that Cantor,
and perhaps Lutnick himself, will still be at the heart of the capital of
capitalism in another 10 years' time.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The collapse of the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001
One World Trade Center towers above the skyline once more
EPA/GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                            September 5, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Teenage yob attacks bring terror to staff in our libraries;
Workers falling victim to violence and sex pests ; Frontline library workers
left in fear by rising tide of attacks

BYLINE: CHRIS MALLETT

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 780 words


TEENAGE yobs are being blamed for an alarming rise in physical and verbal
assaults on library staff.

Unions say youngsters left with nothing to do following cuts to youth services
are causing trouble, ranging from throwing chairs to assaulting workers.

And one librarian has told how she was violently pinned against a wall by a
youth while at work.

The union comments come after it was revealed that Derbyshire County Council had
issued more than twice as many orders banning troublemakers from its libraries
in 2010 as it did the year before.

Kate Sarvent, Unison spokeswoman for the council's libraries, said some
librarians had come to expect abuse as "part of the job".

She said: "People are accepting it but it's not acceptable. We have been
campaigning with all the staff to get them to report all assaults. "Whenever
something has been reported we have been able to work with the police and other
groups to come up with a solution."

Mrs Sarvent, a Derbyshire librarian herself, said she had been attacked this
summer. She said: "I was pinned to a wall by one lad who has since been banned.
He was attacking someone else in our porch area. The person he was attacking ran
off and he tried to come into the building."

Mrs Sarvent told him there was "no way he could come in" but the youth grabbed
her, pushed her against a wall and swore at her. In 2010 there were 93 assaults
on staff in the council's cultural and community services department, most of
which were on library staff. These included 13 physical attacks, one racial
physical attack, three sexual physical, 73 verbal and one sexual verbal. This
was more than treble the 2009 figure of 30. The figures for 2011 look set to be
even higher with 42 assaults reported between January and March - 12 physical
and 30 verbal. In 2010 the council banned 37 people from its libraries - up from
18 the previous year. Ten such orders have already been issued between January
and March this year. A spokeswoman for the authority added that library
customers had also been caught exposing themselves, fondling themselves and
touching people "in inappropriate places such as bottoms or breasts".

Mrs Sarvent believes one reason for yobs going to libraries is a lack of things
to do in the evenings. She said: "It's 13-, 14-, 15-year-olds in groups of five
to eight. In my area a youth club on a Monday night was cut and they have
nothing else to do. It's warm and dry at the library. Some have thrown chairs
and sworn at us." Mrs Sarvent added that the problem was happening in more
deprived areas. Councillor Jean Wharmby, cabinet support member for culture,
said bans were put in place for three to six months, or a year in more serious
cases. Often they exclude people from all county council libraries but some are
just from one building. She said: "We take staff safety and well-being very
seriously and have encouraged employees in our library service to report any
incidents, in line with the authority's assault-reporting procedure. "We've
e-mailed assistants in charge to remind them to get staff to report issues so
we're aware of what's happening and can take the appropriate action." She added
that employees at the council's 45 libraries and 11 mobile libraries had also
been given training in personal safety and conflict situations. A police
spokesman said it took assaults on anyone who provides front-line services to
the public seriously. He said: "We have protocols in place with many
organisations for dealing with such matters. In many instances around the
county, local libraries are increasingly being used as bases for our Safer
Neighbourhood teams in local communities.

"This provides an accessible point for the public to talk to officers and
hopefully also provides a level of reassurance for staff and customers using the
buildings." cmallett@derbytelegraph.co.uk CITY INCIDENTS DOWN FROM THEIR PEAKAT
Derby City Council libraries there were 26 incidents of "abuse, aggression, or
violence" against council library staff in the 2010-11 financial year - up from
18 in 2009-10. But both figures show a major reduction from 2008-9 when there
were 55 incidents. There were five formal bans, of between a month and 12
months, issued in 2009-10, up from zero in the previous year. A city council
spokeswoman said most of the incidents were "low-level nuisances". She said:
"It's mostly people engaging in noisy, disruptive behaviour and inappropriate
language, then swearing at staff when asked to stop the behaviour or to leave
the library." She added that there had been rare incidents of books being thrown
at staff.

"It's 13-, 14-, 15-year-olds in groups ... some have thrown chairs and sworn at
us." KATE SARVENT

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DET


                     Copyright 2011 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            September 5, 2011 Monday

Front: 9/11 ten years on From the rubble of the twin towers: Long-delayed
monument to US resilience rises from the ashes: In the first part of our series
marking the anniversary of the terror attacks on the US, Ed Pilkington looks at
the long-awaited skyscraper rising from Ground Zero

BYLINE: Ed Pilkington

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1635 words


When the twin towers collapsed that day, they left behind two giant holes in the
world's most famous skyline, like missing milk teeth in a child's smile. Once
the dust cloud - visible 20 miles away - had settled, all that remained was a
cathedral-sized mound of rubble and over 3m cubic metres of air.

In the subsequent decade, New Yorkers have instinctively turned to the twin
towers to orientate themselves, only to find nothing there.

But over the last few months, and with the 10th anniversary of the 21st
century's most notorious event imminent, a new structure has started to stretch
upwards, piercing the skyline, its roof sprouting cranes like the leaves of a
young plant. The building already stands boldly above the others around it and
it is only two-thirds complete. With every week that passes, it is claiming its
status as the pre-eminent Manhattan landmark.

By early next year it will supersede the Empire State Building in height. Even
now it draws the eye, particularly at night when its construction lights twinkle
like a brooch from Tiffany.

This week the tower stands at 80 floors and counting. It is going up at the rate
of a floor a week, the product of 24/7 activity by a team of 1,100 workers. By
the time it opens, it will be 104 floors; a beacon will take it to the
historically resonant height of 1,776ft (541 metres).

Up on the 55th floor of the emerging skyscraper - once called Freedom Tower but
now known by the more temperate name 1 World Trade Centre - the stunning views
are ample evidence of the building's potential. You can see way across the
water, beyond Ellis Island and Lady Liberty to New Jersey, while below us, the
memorial gardens are being assembled

in honour of those who died. "This is the worst disaster in our country's
history and we're up 55 storeys and climbing," says Lee Ielpi, a New York
firefighter who knows more about Ground Zero than most. For the past 10 years he
has spent most of his waking life here. He arrived at the site soon after the
towers fell and for the next nine months he worked 12-hour days atop the rubble
searching for bodies. After the site was cleared, he founded a tribute centre
that houses a 9/11 exhibition and works with bereaved families.

Ielpi's son Jonathan, also a firefighter, was called out with the Queens-based
Squad 288 after the first plane struck and he was in the south tower helping
people escape when it came down. His body was discovered three months to the day
after the disaster; Ielpi carried his son out with his own hands.

Ielpi rattles off the key statistics, by now as familiar to him as his son's
name. "On this site 2,749 people were murdered in a matter of 102 minutes. There
are still 1,125 people missing, 10 years later. Only 174 whole bodies were
found. One of them was Jonathan."

Later, he says: "People ask me, 'It's been 10 years, what's it like?' Well, it's
like I haven't seen my son for 10 years. Nothing more than that."

Ielpi takes us on a tour of the 16-acre site, which, on 12 September will be
opened to the public for the first time. We walk around the footprint of the
south tower and come to a stop in front of an oak tree, one of 415 planted at
Ground Zero.

"This is the first time I've seen that guy blooming," Ielpi says. "I see it and
I think of my son. Twenty nine. Married with two little boys. Loved helping
people. Knew where he was going on the 11th, knew what he had to do. So yeah, I
look at this tree, and this is nice."

Jonathan's name is etched in a bronze panel that runs around the four sides of
the footprint of the south tower. Also named here are the other victims - those
on the aircraft, the emergency workers, and the victims of the Pentagon and
Pennsylvania crashes. A second tribute at the north tower bears the names of
those who died there as well as those killed in the first terror attack on the
World Trade Centre, on 26 February 1993. From Sunday both footprints will be
transformed into massive reflective pools with water falling 30 feet from their
edges.

"I can't tell you how powerful it is," Ielpi says. "I've stood by that edge and
listened as the water cascades down. If you want to hear somebody, there's a
good likelihood you're going to hear somebody."

Standing in the middle of Ground Zero, you can now start to appreciate the
fusion of commemoration and rebirth that is gathering pace. Next year the 9/11
Memorial Museum will open, running underneath the plaza and housing many
artefacts from the twin towers, including two enormous tridents from the north
tower that are already in place. In 2013 the fourth tower on the site, a
60-floor skyscraper designed by Fumihiko Maki that is now going up, is scheduled
to open, followed in January 2014 by 1 World Trade Centre.

Towers two and three, by the British architects Lord (Norman) Foster and Lord
(Richard) Rogers respectively, have yet to have firm completion dates.

The relief that there is something finally happening at the site is palpable. To
have had nothing to show a decade after the attacks would have been an enormous
embarrassment for New York and for America.

Part of the reason for the painfully slow progress has been physical - the World
Trade Centre was built on more than 20 metres of landfill on the Hudson river
which, added to the maze of commuter and subway lines that runs beneath it,
makes for a fiendishly complicated infrastructure.

But a less acceptable cause of delay has been the messy and at times ugly
interaction between the countless entities that have vied to control aspects of
the project, from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey that owns the
site, to the private developer Larry Silverstein who leases much of it, through
New York city, the railway and subway authorities, insurance companies, local
businesses and residents of Lower Manhattan and, of course, the relatives of
those who died.

Paul Goldberger, the New Yorker's architecture critic, who has tracked the
project over the last decade, says the rebuilding has been beset by "enormous
battles between all the participants who could not agree on what to do, how to
do it and who should pay for it". At its lowest point, the paralysis that took
hold after 9/11 made a mockery of New York's reputation as the can-do city where
anything is possible.

"That's a myth left over from another age. As New York has become older and more
mature, it has lost the we'll-do-it-no-matter-what attitude that it pioneered
but that now exists in places like Dubai or Singapore."

Goldberger has mixed feelings about the redevelopment as it takes shape. He
praises the memorial features of the project, with the footprints of the twin
towers as their centrepiece, which he thinks will honour the victims in a moving
and important way. But he harbours doubts about the buildings that will surround
the memorial, particularly 1 World Trade Centre. Designed by the American
architect David Childs, it has gone through several incarnations, each one more
conventional than the last.

"It's going to be a good building, but no more than that," Goldberger says. "We
lost the opportunity to build a great building by being overly conservative in
the design, overly concerned with security. It saddens me that we didn't take
this opportunity to reassert American leadership. America is where the
skyscraper began. We could have taken this piece of land, in the city of
skyscrapers, and built the greenest, most exciting and innovative skyscraper
that will show a whole new direction. We didn't do that."

Despite the reservations of the city's pre-eminent architecture critic,
commercially 1 World Trade Centre looks set on a path towards success. Tara
Stacom, vice chairman of Cushman & Wakefield, the property firm handling the
leasing of the office space, predicts it will be the "most important building in
the western hemisphere - it's going to be the coolest, hippest place to work and
live."

She says a range of media and law firms, entertainment companies and financial
businesses have expressed interest in taking up space, including some from
Europe and the UK. In the biggest deal to date, the magazine publisher Conde
Nast has signed up for one million square feet - more than a third of the
building.

When the idea of another vast tower, which on completion will be the tallest in
the Americas, was first suggested, sceptics argued that it would never be built
because nobody would ever want to sit in an office high in the New York sky for
fear of a repeat attack. But Stacom insists that has not been a worry for
prospective clients. "When we tour the site it's all about what an incredible
place this is going to be."

Back at Ground Zero, overlooking the pool at the south tower where his son died,
Lee Ielpi says it's time to move on. "There are some family members - and you
can understand it - who can't get beyond 9/11. Their loved ones were taken away
in a horrible way. But you have to get on. You never forget, but if you don't
get on you're going to be trapped."

Ielpi believes that when the rebuilding is finally finished, it will radiate its
message far beyond the limits of Manhattan, of New York or even of the US.
"We're putting a memorial here, a museum here, we are going to remember our
loved ones, and then we are going to surround it with beautiful buildings to
replace those that were destroyed through hatred. We're going to show the
terrorists that through our resilience - ours, as a world's - we can do it. We
will overcome the obstructions that come along."

Captions:

New buildings rise around the memorial footprints of the twin towers at Ground
Zero Photograph: Mario Tama/Getty Images

Moment of truth

George Bush is told by his chief of staff, Andy Card, of the attack at the World
Trade Centre while sitting with children at a Florida primary School on 11
September 2001

Photograph: Win McNamee/Reuters

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            September 5, 2011 Monday

Front: 9/11 ten years on From the rubble of the twin towers: Long-delayed
monument to US resilience rises from the ashes: In the first part of our series
marking the anniversary of the terror attacks on the US, Ed Pilkington looks at
the long-awaited skyscraper rising from Ground Zero

BYLINE: Ed Pilkington

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1635 words


When the twin towers collapsed that day, they left behind two giant holes in the
world's most famous skyline, like missing milk teeth in a child's smile. Once
the dust cloud - visible 20 miles away - had settled, all that remained was a
cathedral-sized mound of rubble and over 3m cubic metres of air.

In the subsequent decade, New Yorkers have instinctively turned to the twin
towers to orientate themselves, only to find nothing there.

But over the last few months, and with the 10th anniversary of the 21st
century's most notorious event imminent, a new structure has started to stretch
upwards, piercing the skyline, its roof sprouting cranes like the leaves of a
young plant. The building already stands boldly above the others around it and
it is only two-thirds complete. With every week that passes, it is claiming its
status as the pre-eminent Manhattan landmark.

By early next year it will supersede the Empire State Building in height. Even
now it draws the eye, particularly at night when its construction lights twinkle
like a brooch from Tiffany.

This week the tower stands at 80 floors and counting. It is going up at the rate
of a floor a week, the product of 24/7 activity by a team of 1,100 workers. By
the time it opens, it will be 104 floors; a beacon will take it to the
historically resonant height of 1,776ft (541 metres).

Up on the 55th floor of the emerging skyscraper - once called Freedom Tower but
now known by the more temperate name 1 World Trade Centre - the stunning views
are ample evidence of the building's potential. You can see way across the
water, beyond Ellis Island and Lady Liberty to New Jersey, while below us, the
memorial gardens are being assembled

in honour of those who died. "This is the worst disaster in our country's
history and we're up 55 storeys and climbing," says Lee Ielpi, a New York
firefighter who knows more about Ground Zero than most. For the past 10 years he
has spent most of his waking life here. He arrived at the site soon after the
towers fell and for the next nine months he worked 12-hour days atop the rubble
searching for bodies. After the site was cleared, he founded a tribute centre
that houses a 9/11 exhibition and works with bereaved families.

Ielpi's son Jonathan, also a firefighter, was called out with the Queens-based
Squad 288 after the first plane struck and he was in the south tower helping
people escape when it came down. His body was discovered three months to the day
after the disaster; Ielpi carried his son out with his own hands.

Ielpi rattles off the key statistics, by now as familiar to him as his son's
name. "On this site 2,749 people were murdered in a matter of 102 minutes. There
are still 1,125 people missing, 10 years later. Only 174 whole bodies were
found. One of them was Jonathan."

Later, he says: "People ask me, 'It's been 10 years, what's it like?' Well, it's
like I haven't seen my son for 10 years. Nothing more than that."

Ielpi takes us on a tour of the 16-acre site, which, on 12 September will be
opened to the public for the first time. We walk around the footprint of the
south tower and come to a stop in front of an oak tree, one of 415 planted at
Ground Zero.

"This is the first time I've seen that guy blooming," Ielpi says. "I see it and
I think of my son. Twenty nine. Married with two little boys. Loved helping
people. Knew where he was going on the 11th, knew what he had to do. So yeah, I
look at this tree, and this is nice."

Jonathan's name is etched in a bronze panel that runs around the four sides of
the footprint of the south tower. Also named here are the other victims - those
on the aircraft, the emergency workers, and the victims of the Pentagon and
Pennsylvania crashes. A second tribute at the north tower bears the names of
those who died there as well as those killed in the first terror attack on the
World Trade Centre, on 26 February 1993. From Sunday both footprints will be
transformed into massive reflective pools with water falling 30 feet from their
edges.

"I can't tell you how powerful it is," Ielpi says. "I've stood by that edge and
listened as the water cascades down. If you want to hear somebody, there's a
good likelihood you're going to hear somebody."

Standing in the middle of Ground Zero, you can now start to appreciate the
fusion of commemoration and rebirth that is gathering pace. Next year the 9/11
Memorial Museum will open, running underneath the plaza and housing many
artefacts from the twin towers, including two enormous tridents from the north
tower that are already in place. In 2013 the fourth tower on the site, a
60-floor skyscraper designed by Fumihiko Maki that is now going up, is scheduled
to open, followed in January 2014 by 1 World Trade Centre.

Towers two and three, by the British architects Lord (Norman) Foster and Lord
(Richard) Rogers respectively, have yet to have firm completion dates.

The relief that there is something finally happening at the site is palpable. To
have had nothing to show a decade after the attacks would have been an enormous
embarrassment for New York and for America.

Part of the reason for the painfully slow progress has been physical - the World
Trade Centre was built on more than 20 metres of landfill on the Hudson river
which, added to the maze of commuter and subway lines that runs beneath it,
makes for a fiendishly complicated infrastructure.

But a less acceptable cause of delay has been the messy and at times ugly
interaction between the countless entities that have vied to control aspects of
the project, from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey that owns the
site, to the private developer Larry Silverstein who leases much of it, through
New York city, the railway and subway authorities, insurance companies, local
businesses and residents of Lower Manhattan and, of course, the relatives of
those who died.

Paul Goldberger, the New Yorker's architecture critic, who has tracked the
project over the last decade, says the rebuilding has been beset by "enormous
battles between all the participants who could not agree on what to do, how to
do it and who should pay for it". At its lowest point, the paralysis that took
hold after 9/11 made a mockery of New York's reputation as the can-do city where
anything is possible.

"That's a myth left over from another age. As New York has become older and more
mature, it has lost the we'll-do-it-no-matter-what attitude that it pioneered
but that now exists in places like Dubai or Singapore."

Goldberger has mixed feelings about the redevelopment as it takes shape. He
praises the memorial features of the project, with the footprints of the twin
towers as their centrepiece, which he thinks will honour the victims in a moving
and important way. But he harbours doubts about the buildings that will surround
the memorial, particularly 1 World Trade Centre. Designed by the American
architect David Childs, it has gone through several incarnations, each one more
conventional than the last.

"It's going to be a good building, but no more than that," Goldberger says. "We
lost the opportunity to build a great building by being overly conservative in
the design, overly concerned with security. It saddens me that we didn't take
this opportunity to reassert American leadership. America is where the
skyscraper began. We could have taken this piece of land, in the city of
skyscrapers, and built the greenest, most exciting and innovative skyscraper
that will show a whole new direction. We didn't do that."

Despite the reservations of the city's pre-eminent architecture critic,
commercially 1 World Trade Centre looks set on a path towards success. Tara
Stacom, vice chairman of Cushman & Wakefield, the property firm handling the
leasing of the office space, predicts it will be the "most important building in
the western hemisphere - it's going to be the coolest, hippest place to work and
live."

She says a range of media and law firms, entertainment companies and financial
businesses have expressed interest in taking up space, including some from
Europe and the UK. In the biggest deal to date, the magazine publisher Conde
Nast has signed up for one million square feet - more than a third of the
building.

When the idea of another vast tower, which on completion will be the tallest in
the Americas, was first suggested, sceptics argued that it would never be built
because nobody would ever want to sit in an office high in the New York sky for
fear of a repeat attack. But Stacom insists that has not been a worry for
prospective clients. "When we tour the site it's all about what an incredible
place this is going to be."

Back at Ground Zero, overlooking the pool at the south tower where his son died,
Lee Ielpi says it's time to move on. "There are some family members - and you
can understand it - who can't get beyond 9/11. Their loved ones were taken away
in a horrible way. But you have to get on. You never forget, but if you don't
get on you're going to be trapped."

Ielpi believes that when the rebuilding is finally finished, it will radiate its
message far beyond the limits of Manhattan, of New York or even of the US.
"We're putting a memorial here, a museum here, we are going to remember our
loved ones, and then we are going to surround it with beautiful buildings to
replace those that were destroyed through hatred. We're going to show the
terrorists that through our resilience - ours, as a world's - we can do it. We
will overcome the obstructions that come along."

Captions:

New buildings rise around the memorial footprints of the twin towers at Ground
Zero Photograph: Mario Tama/Getty Images

Moment of truth

George Bush is told by his chief of staff, Andy Card, of the attack at the World
Trade Centre while sitting with children at a Florida primary School on 11
September 2001

Photograph: Win McNamee/Reuters

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            September 5, 2011 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

US WARNS OF SMALL PLANE TERROR RISK;
ATTACK

BYLINE: STEPHEN WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 151 words


The US has issued a nationwide warning about al-Qaeda threats to small aircraft,
days before the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks.

The FBI and homeland Security said there is no specific or credible terrorist
threat as the nation prepares to mark the 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center
and Pentagon, but they are taking precautionary measures.

They said as recently as early this year al-Qaeda was considering ways to attack
planes, adding terrorists may try to rent private jets and load them with
explosives.

The law-enforcement bulletin said: "Al-Qaeda is interested in aviation training,
particularly on small aircraft, and in recruiting Western individuals for
training."

It added: "We do not have current, credible intelligence of an imminent attack."

Describing the bulletin as routine, homeland Security said: "We shared this to
highlight a need for vigilance." Brit's 9/11 escape: Page 27

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR 10 years ago

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 5, 2011 Monday 4:04 PM GMT

Boris Johnson: 'people believe a load of tripe about 9/11';
At the unveiling of a new memorial to the victims of 9/11, Mayor of London Boris
Johnson hopes for a "controlled demolition" of the "weird conspiracy theories"
circulating about the terrorist attacks.

LENGTH: 96 words


The Mayor of London said that people believed "a load of tripe about 9/11" and
he wanted to "remind people of tragedy that happened."

The memorial unveiled in Battersea Park is a sculpture by New York artist Miya
Ando made from remains of The World Trade Center and entitled 'After 9/11'.

Mr Johnson said he thought the sculpture was "very powerful and would attract a
lot of attention."

"On 9/11 never forget that more Britons died in that attack than in any other
terrorist attack in this country."

"It was very much an attack on our country as it was on America," he added.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 6, 2011 Tuesday 12:02 AM GMT

9/11: Can we count the real cost?;
Putting a figure on the financial repercussions of the terrorist attack is an
ongoing puzzle

BYLINE: By Stephen Foley in New York

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 740 words


In lives taken that one day, we know. But in treasure? What has been the
financial cost of the atrocities in Lower Manhattan, Washington and Pennsylvania
10 years ago this weekend?

It takes only a few moments from asking the question to realise that there could
never be a neat number. The devastation and rebuilding of the World Trade Centre
itself, the economic fallout in the wake of the attack, the costs (and benefits)
of a completely new approach to security, the war in Afghanistan... there are
numerous ways of counting the expense involved in all of these. And what else to
include? The thread that drew President George W Bush and his administration
from 9/11 to invade Iraq argues for including the costs of that war, too.

All seven of the World Trade Centre site buildings were destroyed on 11
September 2001, and it took years even to settle the insurance cost of the
losses. Larry Silverstein, the developer, had insured the site for $3.5bn, but
that was a sum that would hardly cover the rebuilding costs, let alone the
losses in rent. He argued in court that each plane constituted a separate
attack, justifying two $3.5bn payouts; the matter was resolved only in 2007,
when insurers agreed to pay up to $4.55bn to Mr Silverstein and the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the land. Construction of the
new One World Trade Centre skyscraper, popularly known as the Freedom Tower,
will have cost more than $6bn by the time it opens in 2013.

President Bush never explicitly told Americans to "go shopping", as is often
claimed, but his message in the days after 9/11 was clear. "I ask your continued
participation and confidence in the American economy," he said. The US had just
weathered the bursting of the dotcom bubble with only a mild recession, but the
immediate consensus of forecasters was that the shock of the attacks could
freeze the economy. That did not happen.

After a short, sharp contraction in spending, and despite a drop in tourism that
actually continued until last year, economic activity rebounded strongly -
thanks in part to Alan Greenspan at the Federal Reserve, who cut interest rates
in the days after 9/11. (Economists who blame Mr Greenspan's low rates policy
for inflating the housing bubble are wont to pile the costs of the credit crisis
on to the 9/11 ledger, as well.)

The US federal government has tripled its spending on homeland security since
2001, and has spent $360bn through the newly created Department of Homeland
Security in the past decade. Much of that would have been spent anyway,
including the enhanced measures to combat Islamic terrorism, though teasing out
how much is impossible.

On the one hand, terrorism was not a threat that began with 9/11; on the other,
it may have been exacerbated by the US response. In their book, Terror, Security
and Money, John Mueller and Mark Stewart calculate that the private sector and
branches of the US government spent a further $330bn on security, and the costs
multiply as you add in other threatened countries, such as the UK. And the
hundreds of billions turn to trillions when you add up the costs of the wars.
The most comprehensive study of the military actions in Iraq, Afghanistan and
Pakistan concluded that the price tag is $4 trillion and rising. The Costs of
War project led by the Eisenhower Research Project at Brown University's Watson
Institute for International Studies points out that the Pentagon's bills of $1.2
trillion are just a fraction of the total cost. The US has already paid $185bn
in interest on its debt-funded war spending, and another $1 trillion could
accrue in interest alone through 2020. Healthcare obligations to veterans will
add up to $950bn, according to the study.

Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel prize-winning economist who co-wrote The Three
Trillion Dollar War in 2008, about the conflict in Iraq, puts the costs
incalculably higher. In an article to mark the tenth anniversary of 9/11, he
wrote: "The wars contributed to America's macroeconomic weaknesses, which
exacerbated its deficits and debt burden. Then, as now, disruption in the Middle
East led to higher oil prices, forcing Americans to spend money on oil imports
that they otherwise could have spent buying US goods. The Federal Reserve hid
these weaknesses by engineering a housing bubble that led to a consumption boom.
It will take years to overcome the excessive indebtedness and real-estate
overhang that resulted."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 6, 2011 Tuesday 10:11 AM GMT

The Twins of Twin Towers, BBC One, preview;
Toby Dantzic previews The Twins of Twin Towers (BBC One), a poignant documentary
telling the story of people whose twins died in terrorist attacks on the World
Trade Center on September 11, 2001.

BYLINE: By Toby Dantzic

LENGTH: 258 words


There will be many tributes to mark the 10th anniversary of those who died on
9/11 . Olivia Lichtenstein's film offers an unusual and particularly poignant
view. Of the almost 3,000 people who perished in the attacks on the Twin Towers,
as many as 46 were twins. Lichtenstein meets some of the surviving twins and
gives voice to the sense of loss they felt when their sibling died.

The effect of her documentary is twofold. We are reminded again of the confusion
and terror that spread that day. We also get an insight into the bond between
twins and how it colours their lives. Childhood memories, snapshots of the day
itself, and the effects of grief are movingly told here.

Greg Hoffman (pictured far left), who lost his brother Stephen, remembers the
young pair's kinship with the towers, the feeling that "they're our buildings".
Dan D'Allara was sitting in a bar, calm in the knowledge that his policeman
brother John was on rescue duty. When the South Tower fell, he knew instantly
that John had been killed. Linda McGee became a recluse after her sister Brenda
died. "I had poor social skills because I was a twin," she says wryly, "we were
always together". The survivors have found solace in a support group set up by
Hoffman's wife, Aileen. Aileen was desperate to help her near-suicidal husband:
"A big part of him died on 9/11... and it took a long time to come back."

'The Twins of the Twin Towers' is on BBC One on Tuesday 6 September at 10.35pm
(N Ireland, 11.35pm; Scotland, 11.25pm; not Wales)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

When I got off the subway it was like stepping into a War of the Worlds movie
...;
EYE WITNESS Scots-born journalist Linda Barr O Flanaghan arrived at the scene
minutes after the terror attack

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1150 words


THERE was a 5.8 earthquake in Virginia recently   that s nearly 200 miles from
New York City. We felt the tremors here, though.

At my office in the Flatiron District on 22nd Street, it felt like a gale had
just blown through the 22-storey building.

For a few minutes, there was an air of slight panic in the office as people
wondered what had caused it.

Within 10 minutes, the internet lit up with reports that an earthquake had
struck.

That momentary fear eased and a collective sigh of relief seemed to whisper:  It
was only an earthquake.

I suppose that s one of the hangovers from September 11. An aeroplane flying too
low over Manhattan, an explosion by workers building the new Second Avenue
subway deep underground, even a car back-firing, can still cause a collective
shudder among New Yorkers who remember the day the towers came down.

I was in a similar office back in 2001, working on a newspaper that covered the
East Side community of Stuyvesant Town.

September 11, 2001 was election day for the new city council and I was headed
downtown to interview a candidate at a polling station.

When I got off the subway at 9th Street, it was like stepping into a War of the
Worlds movie.

Traffic was at a standstill. People had got out of their cars and everyone stood
silently staring at the smoke belching from the North Tower.

There was an audible gasp as the second plane hit. An explosion erupted in the
side of the other tower and a ball of flame shot out.

People realised then that this was no accident.

It seems weird to me now, but perhaps being a reporter really is in my blood and
not just something I do for a living. My focus switched to getting pictures of
the carnage and talking to as many people as I could who were walking up from
Ground Zero, as it would soon become known.

I remember one woman begging a truck driver to take her off the island. The
subways had shut down and thousands of people were walking north, not quite sure
where they were going or what they were going to do.

I made my way further downtown to Beth Israel Hospital on the corner of Union
Square before soldiers carrying machine guns blocked my path   no-one was being
allowed to enter the  attack zone .

A triage centre had been set up and, by this time, ambulances were returning
from the scene.

The emergency medical technicians and their vehicles were covered in a white
dust.

The men looked bewildered. None had carried any injured from the scene.

In fact, the immediate rush of casualties never materialised as it soon became
apparent that, for those who had been in the Twin Towers, there was nothing in
the middle   you were dead or alive.

I spent the night in my office listening to the  city that never sleeps  live
through its worst nightmare.

The only way to get off Manhattan was by ferry. Hundreds had been deployed to
carry terrified New Yorkers away.

But it was too late for me.

I worked to prepare my newspaper for print the next morning, wondering whether
that would actually happen.

The streets that normally bustle with activity 24 hours a day were muted in a
silence interrupted only by the occasional wail of a fire truck or police car.

Hotlines had been set up for families to call if they had loved ones they were
concerned about.

My family was all back in Scotland, but in the several years I d lived here, I d
met many folk in my new home-town of Hoboken, a favorite among the stockbrokers
who made the daily ferry commute to work in the World Financial Centre.

I called. None had been  accounted for   so far.

In the days that followed, I learned that some were safe, others had perished.

They were mourned during hushed and tearful gatherings in Hoboken s famous Mile
Square of pubs where people just walked in to find someone they could talk to.
That was a surprise in a city as gritty as New York.

Strangers began to talk randomly on the streets   not just crazy cart-pushers
begging for a dime. Just regular folks asking how you were. Community groups
rallied to raise money and collect supplies.

People lined up outside hospitals to donate blood that wasn t needed. Kids sang
about the Land of the Brave at prayer meetings in city parks.

For the next several weeks, I attended more funerals than I had attended in my
whole life.

Many of the 343 firemen who died came from Stuyvesant Town and it was my job to
write them an obituary that could be cut out and saved by their family members,
handed down to their kids and pasted in scrapbooks.

It was a big job and it took me into the lives of everyday people who did
extraordinary things the day terrorists came to New York City.

In the 10 years since, New York and its people have dealt with the aftermath in
many ways.

Political bickering   and then a global recession   has plagued the rebuilding
of the site, which slowly became a kind of morbid tourist attraction as millions
flocked to see the gaping hole caused by two crash-landed jetliners.

I changed jobs and began covering the commercial real estate industry   the
business of who buys, sells and builds the world s most famous skyscrapers.

While I admit I did it for the money, the job has opened my eyes to not only the
billions that change hands every year maintaining a city like this, but what it
takes to keep it safe.

For while there is still a tinge of fear at every loud bang, but there is also a
resoluteness that September 11 will never happen again.

Engineers who studied the WTC wreckage consulted on the city s new building
codes, which now mandate special bearings that protect the foundations of new
buildings.

The light rail system from the John F  Kennedy international airport has been
fitted with shock absorbers.

The Brooklyn Bridge and other East River crossings have been strengthened with
steel girders.

Even the shape of buildings has been changed. The shiny and hexagonal-shaped
Hearst Tower might look spectacular, but the building s lobby and cafeteria were
created larger than other floors, decreasing the chances of a collapse.

And the corners of more elaborate buildings that can weaken and crack under the
stress of an explosion have had expansion joints installed to minimise damage.

Chemical detectors have been installed in the underground system and the civil
liberties folk are getting quieter over the use of CCTVs.

An alert system tells us when to worry and when to really worry.

Several failed plots to bomb buildings and planes have been thwarted by police
now drilled in international terrorism as part of the curriculum.

Of course, we still get the jitters, like when the Virginia earthquake struck.

But, as President Obama says, we now have the  audacity to hope that at least we
are better prepared.

AMONG the thousands

of dazed witnesses to the 9/11 attacks on New York was Scots-born journalist
Linda Barr O Flanagan.

Here, 10 years on,

she tells

RUSSELL LEADBETTER of her

memories of that day -

and talks about how the city has learned to move on.


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday

Minister says India bomb blast was 'terrorist attack'

LENGTH: 231  words


India's Home Minister says the bomb at the New Delhi High Court that killed at
least ten people and injured 47 was a "terrorist attack".

India's Home Minister says the bomb blast at the New Delhi High Court that
killed at least ten people and injured 47 was a "terrorist attack".

Palaniappan Chidambaram said: "We are clear in our mind, that there is no cause
that will justify terrorist acts. The government unequivocally condemns the
terrorist attack that took place."

"At this point in time, I appeal to the house and the people of the country,
that we must remain resolute and united.

"We are determined to track down the perpetrators of this horrific crime and
bring them to justice."

It is being reported that the blast could have been caused by a bomb inside a
briefcase.

Many lawyers were seen running out of the the building's main gates, the busiest
entrance to the court.

Police cordoned off the area, not far from the parliament and the Prime
Minister's office.

India is investigating an email allegedly sent by the South Asian militant group
Harkat-ul-Jihad Islami (HUJI) claiming responsibility for the attack, according
to a senior Indian security official.

The outlawed HUJI has bases in Pakistan and Bangladesh.

The claim of responsibility came as India's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was on
an official visit to Bangladesh, the first visit by an Indian Prime Minister in
12 years.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2011 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

KNIFE THUGS SLASH SCHOOLBOY'S THROAT;
Innocent victim rushed to hospital after terror attack

BYLINE: GAVIN McINALLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 453 words


AN INNOCENT teenage boy had his throat slashed in a vicious knife attack.

The 14-year-old victim was walking home alone when two hooded thugs lashed out
without warning, punching him and then slicing open the side of his neck.

He was rushed to the Royal Alexandra Hospital for treatment and needed six
stitches to close the wound.

Doctors are also waiting for the swelling to go down on a wound to his eye
before checking if further damage has been done to his skull during the
unprovoked assault.

Police are now hunting the two thugs responsible, who they believe are aged
around 16 or 17.

Last night, the young victim, who lives in Erskine, was recovering at home and
was still in shock.

The family was too upset to speak but one source revealed: "This was a vicious
attack on a genuinely decent young lad who was simply walking home when he was
targeted by a couple of violent thugs.

"Without warning, the boy was punched in the face and what he thought was a
second punch in the neck turned out to be a knife attack.

"He saw one of the guys going into his pocket but he had no idea it was for a
weapon.

"After they left him bleeding and in shock, they shouted abuse at him and ran
off.

"The boy managed to make his way home but was then taken to hospital for
stitches to his wound and he has still to have an X-ray on his eye once the
swelling goes down.

"This was a particularly shocking case of needless violence. He is just a young
boy who hadn't done anything wrong or said anything to anyone. He was only
walking home but ended up having his throat slashed.

"He is understandably in a terrible state about the attack and is now recovering
at home with his family."

Police have issued a public appeal for information to help trace the two
attackers.

Detective Superintendent Jim Connolly said: "This unprovoked attack took place
at 7.05pm on Sunday, September 4, near to the underpass at Parkgate in Erskine.

"The victim was walking home when he was approached by two teenage males,
described as around 16 to 17 years of age and around 6ft tall.

"He was punched in the face and suffered an eye wound before being slashed on
the left side of his neck and he required hospital treatment."

Both attackers were wearing hooded tops. The first thug was wearing a black top
with black cotton trousers and the second yob had a distinctive royal blue top
with a white Adidas logo horizontally across the chest and grey cuffs and
waistband.

Mr Connolly added: "We are treating this attack as a serious assault and would
like to hear from anyone who has information about the incident."

Information can be passed on to police by calling 0141 435 1007. Alternatively,
call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ATTACK SCENE: The 14-year-old victim was set upon near this underpass

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 7, 2011 Wednesday 7:00 AM GMT

The 9/11 documentaries, review;
Benji Wilson reviews a selection of the documentaries shown so far that
commemorate the September 11 terrorist attacks.

BYLINE: By Benji Wilson

LENGTH: 770 words


September 11 was the most visible tragedy in history. Apart from a few thousand
people in lower Manhattan, almost all of us saw it unfurl on television. If
there is a single uniting factor between the many, disparate commemorative
documentaries showing this week it is that they all contain pictures of people,
including President Bush, staring dumbfounded at a flickering screen.

There have already been several excellent 9/11 documentaries in the past few
days, including Leslie Woodhead's film, The Day That Changed the World (ITV1,
Thursday), and there are plenty more to come, but they all start with video -
specifically four pieces of footage that we have all seen many times already.
The first plane, the second plane, the collapse of the South Tower and the
collapse of the North Tower.

Any documentary about 9/11 cannot avoid using these images, because no matter
how familiar they are, the sight of someone committing coordinated mass murder
never ceases to shock.

Watching a plethora of documentaries back to back I found that, if anything, the
sight of American Airlines Flight 11 crashing into the North Tower and all that
followed is now even more nauseatingly hypnotic than it appeared the first time
I saw it, in the old Telegraph offices in Canary Wharf, not long before we ran
from the building ourselves.

Last night's The Twins of the Twin Towers on BBC One was moving and worthwhile
but as the title suggests, it smacked of a documentary-maker in search of an
angle. They found one - out of the nearly 3,000 people who died, 46 were twins.
The film-makers tracked down six of them who had lost "their other half" and let
them tell their stories. Several had grown up in the Sixties and early Seventies
when the Towers were being constructed. To some the identical pairing seemed to
represent their own unity with their twin, and when the buildings collapsed, so
did their lives.

Telling a big story through lots of little ones in this way is good history as
well as acutely moving television. Essentially, though, this was a meditation on
bereavement, grief and the numbness that follows. The twins/Twins trope was just
a way in, serving much the same function as the children in Channel 4's Children
of 9/11, which will be broadcast this Sunday at 9.00pm and talks to 11 children
whose parents died. All are trying to find something new to say about what must
be, after the Holocaust, the most discussed tragedy in history. Because 9/11 was
also the most videoed tragedy ever, there are reams of "unseen footage", but
whether new film clips deliver new insight is moot. On this evidence - not
really. Just more pain.

Crowing about "previously unseen footage" was the sole blemish on9/11: Emergency
Room (Monday, Channel 4), which was otherwise exemplary. The Emergency Room in
the title was New York's tiny Downtown Hospital, 500 metres from the South
Tower. It became the epicentre of a medical emergency it was entirely unprepared
to deal with. This, in the face of a catastrophe that was compounded every 20
minutes or so by another catastrophe - the ambulances stuck in traffic, the
radios breaking down, the collapsing tower destroying the makeshift triage
centre - as if a plane hitting a skyscraper, twice, wasn't enough.

Unlike the twins documentary, which showed that the truth about losing a loved
one is that it will hurt deeply for the rest of your life and that's that,
Emergency Room had something inspiring to offer - the unbelievable commitment of
the hospital staff and the gratitude of the people whose lives they saved. As
one paramedic said, "When the chips are down, a small number of people can do an
amazing amount." This, though he didn't realise it, was also an ironic comment
on the smouldering pile of steel and concrete behind him.

What did George W Bush do when the chips were down? Well, according to him, in
George W Bush: the 9/11 Interview on National Geographic last night, "I stayed
calm." Again, we've all seen the pictures - he didn't look calm. He looked like
a startled marmot. "Instantly I clarified my job," he went on to the unseen
interviewer. "That's to protect people."

More hard-nosed programmes such as the second part of Peter Taylor's excellent
The Secret War on Terror (tonight, times vary), or tomorrow's Question Time
special (10.35pm) and Friday's extended Newsnight (10.30pm), will offer their
verdict on how well Bush went about protecting people, in the light of 10 years
of war, insurgency and terrorism. This week's television has plenty of other
examples of people who stayed calm and looked to help others, while the world
looked on in disbelief.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           September 8, 2011 Thursday
                                   2 Edition

STRANDED The day world travel came to a halt as jets were grounded in wake of
terror attack;
CHAOS, TEARS AND NO WAY HOME

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 935 words


FIRST there was fear, then there were tears, then there was chaos.

The closure of US airspace implemented  until further notice  after the 9/11
terror  attacks on New York and Washington left thousands of passengers
stranded.

Many flights bound for the US and Canada from Britain and  Europe were turned
back to airports including Glasgow.

The unexpected  presence of so many unexpected travellers was a logistical
nightmare for staff.

To make matters worse, Glasgow hotels were already full to the brim   every last
room had been taken up by an estimated 10,000  scientists attending a diabetes
conference.

The hundreds of passengers who had been diverted to Glasgow were ferried to
Ayrshire, Edinburgh,  Aberdeenshire and even Newcastle.

Glasgow Caledonian University helped come to the rescue with 150 student rooms.

It was harrowing for any American  travelling yesterday,  Eddie Friel, the then
boss of Greater Glasgow and Clyde Valley Tourist Board, said on September 12.

We phoned as many potential accommodation suppliers as we could get   and
eventually cracked it.

We ve used everything we ve got. I think we were left with only two rooms in
Edinburgh.

One US delegate at the diabetes conference told how he had been in Glasgow s
Horse Shoe Bar, watching a football game on TV, when news came through of the
disaster.

He did not know if his younger sister, who worked at the World Trade Centre, had
escaped the carnage.

At Glasgow Airport, security was increased and there were extra police on duty.

Many US visitors to Scotland were unable to get home   and many were deeply
worried about the fate of families and friends.

Among them was James Hammond and his sister Cheryl, who said:  We tried all day
to call friends and relatives but couldn t get through.

They eventually succeeded ... by email.

Speaking at the time, one 81-year-old war  veteran, from Missouri, said:  We are
totally devastated. I want to go home.

A 44-year-old woman from New York, said:  I may have lost friends. Waiting is
hell.

One Canadian, 23-year-old Maria Micoletti, whose Frankfurt-to-Calgary flight was
diverted to Glasgow, said:  We saw the news in a pub and we have been reading
the papers.

It is disgusting.

Many Glaswegians rang the airlines and the tourist board to  offer stranded
travellers space in their own homes. It wasn t until Thursday, September 13
two days after the terror attacks   that the huge transatlantic backlog began to
be cleared.

US passengers on the first flight from Glasgow, an American Airlines sservice to
Chicago, took off at 3.30pm on the Friday.

They were overjoyed to be going home. Many were in tears as they  finally
received their tickets.

One stewardess said:  The people of Glasgow have been so compassionate towards
us. They felt the same pain as us.

Margo and George  Earley, from Oregon, had been spending three weeks in Scotland
to celebrate their Golden Wedding.

Mrs Earley, 70, said:  We d been in the air 30 minutes heading for Chicago when
we were forced back to Glasgow.

The enormity of Tuesday hasn t sunk in yet. I feel heartsick, but we were
greatly touched by the sympathy of Scots.

Steve Simone, a business manager from Florida, added:  Tuesday was a tremendous
shock. I feel dismayed. I m cautious about flying but extra precautions have
been taken and security has been visibly heightened, so I hope things will be
okay.

The cancellation of transatlantic flights also caused huge problems on the other
side of the Atlantic.

Around 100,000 UK tourists and business travellers were in New York the day the
Twin Towers fell.

They included Lulu, the Glasgow-born singer, who had been  recording in the Big
Apple. Many other Scots were stranded in Canada.

Some had been on a flight from Cancun, in Mexico, to Glasgow, which was diverted
to Newfoundland.

One man and his 14-year-old son, who had been flying from Glasgow to San Diego,
were diverted to Montreal.

The next day, they checked out of their hotel room, went to the airport to be
told they were still grounded.

They then rang the hotel   only to be told their room was no  longer available.

Glasgow man Craig Morton was stranded in Vancouver.

Obviously it s an inconvenience,  he said.  But then you think - at least I get
to go home and I m safe.

There were many tears when the first Scots passengers finally arrived back home.

At Glasgow, one businessman, re-united with his partner and their 18-month-old
daughter, said:  I was very scared.

I was staying just a couple of miles away from the World Trade Centre and
watched it all on TV.

He added:  It was very frightening   nobody knew what was happening.

A 26-year-old chartered accountant was embraced by his parents as he walked
through the arrivals lounge.

Scots singer Lulu  arrived back at Heathrow on the Saturday.

It s terrible,  she said.  Words can t explain what it s like. I m very relieved
to be back.

And one woman  from New York, who arrived in Glasgow to begin a holiday with her
husband, said:  The fact we are here is a miracle in itself. We only live four
blocks away from the World Trade Centre and the first plane flew over my head,
so I saw it  happen. It is still surreal for me.

AS Americans reeled from the devastation of the terror attacks on September 9,
2001, tens of thousands of their compatriots were left stranded around the
world.

For those in Glasgow it was a case of  absorbing the news, trying to accept it
had happened and then the reality of not being able to get home.

RUSSELL LEADBETTER tells how the people of Glasgow and surrounding areas pulled
out the stops to help stranded Americans through the trauma of the days that
followed.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: * How the Evening Times reported the mass stranding of tourists on
September 12 * Singer Lulu was recording in New York when the Twin Towers fell *
Eddie Friel helped find accommodation for stranded Americans

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Harrow Times

                           September 8, 2011 Thursday

Harrow MP condemns terrorist attack in India

BYLINE: Suruchi Sharma

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 190 words


A HARROW MP has condemned a terrorist bombing attack at the High Court in New
Delhi in India yesterday.

Brent north MP, Barry Gardiner, who is chair of Labour Friends of India, urged
the British Government to offer assistance to the Indian Government in the wake
of the bombing.

The bomb exploded at 10am yesterday local time in India killing ten and injuring
at least 45 more people.

The bomb was left in a suitcase near to the security gate passed by hundreds of
people every day to enter the court.

No-one has claimed responsibility for the attack and both Delhi and Mumbai have
now been placed on high alert.

In July, 26 people died in three bomb explosions in Mumbai and the high court
was a target earlier this year in May when a bomb was detonated in the car park.

Mr Gardiner said: "My heart goes out to the victims and families affected by
this unforgivable atrocity.

"This second major terrorist attack on India this summer shows that we must
continue to be relentless in the international fight against terror.

"I will be doing everything in my power to ensure the British Government offers
its full support to the people of New Delhi. "

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 8, 2011 Thursday 7:43 PM GMT

September 11 anniversary: How America's worst terrorist attack unfolded;
The story of how the events of 9/11 unfolded in the 102 minutes that followed
the attack on the World Trade Center.

LENGTH: 158 words


From the stunned reaction of people on the ground in Manhattan when the first
plane hit the World Trade Center on September 11th 2001 to the moment when the
second tower collapsed 102 minutes later, most of that shocking day was caught
on video.

George W Bush's startled reaction to news of the attack, delivered while he was
sitting in a classroom of children is followed by the still breath-taking sight
of the second plane hitting the Twin Towers.

A security camera at the Pentagon catches the jerky approach of Flight 77 as it
slams into the building before the ghostly imprint of United Flight 93 is
revealed in a field south east of Pittsburgh.

Finally there is the desperate screaming of people on the ground in Manhattan as
the North Tower, and the remains of the World Trade Center collapse into dust
and rubble.

Watch videos taken on the day and interviews with eyewitnesses caught up in the
disaster

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 8, 2011 Thursday 9:05 AM GMT

Boris Johnson: 'people believe a load of tripe about 9/11';
At the unveiling of a new memorial to the victims of 9/11, Mayor of London Boris
Johnson hopes for a "controlled demolition" of the "weird conspiracy theories"
circulating about the terrorist attacks.

LENGTH: 118 words


The Mayor of London said that people believed "a load of tripe about  9/11 " and
he wanted to "remind people of tragedy that happened."

The memorial unveiled in Battersea Park is a sculpture by New York artist Miya
Ando made from remains of The World Trade Center and entitled 'After 9/11'.

Mr Johnson said he thought the sculpture was "very powerful and would attract a
lot of attention."

"On 9/11 never forget that more Britons died in that attack than in any other
terrorist attack in this country."

"It was very much an attack on our country as it was on America," he added.

Watch videos taken on the day and interviews with eyewitnesses caught up in the
disaster

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 9, 2011
                                 First Edition

UK terrorist attack is still a possibility;
The Opinion Matrix COMMENT FROM HOME & ABROAD HOW SAFE ARE WE?

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 106 words


BBC News Online The current threat level is "substantial". That's only the third
in a range of five, but it still means that an attack is thought to be a strong
possibility. While far more is known about terrorism at home and abroad, the
nature of the threat itself has diversified. (Frank Gardner) The Spectator
London remains a hub of international extremism. Still the security services
fight a daily battle against the European courts and campaign groups who seek to
put public safety behind the "rights" of terrorists. But Bin Laden has failed.
The clash of civilisations he longed to bring about is not happening. (Leading
article)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                               September 9, 2011
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Service to remember 9/11 terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 153 words


A MEMORIAL service is being held at the parish church in Edenbridge on Sunday
morning to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks on
New York and Washington. Father Stephen Mitchell, vicar of St Peter and St Paul,
in Church Street, said everyone was welcome at the 9.30am service.

Wars Fr Stephen said: "The service will commemorate an event which more than any
other has shaped the opening years of the 21st century. Two or three wars have
been the direct result of it, and an ongoing sense of conflict between the
western world and the more extreme elements of the Islamic world.

"This service is simply about focusing people's minds on those things which we
have in common with other cultures and religious traditions, as opposed to what
divides us."

Music at the service will include the choir singing Fauré's 'In Paradisum' and
Barber's 'Adagio for Strings' played on the organ by Simon Roberts.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KSC


                     Copyright 2011 Kent and Sussex Courier
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            September 9, 2011 Friday

UN marks 10th anniversary of terrorist attacks against United States

LENGTH: 421 words


September 9, 2011

The United Nations today marked the 10th anniversary of the 11 September 2001
terrorist attacks on the United States with a solemn commemoration in the
General Assembly Hall, music, poetry and a vow to intensify the battle against
terror wherever it is perpetrated in the world.



"11 September will mark our collective memory forever. We all remember what we
were doing when we heard what was happening. Our shock and disbelief at this
horror are indescribable,"Assembly President Joseph Deiss said in an opening
speech.

"We also want to be here to express our compassion and solidarity for all the
victims of terrorist acts who are attacked randomly and without respite
throughout the world. We are here to express our indignation at the cowardice of
terrorism, condemn it firmly and categorically, combat it and see that the
guilty are punished."

Mr. Deiss stressed that global action is crucial in responding to international
terrorism, which he called an "intolerable violation" of the purposes and
principles of the UN and its ideals of peace, security and friendship among
peoples.

"Given the proliferation of terrorist threats and actions, we must intensify our
efforts without delay," he declared. "It is urgent that we adopt the necessary
complements to the existing instruments."

Deputy Secretary-General Asha-Rose Migiro said "the attacks targeted more than
one single country; they were an assault on humanity itself, and on the
universal values of peace and dignity the United Nations was created to promote
and defend."

Ms. Migiro recalled that both the General Assembly and Security Council "joined
their voices in a chorus" to rapidly condemn the attacks and demand justice.

Since 2001, she noted, the UN has adopted a Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy,
the UN Alliance of Civilizations has been established to build bridges of trust
and understanding between peoples and cultures, and the world body has pushed
for countries to adhere to global treaties that seek to cut off funding and
support for terrorists.

"At the same time, we continue our long-standing work for peace, efforts that
encompass preventive diplomacy, supporting democracy and working to keep falling
States from descending into chaos."

During today's ceremony the New York City Symphony orchestra played music and
soloists Mzuri Moyo and David D'Or respectively sang Still I Rise and Amazing
Grace.

Inter-faith leaders read a poem by Maya Angelou, after which they lit a candle
together, followed by a minute of silence.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2011 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 9, 2011 Friday 10:17 PM GMT

9/11 anniversary: MI5 advises New York authorities on securing new World Trade
Center;
MI5 has been advising the New York authorities on how to secure the new World
Trade Center towers against future terrorist attacks, the Daily Telegraph has
learned.

BYLINE: By Jon Swaine New York

LENGTH: 579 words


Security Service officers have given detailed briefings to senior officials from
the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. It is understood that they
focused on the experience of dealing with IRA car and truck bombs in London
during the 1990s.

The disclosure came as Joe Biden, the US Vice President, warned intelligence
agents had detected a "specific and credible" threat of a vehicle-based attack,
perhaps on New York City or Washington, DC, around the tenth anniversary of
September 11. "We have talk about using a car bomb," said Mr Biden.

The possible plot is believed to revolve around three people who recently
arrived in the country, one of them a US citizen. Details are reported to have
emerged from CIA monitoring of "chatter" by a known al-Qaeda operative in
Pakistan, who has disclosed credible information in the past.

Both New York and Washington were already set to be on a high state of alert
this weekend. Thousands of people are due to attend ceremonies to mark the
almost 3,000 deaths on 9/11. Potential anniversary attacks were mentioned in
notebooks seized during the US raid on Osama Bin Laden's compound in Pakistan in
May, according to security officials.

President Barack Obama and former president George W. Bush are due to attend a
large service at Ground Zero in Manhattan on Sunday morning. On the eve of the
event, the deputy executive director of the Port Authority, which owns the site,
told The Daily Telegraph that British intelligence officers had been helping to
devise its security.

Bill Baroni said that via "briefings", he and his officials were "learning from
the experience that London has had, working with MI5 and the experience they've
had, to make sure this part of New York, and all of New York, continues to be
safe.".

David Samson, the chairman of the Port Authority's board of commissioners,
established a relationship with MI5 during a visit to London while he served as
New Jersey's attorney general. Mr Samson said he had visited to "learn how to
meet the threat of terrorism", adding: "They have been dealing with it for 30
years and have an extremely sophisticated system that works very well."

The IRA detonated a series of car and truck bombs at high-profile targets around
London - including Harrods, the City of London and Canary Wharf - throughout the
1980s and 1990s, killing several people.

One World Trade Center, the main replacement for the twin towers, which is due
to be completed in 2013, has been built with extraordinary security features in
anticipation of attempted repeat attacks.

The tower, which will stand 1,776 feet tall, is built on an 186-foot, windowless
pedestal designed to withstand a huge truck bomb. In February 1993, a truck
containing 1,500lb of explosives exploded in the underground garage of the old
North Tower, killing six people.

State-of-the-art scanners will check every person and vehicle coming in to the
complex for explosives. The tower also has a thick concrete spine and is wrapped
in thousands of 900lb panes of "shatterproof" glass. The stairwells have been
built extra-wide and designed to suck in air and push out smoke, and a special
lift system for emergency workers has been installed.

The site will also be patrolled by officers from the New York City police and
the Port Authority police. "It's being built in a way to be the strongest office
building ever constructed," said Mr Baroni. Larry Silverstein, the developer of
the site, promised that it was "impenetrable".

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 9, 2011 Friday 8:59 PM GMT

Post 9/11 America has become the land of the fearful;
The lasting damage of the al-Qaeda terrorist attacks has been to the mindset of
the Americans and their economy.

BYLINE: By Neil Tweedie

LENGTH: 1441 words


There is something sinister in the term Homeland Security. Homeland sounds a
little too like Fatherland for comfort, a place demanding unthinking loyalty.
Very un-American, one might imagine, but then Americans are not as free-wheeling
as they like to think they are. Most of them like rules, enforced with a brand
of passive aggression all the more unsettling for being delivered with a smile
as bright as it is indifferent.

They don't even manage the smile at JFK when you hand over your passport. Well,
some do. Things have lightened a little since the early post 9/11 era when any
foreigner was an object of suspicion. The Orwellian technology remains, however:
the fingerprint scanner and camera, adding you to some vast, churning database,
and increasingly for those boarding flights in the United States, the hugely
intrusive whole-body scanner. Land of the Free-ish.

Yet, this stuff, billions of dollars worth of it, doesn't work. On Thursday
night, the minute after President Barack Obama finished his speech to Congress
on how he proposed to get 14 million unemployed Americans back to work, ABC News
cut into the broadcast to report that a team of al-Qaeda operatives was loose in
the United States. Citing intelligence sources, it claimed that three people,
one an American, had entered the country in August with the aim of conducting
attacks, possibly using truck bombs.

Paranoia was always going to be part of the tenth anniversary of September 11, a
partner to grief. Security in New York has been ramped up in advance of
tomorrow's commemoration at Ground Zero, to be attended by Obama and George W
Bush, and people are a little more jumpy. There is something else, though,
articulated rarely on grounds of taste: 9/11 fatigue. A lot of people are
getting out of New York this weekend to breathe fresher air.

Tim Kelleher, who works for T3 Live, an online financial information service, is
one of those going in search of a less oppressive atmosphere. The exodus from
the area around Wall Street, he says, began on Thursday. ''Down in Front Street,
bars like Nelson Blue or Stella Maris are usually packed with bond traders, and
it was a ghost town," he says. "They've left town already; and for the week,
too.

"I was telling a friend this at another place I go to and some drunken guy
misunderstood and started telling me I lacked respect. Don't tell me how to
respect people - that's why I want to leave town."

The events of 9/11 adhere to New York, even as the years pass. The wicked
ingenuity of the assault devised by Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Osama bin Laden's
principal planner, lay not only in economy of force - just 19 men and a budget
of $500,000 - but in its changing of the city's motif, its skyline. One can date
television programmes from their cutaway shots of Manhattan: Twin Towers or no
Twin Towers. New Yorkers, believers in reinvention, are saddled with a constant
reminder, constructed of thin air.

There is another reminder, too. Two square holes in the ground, the footprints
of two giants where once some 50,000 people worked, 2,606 of them for the last
time on September 11 2001. Ground Zero, as Michael Bloomberg, mayor of New York,
prefers it not to be known, must in future function as a place of work, a shrine
and a final resting place, the repository for remains identified and
unidentified. The holes have been turned into monuments to the dead, their sides
imprinted with their names, arranged by association, by friendship, rather than
by alphabet. Water flows through them, disappearing as if into the centre of the
earth.

This being America, money is an issue. The tower that will replace the doomed
twins, One World Trade Centre, known as the Freedom Tower in the early days of
its protracted gestation, will cost the American taxpayer $3.3 billion, double
the cost of a normal skyscraper its size. Over-engineered to ensure maximum
survivability, it is the centrepiece of a construction project that has produced
cost over-runs of $2.2 billion.

The construction industry is not the only beneficiary. Charities have sprung up
around 9/11, some of dubious utility but almost all of them good payers to the
executives who run them. And then there is the biggest beneficiary of all: the
security state.

The September 11 attacks were most damaging to the long-term security of the
United States not in the destruction they wrought but in the response they
provoked. The War on Terror can be seen as one long lost opportunity, a
decade-long struggle that, while drawing most of the teeth from hydra-headed
al-Qaeda, has distracted America from much greater challenges, not least
competition from new economic rivals.

Joseph Stiglitz, recipient of the Nobel prize for economics, estimates that the
wars fought by America in Iraq and Afghanistan and their consequences have cost
between $3 trillion and $5 trillion, contributing to a crippling national debt
of $14.7 trillion. Twenty-two years after the Soviet Union called time on the
Cold War, the US feels it necessary to command a defence budget representing
half the global total. Annual spending is $700 billion, a 70 per cent increase
on 2001. Other costs range from rises in the price of oil to losses sustained by
airlines, but one figure stands out: homeland security. The bloated department
that carries that name is now second only in size to the Pentagon. Together with
other federal departments interested in security it has consumed $360 billion
during the past decade, while domestic intelligence gathering has cost another
$110 billion. The treasure expended, or rather borrowed from China, is out of
all proportion to the threat, according to John Mueller, an American academic
and expert on the security industry. He says that America would have to endure
almost 1,700 successful or abortive bomb attacks every year to justify the
scores of billions lavished on domestic security annually.

"There has been a massive increase in surveillance to deal with a limited
problem - I wouldn't even call it a threat," he says. "Fears of terrorism are
exaggerated. If you say your chance of being killed by terrorism is one in 3.5
million per year if you are an American - which it is - the danger is that
someone will say, 'How come we are giving you so much money?' There is an
incentive to inflate and play to fears. The thing is that terrorism sells, there
is a responsive audience. Genetically modified food doesn't sell as a fear;
global warming is selling better now but it took a long time. There is a genuine
fear of terrorism that what I call the terrorism industry can play on."

The wars drag on and the casualties mount. More than 6,000 Americans have died
fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan, not to mention more than 130,000 civilians in
those countries. The cost of tending to wounded and traumatised soldiers will
cost US taxpayers more billions in the years to come. There is another, less
tangible, cost, to America's claim to the moral high ground. Rendition of
terrorist suspects to repressive regimes, assassination by drone, and the use of
waterboarding, a form of torture, have sullied the country's reputation.

Ordinary Americans know little of this, concerned as they are with unemployment
and the possible loss of their homes. Disillusionment is the order of the day -
Obama's approval rating is sub 50 per cent as he looks towards next year's
election campaign, and more than 70 per cent of Americans disapprove of the
Republican Party's stalling tactics in Congress over the setting of a new debt
ceiling. America is turning inward, winding down its commitments in Iraq, which
threatens to fall into the Iranian orbit, and Afghanistan, where chaos hovers.

Even the economy will take a temporary backseat tomorrow, though. A tenth
anniversary cannot be ignored and, weary or not of remembering, America will
remember. Relatives will gather not only at Ground Zero but at Shanksville,
Pennsylvania, the crash site of Flight 93, and in Washington in front of the
Pentagon. One of those attending the ceremony at the Pentagon will be John
Wesley, whose fiancée, Sarah Clark, died when American Airlines Flight 77 struck
the building. A writer and musician, he keeps Sarah's half-melted driving
licence, recovered from the debris.

I've been hearing since 2002 people who say, 'Why don't you lay it rest? Nobody
else is talking about it'. All of that is OK - this is America and everyone is a
publisher now, saying what they want on the internet, so all that stuff is OK.
But those of us who actually felt that pain, who had someone walk out the door
that morning and not return, we will never feel like that. Maybe you have to be
there."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 9, 2011 Friday 6:54 PM GMT

9/11: New York and Washington on high alert ahead as al-Qaeda issue terror
threat;
New York and Washington are on high alert amid fears that Ayman al-Zawahiri, the
new al-Qaeda chief, may be seeking to avenge Osama bin Laden's death by
launching a terrorist attack around the anniversary of September 11.

BYLINE: By Jon Swaine in New York

LENGTH: 742 words


Joe Biden, the Vice President, said US intelligence had "specific" information
from a "credible source" that a plot involving "a car bomb" may be under way.
However he stressed: "We don't have a smoking gun." Hillary Clinton, the
Secretary of State, named al-Qaeda as being behind the suspected threat.

It came as The Daily Telegraph learned that MI5 has been advising New York
authorities on securing the new World Trade Centre towers. It is understood that
Security Service officials have given briefings on their experience of dealing
with IRA vehicle bombs in London throughout the 1990s.

Both cities were increasing security last night ahead of ceremonies in
commemoration of the tenth anniversary of the attacks, which killed almost 3,000
people. President Barack Obama and former president George W. Bush are due to
attend a ceremony at Ground Zero in Manhattan on Sunday.

Police checkpoints were in place on Manhattan streets. Officers *were increasing
numbers on New York's transport network, making random checks on vehicles and
bags, and monitoring airports, bridges and tunnels. Michael Bloomberg, the Mayor
of New York City, said: "The NYPD, FBI and entire intelligence community have
been on heightened alert".

It is thought that three people who entered the US by air last month, one of
them a US citizen, are urgently being sought in relation to the suspected
threat. However, their identities were not thought to be known last night, and
officials continued to search arrivals lists.

Notes seized during the May raid on bin Laden's compound in Pakistan, in which
he was shot dead, raised the possibility of a 9/11 anniversary attack, officials
said. Janice Fedarcyk, the head of the FBI's New York unit, said: "al-Qaeda has
shown an interest in important dates and anniversaries." CIA officials
reportedly believe that people involved embarked on a journey to the US from the
tribal areas of Pakistan, where several important al-Qaeda and Taliban
operatives, including al-Zawahiri, are thought to be based. Multiple reports
yesterday said officials had "reason to believe" al-Zawahiri was involved.

In a video message released three weeks ago, al-Zawahiri - al-Qaeda's longtime
deputy until bin Laden's death - told followers: "America today is staggering.
Hunt her down wherever you may encounter her. Hunt her down to cut what is left
of her corruption's tail."

Faisal Shahzad, the 32-year-old Pakistani-American who tried to detonate a car
bomb in New York's Times Square last year, is believed to have received training
in the tribal areas. Eric Holder, the US attorney general, said the Pakistani
Taliban were "intimately involved" in his plot.

In a speech in New York, Mrs Clinton said the unconfirmed report suggested "al
Qaeda again is seeking to harm Americans". She promised a "relentless" campaign
against it and said a 'Global Counter-Terrorism Forum', bringing together
international officials, would be established later this month.

A White House official said Mr Obama had been briefed on Thursday and "directed
the counterterrorism community to redouble its efforts" to get to the bottom of
it as he prepared to travel to Ground Zero.

Bill Baroni, the deputy head of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey,
which owns the site, told The Daily Telegraph that British intelligence officers
had been helping to devise its security. Officials were "learning from the
experience that London has had, working with MI5 and the experience they've
had," he said.

David Samson, chairman of the Authority's board of commissioners, established a
relationship with MI5 in a visit to London as New Jersey's attorney general.
"They have been dealing with [terrorism] for 30 years and have an extremely
sophisticated system that works very well," he said.

The IRA detonated a series of car and truck bombs at high-profile targets around
London - including Harrods, the City of London and Canary Wharf - throughout the
1990s, killing several people.

Ceremonies are also to be held Sunday morning at the Pentagon, in Virginia,
where 184 people died when American 77 struck, and in Shanksville, Pennsylvania,
where all 40 passengers and crew members died when United 93 was driven into a
field.

Moments of silence will be held to coincide with the times the planes struck,
and when the World Trade Centre collapsed. A ceremony to commemorate the 343 New
York firefighters killed in the attacks is due to be held today in New York
City.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:58:57

