



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:41:42
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                             January 1, 2007 Monday

Teenager stabbed in park terror attack

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: The Bolton News


A 16-year-old boy has been attacked and stabbed in a park.

The teenager was knifed in his cheek and neck while he was in St Mary's Park, in
Prestwich, on Saturday night.

He was found bleeding at 9.40pm and treated by paramedics at the scene before
being taken to hospital.

He was in a "serious but stable" condition last night, a Greater Manchester
Police spokesman.

He said: "He was stabbed in his left cheek and in a main artery in his neck, at
least twice.

"At this moment, we do not have any more information about the incident.

"We are appealing for anyone who saw or heard anything to please come forward."

Forensic officers have searched the scene of the attack.

The stabbing comes a day after another teenager was shot three times while
cycling through a park in Stretford, Manchester.

He is in a comfortable condition in hospital.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 2, 2007 Tuesday

Filipino official says JI militants lack funding to carry out terror attacks

LENGTH: 294 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Philippine Star website on
2 January

A lack of financial support has reportedly slowed down the activities of the
Indonesian-based Jemaah Islamiyah (JI) terrorists operating in Mindanao and in
other parts of the country.

This was disclosed yesterday by a senior anti-terrorism official, who said the
combined government efforts to plug the flow of financial support to terrorists
in Mindanao from their foreign benefactors are now paying off.

"They cannot move much because their support from outside the country cannot
just flow in," the source said.

As part of its legal offensive, the government ordered the freezing of several
bank accounts and assets belonging to several Islamic organizations on
suspicions that they are being used as terrorism fronts to channel funds from
abroad to terrorists in the Philippines.

Most of these Islamic organizations are based in Mindanao.

"The aggressive government campaign on the legal fronts, along with the ongoing
military offensive in the field, has effectively addressed the terror plots in
the past weeks," the source said.

Now strapped for cash, the JI terrorists, especially those operating in Central
Mindanao, have also slowed down their training of newly-recruited members, the
source added.

The source also said that monitored major JI plots before the end of 2006 also
failed to push through because of a lack of cash to bankroll such terrorist
attacks.

"They could not buy the needed materials and equipment for their planned
bombings because they lack money," the source said.

According to last year's military estimate, at least 33 JI members were
operating in Mindanao and other parts of the country.

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 2 Jan 07

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                January 2, 2007

DOUBLE TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 406 words


Hunt after one woman bundled into car boot, and another sexually assaulted in
city suburb

BY DAVID BRUCE CHIEF CRIME REPORTER

A SEX fiend may be responsible for two attacks on women in a Leeds suburb.

In the first incident, a man grabbed a 31-year-old woman walking along Burley
Road, Burley, and bundled her into the back of a hatchback car - which was
parked up with its boot already open.

However, the terrified woman managed to stop her attacker from closing the boot
lid. She managed to clamber out and escape, still screaming for help. She ran to
a nearby house where the occupants called police.

That incident occurred at 3.45am yesterday as she made her way home from New
Year celebrations with friends in the Hyde Park area.

She was walking alone when the attack - being treated by police as an attempted
abduction - took place. It happened at the junction of Burley Road and Woodside
View.

Police are trying to establish whether the would-be kidnapper had stalked his
victim along Burley Road.

Det Supt Steve Payne, of West Yorkshire's Homicide and Major Enquiry Team
(HMet), said the fact the man had parked up and had the boot already open was
particularly worrying.

The victim suffered cuts and bruises, mainly to her head and knees inflicted as
she fought her way out of the boot.

The attacker is described as white, stocky and wearing a white t-shirt with a
thin, square pattern. He has fair hair which was close-cropped at the sides but
longer on top and is over 5ft 9in tall but less than 6ft tall.

Det Supt Payne said the second incident happened on Cardigan Road, near the
junction with Burley Road - less than a half a mile from the first incident.

It was at about 5am as a 19-year-old woman, who had celebrated the New Year in
Hyde Park, was walking along the road.

She was approached by a man who tried to engage her in conversation. He then
grabbed her and indecently assaulted her.

However she fought off her attacker and ran on to Burley Road, where she flagged
down a taxi. Police were then called.

The attacker in this incident is white, in his late twenties or early thirties
and of medium build. He has short, blond hair and was wearing a shirt-type top
and light jeans.

Det Supt Payne said that they were not, at this stage, linking the two incidents
- but they were keeping an open mind. He urged any witnesses, or anyone with
information about either incident to call police at Weetwood on 0113 241 3459.

david.bruce@ypn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                           January 3, 2007 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Gunmen in double attack terror raids

BYLINE: By Sophie Doughty, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 350 words


Two gunmen are feared to have held up fuel station staff twice within minutes.

Just after 10pm two men entered the BP Denton Filling station on Denton Road in
Newcastle.

They threatened two members of staff with a firearm before making their getaway
with a small amount of cash.

They were seen to leave the rear of the petrol station in a dark blue or green
car.

Just five minutes later raiders, believed to be the same pair, struck at another
petrol station.

A woman working at the BP Clumber garage in nearby Scotswood Road pressed the
panic button when two men approached the night hatch and threatened her with a
firearm.

Once again the robbers made off with a small amount of cash this time in a dark
coloured Honda Civic.

A car matching it was later found on fire in Cross Parade, Newcastle.

A police spokeswoman said: "Police believe the two robberies are linked."

Susan Smith, 50, who works at the Denton Burn garage narrowly missed being
involved in the raid.

Her shift finished at 10pm and she was just leaving as the robbers arrived.

She said a woman member of staff was being trained by a male colleague when the
robbers struck.

"I saw her this morning and she was a bit shaken but she is fine," she said.

"It does make me feel nervous, I don't work overnight but I finish at 10pm and I
am often here by myself. I have been here for four years and nothing like this
has ever happened before, it is worrying when you are just doing your job."

At the Scotswood Road garage there is a sign on the door warning thieves to
beware of the CCTV.

The woman at this garage was sent home by her manager.

The two men are described as being in their late teens or early twenties. One is
over six foot and the other is shorter, they are both white.

The police spokeswoman added: "No persons were physically injured however the
staff at both garages are shaken."

Police are appealing for anyone with information to get in touch, they would
like to hear from anyone who was near the two garages last night or in the area
where the car was found.

Anyone with information is asked to call police on (0191) 454 7555 ext 62926.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Post Magazine

                            January 4, 2007 Thursday

Terrorism Insurance - State of alert.;
With many on guard over the possibility of future terrorist attacks in the UK,
Fiona Denton highlights the importance of terrorism cover and looks into the
entities that insure this risk.

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1012  words

DATELINE: UK


Two weeks before Christmas, Home Secretary John Reid announced that the risk of
a terrorist attack remains "very high", with evidence to suggest that there may
be up to 30 major terrorist plots in the planning. The struggle against Muslim
terrorism will, he said, "last at least 30 years".

Such a declaration again throws the spotlight on terrorism insurance
arrangements for companies in the UK and across the globe. In the UK, there are
two sources of insurance for terrorism risk - Pool Re and the private market,
with the latter made up of companies that are not members of the pool and
focused largely in Lloyd's.

Pool Re was established by the UK insurance market with government support in
1993. Its creation followed restrictions in the scope of terrorism cover, which
were imposed by the international reinsurance market following a spate of IRA
terrorist incidents in London and elsewhere in England. It provides insurance
for commercial property as well as business interruption and related classes,
including residential property in commercial ownership. Pool Re has substantial
reserves, and HM Treasury acts as the reinsurer of last resort.

Members of the pool insure the risk - UK only - and can then recover from the
pool if their payments for a particular terrorist incident exceed a certain
amount. The level depends on the amount of cover they transact with the pool.
Some of the most significant incidents that have resulted in claims on the pool
include the attacks on Bishopsgate, London, in April 1993, which cost £262m;
London Docklands in February 1996, which cost £107m; Manchester city centre in
June 1996, which cost £234m; and Ealing, West London in August 2001, which cost
£7m. The London underground bombings in July 2005 are expected to be well below
the majority of these claims levels, and are predicted not to exceed £40m.

Worldwide change

Following the attacks on the World Trade Center and other locations in the US on
11 September 2001, substantial changes took place in the world reinsurance
market with regard to coverage for terrorism. Reinsurers decided they would no
longer provide the balance of terrorism cover, and they applied exclusions in
respect of damage caused by perils other than fire and explosion.

Reinsurers also added a wider definition of what constitutes an act of terrorism
to their exclusions. This decision resulted in the expansion of the private
market outside of the UK for terrorism cover, with Lloyd's at its centre and now
accounting for more than 50% of the worldwide capacity of $1.6bn (£819.6m).

Despite the dominant position of Lloyd's, only a handful of its underwriters
operating outside Pool Re can offer stand-alone terrorism insurance on a global
basis - these include Ascot, QBE, Talbot and Catlin.

Julian Barker, a terrorism underwriter at Ascot, comments: "The terrorism
insurance market has grown by about 25% a year since 9/11, as the coverage has
become a more required stand-alone product. Buying targeted terrorism insurance
policies is no longer about good corporate governance, it's about essential
contingency planning."

Policyholders who decide to effect terrorism cover through Pool Re must include
all of their premises without selecting the most vulnerable. Companies that only
want terrorism insurance for trophy buildings or sites in high-risk centres,
such as the City of London or Canary Wharf, tend to access the private market
for this purpose.

Some high-risk centres around the world - for example, the EC3 postcodes in
London and Canary Wharf, plus the postcode 1000 in Brussels - have limited
availability due to the number of insureds requiring coverage and the exposure
to potential attack. Therefore, premiums offered for these areas, from both Pool
Re and the stand-alone market, are at the top end of the scale.

At present, underwriters have low terrorism loss ratios, typically 5%, but the
global nature of the risk emphasises the random nature of the threat. Other
geographical areas that have featured highly on claims statistics include
Colombia, Peru, Jordan and Indonesia.

Global networks

While events such as the World Trade Center attacks of 2001 and the Madrid
bombings of 2004 have demonstrated the power of terrorists to wreak destruction,
the global nature of their networks makes it difficult to predict the location
of future attacks or whether the frequency will increase.

Mr Barker adds: "Threats vary considerably from country to country, with
different organisations choosing different targets and a variety of methods
through which to attack those targets. It's difficult to identify the exact
nature of the most common claims, as no two terrorism incidents are ever the
same."

Cover for chemical, nuclear, biological or radiological attack is provided by
Pool Re but excluded by the majority of the stand-alone market. The reason for
this reluctance is the nature, scale and uncertainty of the damage and losses
from CNBR events.

There have been several serious CNBR attacks in the past, including the release
of sarin gas in the Tokyo subway system in 1995, which killed 12 people and
injured nearly 6000, and the anthrax attacks in the US in 2001, which infected
22 people when anthrax spores were distributed via the postal service to media
organisations and political offices.

One of the principal differences between Pool Re and the stand-alone market lies
in the definitions the two use for an act of terrorism and the policy exclusions
they include. Pool Re will pay only claims for damage to property or business
interruption caused by an event that aims to overturn or influence government.
The stand-alone market has a different definition of an insurable event, in that
it covers claims caused by groups wishing to bring about religious, ideological
and social change - something that represents much wider cover.

Mr Reid's pre-Christmas message will have put UK PLC on its guard but, whatever
the outcome, the insurance industry is well placed to respond to the heightened
threat.

- Fiona Denton is an executive director at Lockton Companies International.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright 2007 Timothy Benn Publishing Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                                January 4, 2007

TV preacher predicts terror attack on US

LENGTH: 313 words


American TV evangelist Pat Robertson says God has told him 2007 will see a
horrific terrorist attack on the United States that will result in "mass
killing".

The preacher routinely makes January predictions for the year ahead.

He said the outrage would take place some time after September and while not
necessarily nuclear would be "something like that".

Mr Robertson made the claims on his Christian Broadcasting Network TV show The
700 Club, saying God had told him during a recent prayer retreat that major
cities and possibly millions of people would be affected.

"The Lord didn't say nuclear," he said.

"But I do believe it will be something like that."

He added: "I put these things out with humility."

Last year the broadcaster was forced to apologise after suggesting then Israeli
leader Ariel Sharon's stroke was divine retribution for leaving the Gaza Strip.

This year he said God also told him that the US only feigns friendship with
Israel and that American policies are pushing Israel towards "national suicide".

"I have a relatively good track record," Mr Robertson said. "Sometimes I miss."

In January 2004 he predicted that President George Bush would easily win
re-election. Mr Bush won 51 per cent of the vote that autumn, beating John
Kerry.

The next year Mr Robertson predicted Mr Bush would secure victory after victory
in his second term, saying social security reform proposals would be approved
and the President would nominate conservative judges to federal courts.

His nominations of John Roberts and Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court were
approved, but his social security initiative was stalled by widespread
opposition.

In May of last year Mr Robertson said God told him that storms and possibly a
tsunami would crash into America's coastline in 2006. On Tuesday he said last
spring's heavy rains and flooding in New England had partly fulfilled the
prediction.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                             January 5, 2007 Friday

Smash-and-grab attack terror for Brandon, 10

BYLINE:  chris mallett

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 315 words


A 10-year-old boy has described the moment he struggled with a thief who used a
knuckle-duster to smash into a van while he was inside it.

Brandon Sevrenes suffered cuts to his hand when he tried to stop the thief from
stealing a satellite navigation system that he had bought his stepfather, Peter
Wright, for Christmas.

The youngster, from Heanor, was waiting in the front seat of his Mr Wright's van
in Coventry when the thief punched through the window next to him with a
knuckle-duster.

He grabbed the satellite navigation system and brave Brandon tried to grab  the
power cable to stop him, but his efforts failed.

Brandon, of Bell Lane, Heanor, said he was upset that he had not managed to stop
the thief.

"I didn't know what had happened to begin with. I only understood when I saw the
man running down the road.

"I don't want to sit and wait in the car again - I was terrified when the fist
came through so close to me."

Mr Wright had left Brandon in the white Citroen Berlingo van while he carried
out maintenance work at a nearby pub.

He returned to find Brandon screaming. He said: "I'd told him to lock the
windows and not let anyone in while I took a ladder to the pub, but someone had
come through the glass with a knuckle-duster.

"The man grabbed the sat-nav, and that's what Brandon had bought me for
Christmas, so he tried to pull it out of his hands.

"Later on, Brandon came to me and said he was sorry that he couldn't save the
sat-nav, but I told him it was all right and that his safety was what was
important."

Brandon was treated by an ambulance crew, who removed pieces of glass from his
hands, but he did not need to be taken to hospital.

Police have looked at CCTV footage taken from the pub but have not yet made an
arrest.

The thief was described by Brandon as a young, slim white man, 5ft 8in, wearing
a black coat, black trousers and a black hat.

cmallett@derbytelegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            January 6, 2007 Saturday
                                 Warks Edition

Woman attacked in carjack terror;
CRIME: Thief drives off with the takings from pub gaming machines

BYLINE: By Marc Meneaud

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 192 words


A MASKED man thumped a woman over the head in a terrifying carjacking outside a
Warwickshire pub.

The woman had just collected the takings from a gaming machine in the Newbold
Crown in Main Street, Newbold, near Rugby, when she was attacked in the pub car
park.

A man wearing a black balaclava jumped out of the passenger side of a silver
Mazda car, which pulled up alongside her as she was getting into her own car, a
dark green Ford Fiesta.

He grabbed her handbag and demanded her car keys, hit her around the head -
knocking her to the floor - before fleeing in her car.

He drove off towards New Bilton along Parkfield Road with the Mazda following.

A bag of money - the takings from the gaming machine at the Newbold Crown and
other pubs in the area - was in the Fiesta.

The carjacking happened at about 11.45am on Thursday.

The woman was shocked but did not require hospital treatment.

Police say there were other motorists in the area at the time and would like to
hear from anyone who witnessed the incident, or who saw either of the cars
driving away. Anyone with any information is asked to call Rugby CID on 01788
541111 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLEA FOR WITNESSES.. Police believe several motorists would have been
in the area at the time of the carjacking. Picture: Joe Bailey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sunderland Echo

                                January 6, 2007

Teen's gang-attack terror as she walked home

LENGTH: 499  words


HUNDREDS of mourners packed a Sunderland church to pay their last respects to
war hero John Bridge.

Mr Bridge, 91, was one of only two men to win both the George Medal with bar and
the George Cross in the Second World War.

He later became director of education for Sunderland and bought the Derwent Hill
activity centre in 1962, to benefit local schoolchildren.

War veterans and Sunderland's Mayor, Tom Foster, were among mourners at Mr
Bridge's funeral at St Andrew's Church.

Bernie Thompson, commanding officer of the Royal Navy's Fleet Diving Squadron,
took a leading role in the service and said: "A great deal has been written
about John's wartime exploits and even summarised versions make jaw-dropping and
humbling reading.

"He took part in some of the war's most important military operations and was
one of the Royal Navy's most highly decorated officers."

Mr Bridge was a pacifist when war broke out, but volunteered for the Royal Navy
after realising his physics degree could help save lives.

The bomb disposal expert escaped death at least nine times while defusing
hundreds of mines, often working under enemy fire.

Arthur Lockyear, co-ordinator of Sunderland's Remembrance Parade, said: "He was
one of the great heroes of the Second World War."

The Lancashire-born hero moved to Sunderland in 1963, where he lived in Fulwell
and served as education director until retiring in 1976.

He died on December 14, aged 91, just 21 weeks after the death of his beloved
wife Jean. He is survived by their three daughters.

His daughter Jane told the funeral: "Our father lived a rich, fulfilling and, at
times, adventurous life, of which he could be proud.

"One of his more significant decisions, of which he remained hugely proud all of
his life, was the purchase of Derwent Hill.

"More than anything else, though, he loved my mother. He was really inconsolable
after her death. Despite this, he still genuinely believed he had led a charmed
life."

JOHN Bridge's memory will live on through the naming of a Royal Navy building.

Fleet Diving HQ in Portsmouth will be christened the Bridge Building on February
5 - his 92nd birthday.

Arrangementswere made before John's death.

Commanding Officer Bernie Thompson said:"The first few minutes of the phone call
were spent reassuring him the building did not house either the diving or bomb
disposal schools."

John eventually agreed to the name change, however, after learning
counter-terrorism and mine countermeasure teams were based there.

Commander Thompson added: "I asked John if he might be able to attend the
ceremony, but he was typically realistic about his ability to undertake the long
journey.

"As an alternative, I offered to send a small group of young divers to
Sunderland, to bring him up to date on the Diving Squadron's current tasks and
equipment.

"It was obvious this idea delighted him, but unfortunately our plans were
thwarted. I just hope it is of some comfort to his family to know that John will
be remembered by generations of divers to come."

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 7, 2007 Sunday

Pakistan study: Terror attacks killed almost two daily during 2006

LENGTH: 595 words


Text of report by Amir Wasim, carried by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 7
January

Islamabad, 6 January: Terror attacks killed almost two people a day in 2006,
with Baluchistan and the country's tribal areas becoming the worst trouble
spots. These are the findings of a research study conducted by an independent
think-tank, Pak Institute for Peace Studies, which found that the overall
security situation remained extremely precarious in the outgoing year.

The government blamed the terror attacks on insurgents in Baluchistan,
operatives of the Taleban and Al-Qa'idah, and sectarian militants.

According to the research study, 657 terrorist attacks, including 41 of a
sectarian nature, took place in the outgoing year, leaving 907 people dead and
1,543 others injured.

The attacks are said to have caused a loss of billions of rupees.

The research study puts the number of people arrested by law-enforcement
agencies at 1,552, including 1,094 Taleban and Afghans, 47 Al-Qa'idah
operatives, 198 other militants and 213 nationalist insurgents.

Giving a province-wise break-up, it says that the Baluchistan Liberation Army,
the Baluchistan Liberation Front and the Bugti Militia were blamed by the
government for carrying out 403 terror attacks in Baluchistan during 2006 that
killed 277 people and injured 676 others.

Gas pipelines, security checkpoints and camps, government offices, rail tracks
and bridges were targeted by the insurgents, it adds.

According to the research study, the killing of veteran tribal chief Nawab Akbar
Bugti in a clash between security forces and his men-at-arms was the main
violent event of the year 2006 which caused "a ripple effect on the political
horizon in the country".

"The Federally Administered Tribal Areas proved a big trouble for the government
and security agencies as tribal Taleban started re-organizing their ranks in
those areas...Tribal Taleban and militants kept on hitting security agencies and
other anti-Taleban elements and killed 39 locals on suspicion of spying for the
US forces."

The research study says that the airstrike - blamed by locals on US aircraft -
that left over 80 inmates of a religious seminary in Bajaur was "the biggest
event of the year in the tribal areas that invited further trouble for security
agencies and marred efforts for peace agreement".

A total of 144 attacks occurred in the tribal areas, killing 379 people and
injuring 307 others. Sectarian clashes between two rival groups in Khyber Agency
also caused a breakdown in law and order in the agency.

According to the report, the NWFP [North-West Frontier Province] remained the in
the grip of strife and violence in 2006 and saw 60 terror attacks and sectarian
clashes that left 139 people dead and 303 injured.

A suicide bomb blast at the Punjab Regiment Centre in Dargai that resulted in
the deaths of 42 trainee soldiers and injuries to 39 others was the most
gruesome incident of the year in the already volatile province. The attack was
described as a reaction to the Bajaur airstrike.

Experiencing no major terror attack in the year 2006, Punjab remained relatively
peaceful, says the study, adding that the terrorists did carry out bomb blasts
in different cities of the province and struck Lahore thrice, but casualties
remained low. As many as 28 people were killed and 126 others injured in a total
of 28 attacks in the province.

Even though fewer terror attacks took place in Sindh than in the other three
provinces, two incidents of terrorism jolted the whole country, says the study.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 7 Jan 07

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday

US embassy in Kenya warns of possible terrorist attacks in east Africa

LENGTH: 90 words


Excerpt from report by Kenyan KBC Radio on 9 January

The United States has renewed a dire warning for possible terrorist attacks in
east Africa. In a second such warning in less than a week, the US embassy in
Nairobi said Al-Qai'dah operatives driven from positions in Somalia after the
powerful Somalia Islamist movement was defeated by Somali and Ethiopian troops
in two weeks of heavy fighting might relocate within the region.

[Passage omitted on US air strikes in southern Somalia]

Source: KBC Radio, Nairobi, in English 1600 gmt 9 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday

U.S. BLITZ ON TERROR CHIEF;
Many killed as attack plane strikes Somalia

BYLINE: NICHOLAS CECIL

SECTION: A MERGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 629 words


THE United States has launched an air strike on a suspected al Qaeda warlord in
Somalia which is reported to have left many dead.

An AC-130 attack plane rained gunfire on the southern village of Hayo, believed
to be a terror training base.

The warlord is wanted for the bombings of two US embassies in east Africa which
killed more than 250 people and his cell has been blamed for the attack on an
Israeliowned hotel in Kenya in 2002 which killed 15.

The strike is understood to have been ordered after members of the cell were
tracked by aerial surveillance after they fled the wartorn capital, Mogadishu.

Somali government sources claimed most of those killed were Islamist fighters.
However, witnesses said at least four civilians died in the attack, including a
young boy. The claims could not be independently verified.

Somalia's deputy prime minister, Hussein Aideed, said: "The US were trying to
kill the al Qaeda terrorists who carried out the bomb attacks on their embassies
in Kenya and Tanzania. They have our full support for the attacks."

The strike is the first US military intervention in Somalia since the early
Nineties when troops were withdrawn after a disastrous operation in Mogadishu,
chronicled in the film Black Hawk Down, which saw 18 army rangers and Delta
Force special troops killed.

One of the targets was Abu Talha al-Sudani, according to the Washington Post,
who is alleged to have been the financier for Fazul Abdullah Mohammed and Saleh
Ali Saleh Nabhan, blamed for the 1998 bombings of the embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania. It was not clear whether Al-Sudani, or other al Qaeda leaders were
hit. The attack was first reported by CBS News citing Pentagon sources, who said
it targeted the senior al Qaeda leader in east Africa and an al Qaeda operative
wanted for his involvement in the 1998 attacks.

It came as President Bush is poised to announce that America will send tens of
thousands more troops to Iraq and as a poll showed support for British troops
staying there at an all-time low.

Al-Sudani is Sudanese and has lived in Somalia since 1993. He is an explosives
expert suspected of having close links to Osama bin Laden in the mid-Nineties.

The US military has sent the USS Eisenhower aircraft carrier to join three other
warships conducting anti-terror operations off the coast of Somalia, and
aircraft have been flying surveillance missions over the country.

The strike by the US gunship, based at a US base in Djibouti, happened yesterday
in Badmadow, an island on the southern tip of Somalia and close to the Kenyan
border, according to eyewitnesses.

It took place after forces loyal to Somalia's transitional government, backed by
Ethiopian soldiers, forced Islamic fighters to flee Mogadishu. "The strike was
carried out after it had been confirmed that al Qaeda members are hiding in the
area," Somalian government spokesman Abdirahman Dinari said.

Victim Mohamed Mahmud Burale said: "My four-year-old boy was killed in the
strike. The plane was firing at other areas in Ras Kamboni. We could see smoke
from the area. We also heard 14 massive explosions."

Islamic fighters took Mogadishu and much of the south in June, and threatened
just weeks ago to overrun the interim government in its provincial base of
Baidoa. But the intervention of Ethiopian forces pushed them back from the
Baidoa area, then forced them to flee Mogadishu and their final stronghold in
the southern port Kismayu.

Hundreds of Islamic fighters are now hiding in the hills of southern Somalia,
pursued by Ethiopian and Somali forces, while Kenya's military is trying to seal
its border. In recent years, Al-Sudani was named by the CIA as being a close
associate of Gouled Hassan Dourad, head of the Mogadishu-based network that
provides support to al Qaeda in Somalia.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Milton Keynes Citizen

                                January 9, 2007

CS SPRAY USED TO STOP TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 229  words


FRIGHTENED diners at a Wing pub were showered with glass after a man smashed the
front windows with a pickaxe handle before he attacked a police car, Aylesbury
Magistrates Court heard.

John Gunnell, 21, of High Street, Wing, pleaded guilty to two counts of criminal
damage and a public order offence at Aylesbury magistrates following the
incidents in November.

Louise Chitty, prosecuting, said neighbours called the police after hearing
Gunnell arguing with his uncle.

She revealed that when two officers arrived they saw Gunnell smashing the
windows of The Queen's Head pub before he using the pickaxe handle to crack the
windscreen of the police car. The landlady had previously made a complaint about
him.

Mrs Chitty said: "Both officers got out and saw that his hands were raised. They
backed away and told him to calm down but he took no notice. He had to be CS
sprayed."

She said Gunnell dropped the pickaxe when he realises the vehicle was a police
car.

Paul Bird, speaking in mitigation, said Gunnell had been suffering from
pancreatitis and had diabetes. He told the court that Gunnell spent several
months in hospital and was in considerable pain for most of the time.

Magistrates ordered a pre-sentence report. Gunnell, who was warned that custody
had not been ruled out, was released on unconditional bail and will appear
before magistrates for sentencing on January 19.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 10, 2007 Wednesday

Islamist terror threat worrying but attack not imminent - French intelligence

LENGTH: 421 words


Text of report by Christophe Boltanski and Patricia Tourancheau: "An Al-Qa'idah
Ally Threatens Paris", published by the French newspaper Liberation website on
10 January

Already viewed by the intelligence services as "terrorist threat number one" in
France, the GSPC [Salafist Group for Call and Combat], a clandestine Algerian
movement allied to the Al-Qa'idah terrorist network, has again called on
Algerians to target the French, in a "very clear and unambiguous" message dated
3 January. "Combat French citizens and the agents of the crusaders who are
occupying our land," declared GSPC leader Abou Musab Abdelouadad, aka Abdelmalek
Droukdal, in this message posted on Islamist websites. He accuses the United
States and France of sharing "the spoils of our wealth and control of our
destinies, with the complicity of the house thief (Abdelaziz) Bouteflika." He
accuses the Algerian president of "combating Islam under the banner of the
leader of the heresy, the United States, and of having forged bonds of
friendship with the former enemy, France." Above all, the GSPC leader condemns
the "axis of evil led militarily by the United States and culturally by France,
with NATO's support." The French Foreign Ministry as well as the intelligence
services "are taking these threats seriously" because, according to one
intelligence agent, the "GSPC message is more precise" than previous ones.
Another officer indicates that "it is the first time it has that forceful" and
that "the context is not good" because "the GSPC finds itself in a phase of
increasing strength both in the field and in terms of communication."

UCLAT [Antiterrorist Coordination Unit] has studied this statement by the GSP
leader and sees in it "confirmation of its combat against the 'forces of Evil,'
the United States and France" "But it is more of a continuation than an
escalation." In 2005 the GSPC declared France "enemy number one." Since then,
the GSPC has teamed up with the Al-Qa'idah terrorist organization that announced
this officially, on 11 September 2006, through its number two Ayman al-Zawahiri.
In Paris, intelligence services now regard this Algerian armed group as being
"Al-Qa'idah's armed wing for striking in France" using "French citizens of North
African origin" who are active within its ranks. The GSP remains the "principal
concern" of the French services, even if "there is not a single sentence in the
latest message that suggests an attack will be carried out tomorrow."

Source: Liberation website, Paris, in French 10 Jan 07

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                           January 10, 2007 Wednesday

US gunships attack suspected al-Qaida terrorists in Somalia

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 519 words


US helicopter gunships attacked suspected al-Qaida terrorists hiding in Somalia
yesterday, a Somali official said.

It came a day after US Special Operations forces launched at least two air
attacks against suspected al-Qaida members in this restive Horn of Africa
country.

The attack helicopters were trying to kill Islamic extremists, said a defence
ministry official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not
authorised to speak.

Earlier, Somalia's president had said the US was hunting suspects in the 1998
bombings of two US Embassies in east Africa and had his support.

Witnesses said civilians were among the dead.

The helicopter strikes took place yesterday morning in Afmadow, 220 miles
south-west of the capital Mogadishu.

On Monday, AC-130 warplanes killed what Somali officials said were large numbers
of Islamic extremists in Hayi, 30 miles from Afmadow, and 155 miles away on a
remote island believed to be an al-Qaida training camp on the southern tip of
Somalia, close to the Kenyan border.

Witnesses said 31 civilians, including a newlywed couple, were killed by the two
helicopters yesterday. The claim could not be independently verified.

It was the first overt military action by the US in Somalia since it led a UN
force in the 1990s that intervened in Somalia to help fight famine.

The mission led to clashes between UN forces and Somali warlords, including the
'Black Hawk Down' battle that left 18 US servicemen dead.

In a further escalation of US involvement, the US military yesterday said the
aircraft carrier USS Dwight D Eisenhower had arrived off the coast to join three
other US warships - two guided-missile cruisers and an amphibious landing ship -
conducting anti-terror operations.

US warships have been seeking to capture al-Qaida members thought to be fleeing
Somalia after Ethiopia intervened on December 24 in support of the government,
which had been struggling to assert its authority in the face of the Islamic
movement.

The US embassy in Nairobi yesterday reissued a terror warning to Americans
living in or visiting the Horn of Africa.

President Abdullahi Yusuf told journalists in Mogadishu that the US "has a right
to bombard terrorist suspects who attacked its embassies in Kenya and Tanzania".

Deputy Prime Minister Hussein Aideed told the Associated Press the US had "our
full support for the attacks".

But others in the capital said the attacks would only increase anti-American
sentiment in the largely Muslim country.

Leaders of the Islamic movement have vowed from their hideouts to launch an
Iraq-style guerrilla war in Somalia and al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden's deputy
has called on militants to carry out suicide attacks on the Ethiopian troops.

Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi said in an interview published yesterday
in French newspaper Le Monde that suspected terrorists from Canada, Britain,
Pakistan and elsewhere have been among those taken prisoner or killed in the
military operations in Somalia.

In Brussels yesterday, European Commission spokesman Amadeu Altafaj Tardio said
the US airstrikes would not contribute to bringing about long-term peace.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            January 12, 2007, Friday
                                 Worcs Edition

Terrorist attack on embassy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 161 words


A ROCKET was fired at the US embassy in Athens today, striking the front of the
building, but causing no injuries.

A senior police official said the blast was an act of terrorism, raising fears
of a resurgence of far-left Greek militant groups.

Police cordoned off streets around the heavily guarded building in the Greek
capital after the 8am explosion (6am GMT).

The shell struck the third floor and smashed glass in nearby buildings.

Investigators were examining what they believed was the device used to fire the
rocket shell from a construction site near the embassy.

"This is an act of terrorism. We don't know where from," said police chief
Asimakis Golfis.

"There was a shell that exploded in the toilets of the building fired from
street level."

American ambassador Charles Reis said the damage to the embassy building was not
extensive.

"There can be no justification for such a senseless act of violence.

"The embassy was occupied at the time, but nobody was hurt."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 12, 2007

Police trained for terrorist attacks

BYLINE: GRAEME SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 387 words


POLICE officers from all over the UK are to be trained in Scotland in
identifying victims as part of the government's preparation for a major
terrorist attack or a disaster involving mass fatalities.

The news comes less than two weeks after the announcement that 12,000 personal
protection suits are to be ordered for police in case of a dirty bomb attack.

Home Secretary John Reid said last month the police were aware of as many as 30
terrorist plots. Foreign Office officials have said there is "no doubt at all"
al Qaeda is trying to gather nuclear material for an attack against Western
targets.

The Unit of Anatomy and Forensic Anthropology at Dundee University has won the
substantial contract for the training, the first of its kind.

The course is being run by Sue Black, one of the world's foremost experts in
forensic anthropology - analysing human remains to establish identity.

Professor Black is head of the unit and has extensive experience in Disaster
Victim Identification (DVI) after deployments to Kosovo, Iraq, Sierra Leone, Sri
Lanka, Egypt and Thailand.

"Every situation is different and that is possibly the biggest problem, " she
said. "You really can't prepare everyone for every situation so you have to
train a team that has the ability to react quickly and operate in almost any
situation you can imagine plus all the ones you can't."

She said they were using scientists to teach police alongside police trainers so
they have an awareness and training not only of their own areas but also of why
the scientists, the medics and the technicians do what they do.

The officers undertaking the training will be part of the country's DVI response
capability being established by the government to help identify victims of mass
fatalities not only in the UK but anywhere in the world.

Each police force in the UK will identify officers who will be trained in a wide
range of highly skilled tasks.

They will have three months to complete a rigorous theoretical awareness course
which will be conducted in the virtual learning environment at Dundee.

Successful completion of this phase will allow them to progress to two practical
stages.

Graham Walker, UK DVI Commander, said: "This venture will prepare officers and
staff for the demanding tasks they face, allowing them to do the very best for
families and friends."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 13, 2007 Saturday

Turkish condemns terrorist attack on US embassy in Athens

LENGTH: 129 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 12 January: Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Friday [11 January]
condemned the terrorist attack on US embassy in Athens.

"As a country that has suffered from terrorism for years and has given ten
thousand of its citizens victim to terror, Turkey condemns all sorts of
terrorism and acts of terrorism regardless of where it comes from or whatever
purpose it may serve," said the statement issued from the MFA.

The MFA underscored the only consolation in the terrorist attack was the fact
that there were no casualties, and said this terrorist attack once more
displayed the need for terrorism to be fought globally without any concessions.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1855 gmt 12 Jan 07

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           January 13, 2007, Saturday
                                 First Edition

Terror' attack on US embassy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 216 words


A blast at the US Embassy in Athens was an "act of terrorism" caused by a rocket
fired from the street, a police chief said yesterday

"There was a shell that exploded in the toilets of the building ... It was fired
from street level," Attica Police chief Asi-makis Golfis stated.

Police cordoned off streets around the embassy after the explosion smashed glass
in the front of the building near the US emblem shortly before 6am local time
(4am GMT).

Traffic came to a standstill across parts of central Athens as police and
emergency services scrambled to the embassy building. Police searched apartment
buildings and a near-by hospital.

"I heard a loud bang, I didn't realise what was going on," said Giorgos
Yiannoulis, who runs a neighbouring kiosk. The US embassy - which is a heavily
guarded building - is a frequent destination for protest groups.

It was the first major attack against a US target in Greece for more than a
decade, following the arrest of members of the far-left November 17 terrorist
group.

The group was blamed for killing 23 people - including US, British and Turkish
officials - and dozens of bomb attacks.

In 2003, a special court gave multiple life sentences to November 17's leader,
chief assassin and three other members.

Lesser sentences were given to ten others involved.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 14, 2007 Sunday

'James Bond harpoon' to stop terrorists attacking Parliament from the Thames

BYLINE: BEN LEAPMAN Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 687 words


SECURITY CHIEFS are developing a harpoon-like gun to defend Parliament against a
terrorist attack from the River Thames.

The James Bond-style device is a snare gun, which could be used to halt a boat
making its way towards Westminster, laden with explosives.

The move comes after a report by MI5 and Scotland Yard, commissioned by Michael
Martin, the Speaker of the House of Commons, identified the river as a weak spot
in the defences of the Palace of Westminster.

Police, the Royal Navy and scientists from the Home Office have been testing and
refining the "running gear entanglement system'' in trials on the Solent.

It consists of a metal hook which is fired from a special gun, by compressed air
propulsion, across the path of a fast-moving boat. As the hook flies through the
air, it trails behind it a line of high-tensile rope with loops hanging from it.
The rope snags on the boat's propeller, stalling the engine and bringing the
vessel to a halt.

If the trials prove a success, the Metropolitan Police force plans to install
the first device on a pontoon at Wapping, four miles downstream from
Westminster.

Any terrorist boat that evaded the snare at Wapping could come under attack from
further fixed firing-points on bridges across the Thames, and from mobile units
on Land Rovers parked on the river bank.

The blueprint for the entanglement system came from the United States
Coastguard, which claims the device has the potential to be "highly effective
against small, high-speed vessels''.

However, American law enforcement chiefs are awaiting the results of the British
trials before deciding whether to invest in the system. The project has been
handed over to the Home Office scientific development branch, based in St
Albans, Hertfordshire.

Alan Brooke, who heads the scientific side of the project, said: "Every time we
test it, we learn something which helps improve the design. The timing is
crucial. Too far in front, and the boat can just evade it. Too close, and the
effectiveness will be reduced.''

Pc Greg Watson, of the Metropolitan Police Marine Support Unit, one of the
officers involved in the tests, said: "The Government has designated a security
zone on the Thames. Fortunately, no one has breached it so far, but if a craft
refused to comply with a request to halt, we have no non-lethal way of making it
do so. That's why this project is so important.''

Experts believe the technology could eventually be adopted by wealthy yacht
owners to defend themselves from attacks by pirates in high-risk seas like the
Straits of Malacca or off the Horn of Africa.

Andrew Sheves, the president of the US risk and security consultants Drum
Cussac, called the weapon "James Bond-esque'' and said that it could provide
"the only realistic option for inhibiting a vessel's progress'' short of
shooting those on board.

So far the accuracy of the harpoon snare gun when fired from another moving boat
is significantly worse than when it is fired from land or from a fixed pontoon.

Security around Parliament has been tightened since the World Trade Centre
attack in 2001, with concrete blocks on the pavement to stop suicide
truck-bombers, airport-style X-ray scans for members of the public entering the
building, and a reinforced glass screen across the front of the Commons public
gallery.

However, the protection of politicians is made harder by the location of the
Palace of Westminster on the bank of the Thames. Its private river terrace is a
popular drinking spot for MPs and peers.

The joint MI5/Scotland Yard security assessment, handed to the Commons
authorities in 2004, warned of the danger that terrorists could ram a boat bomb
into the side of the building, causing massive damage. The report recommended
the construction of a boom barrage part-way across the river, to deter an
attack.

Police have identified 97 "key site vulnerabilities'' on the river in central
London. CCTV coverage has been extended, with four-fifths of the river now
monitored by cameras.

After the London Tube bombings in July 2005, the Met's Marine Support Unit,
based at Wapping, stepped up high-visibility patrols on the Thames.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Latin America - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 15, 2007 Monday

Caribbean countries take steps against Cricket World Cup terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 751 words


Text of report by Caribbean Media Corporation news agency website on 15 January

Port of Spain, Trinidad: Caribbean Community (Caricom) countries say while they
do not anticipate any "imminent terrorist attack" they were nonetheless taking
all precautionary steps to avoid such a situation during the 2007 Cricket World
Cup that will be held in the region for the first time.

"We foresee no imminent threat of terrorists attack but we are taking the
precautionary measures," Trinidad and Tobago's Prime Minister Patrick Manning
told a news conference on the opening day of a two-day regional "Table Top
Exercise" focusing on preparations for the tournament.

Manning, who has lead responsibility for security within Caricom, said that a
very comprehensive plan is now in place and that the environment had changed
considerably since the Caribbean had agreed to host the March 5 to April 28
World Cup event.

"I wish to remind that there are a number of countries involved in the Cricket
World Cup, countries from all over the world and countries that are in very
dissimilar circumstances and we can easily find ourselves if we are not careful
in a situation in a world in which terrorism has now come the fore in the way it
has.

"We can easily find ourselves in a situation that prejudices our own security in
a way that we would not wish," he added.

Barbados Deputy Prime Minister, Mia Mottley, who is the Chair of the Caricom
Sub-Committee for Cricket World Cup (CWC) Security, said that the region had
been discussing security issues and was confident ahead of the event.

"Topping the list of concerns for Caricom leaders is terrorists attack,
especially since there have been an increase threat within the Caricom
countries," she said, noting that steps were being taken to monitor criminal
elements within the region.

On Sunday, Mottley, in an address to tour operators and other tourism officials,
said that the visa requirement for persons visiting the region for the World
Cricket Cup was necessary.

Many tour operators have expressed concerns about the process for issuing the
Caricom Special Visa which is required for entry in the Single Domestic Space
that was created by 10 Caribbean countries for the hosting of Cricket World Cup
2007. The Single Domestic Space will be in operation for the period February 1
to May 15 this year.

"We cannot roll back on the visa but we must deal with the issue of how to make
the process more convenient for you. We want to protect your investment. We are
sensitive to your problem and we want to find solutions. In fact, we will find
solutions," Mottley said in an address to the annual Caribbean Hotel Association
Market Place taking place in Aruba.

"We have heard your calls and we are sensitive to them. We do not want to offend
you; we do not want to lose any business. But we have a responsibility to you as
tour operators and many of you are, in fact, investors.

"We can empathise in terms of how some people feel about now having to get a
visa. But in the context of having to host a global sporting event, we need to
deal with what we have and that is the viability of Caribbean states to maintain
themselves as a zone of peace. The ultimate solution has to be national and not
simply sectoral," she added.

The Barbados Deputy Prime Minister also suggested that with the Caricom Special
Visa, tour operators could use the opportunity it poses for multi-destination
marketing.

The current two-day meeting is being organized by the Caribbean Community
(Caricom) Operational Planning and Coordinating Staff (Copacs), with the support
of experts from the United Kingdom Home Office.

It followed discussions and agreement at previous meetings of the Bureau of
Ministers of National Security and Law Enforcement.

The objective of the January 15-16 meeting "is to test and brainstorm, against a
series of realistic scenarios, the strategic and operational command, control
and communication arrangements and the multi-national decision-making
procedures.

"This Table Top exercise will allow participants to play their real life roles
as seriously as if they were indeed dealing with a major crisis. It will give
participants an opportunity to think in advance of possible disaster occurrences
during CWC 2007 and plan their anticipated responses in the context of an agreed
chain of command so as to allow them to be better prepared," the organizers said
in a statement.

Source: Caribbean Media Corporation news agency website, Bridgetown, in English
2140 gmt 15 Jan 07

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 15, 2007 Monday

Bush: I made terror attacks more likely

BYLINE: WILLIAM LOWTHER

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words


GEORGE Bush admitted last night that U.S.

military action in Iraq had led to instability and made terror attacks on
America more likely.

The president's startling admission in a TV interview undermined a major
argument he and Tony Blair used to justify the war, that it would reduce
terrorism.

In effect, Mr Bush acknowledged that the invasion and later bad decisions have
made the terror threat against America and the West worse.

During the interview for the CBS show 60 Minutes, he said: 'I think history is
going to look back and see a lot of ways we could have done things better.' In a
televised address to the nation last week, he admitted mistakes but did not go
as far.

In his CBS interview, Mr Bush insisted it was crucial to U.S. interests to get
the sectarian violence in Iraq under control because the strife was a
destabilising force in the Middle East that 'could lead to attacks here in
America'.

He also said: 'My decision to remove Saddam Hussein was the correct decision.

'We didn't find the weapons we thought we would find, or the weapons everybody
thought he had. But he was a significant source of instability.

'We liberated that country from a tyrant. I think the Iraqi people owe the
American people-a huge debt of gratitude and most Iraqis express that.' At the
suggestion his administration had created instability in Iraq, Mr Bush said:
'Our administration took care of a source of instability in Iraq.

'Envision a world in which Saddam Hussein was rushing for a nuclear weapon to
compete against Iran. He was a significant source of instability.' When
interviewer Scott Pelley insisted: 'It's much more unstable now,' Mr Bush said:
'Well, no question, decisions have made things unstable.' The president said he
had watched the Internet video of Saddam's hanging but not him falling through
the trap door.

The government of Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al Maliki has been criticised for
the way the execution was handled, with Shi'ite guards taunting Saddam on the
gallows. One secretly filmed the execution and put it on the Internet.

'I thought it was discouraging,' Mr Bush said of the video.

He added: 'It's important that chapter of Iraqi history be closed. They could
have handled it a lot better.' In a radio address at the weekend Mr Bush said
his plan to send 21,500 more U.S.

troops to secure Baghdad and shore up forces fighting the insurgency in Anbar
Province could succeed because ' American forces will have a green light to
enter neighbourhoods that are home to those fuelling sectarian violence.' Until
now, U.S. forces have been restricted by the Iraqi prime minister from operating
freely in the Sadr City area, home to a Shi'ite militia.

Mr Bush said those restrictions had been lifted.

Police patrols in Baghdad discovered 37 bodies over the weekend, all of them
middleaged men killed by gunfire.

Some showed signs of torture.

In a visit to the city, Senator Hillary Clinton expected to announce soon that
she is running for the White House criticised the troop increase, adding: 'I
don't know that the American people or Congress believe this mission can work.'

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Attack terror

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 88 words


Police are stepping up patrols after a woman was attacked by a man on Tyneside.

The 31-year-old was pounced on at 6.50pm yesterday as she walked from a library
in Bensham, Gateshead, along the back lane between Westbourne and Eastbourne
Avenues.

She was grabbed from behind by a man. She screamed and he ran off down the back
lane.

The attacker is 5ft 8in and stockily built. He wore a tan woolly hat, blue
tracksuit, the bottoms of which had a white stripe, and coarse woolly gloves.
Witnesses call police on (0191) 454 7555 ex 64144.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday

Shop woman's hammer attack terror ordeal

BYLINE: Edward Chadwick

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 201 words

DATELINE: The Bolton News


A MASKED robber threatened a terrified shop worker with a claw hammer at a
newsagents in Great Lever.

In a vicious attack, the thug who was wearing a black balaclava, threatened to
smash the 50-year-old woman's head with the hammer, while demanding cash from
the till.

He fled on foot with £200 and five cheques totalling £180.

The robbery took place at Crescent News, Crescent Road, Great Lever, at about
5pm on Monday.

Shopkeeper Shash Patel, who has owned the business for the past five years,
said: "My wife would normally be serving but she had to pop to the cash and
carry and asked a friend to mind the shop for her. She was doing us a favour
when all this happened.

"He was only in the shop for a matter of seconds but she was in a terrible
state. There were no customers in the shop at the time but a witness has said
that he saw two men hanging around outside the shop, acting suspiciously, just
before it happened."

The robber is described as Asian and in his early 20s. He was wearing a
balaclava, black jacket with a white motif on the back, pale blue jeans and
black trainers.

Anybody with information is asked to contact police on 0161 856 0963 or
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          January 17, 2007, Wednesday

Terrorist nuclear attack

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 315 words


* The director of the Arms Control Agency painted a bleak picture of the US
sliding into barbarity after suffering a terrorist nuclear attack thanks to its
reckless dissemination of atomic technology

* A chilling lament that the United States has been "overly generous" in
disseminating nuclear technology to the point where it was now "basically
defenceless" against terrorist or criminal nuclear attack has been voiced by Dr
Fred Ikle, director of the Arms Control Agency, in a speech to the National
Security Industrial Association in Washington.

Dr Ikle described a possible disaster. "Imagine the morning after a nuclear
explosive has destroyed half an American city. How are we going to apply our
theories of mutual deterrence, of first strike and second strike, of strategic
stability conceived for a bipolar world, if we cannot tell whose nuclear
explosive it was?

"Our society and our political institutions might simply prove incapable of
coping with this new age of terror. When a few acts of nuclear destruction had
actually occurred, we might not be able to achieve an effective response, and
with each new disaster -or perhaps even threat -our social and political
institutions would seem less competent.

"The moral fibre that binds society would disintegrate further. People would
sink into apathy, or a desperate and cruel selfishness, and the nation would
cease to act as a viable entity. The nation might decide to protect itself by
surrounding itself with an iron curtain, stopping nearly all the flow of goods
and people across its borders. In short, we might be driven to establishing a
police state.

This might protect our country physically, but would destroy it spiritually.

"We do have some time left in which to work -not much, but some." Dr Ikle
estimated that after 20 years "the fissionable material in foreign transit each
year will be enough to make some 20,000 bombs."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                January 18, 2007

Woman tells of late night attack terror

LENGTH: 191 words


A WOMAN has told of her terror as she fought off an attacker in a late night
attempted robbery on a Sheffield street. The 37-year-old woman, from Walkley,
had enjoyed a night out in Broomhill and was trying to hail a taxi on Whitham
Road, Broomhill. The man sneaked up behind her and demanded her handbag. But the
feisty clerical assistant refused and was punched in the face and knocked down.
The man ran away empty handed. She told The Star: "My friend went to the chip
shop and I waited to pull a cab. All of a sudden someone tried to grab my bag. I
punched him and then he punched me. I got quite a few injuries to my face and
arms and leg. "It all happened so fast. My friend couldn't believe it. It only
took a minute." The woman, who has been struggling to sleep said she wanted to
"highlight to other people to be careful". "It has knocked me for six to be
honest. It's shocked me more than anything else." The attack happened shortly
after 11pm on Friday 12 January. The offender is black, about 5ft 8in tall, of
medium build. Contact DC Vanessa Gooseman at Ecclesfield Robbery Unit on 0114
296 4605 or call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            January 19, 2007, Friday
                             Black Country Edition

Arson terror;
Home residents flee fire attack

BYLINE: Dale Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 291 words


TERRIFIED residents were led to safety and one man needed hospital treatment
after a suspected arson attack on a nursing home.

When firefighters arrived at about 7.20pm yesterday at Ashleigh Nursing Home, in
Gorge Road, Sedgley, the front porch and door of the building was well alight.

Thick smoke was being drawn into the hall, triggering alarms.

Staff reacted immediately and led most of the residents, some suffering from
mental problems, to safety.

Crew commander Andy Taylor, of Dudley fire station, said: "When we arrived the
large porch to the front and the door were well alight.

"Luckily, we managed a very swift response getting four appliances to the scene
quickly and got the flames under control.

"Thirteen residents had been taken to safety by staff via a side door, but there
were reports of two not accounted for.

"One was off the premises at the time and the other was found by firefighters
and was taken outside suffering from smoke inhalation."

All of the residents were found alternative accommodation overnight.

The injured man, aged 56, was taken to Russells Hall Hospital for checks
suffering from the effects of breathing in smoke.

West Midlands Ambulance Service was also called to the home.

A spokesman said two ambulances and a clinical support officer were sent to the
scene.

Emergency medical technician, Alisdair Setchfield, said: "Thirteen patients were
led to safety by staff at the home prior to the arrival of emergency crews from
fire and ambulance. Our crews provided blankets for the residents until they
could be found somewhere else. One resident, a 56-year-old was not initially
located.

Firefighters found him in his room and brought him out."

Police and fire investigators are looking into the exact cause of the fire.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DAMAGE... the Ashleigh home.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Leyland Guardian

                                January 19, 2007

Leyland director relives arson attack terror

LENGTH: 279 words


A Leyland businessman has spoken of the terrifying moment he thought he was
going to die, when masked raiders tied him to a fence and threatened him with a
knife. Managing director Leo Tommony, 54, was forced to watch as the reception
of Lancashire Granite's building on Moss Side Industrial Estate, exploded in
flames. He was bundled into the building as he locked up last month and ordered
to switch off the alarm, before being hauled across the yard by his throat and
taped to a fence.

The firm is now back in business but counting the cost of the fire. Mr Tommony
said: "The only thing I remember is being taped to the fence and the knife. I
was sure they were going to kill me. "I have two sons, a daughter and a wife and
I believed I might never see them again. "When I was being dragged across the
yard I thought about trying to struggle free, but the size of the guy that had
me, I knew if I got away they would have got me." He said his attackers waved to
him as they ran off, then he saw "a flash of orange" and the building exploded.
A passer-by saw the blaze and called the fire brigade, who released Mr Tommony.
As well as gutting the reception area, showrooms and pieces of stone worth up to
£9,000 each were also damaged. Mr Tommony now fears that with the phones still
disconnected, people might think the company is out of business. He said: "It
happened on a Saturday and by the following Tuesday we were open again." Det Sgt
John Cass, of Leyland CID, said: "We are currently pursuing all lines of inquiry
as we look to identify and arrest the people responsible." Anyone with
information should call police on 01772 415947 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           January 20, 2007, Saturday

TERROR DOG ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 32 words


A youth aged 16 has been left with horrific injuries to his face, arms hands and
legs after being attacked by two Staffordshire bull terrier-type dogs in the
street in Bromley-by-Bow, east London.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 22, 2007 Monday

USA attacked Somalia for oil, not terrorists - Kenyan writer

LENGTH: 743 words


Text of commentary by Wanjohi Kabukuru entitled "Oil, not terrorists, the reason
for US attack on Somalia" published by Kenyan newspaper Daily Nation website on
22 January

Just why did the US attack Somalia two weeks ago? Of course, the answer given
for the US military intervention and the generally accepted notion is the hunt
for terrorists. But is it?

Are terrorists the only bone of contention the US has with Somalia? When the US
military devised "Operation Restore Hope" in 1993 which was short-lived after
they were whipsawed by rag-tag militia in and around Mogadishu, were they
fighting the "war on terror"?

They couldn't have been because this war was to start much later, If anything it
is a post-11 September phenomenon. So then why did the US bomb ICU [Islamic
Courts Union] extremists in the name of Al Qa'idah terrorists and not throughout
last year when they occupied Mogadishu?

Just why is Somalia so important to the US, and by extension the big boys of
Europe and some Gulf states?

A UN Somalia Monitoring Group report released in November 2005 reveals that a
dozen countries, namely Yemen, Djibouti, Libya, Egypt, Kazakhstan, Ethiopia,
Iran, Syria, Eritrea, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia and Uganda were all poking their
noses into the Somalia pie.

What the UN Somalia Monitoring Group didn't reveal, however, is that these were
not the only countries which were interested in the country.

The little known yet well-heeled contact group, consisting of Norway, the US,
UK, France and Tanzania (just an appendage) are also deeply enmeshed in Somalia.

While the terrorism theory holds some water, the reality of the factors
contributing to the mess in Somalia is pegged on natural resources. Oil and gas
are Somalia's Achilles heel. It is an open secret that four US oil giants are
sitting pretty on money-spinning concessions expecting to reap huge windfalls
from massive resources of both oil and gas in Somalia.

The story of Somalia and oil goes back to the colonial period. British and
Italian geologists first identified oil deposits during that period of
imperialism. The first oil wells historically referred to as the Daga Shabell
series were dug in the 1960s. Tiny gas discoveries adjacent to Socotra were also
noted..

The race for these precious natural resources took a new turn in 1988, when the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the World Bank, with the support
of the governments of Britain, France and Canada and backed by several Western
oil companies financed a regional hydro-carbon study of the countries bordering
the Red Sea and the Gulf of Eden.

The countries were Somalia, Ethiopia and Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia was later
dropped, but not before it had been established that within the study area,
massive deposits of oil and gas existed.

The results of the findings were presented to a three-day American Association
of Petroleum Geologists, Eastern Hemisphere group conference, in London in
September 1991. Is there oil in Somalia? Listen to the answer:

"It's there. There's no doubt there's oil there," said geologist Thomas E.
O'Connor, the World Bank's principal petroleum engineer, who steered the
in-depth, three-year study of oil prospects in Somalia's Gulf of Eden in the
northern coastal region.

The study was intended to encourage private investment in the petroleum
potential of eight African nations. The conclusions of their findings are quite
telling as the geologists put Somalia and Sudan at the top of the list of
prospective commercial oil producers.

While presenting their results during the conference, two geologists involved in
the study (an American and an Egyptian) reported that the investigation of nine
exploratory wells dug in Somalia pointed out that the region was "situated
within the oil window, and thus (is) highly prospective for gas and oil".

Geologist Z. R. Beydoun, who was involved in the survey, noted that "the
geological parameters conducive to the generation, expulsion and trapping of
significant amounts of oil and gas" were within the offshore sites. Soon after a
race for lucrative deals kicked off in earnest.

Four US oil companies, namely Conoco, Chevron, Amoco and Philips have
concessions in nearly two thirds of Somalia. This quartet of oil conglomerates
was granted these contracts in the final days of Somalia's deposed dictator,
Siad Barre. The US first military engagement in Somalia was fully supported by
Conoco.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 22 Jan 07

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                            January 23, 2007 Tuesday

Knife attack terror

BYLINE:  STUART ABEL Herald Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 104 words


This is the terrifying moment a knife-wielding robber threatened a city female
shop assistant before grabbing £300 from the till.

Police believe the robber, wearing a stocking over his head, used a fishing
knife to demand cash from the lone assistant.

It happened at the Colmarg News in Devonport Road.

After grabbing the cash, the masked robber then fled the store, leaving the
assistant unhurt but "hugely distressed" by her ordeal.

Detectives today released CCTV footage of the robbery on Saturday afternoon
exclusively to The Herald in the hope that readers can help track the offender.
Full story and  more pictures: Page 5

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 Evening Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 25, 2007 Thursday

Algerian soldier said killed, eight wounded in "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 306 words


Text of report by M. B. and M. T. headlined "Terrorist attacks in Boumerdes and
Jijel: One soldier killed and eight others wounded", published by Algerian
newspaper Liberte website on 23 January

The day before yesterday [21 January], Sunday, at about 1500 [local time], while
they were on a mission in the mountains of Irraguene 70 km southwest of Jijel,
the security forces lost one of their own and six others were wounded in their
ranks following the explosion of a homemade bomb. The attack in question
occurred on a forest path located between the two communities of Beida and
Garoua, which report administratively to the municipality of Irraguene.

According to our sources, a patrol had just left one of the billets set up in
recent years in that area when it was surprised by the explosion of a bomb
buried by the side of the road. The six soldiers who had been on board a Land
Rover were struck, one of them fatally. The attack had been planned by a unit of
the Salafi Group for Call and Combat [GSPC] which is active in the Babors
mountains. A search operation was quickly launched by the forces of the People's
National Army [ANP] that were operational in the region.

Moreover, the day before yesterday a terrorist incursion was repelled by the
elements of the National Gendarmerie in Tidjellabine 6 km south of Boumerdes.
Two gendarmes were wounded during the skirmish that followed that attack, which
was committed at about 2000 at a permanent Gendarmerie roadblock. The gendarmes
were on duty at the Tidjellabine crossroads when they were targeted by the
attackers, who were lying in ambush on a path not far from the market. The
energetic and quick response by the gendarmes who immediately came as
reinforcements forced the terrorists to flee towards the surrounding woods.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 23 Jan 07

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Halifax Courier

                                January 25, 2007

Driver's race attack terror

LENGTH: 434  words


A GROUP of youths attacked and racially taunted a terrified bus driver, a court
heard. Driver Hukam Dad, who works for bus company First, said he was subjected
to abuse and had a lump of concrete thrown at his window forcing him to jump out
of his seat after his bus broke down. Gary Spellman, 19, of Turner Avenue South,
Illingworth, Halifax, appeared before Calderdale magistrates, charged with
criminal damage and a public order offence Two youths, who cannot be named for
legal reasons, appeared alongside Spellman.

They were charged with racially aggravated criminal damage and harassment. All
three denied the charges. A fourth man, Mark Andrew Hirst, 21, of Sandhall
Green, Highroad Well, Halifax, admitted causing racially aggravated damage and
harassment. He will be sentenced at Bradford Crown Court on February 2. Stephen
Rushton, prosecuting, said Mr Dad was driving the 513 service through
Illingworth when he noticed road works at Illingworth Grove, behind Morrisons
supermarket. Diversions were in place but Mr Dad's bus got stuck on a grass
verge on Furness Grove. Passengers were transferred to the next available
service. As Mr Dad waited for a recovery vehicle, a group of youths walked
towards the bus. Mr Rushton said Hirst came up to the the driver's window, asked
for money, racially abused Mr Dad and threw stones. The two youths tried to
enter the bus by continually pressing the emergency door button. It was claimed
Spellman threw a piece of Tarmac at the driver's cabin. Mr Dad was not hurt but
said he was terrified. "One of the lads was joking about. He came over and
tapped on the cab window and demanded money," he said. "I told him I didn't have
any and to go away. He started swearing and called me a black b*****d and made
racial remarks. "Two other youths tried to get into the passenger door. They
were kicking it and calling me a 'Paki.' "One of the youths picked up a lump of
concrete and threw it at the cab window. I had to jump out of my seat. "I was
scared, shocked and shaking. "It was the first time something like this has
happened in my 28 years as a bus driver. The incident has affected me. When I
think about what happened, it gives me shivers. That piece of Tarmac could have
injured me." A 15-year-old witness, who also cannot be named, told the court: "I
noticed the bus stuck on the grass. I sat and watched it and then all four lads
came about 7.15pm. They were shouting racist names. They were banging on the
window, asking for money but the driver would not open the door. "They started
chucking stuff at the bus. "The driver was shaking." Proceeding

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 26, 2007 Friday

Lack of protective hoods leaves Pcs 'at risk' in terror attack

BYLINE: Graeme Wilson Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 371 words


POLICE officers are being put at risk because ministers have failed to provide
enough money to buy special hoods to protect them against a chemical attack or
dirty bomb, it was claimed last night.

The Association of Chief Police Officers has recommended that forces across the
country should buy up to 100,000 "escape hoods'' to protect officers in the
event of an attack.

The hoods, which cost about pounds 95 each, are small enough to be carried by
officers while on patrol and offer immediate protection to those who will be
first on the scene of an attack.

They are designed to keep the wearer safe for up to 20 minutes, enough time to
start evacuating people and cordoning off the area. But only a few hundred hoods
have been bought because the Home Office has not provided forces with any extra
money.

Ministers have instead focused resources on providing full protective suits to
about 7,000 officers who have undergone specialist chemical, biological,
radiological and nuclear training.

The funding shortfall emerged as it was reported that British laboratories had
tightened security around lethal viruses and bacteria following warnings that
terrorists were training in germ warfare.

Avon Protection, the company that developed the hoods for the police, said the
Avon and Somerset force had bought 125, while a further 50 had been dispatched
to Fife.

Patrick Mercer, the Tory homeland security spokesman, said: "We have constantly
warned the Government that the policeman on the beat needs immediate cover for
this sort of attack.

"It is not going to be the highly trained policemen who are going to be the
first responders in the event of an attack, but the ordinary Pc on the beat who
will be at risk.''

The Association of Chief Police Officers has told every force in England and
Wales to look into buying enough hoods for their "patrol officers'' to ensure
they are able to respond to an attack.

The Home Office said last night that it was up to chief constables to decide how
they spent their budgets. "All forces have been made aware of the availability
of escape hoods,'' said a spokesman.

"The decision to purchase them would be a matter for individual chief constables
based on the national threat and on local conditions.'

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            January 26, 2007 Friday

Vulnerable to terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 43

LENGTH: 188 words


How stupid it is to create a man-made disaster in the city, in the form of this
new hotel apartment building, 39 storeys high - and next to a watercourse.

With the threat of terrorism and climate change, now the two main threats to our
daily life, this new building would serve as a perfect target for a Leicester
9/11.

If a new hotel is needed, let it be built on the design of the Travel Lodge
Hotel in Vaughan Way.

One would feel secure in a building of this design and not on the upper storeys
of this new hotel. An earthquake or subsidence would destabilise this
monstrosity  and a disaster on a huge scale would ensue.

Hurricane-force winds would also cause terror to the occupants of this hotel,
especially when the windows "blow in" to relieve wind pressure.

The unsuspecting occupants could be sucked out of the building and thrown to
their deaths.

The height of this building frightens me. Am I alone in thinking this, or are
other people worried about the size of this proposed hotel?

If so, please air your views to the Leicester Mercury to let us know what
everybody thinks about this development.

J D Healey, East Goscote.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                           January 27, 2007 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

Gunman in terror attack

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 98 words


A terrified shop assistant was robbed at gunpoint.

The woman was working in the Londis general dealers store at Prospect Terrace,
Prudhoe last night when the raider walked in at 5.42pm.

The assistant told police he produced a black handgun and threatened her before
taking £80 from the till and escaping.

The man is white, 5ft 9ins to 5ft 10ins and between 30 and 50.

He had stubble on his chin and was slim built.

He wore a blue-green jacket, blue jeans and black boots and a black balaclava.

Anyone with information about the man is asked to call Prudhoe CID on (01661)
872 555 extension 61400.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                           January 27, 2007 Saturday

Cop mauled in 'pit-bull' terror attack

BYLINE:  Tom Morgan tc.morgan@bepp.co.uk

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 384 words


Apolice officer was savaged by an American pit bull type dog yesterday as he
attempted to stop the animal attacking another man, police said.

Officers were called to a house on Hester's Way in Cheltenham at 2.30pm
yesterday to help bring the animal under control after it had repeatedly bitten
a 33-year-old man.

The victim had suffered severe injuries to his wrist, legs and body as he
attempted to fend the dog off with  a neighbour's help. But a Gloucestershire
Police officer was then also attacked as he came to the man's aid and suffered
face and arm injuries.

Both were taken to Cheltenham General Hospital with what police described as
"severe injuries".

Two dog handlers equipped with shields and lassos attempted to contain the dog,
which was eventually shot by a police marksman.

A 34-year-old Cheltenham man, believed to be the dog's owner, was later arrested
under the Dangerous Dogs Act.

Chief Inspector Steve Radcliffe said: "The dog severely injured both a member of
the public and a police officer.

"Extensive attempts were made to contain it but this proved impossible and the
lives of dog handlers and other people nearby would have been put at risk if it
had been allowed to continue acting ferociously any longer.

"It was therefore destroyed by marksmen. A man has been arrested and is
currently helping with inquiries at Cheltenham police station."

The attack comes just weeks after five-year-old Ellie Lawrenson was killed by a
pit bull terrier in St Helens, Merseyside.

Ellie was mauled by a terrier, in the early hours of New Year's Day, despite
attempts by her grandmother to save her.

The dog was owned by Ellie's uncle, Kiel Simpson, who had been sent a warning
letter about his dog's behaviour in June last year, after a neighbour complained
the animal had attacked his dog.

It was the latest in a string of terrifying attacks by fierce dogs and the
second death of a child in less than four months.

Following growing pressure on the Government to act against dangerous dogs, a
review of the law began this month.

There are more than 1,000 pit bull terriers owned legally under the Dangerous
Dogs Act, but many thousands more are owned illegally.

The legislation bans breeding, sale or exchange of the dogs, and the owner of an
animal that injures someone can be jailed for up to two years.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday

Chechen female 1997 terror attack suspect detained in Russia's Ingushetia

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS

Nazran, 28 January: A female resident of Chechnya who was wanted by the federal
authorities on suspicion of committing a terrorist attack on the Armavir-2
railway station in Krasnodar Territory in April 1997 has been detained in the
village of Ordzhonikidzevskaya in [the Russian republic of] Ingushetia, a source
in the republic's Interior Ministry has told ITAR-TASS. The arrest was carried
out by FSB [Federal Security Service] officers stationed in Ingushetia in
cooperation with their colleagues from Chechnya and Krasnodar Territory, the
source said.

"After being detained, 38-year-old Malika Chabiyeva was handed over to the FSB
officers from Krasnodar Territory," the source said.

Two people were killed and seven wounded as a result of the 1997 terrorist
attack.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0607 gmt 28 Jan 07

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 29, 2007 Monday

Algerian local government delegation reportedly escapes terrorist attack

LENGTH: 226 words


Text of report by K. R headlined "Boumerdes: An administrative district
delegation escapes attack", published by Algerian newspaper Le Quotidien d'Oran
website on 29 January

At about 1400 [local time] yesterday, a delegation from the administrative
district of Dellys, in the far east of the main town of the province of
Boumerdes, just escaped a terrorist attack with explosives outside the
headquarters of the Municipal People's Assembly [APC] of Ouled Aissa, 45 km
southeast of Boumerdes. To be more specific, this attack occurred at the main
entrance to the town hall of the municipality of Ouled Aissa several moments
after the delegation left led by the chief of the administrative district of
Dellys, which had been on a site visit to determine the location of the future
headquarters of the same community's municipal guard.

This attack was planned by a terrorist group that has henceforth been termed
Al-Qa'idah [Organization] in the Land of the Islamic Maghreb (the former
Salafist Group for Call and Combat [GSPC]), which targeted the delegation's
members. Luckily, the explosion did not affect the citizens who were going about
their daily duties normally. No one was injured but there was some materiel
damage. According to the latest reports, the device had been hidden in a plastic
bag.

Source: Le Quotidien d'Oran website, Oran, in French 29 Jan 07

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                           January 31, 2007 Wednesday

Eight held as police raid halts major terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 200 words


Eight people were arrested today in a major anti-terror  operation.

The suspects were detained during early morning raids on a number of addresses
in Birmingham.

The Home Office said the arrests were part a major "nationwide"  operation.

Police said the suspects were held "on suspicion of the commission, preparation
or instigation of acts of terrorism".

Security sources said a major  terror attack had been thwarted.

The plan, which was in its later stages, was a departure from recent al
Qaida-style bombings. It is thought   the operation was to target an individual
rather than to cause mass casualties.

Several addresses in Birmingham were sealed off by police after the raids, which
were launched at around 4am.

Home Secretary John Reid was fully briefed.  A spokeswoman said:  "A major
counter terrorism operation took place earlier today led by West Midlands
Police.

"Eight  arrests under the Terrorism Act have been made to date during this
nationwide operation.''

She added:  "This operation is a reminder of the real and serious  nature of the
terrorist threat we face."

Local people near one of the  addresses raided  in Sparkhill, south east
Birmingham, said a large number of officers was involved.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Evening Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          January 31, 2007, Wednesday
                                 Worcs Edition

Major terror attack foiled;
8 city arrests thwart 'spectacular' plot

BYLINE: Mark Cowan and Jasbir Authi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 615 words


A "SPECTACULAR" terror attack was said to have been foiled by police and MI5
today after eight men were arrested in swoops in Birmingham.

The men, who are suspected members of a major terrorist cell, were held in raids
in Alum Rock and Sparkhill at 4am.

Anti-terror officers swooped on addresses including Foxton Road and Jackson
Road, Alum Rock.

Police were also seen searching property in Poplar Road and a bookshop and an
internet cafe in Stratford Road, in Sparkhill.

A source said: "We believe we have foiled a significant terrorist attack."

West Midlands Police said the eight people were arrested on suspicion of the
commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism.

They denied reports that a major terrorist attack had been foiled, but security
sources were reported as saying the threat was "significant" and at an advanced
stage. Security sources said the plot was not aimed at inflicting mass
casualties. It is thought to have focused on attacking "high-profile or
strategic sites in the UK".

The possible options could include gas and electricity power plants or oil
refineries.

Security around such installations has been tightened in recent months amid
fears that terrorists could mount an attack to try to cause severe disruption to
national life and the economy.

The source said the raids came as a plot reached its "denouement".

The raids, co-ordinated by the Midlands Counter Terrorism Unit and supported by
officers from West Midlands Police and the Metropolitan Police, were thought to
have been the culmination of six months of surveillance on the gang.

Security chiefs know of around 30 terror plots in the UK - known as "priority
one" cases.

Today's raids in Birmingham were said to be against one of those.

The arrests, co-ordinated by Scotland Yard's antiterrorist unit, were said to be
of "major significance".

Sources said the arrested people were alleged to be at an advanced stage of
planning a terrorist "spectacular" in the UK and the raids were of major
significance.

One source said the suspects were involved in a terrorist plot "the nature of
which we have not seen before".

The source added that it did not focus on mass casualties but instead the plot
was a "chilling" new departure in terrorism.

Those arrested were today being held at undisclosed police stations across
Birmingham under the Terrorism Act 2000.

They were due to be moved to Paddington Green police station in London later
today in a high-security convoy.

Officers remained at the properties carrying out searches today. A grey Mazda
car was towed away from outside a house in Foxton Road.

West Midlands Police refused to confirm whether the search of the bookshop in
Stratford Road and the property in Poplar Road were part of the operation.

But in Poplar Road, an end terraced house had been sealed off and there seemed
to be a lot of activity in the kitchen, which was brightly lit up.

An entrance to garages at the rear of Poplar Avenue was blocked off by a police
van. Residents said the occupants had not been living there long.

Afsar Khan, aged 38, of Florence Avenue, said: "I was going to pray about 7.15am
and all these police were here. I don't know what is going on.

"A family live here. In passing I have said hello to a big guy who lives there."
Earlier in the morning, a black Volvo was removed from outside an address on the
same road.

A spokesman said the counter-terrorism operation posed "no specific threat to
the West Midlands", but police patrols were increased in the areas.

"We would ask for the continued support and cooperation of the public," the
spokesman said.

"Our message to people living in the West Midlands is to remain vigilant. Public
safety is our absolute priority."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAIDS... (from left) an officer searches a shop on Stratford Road,
Sparkhill' police on Jackson Road, Alum Rock' forensics move into Foxton Road,
Alum Rock' a search in Poplar Road, Sparkhill.' DAWN RAIDS... (top) police
outside a shop on Stratford Road' (above) the Maktabah Islamic bookshop on
Stratford Road, Sparkhill' and (left) a house on Poplar Road, Sparkhill. Mail
pictures by Jason Skarratt

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           January 31, 2007 Wednesday

MAJOR TERROR ATTACK FOILED;
Eight held over plot police say was a 'chilling departure'

BYLINE: RICHARD EDWARDS; MARTIN BENTHAM

SECTION: A MERGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 458 words


SUSPECTED terrorists believed to be ready to launch a "spectacular" attack were
arrested today.

Eight people were held in a series of raids on addresses in Birmingham.

One police source said the suspects were involved in a terrorist plot "the
nature of which we have not seen before".

The source added that it was not focused on mass casualties but instead the plan
was a "chilling" new departure in terrorism. The early morning raids came as the
plot reached its "denouement".

Sources told the Standard: "We believe we have foiled a significant terrorist
attack." Police and MI5 carried out around six months of surveillance on the
group. Security sources said it is thought the plot was focused on attacking
"high-profile or strategic sites in the UK".

The possible options could include gas and electricity power plants or oil
refineries. Security around such installations has been tightened in recent
months amid fears that terrorists could try to cause severe disruption to
national life and the economy.

Security chiefs know of around 30 terror plots in the UK - referred to as
"priority one" cases. Today's raids were said to involve one of those.

Investigations into the alleged plot are continuing.

Although the focus was said to be principally in the West Midlands, further
police action elsewhere in the country was not being ruled out.

The raids took place in the neighbouring areas of Alum Rock and Sparkbrook.

Addresses in Foxton Road, Jackson Road and Poplar Road were raided. Early
reports indicated a "heavy police presence" on Poplar Road.

Both areas have large Muslim communities and along with Small Heath are a focal
point for the city's Asian community.

The suspects were due to be moved to Paddington Green police station later today
in a high-security convoy.

Home Secretary John Reid was briefed through the night on the operation.

A Home Office spokeswoman said: "We can confirm that a major counter-terrorism
operation took place earlier today led by West Midlands Police.

"This operation is a reminder of the real and serious nature of the terrorist
threat we face.

"Eight arrests under the Terrorism Act have been made to date during this
nationwide operation."

Police said the suspects were held on suspicion of the commission, preparation
or instigation of acts of terrorism under the Terrorism Act 2000.

In a statement the force added: "The arrests were part of a counter-terrorism
operation co-ordinated and led by the Midlands Counter Terrorism Unit, supported
by officers from the West Midlands Police and Metropolitan Police.

"A number of addresses in Birmingham have been secured and sealed off and are
being searched.

"Our message to people living in the West Midlands is to remain vigilant.

Public safety is our absolute priority."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DAWN GUARD: POLICE OUTSIDE SHOPS IN SPARKHILL, BIRMINGHAM, TODAY. EIGHT
PEOPLE WERE ARRESTED IN RAIDS CO-ORDINATED BY SCOTLAND YARD, WHO SUSPECTED AN
ATTACK ON A 'HIGH-PROFILE' SITE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 31, 2007

The terrorist attack that led to the rejuvenation of run-down Manchester

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 396 words



HIGHLIGHT: SAFE BET: The proposed design for Manchester's supercasino. The
city's bid was thought to be an outsider in the race but Manchester has
benefited from redevelopment. Picture: Reuters


THE IRA bombing 11 years ago ripped through its heart, but Manchester
capitalised with the biggest regeneration of the city since the Victorian era.

The rebuilding triggered a new era, helping the city finally shake off its
reputation of crime, grime and deprivation.

Rundown Victorian mills were retained but reinvented as designer shops and chic
bars, while other tired buildings were torn down and replaced with modern
architecture and continental-style piazzas.

Moss Side, an area badly in need of its own Max Clifford, has had GBP400m of
public money pumped into it and police say gang violence and the gun culture has
been significantly reduced in recent years.

Manchester 's reputation as one of the most popular UK cities to live was
strengthened further when the 2002 Commonwealth Games gave the city its largest
economic boost to date.

Widespread redevelopment swept through east Manchester, an area that suffered
most with the decline of traditional heavy industry in the region, bringing in
both an influx of investment and a huge profile boost for the city.

Pubs and restaurants reported a threefold rise in takings. During the Games,
their takings rocketed and tourist chiefs estimated an extra 300,000 visitors
came to the city due to its higher profile.

A host of excellent sporting facilities across the area have been left as a
legacy - not least the City of Manchester Stadium, now used by Manchester City
FC. The Northern Regional Tennis Centre, the National Squash Centre and the
Manchester Velodrome were also built, in addition to the shops, supermarkets and
new housing erected for the championships.

The BBC is also expected to move some of its departments to Salford, Greater
Manchester, less than a mile from Manchester 's city centre, by 2010, bringing
up to 15,000 jobs to the region and providing an additional GBP200m a year to
the local economy.

The boast that perhaps swung the judges in the supercasino bid was the
"unrivalled track record" Manchester has in delivering major regeneration
schemes to transform impoverished communities - including the Games.

It will be based at Sportcity, in the Beswick area of east Manchester, one mile
east of the city centre.

The site will also contain an entertainment complex with a range of facilities
such as a multipurpose arena, a swimming pool, an urban sports venue,
restaurants, bars, a nightclub and a hotel.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Ilkeston Advertiser

                                February 1, 2007

Woman was victim of terror attack

LENGTH: 121  words


A GANG launched a terrifying late-night attack on a woman walking home in Kirk
Hallam. They left her with a bruised head, snatching her handbag in the early
minutes of Saturday. The gang - which included women as well as men - ran off
towards the parade of shops on Queen Elizabeth Way. About £90 and a mobile phone
were in the bag, which has not been found. Police are keen to trace it. The
robbery took place on Queen Elizabeth Way near St Norbert Drive as the woman
walked with a man, who was not hurt. Police say there were between six and eight
young people in the gang. They hope local people can help to identify the
offenders, who may live in the area. Anyone with information should ask for
Ilkeston CID on 0845 123 3333.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           February 1, 2007, Thursday
                                 First Edition

'Plot' to kidnap and kill could mark new twist in terrorist attacks in Britain

BYLINE: Neville Dean, Caroline Gammell, Sam Marsden and Matthew Cooper

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1322 words


Nine men were being held last night over an alleged terrorist plot to kidnap and
kill a British Muslim soldier. Eight were arrested yesterday morning in a series
of dawn raids in Birmingham, with the ninth arrested hours later on a motorway
in the city.

Security sources said the alleged plot was to abduct a serving Muslim soldier,
who would have been filmed, possibly tortured and ultimately executed.

It could have mirrored the kidnappings of the British hostages Ken Bigley and
Margaret Hassan by Iraqi insurgents.

Sources said a target for the alleged plot had already been identified - a young
Muslim soldier in the British army who had served in Afghanistan.

The operation to thwart the alleged plot was led by the new Midlands Counter
Terrorism Unit, only set up a few months ago.

Assistant Chief Constable David Shaw from West Midlands Police described it as a
'very, very major investigation' which would take 'days if not weeks'.

'The threat from terrorism remains very real,' he said.

At a news conference yesterday afternoon, Mr Shaw declined to give any details
about the alleged plot, but said the 4am raids marked the 'culmination of many
months of activity'.

'I can only stress that we are right at the foothills of what is a very, very
major investigation for us,' he said.

Sources confirmed that a surveillance operation by anti-terror officers had been
ongoing for six months.

The news conference was delayed as officers swooped to arrest the ninth suspect
on a motorway in the Birmingham area.

'That illustrates to you this is a dynamic and fluid operation that is by no
means finished,' Mr Shaw told reporters.

The earlier arrests were made at eight houses in the Sparkhill, Washwood Heath,
Kingstanding and Edgbaston areas of Birmingham. They were being searched by
forensic officers last night. Four commercial premises have also been sealed
off.

Some of the nine suspects were thought to be at a high security police station
in Coventry. Under new anti-terrorism laws, police can hold them without charge
for up to 28 days.

They were arrested on suspicion of the 'commission, preparation or instigation
of acts of terrorism' under the Terrorism Act 2000.

Home Secretary John Reid declined to disclose extra details when interviewed
yesterday.

The Home Office earlier described it as a 'major counter terrorism operation'
and a reminder of the 'real and serious nature of the terrorist threat we face'.

Prime Minister Tony Blair's spokesman declined to comment.

But security sources said the alleged plot was to carry out a close
quarters-style abduction of a Muslim soldier, which could have mirrored the Ken
Bigley and Margaret Hassan kidnappings.

The victim would have been filmed and ultimately executed, sources alleged.

Mr Bigley, from Liverpool, was taken hostage in Iraq by the Tawhid and Jihad
militant group in September 2004 and murdered just over three weeks later, with
his death captured on video.

Mrs Hassan, who had British, Iraqi and Irish nationality, was kidnapped in
October 2004 and shot a month later.

This alleged kidnap plot was said to have been in the later stages of planning.

West Midlands Police refused to confirm claims that the alleged target had been
placed under protective custody.

Such a tactic has not been employed by terrorists in the UK but is a constant
threat for foreigners in Iraq.

Sources said it marked a new approach to terrorism and that a major incident had
been thwarted.

Patrick Mercer, the Conservative homeland security spokesman, said of the
alleged plot, 'If this proves to be accurate this is a disturbing departure.'

Recent al-Qaeda-style terrorist bombings have been designed to cause mass
casualties. But sources said yesterday's operation was not connected to any July
7-style bombing or attempted hijacking.

Police said the operation posed 'no specific threat to the West Midlands'.

The addresses targeted by dozens of police officers included a property near
Poplar Road and Stratford Road in Sparkhill. Two more addresses were raided in
Jackson Road and Foxton Road in Alum Rock, east Birmingham.

A man arrested at Jackson Road was named locally as 29-year-old Amjad Mahmood.

His brother, who did not want to be named, told reporters, 'The police won't let
me know where he is. His wife and kids are very distressed. My mother and father
are very distressed. The police won't tell them where he is.'

Local councillor Ansar Ali Khan said he had spoken to the father of the arrested
man who, he said, was 'in shock to know that his son had been arrested'. He
described him as 'a very hard working local businessman', adding, 'He has served
the community for 30 years and he is proud to be British. He cannot imagine his
son having any link to this sort of activity.': FROM PAGE 9: Muslims are
significant presence in Britain's armed forces:Muslims make up a small but
significant part of Britain's armed forces. Although the numbers are tiny - less
than 0.2% - they provide visible support for the assertion that the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan are not wars against Islam.

Lance Corporal Jabron Hashmi, who died in Afghanistan last July, was the first
British Muslim soldier to die in the 'war on terror.'

The Pakistan-born soldier's family said he had hoped to use his Islamic
background to foster greater understanding in the Army.

They said, 'He felt privileged to represent the Army as a Muslim British
Pakistani who wanted to use his background and position to contribute at a time
where there exists a lack of understanding of cultures, ideologies and religious
identities.'

His uncle, Mohammed Javed, said his nephew was a 'hero of Islam, Pakistan,
Britain and the international community.'

Dozens of Pakistani tribesmen attended a service for L/Cpl Hashmi in his
birthplace of the north-western city of Peshawar, near the Afghan border, where
support for Taliban militants is high. There are 330 Muslims in the British
armed forces, 250 of them in the Army, according to the Ministry of Defence.
Total armed forces personnel is around 180,000.: House, shop and cafe raided:The
raids in the Sparkhill area of Birmingham saw officers swoop on an anonymous
end-of-terrace house, an Islamic bookshop and a cybercafe. Dozens of officers
stood guard outside the three addresses yesterday as forensic experts worked
inside the properties in the inner-city district.

Standing opposite the Maktabah bookstore on Stratford Road, Councillor Tanveer
Choudhry expressed shock that the premises was among those raided.

He said, 'I've used that shop before and I've never seen anything untoward.'

Mr Choudhry, a Liberal Democrat who represents the Springfield ward, said the
staff at the shop were always polite and courteous.

He said, 'If the allegations are what they are then I'm very, very surprised.'

The metal shutters of the bookshop had been cut open by police while a
neighbouring beauty shop was closed. Photographers worked inside the bookshop,
where titles such as Heroes of Islam, Muslim Heroes of the World and A Day With
The Prophet were on display alongside candles.

Passer-by Sohel Aslam had visited the shop to buy story books for his five
children.

The 37-year-old, from Leicester, said, 'There are a few places around which are
quite extreme, but not this place.

'I used to get perfumes and stuff from there for my family and I'm really
shocked that this is going on.'

Residents in Poplar Road, a side street yards from the bookshop, were reluctant
to talk about the occupants of the house which had been sealed off or whether
they had seen the police operation.

The third swoop in Sparkhill occurred about 800 yards further south along
Stratford Road, close to the junction with Showell Green Lane.

A door at the back of Blade Cybercafe and Communications, which led up a flight
of stairs to what appeared to be a flat and a storage area, had been forced
open.

Police could be seen examining the inside of the cybercafe, which also offers
mobile phone services, including repairs.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 2, 2007 Friday

Ethiopia foils Eritrea-devised terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 491 words


Text of report in English by pro-Ethiopian government Walta Information Centre
website on 2 February

Addis Ababa, 2 February: An attempt by the Eritrean regime, which received a
severe blow on the battle and diplomatic fronts, to mastermind terrorist attacks
have successfully been foiled, the national intelligence and security service
and the anti-terrorism taskforce under the Federal Police Commission said.

In a joint statement the two bodies sent to Ethiopian News Agency on Thursday [1
February], it was disclosed that an attempt to launch a series of terrorist
attacks masterminded by senior officials of the Asmara regime and Eritrean
explosive experts have successfully been aborted.

The terrorist attacks had been planned to be carried out during the 8th African
Union Summit in which several African leaders, the UN secretary general, senior
officials of the European Union the Arab League as well as various countries
from across the world were taking part, the statement said.

The Eritrean regime resorted to such evil attempts when it became alienated from
the international community owing to its role in backing and supporting
terrorist groups in Somalia.

Addis Ababa, which is the seat of the African Union, has successfully hosted the
8th AU Summit though the Eritrean government had tried to carry out terrorist
activities to disrupt the summit and endanger the security of the guests.

The statement said the summit was concluded successfully since the intended
terrorist acts of the Eritrean government were exposed in time.

It said the successful completion of the AU Summit is a pride not only to the
peoples of Ethiopia but also the peoples of Africa.

The statement noted that the AU Summit came soon after the Ethiopian defence
forces and that of the Transitional Federal Government of Somalia crushed
extremist forces sponsored by the Eritrean government, international terrorists,
and the Oromo Liberation Front.

This clearly shows the purely terrorist behaviour of the Eritrean regime, it
said.

According to the statement, the Eritrean government is alienated from the 8th AU
Summit and from other international meetings since its terrorist activities
brought about isolation in the political and diplomatic arena.

The plan of the Eritrean government to carry out terrorist activities in Addis
Ababa was foiled successfully owing to the efficient and professional
intervention of the national intelligence service and the anti-terrorism
taskforce, the statement said.

Accordingly, the statement said, the service and the taskforce in collaboration
with the public apprehended all perpetuators of the intended terrorist acts with
their explosives and other accessories just ahead of the summit.

The identity of the people assigned to implement the intended terrorist acts as
well as the extent of the sabotage would be made public in the near future, it
said.

Source: Walta Information Centre website, Addis Ababa, in English 2 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            February 2, 2007 Friday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Muslims now fear backlash of racial attacks;
TERROR SUSPECTS IN THE CITY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 197 words


THE arrest of nine people on suspicion of terrorism and their detention in
Coventry has caused concern among Muslims in the city, according to community
leaders.

Mohammed Shabir, executive director of the Muslim Resource Centre in Red Lane,
Foleshill, said: "The community is very shocked by these arrests because it is
on the doorstep of Coventry. There's not much difference in terms of Birmingham
and Coventry, and furthermore it's brought it closer to home with the suspects
being detained in Coventry."

He said there was scepticism within the community that the arrests would lead to
conviction, and cited the arrests of three people in Coventry in March 2005 on
suspicion of terrorism. Only one person was convicted.

He added that there was fear that such arrests could ultimately lead to an
increase in racial abuse and attacks.

Mr Shabir said: "The majority of the community are peaceable and law abiding and
supports law and order. They are feeling apprehensive in terms of what the
repercussions may be."

And Cllr Shabir Ahmed, Coventry's Lord Mayor, said: "I think the police are
doing a job, which I don't think anyone who is a responsible individual or
community would question."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                February 2, 2007

Terror of hammer attack victim

LENGTH: 467 words


Masked raiders 'targeted' FA coach in his own home By Bruce Smith Crime Reporter
A SOCCER coach has described the moment he was attacked by two masked men
brandishing four hammers in an ordeal which left him with horrific injuries.
Phil Ovington, 44, said he feared for his son Christopher, 16, when the raiders
smashed their way through the glass patio door at their home in Carlton,
Rothwell, near Leeds. The assault left the FA coach with a shattered right knee
and lower leg, severe bruising to his lungs and body, and lacerations to his
head.

Muscle was also ripped from his leg using one of the claw hammers. He had
extensive surgery during which his lungs collapsed, his heart stopped and he had
to be resuscitated. Surgeons inserted five pins and a plate in his smashed knee
and a 10in plate and four pins into his leg where it was broken in four places.
Doctors also removed muscle from the rear of his calf and inserted into his
shin. Mr Ovington, who still needs crutches, said he is waiting to see if he
will be fit enough to return to his work in sport development. He added that the
attack was clearly targeted. When the gang struck at 9.30pm on December 20, Mr
Ovington was watching TV, and his son - who is part of the Leeds United Youth
Squad - was about to take a shower. "I was watching a Crimewatch programme about
people breaking into homes and attacking people," he said. "Suddenly the glass
patio window smashed and a large object came flying in. I saw two men wearing
balaclavas walk through and each had claw hammers and other hammers in both
hands," he said. "The only words they said was: 'You know what this is for', and
my first thoughts were for my son. "Chris had heard the commotion and came
rushing down to be faced with the two men chasing me. They were coming towards
me and I shouted 'Get out, get out' and 'Don't touch him'. Chris managed to run
to a neighbour's house to raise the alarm. "It probably only lasted 30 seconds.
I was putting my hands up to fend off the hammer blows, but it was no use." "I
thought they were going to kill me that night. He added: "I was very worried how
the experience would affect Christopher. I think it was worse from his point of
view, not knowing whether I would be alive when he got back with help. "I am so
glad he is OK and it has not affected his football," said Mr Ovington, who was
previously a coach with the St George's Football Academy in Middleton, Leeds.
Christopher said of the attack: "It was extremely frightening." Police have
arrested a 26-year-old and a 30-year-old man and released them on bail pending
further inquiries but are seeking other people, said a spokeswoman. Anyone with
information is asked to contact Holbeck CID on 0113 2414659 or Crimestoppers
anonymously on 0800 555 111. bruce.a.smith@ypn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 3, 2007 Saturday

Suicide bombings new in Afghanistan, terror attacks on the increase - article

LENGTH: 421 words


Text of report by Afghan newspaper Cheragh on 31 January

Killings, robberies, and hundreds of other crimes have been committed in various
ways over the past three decades, especially in the last five years. While there
has been no sign of suicide attacks in Afghanistan in the past, this phenomenon
is now nothing new in this country. We are also seeing the improvisation of
remote-controlled mines and their detonation on highways, in stations, among
crowds and at education centres.

Now we see that the form of these evil incidents is changing, with one incident
looking different from the next in the way it is carried out. The waves of
terror and killings have become stormy once again, and taken many lives as a
result. One recent victim was MP from Samangan Province Mohammad Islam
Mohammadi, who was killed by unknown individuals on his way to a mosque during
the day. Some time later Professor Borhanuddin Rabbani's son-in-law Waheedullah
came under attack and was murdered by unknown individuals as he entered his
house. After that MP Shekiba Hashemi's daughter was killed inside her house and
there was a suicide attack in Herat yesterday [30 January].

These incidents have put fear into some people and we should also say that they
indicate a lack of security. If we scrutinize these incidents, we can say with
confidence that they happen in places where international peacekeeping troops
from 37 countries are also present in addition to the local forces.

Also it should be said that these terrorist activities happen at a time when the
security authorities are claiming that there is full security.

If these occurrences cause public panic and increase the distance between the
people and the government on the one hand, they also prove the weakness of the
security forces and imply that the police are not paying enough attention, which
is why people are being killed in broad daylight and the killers escape.

Now we need to pay full attention to the establishment of reliable security.
Also, the foreign helpers should help the Afghan police so that they have
up-to-date training.

It is a good thing that donations by foreign countries still continue for
Afghanistan, but these donations should be rescued from falling into private
pockets and should be spent on basic infrastructure aspects, one of which is
forming a sound and effective administration to ensure security. People will be
ready to help only when the existence of a sound security administration is
ensured.

Source: Cheragh, Kabul, in Dari 31 Jan 07

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 3, 2007 Saturday

Kyrgyz expert warns Shanghai group summit of possible terror attack

LENGTH: 263 words


Excerpt from report by Kyrgyz news agency 24.kg website

Bishkek, 2 February: "We do not rule out the possibility of religious extremists
carrying out acts of provocation and terrorist attacks on the eve of a summit of
the Shanghai Cooperation Organization [SCO] in Bishkek [scheduled for summer
2007]," the head of the main directorate for fighting extremism and illegal
migration under the Kyrgyz Interior Ministry, Police Col Azamat Kutmanaliyev,
told the 24.kg news agency today [2 February].

At 24.kg's request, he commented on the arrest in the town of Uzgen in
[southern] Osh Region of Atabek Abumomunov, born in 1974, who had been wanted by
Uzbek law-enforcement agencies for setting up cells of the Islamic Party of
Turkestan, a successor of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, which is banned in
many countries.

[Passage omitted: known details of the arrest]

"We will press on with active work to unmask criminals and activists of armed
wings of several extremist organizations (the IPT [Islamic Party of Turkestan],
Hezb-e Tahrir and other groups) in future. This task is becoming particularly
urgent on the threshold of the SCO summit to be held in Kyrgyzstan, because we
do not rule out the possibility of fanatics being prepared for both acts of
provocation and terrorist attacks," Azamat Kutmanaliyev said.

The police colonel said that currently more than 25 Kyrgyz and Uzbek nationals,
who are accused of inciting religious enmity and plotting to overthrow a
constitutional system, were still on the wanted list.

Source: 24.kg website, Bishkek, in Russian 0558 gmt 2 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 4, 2007 Sunday

Iran Press: The Keyhan probes into facts about terrorist attack on Najaf

LENGTH: 1273 words


Text of report by Iranian newspaper Kayhan website on 3 February

Operation of 8th Moharam [28 Jan. 2007] carried out by Iraqi forces against a
terrorist group, surrounding the city of Najaf, has brought about different
interpretations. News agencies close to Al-Qaeda, as well as other known
terrorist groups, tried hard to report the terrorists as being Shiite Muslims.
Taking advantage from the silence of Iraqi officials, Shiite as well as Sunni or
Kurds, they tried to depict these terrorists as being Shiite.

Some early news published by local authorities - Deputy Governor of Najaf,
spokesman for the province of Najaf, and Karbala Police Chief - suggested that
this anti-Shiite operations were directed by Iraqi Ba's Party and Al-Qaeda
movement. This news was aiming the background of the main members of "Heaven's
Army" [Jond-al-Sama']. Keyhan's news, on 10th of Moharam [30 Jan. 2007] was
based on a vast search of different sources; it was based on existing
information- not always without conflict- and complementary information revealed
in following days did not change the basic points. These points are as follows:

1- The Heaven's Army was equipped with many different heavy weapons including
anti-aircraft missiles, which are not easy to find. The volume and variety of
these weapons are so significant that they could not have been simply stolen
from Iraqi garrisons. Thus there is little doubt about the fact that this group
is very well organised and have procured its weapons from outside the country.

2- Their main - or primary - goal was to invade the holy city of Najaf, which is
the main leadership center for Shiite Muslims. Concentrating more than 2000 men
heavily equipped with weapons around the city, shows that they were prepared to
ruin the city and kill thousands of citizens and pilgrims of the shrine of Imam
Ali. According to documents found from this group and statements of tens of men
arrested, killing

[Martyr] major Najaf sources of emulation [marja'-e taqlid] and grand ayatollah
Sistani, was part of this terrorist group's plan.

3- Events in Iraq must not be viewed from an ethnic and religious angle because
"guided terrorism" has undermined Iraqi people's independence and rule and the
political structure of the country, which is shared between various ethnic
groups. Terrorist networks, such as Al-Qaeda and several TV and press networks
such as Aljazeera, -belonging to Qatar- Al- Arabiya, -belonging to Saudis- Al
Sharqol Osat, -shared by UK and Saudis- all tried to say that the terrorists
were from Shiite Muslims. One must ask what kind of Shiite Muslims were they
that chose Najaf among so many cities, chose Shiites to kill among all ethnical
groups, and target sources of emulation among leaders?

4- The plot of using deceived Sunnis to kill Siite Muslims, which have lead to
martyrdom of thousands of Shiites, (as Iraqi President stated between 70 to 80
percent of casualties are Shiite) has now failed; the killings has decreased by
25 percent during the last few weeks. The recent terrorist operation in Najaf
has been carried out under the name of Shiites and everybody knows how easy it
is to buy a few deceived Shitte Muslim taking advantage of their poverty.
Despite this, the religion of persons taking part in this terrorist act -which
is just another way of masking the leadership of such operations- must not
divert the analysts of the region from the real leaders of enemies of Ahl
al-Bayt.

5- Choosing Ashura as the day of the operations needs more reflection because if
the Heaven's Army had the slightest belief in Shiism and Ahl al-Bayt, it would
have respected the dignity of Ashura. The terrorist chose this day knowing that
the brave people of Najaf will be mourning in the shrine of Imam Hossein in
Karbala. They imagined that in such a day, the city, the sources of emulation
and the people might be defenseless.

6- Heaven's Army has gathered its members under the name of Mahdi but there is
no doubt that their beliefs and claims are totally rejected by all Shiite groups
and Shiite leaders and they are considered to apostates. As religious matters
differ from apostate movements, Heaven's Army must not be considered as a
religious group, exactly the same way as Al-Qaeda must not be considered as a
Sunni group.

7- Contrary to what propaganda in Western and Arab media suggests and some
Iranian newspapers echo, the operation of penetrating and identifying this
terrorist group and their plans for Ashura, was carried out by Iraqi police and
army forces under the command of Maliki government and the US forces only took
part in air support of the operation. This was requested by Iraqi government
because it lacks necessary planes and helicopters. Maliki government, relying on
intelligence related to this terrorist group, ambushed them, killing and
injuring nearly 1000 of its members and chasing the rest of the group. The
terrorists intended to heavily attack the city of Najaf, the home of Amir-al
Mo'menin [Lord of the Faithful] and the center of Shiite leadership, on the day
of Ashura.

8- Military attack on Najaf resembles, in some way, last years bombing of the
holy shrine of Imamein Askarin [shrine of two Imams]. But this operation had a
larger scale because Samara was one of the strongholds of Ba's Party and a
center for terrorist groups, while Najaf is the main center for Shiite Muslims
in Iraq and was controlled by Shiites after the fall of Sadam, and because of
that there were very few terrorist incidents in this city. Attacking the holy
Shrine of Imam Ali and killing the people of Najaf has a greater significance
than a mere attack on a religious city. This attack was addressed directly to
the government formed by religious and national leaders of Iraq. The terrorists
and their foreign supporters wanted to humiliate Iraq's government and show its
disability to control the very city which is its closest ally. Attack on sources
of emulation and disrespecting them is also an attempt to shift the leadership
to alternative sources. They imagined that disrespecting the religious leaders
would cause their withdrawal from politics giving way to alternative leaders.

9- Another point is conflict among Shiite Muslims. In this plan, a group, named
falsely as Shiite, was going to attack the most holy city of Shiite Muslims. Who
was to confront this group? Obviously it was Maliki's government, Shiite Muslims
of Najaf and Shiite sources of emulation. If this attack occurred on the day of
Ashura, which regional or international force was "pleased"? If this attack was
carried out under the above scenario, the majority of Iraqi people would be hurt
and would feel weak and instable. Thus the Shiite coalition, that is, the basis
on which the whole "new Iraq" is built upon, would tear apart. Who could have
taken advantage of such a situation?

10- But there remain three more questions: what is the relation between this
attack and the new Bush plan for Iraq? What relation is there between the
destruction of Najaf and US attempts to give greater role to Saudi Arabia,
Jordan, Emirates, Qatar, and Kuwait in Iraq? And finally, is the destruction of
Heaven's Army the end of the story or was this group just a link in the chain?
US help in destruction of this group, carried out by Maliki's government, does
not in any way diminish the possible role of Americans in this plot, because
participation or non-participation of US forces in this anti-terrorist
operations does not change the outcome of the operation by Maliki government; an
operation which could be carried out independent of any help.

Source: Kayhan website, Tehran, in Persian 3 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                February 6, 2007

Fiend, 17, in attack after pub goodbye;
Woman's terror walking home

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 200 words


A TEENAGE sex fiend pounced on his victim seconds after she said goodnight to
her boyfriend.

The 24-year-old woman had been standing outside a pub having a smoke with her
boyfriend.

When he went back inside, the girl decided to go home.

But the High Court in Glasgow heard that, seconds after she began walking,
17-year-old Stephen Sinclair struck.

Simon Collins, prosecuting, told the court that Sinclair grabbed the girl from
behind and dragged her to a grassy area.

During a struggle, the victim managed to scratch her assailant.

Mr Collins told how her boyfriend came out of Sawney Bean's pub in Saltcoats and
chased 17-year-old Sinclair, who was running towards the railway station.

Sinclair managed to escape on a train. but was arrested when he got off at Dalry
station.

His face and arm were covered in scratches, the court was told.

Unemployed Sinclair, now 18, of Crichton Avenue, Dalry, admitted assaulting the
girl last October 14 with intent to ravish her.

Judge Lady Dorrian was told the incident left the girl so traumatised she still
fears her attacker will come back and get her.

Lady Dorrian called for a risk assessment report on Sinclair and adjourned the
case until next month for sentence.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Cornish Guardian

                           February 7, 2007 Wednesday

Arson attack terror for pregnant dixie

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 511 words


A pregnant woman from Bodmin has been left devastated by an arson attack which
destroyed family heirlooms she was planning to pass on to her unborn baby.

Dixie Thorpe, aged 19, is ready to give birth any day, and now faces the
distress of not having a car to get to hospital in Truro after it was burnt out
by vandals.

On January 24 a moped was stolen and taken to Carpenters Court on the
Berryfields estate. It was then set alight in between two vehicles, completely
destroying both cars and the bike.

A third car, parked nearby, was also damaged in the incident.

Mark Dodson described the moment he saw the family car alight.  He said: "Dixie
is my partner's daughter and we had the car loaded up with her things to take
her to hospital. Someone knocked on my door in the early hours of the morning
and said the car was on fire. I stood there shaking while I was watching it
burn. There has been petty vandalism before but nothing on this scale."

Mr Dodson said he had worked 100 hours per week for several months to buy the
car. "We bought a Mitsubishi Delica because there are seven of us in the family
and we all wanted to be able to go out together. Before we had it someone would
always have to stay at home. It feels as if we have lost a member of the
family," he said.

"It is not only the loss of the car that's upsetting. In the car was a gown that
Dixie's brother and sister were brought home from hospital in, as well as her
first born. She was going to bring home her new baby in it, but it was destroyed
in the fire."

The owner of the moped, William Baker, said it had been targeted previously.
"Someone had tried to steal my moped before, but had dumped it, so I managed to
bring it home. I couldn't keep it indoors, but it was off the road and I was
planning to tax and insure it the day it got stolen and set on fire," he said.

Mr Baker continued: "Now I have no transport to get to work and I work late
shifts, which means catching taxis and I can't afford to do it. I am gutted."

On January 31 arsonists struck again, burning out a Red Nissan Micra on the same
estate. Neighbourhood Beat Manager, PC Loraine Phillips, said: "We are not
prepared to tolerate this sort of behaviour and as a result we are increasing
patrols in the area. We also have a new police community support officer who
will focus on the Berryfields estate."

The police are working with residents to start a new neighbourhood watch scheme.
PC Phillips said: "We are holding drop-in sessions for people to come and talk
to us at the Liaison Centre, on the estate, every Wednesday from 9.30am to
12.30pm."

North Cornwall District Council is currently looking at ways of cracking down on
criminal activity on the Berryfields Estate. A housing officer said: "It is
something that the council takes very seriously. We are putting CCTV up to
combat this kind of crime. We want to reassure tenants and residents that we are
not ignoring the situation."

Anyone with information about the arson attacks is asked to contact the police
on 08452 777 444 or ring Crimestoppers in confidence on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Cornish Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           February 7, 2007 Wednesday

SEVEN LETTER BOMB ATTACKS;
New blast at DVLA...terror chief is leading the hunt

BYLINE: JUSTIN DAVENPORT

SECTION: B MERGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 622 words


SEVEN letter bombs have been sent to offices in the last three weeks, police
warned this afternoon.

Nine people have been injured, mainly staff in post rooms, as the devices
exploded when they were being handled.

A woman was scorched by the blast from an incendiary bomb and one man was almost
blinded.

An antiterrorist chief is leading the investigation which involves police from
three forces. Companies have stepped up security measures and issued alerts to
staff, including those at Transport for London today.

Four of the attacks are believed to be the work of a Jiffy bag bomber with a
grudge against motoring firms.

The other three may have been the work of animal rights activists but police are
investigating if they could all be linked. This morning three people-were
injured in an explosion in the post room at the DVLA centre in Swansea.

Yesterday two people were hurt when a letter bomb went off at the Wokingham
offices of speed camera accountancy firm Vantis.

On Monday a woman was injured when an incendiary device in a Jiffy bag exploded
in her hands at the Westminster office of congestion firm Capita.

Police revealed today that a similar device went off on Saturday. A 53-year-old
man almost lost an eye when a parcel bomb postmarked Cambridge exploded in his
office in Folkestone.

He suffered cuts to his face, hands and stomach. His wife received minor
injuries. The victim did not wish to talk but a friend said: "He is very shocked
about this.

"He runs a security company, that provides guards and bouncers for clients.

He works for a lot of different clients, but I don't know if that includes
car-related businesses.

"He had a parcel sent to his work address addressed to 'The Senior Manager'.

When he opened it went off in his hands.

"It was packed with glass that went into his abdomen. It ripped through a thick
jumper of his and he was left very bloodied. He also had glass in his face and
his eye was scratched in the explosion.

Today's blast took place at 9.23am in the DVLA's post room. The explosion
appeared to confirm fears that a terror campaign is being waged by an angry
motorist.

Security was tightened at a number of firms and organisations involved in
traffic enforcement.

Home Secretary John Reid said the attacks were "worrying". He said: "The police
are on top of this. They are keeping me informed here."

He urged urged anyone with any suspicions about who might be responsible for the
attacks to contact the police.

The devices seem to have been designed to injure but not kill.

Officers are examining the latest bomb to see if it has a similar "signature" to
the others.

Assistant Chief Constable Anton Setchell, National Coordinator for Domestic
Extremism, said: "The packages received so far have caused minor injuries, but
could have been more serious.

"I am appealing today for companies, organisations and individuals to take extra
care when handling mail.

If they have any suspicions about any letter or package they should leave it
unopened and call the police immediately."

On 18 January letter bombs arrived at two companies in Abingdon in Oxfordshire
and one to a firm in Birmingham.

They targeted science firms and were thought to have been sent by an animal
rights campaigner.

Police were first called to Orchid Cellmark, a bioscience firm specialising in
DNA work, in Abingdon Business Park. A 40-year-old woman was injured when the
device ignited.

At the same time in Birmingham an A5 Jiffy bag with a crude fireworktype
explosive was delivered to a forensic company in Chelmsley Wood but this failed
to go off.

A few hours later police were called to another business park in Abingdon, to
the company LGC Forensics.

The device had been spotted before it could go off, because staff were on high
alert.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: A LETTER BOMB HURT A WOMAN AT THE DVLA OFFICES IN SWANSEA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 8, 2007 Thursday

Pakistani interior minister interviewed on "surge" in terror attacks

LENGTH: 1023 words


Excerpt from report by Dubai-based Pakistani television GEO TV on 7 February

[Interview with Federal Interior Minister Aftab Ahmed Khan Sherpao via video
link in Islamabad by senior journalist Kamran Khan in studio in Karachi - live;
taken from regularly scheduled "Today with Kamran Khan" programme; words within
double slant lines are in English]

[Kamran Khan] After the terrorist attack at Islamabad airport on 6 February, the
officials are trying to arrest the plotters who are said to be responsible for a
big surge in acts of terrorism in Pakistan. Efforts are on to arrest the
plotters of these acts of terrorism. Reports say that the intelligence officials
have found clear //clues// after the 6 February attack in which one assailant
was killed and it is being said that his another accomplice has been arrested.
The taxi driver, who drove the assailants to the airport, has also been
arrested. Normalcy has returned to Islamabad airport and the airport is
operating //normally//. Flights are landing and taking off, but the officials
are still engaged in investigation to identify those persons who are responsible
for creating an atmosphere of terror in the country. The //red alert// has been
sounded in the country and the security has been //beefed up// at airports,
five-star hotels, and government buildings and all police officials, who were on
leave, have been called back to duty. [Passage omitted on Kamran Khan describing
in details series of terrorist attacks, including suicide attacks, in Pakistan
since Pakistani security forces operation at an Islamic seminary in South
Waziristan on 30 October]

Such an atmosphere of terror and intensification of terrorist attacks have never
been witnessed in Pakistan. We have with us from Islamabad Federal Interior
Minister Aftab Ahmed Khan Sherpao and we will ask him about the (?fallout) of
the terror attacks, including Islamabad airport incident, and what information
has been gathered by the officials about it.

Sherpao, please tell us what exact information we have about the Islamabad
airport incident? Was it a suicide attack? Conflicting reports have been
received about the incident. Please tell us clearly what is the official stand?

[Sherpao, via video link] In the name of God, most merciful, most compassionate.
Kamran, this was not a suicide attack. What took place was that two persons came
in a car. They were stopped by the Airport Security Force [ASF]. They looked
suspicious and the ASF wanted to search their car. As the car was being
searched, one person came out of the car and //fired// at the ASF in which two
persons were injured. The assailant also threw a //grenade// towards the //car
park// and after that he tried to run away towards the //main gate//. ASF and
police personnel //fired// at him and bullets hit him in chest. He was in
possession of another //hand grenade// which he wanted to //explode//, but it
//exploded// in his hands which killed him. So, in a way it was not a suicide
attack as he was not wearing a //belt// and he only had three [figure as heard]
//hand grenades// and two //pistols//. And, state of his //mental position// is
also not yet clear, but we are trying to find out his place of residence and the
National Database and Registration Authority is trying to identify him and at
the same time samples have been sent for the //DNA test// and we hope to find
his identity and his //linkage//.

[Khan] Sherpao, tell us whether any //specific clues// have been found about
this incident because reports say that the accomplice of the assailant has been
arrested.

[Sherpao] No arrest process has taken place as the other person was the
//driver// and he was not in possession of any //information//. [Sentence as
heard]

[Khan] Sherpao, a surge in terrorist attacks is being seen throughout Pakistan
now, especially in Northwest Frontier Province and the federal capital. Tell us
what is the guess of officials, //investigators// and //intelligence agencies//
regarding those who are behind it. Does this surge in terrorism is directly
linked to the incidents taking place in the tribal areas? The security forces
launched operations in the tribal areas. Do the terror attacks are linked to
these operations?

[Sherpao] You can say yes in certain respect because the //explosive belts//
were similarly built. //Explosives// along with //grenades//, //(?bolts)// and
//pellets// are of similar type. But more than that, we cannot say definitely
that it is one //nexus//. We have found some //technical information// and it is
being //pursued//, which will further clarify whether these attacks are of same
//linkage// or of different //linkage//.

[Khan] It is also being said that local Taleban leader Baitullah Mehsud had
screamed to avenge the operations of security forces like the one in Bajaur and
after that their attack in South Waziristan to destroy extremist camps. Mehsud
had said that the revenge will be taken not only in Northwest Frontier Province,
but in other parts of Pakistan as well. So, do the //intelligence agencies// and
//investigator// are laying responsibility for the terror attacks on Baitullah
Mehsud?

[Sherpao] Essentially we are fighting a //war against terror// and waging a
struggle against //terrorism//. So, the people, who come under //pressure// as
this process [war against terror] moves forward, react accordingly. We are aware
of this possibility because some of these incidents have taken place in the
//adjoining districts// of the tribal areas. So, the //linkage// appears to be
with the tribal areas. But until full //evidence// surfaces, I cannot say
anything further than that.

[Khan] I would like to ask once again whether Behtullah Mehsud and his gang are
responsible?

[Sherpao] As I said that until //concrete evidence// is not found, we cannot yet
raise finger towards any particular //individual//.

[Khan] Thank you very much. Federal Interior Minister Aftab Ahmed Khan Sherpao
was describing the official stand regarding the surge in terrorist attacks in
the country, including a major terrorist attack at Islamabad airport on 6
February.

Source: GEO TV, Dubai, in Urdu 1800 gmt 7 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           February 8, 2007, Thursday
                             Staffordshire Edition

'Police state for Muslims';
TERROR RAIDS: Released man attacks 'amateur investigation'

BYLINE: Mark Cowan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 387 words


A MAN arrested in the Birmingham terror raids has told how police grilled him
about a drawing by his five-year-old daughter - but failed to mention the
alleged kidnap plot.

Father-of-two Abu Bakr was yesterday freed without charge after being held by
police for seven days following last week's anti-terror operation.

The 28-year-old said he was "taken aback" when he learned of the alleged plot to
kidnap and behead a British Muslim soldier.

Today, Mr Bakr criticised the "amateur-type investigation" and also described
Britain as a "police state" for Muslims.

"It's not a police state for everyone else, because these terror laws are
designed specifically for Muslims," he said.

"We are feeling the brunt of it all. We are the ones that are being locked up,
detained, and then told go back to our lives."

Mr Bakr, a qualified teacher who is studying for a PhD, was one of nine people
arrested in an anti-terrorism operation by police last Wednesday.

The Maktabah bookshop, on Stratford Road, Sparkhill, where he works was also
raided.

West Midlands Police refused to discuss specific details of the operation but
security sources were later quoted as saying it centred around allegations of a
plot to kidnap and execute a British Muslim soldier.

His brother Razwan Faraz, 27, said: "The police had an entire week questioning
him and there was not a single mention of this kidnap plot or terrorist
activities, not even a whiff.

"They showed him a piece of paper with his daughter's scribble on it and asked
if it was code for something. They showed him a map of Afghanistan he owned and
asked what he thought of insurgencies.

"You would think that if someone's life was at stake they wouldn't ask questions
about that."

Mr Bakr described one of the other men arrested as a friend and said that he had
met another of those arrested. But he said he did not have a clue about who the
other men being detained were.

He said the entire episode would live with him for ever.

"I'm scared for myself and my family, because I've been picked up and told to go
back home and everyone assuming someone can pick up their life after such a
major incident that occurs," he said.

"And, you know, this is going to affect me for the rest of my life."

He added: "They don't realise that after seven days of virtual torture it is
going to be hard to readjust."

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LIVING IN FEAR... Tritta Berisha. DM070207RELEA-02; SWOOP... Abu Bakr
works at the Maktabah bookshop in Sparkhill.; LACK OF TRUST. Samantha Harizi.
DM070207RELEA-03; HOPEFUL... David Richardson. DM070207RELEA-01; EVERYONE'S
SCARED... Thufal Chuoudury. DM070207RELEA-04

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                               February 10, 2007

Mum's arson attack terror

LENGTH: 285 words


A MUM-OF-TWO was in hiding today after arsonists torched her family home. Sonia
Lewis is refusing to go back to her through-terrace in Linden Grove, Beeston,
after two mattresses were set on fire outside her back door. She is now staying
with a friend at a secret address in the city with her two sons aged nine and
12. It is the second time Sonia's house, where she has lived for eight years,
has been targeted.

Last October her front window was smashed. Sonia, 41, said: "I don't want to
stay in Leeds - I just don't feel safe in the city anymore. After the first
attack we were moved to a council safe-house. "I'd been on anti-depressants but
came off them when we moved. "But after what's happened in Beeston I'm back on
them again." The former care worker, who is on income support, claim her family
has sufferered harassment at the house, owned by the Leeds Federated Housing
Association, including two incidents of racial abuse against her youngest son,
in the street. On Wednesday Sonia and her sons were in bed when neighbours'
screams alerted them to the blaze just before midnight. She said: "I could see
loads of people in the back yard and sparks. People were shouting 'you've got to
get out of the house'." A West Yorkshire Police spokeswoman said: "We believe it
was a targeted attack and we are still in the early stages of the inquiry and
trying to identify the motives behind the attack." Anyone with information
should contact City & Holbeck Police on 0113 241 4659 or Crimestoppers 0800
555111. A spokesman for Leeds North West Homes said: "Ms Lewis has been offered
a property. Unfortunately, asbestos was discovered delaying the date when she
could move in. It should be ready next week."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 13, 2007 Tuesday

Egyptian FM condemns Lebanon "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 96 words


Text of report in English by Egyptian news agency MENA

Cairo, 13 February: Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmad Abu al-Ghayt condemned on
Tuesday [13 February] "with the strongest words" the two terrorist attacks that
took place in Beirut earlier in the day.

In a press release, the minister called on the Lebanese political leaderships to
exert efforts to stave off further complications that could lead to such
incidents.

He called on the Lebanese parties to seek national conciliation for the good of
the Lebanese people.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1357 gmt 13 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 13, 2007 Tuesday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack in Lebanon

LENGTH: 115 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) -13.02.2007 -Turkish Foreign Ministry strongly condemned the
terrorist attack in Beirut, Lebanon, today.

The Ministry expressed deep sorrow over explosions which occurred in two buses
killing 11 people and injuring at least 20 others.

Ministry offered condolences to the relatives of victims.

"We strongly condemn the terrorist attack which aims to harm social peace in
Lebanon. We hope suspects to be arrested as soon as possible," noted the
Ministry.

"This attack should not interrupt efforts of consensus and dialogue in Lebanon",
also stated the Ministry.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1501 gmt 13 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday

Algerian political parties slam terrorist bomb attacks

LENGTH: 624 words


Text of report by Madjid Makedhi headlined: "After the Boumerdes and Tizi Ouzou
attacks: Political parties issue condemnations", published  report by Algerian
newspaper El Watan website on 14 February

Condemnations and questions. Such was the reaction of the domestic political
class in relation to the seven attacks perpetrated morning in several
municipalities in the [Berber] provinces of Boumerdes and Tizi Ouzou [where the
former Salafi Group for Call and Combat, GSPC, now calling itself Al-Qa'idah
Organisation in the Islamic Maghreb, carried out seven car bomb attacks against
police and gendarmerie stations].

The political parties were also trying to do a reading of these acts which were
committed simultaneously in different places. Expressing its solidarity with the
population "which has not stopped enduring terror and violence," the
[Berber-dominated] Socialist Forces Front [FFS] condemned these attacks. In a
communique which reached our editorial office, [the FFS chairman] Hocine Ait
Ahmed's party said it thought that "the simultaneity of these attacks in a
region that has been put under very tight surveillance is evidence of the high
operational capability of their perpetrators".

In the same statement, the FFS denounced what it called media-security
interference. "We denounce in advance the media-security interference that will
not fail to exploit these attacks in order to justify the pursuit of a policy
designed to muzzle, control and dominate the population instead of protect it,"
the FFS stated.

For its part, the [Berber and secular] Rally for Culture and Democracy [RCD],
after condemning these acts, criticized the policy of [President Abdelaziz
Bouteflika's] Charter for Peace and National Reconciliation. The provisions in
that charter, Mohcene Belabbes, the RCD's communications officer, emphasized,
had given the terrorists more time to organize once again and strike forcefully.
"This is the result of the policy that has been advocated by the authorities
since 2004 and its charter which absolves the terrorists of their crimes while
asking Algerians to repress their pain. This is also the result of the absence
of justice," he stated.

Mohcene Belabbes made the connection between the simultaneity of these attacks
and the Algerian Salafi Group for Call and Combat's affiliation with the
Al-Qa'idah international terrorist organization. "National reconciliation has
created a demobilization as much among the security agencies as among
residents," he emphasized.

For its part, [majority political party in government and parliament] the
National Liberation Front [FLN] said it believed that the synchronization of
these attacks in the Kabylie region was aimed, first, at a media coup. According
to Said Bouhadja, a member of the FLN's executive body, "we must pursue the
fight against terrorism and redouble vigilance".

As for the Democratic National Rally [RND, also a member of government, and
several MPs], it also called for the fight against terrorism to be pursued and
encouraged national reconciliation. "We exhort all of society's vital energies
and security elements to be vigilant and mobilize against the phenomenon,"
Miloud Chorfi, the RND's communications officer said, while "vigorously
condemning these attacks".

Condemnation also came from the [moderate Islamist] Movement for the Society for
Peace [MSP], which issued an appeal to reflect seriously on the reasons behind
this wave of attacks. "It is high time to ask ourselves questions in order to
know the ins and the outs of this resurgence of terrorism, at a time when the
debate is about financial scandals and corruption," Abderrezak Mokri, the
party's vice-chairman, indicated.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 14 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               February 14, 2007

UN: Secretary-General condemns 'callous terrorist attack' in Lebanon, appeals
for national unity in face of attempt to undermine stability

LENGTH: 221 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-FEBRUARY 14, 2007-UN: Secretary-General condemns 'callous terrorist
attack' in Lebanon, appeals for national unity in face of attempt to undermine
stability ©1994-2007 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesperson for UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon:

The Secretary-General condemns the callous terrorist attack on innocent
civilians that took place this morning in Lebanon.

He extends his sincere condolences to the families of the victims and to the
Government and people of Lebanon.

This crime comes the day before the second anniversary of the attack that took
the life of former Premier Rafik Hariri and 22 others, which itself preceded a
string of assassinations and terrorist actions in Lebanon.

The United Nations strongly rejects attempts to secure political objectives
through violence and the killing of innocent civilians. The Secretary-General
stresses that there must be an end to impunity and appeals to all Lebanese to
maintain national unity in the face of such attempts to undermine the country's
stability.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 15, 2007 Thursday

Pakistani TV on terror attack in Iran; India-China-Russia forum

LENGTH: 1356 words


[Words within double slant lines are in English]

Programme: "Today With Kamran Khan"

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 Minutes

Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1800 gmt on 14 February relays live from
its Karachi studio regularly scheduled "Today with Kamran Khan" programme. Noted
Pakistan journalist Kamran Khan reviews, discusses, and analyses major
day-to-day developments with government ministers and officials, opposition
leaders and noted analysts.

Segment I

Kamran Khan says 11 members of Iran's Revolutionary Guards were killed in a
terrorist attack today in the Iranian province of Sistan-Baluchetsan, which is
adjoining to Pakistan's Baluchistan province. Khan says the Iranian authorities
have claimed that terrorists behind the incident have been arrested. Khan says
reports indicate that environment of terror is being created in Iran's
Sistan-Baluchesstan province and many such incidents have taken place recently.
Khan says the member of Iranian parliament from Zahedan has claimed that "those
involved in terrorism in Iran, in fact, are sheltering in Pakistan's province of
Baluchistan" and they are mainly narcotics smugglers and want to create
instability in Iran's Sistan-Baluchestan province.

Kamran Khan establishes telephonic contact in Tehran with Radio Tehran
Correspondent Ms Zehra Zaidi, to discuss the incident. Zaidi says it was not a
suicide attack and the bomb was planted in a car. Zaidi says: "a terrorist
outfit Jundallah [Allah's Brigade] has claimed the responsibility of the attack,
whose leader (Abdul Malek Riggi) is hiding in Pakistan." Zaidi says such attacks
seem to be aimed at "sabotaging" a conference called to forge unity by bringing
Sunni and Shi'ite religious scholars together to remove public
misunderstandings. Zaidi says apparently the "unity" among Muslims is the
"biggest threat" to the "enemies of Islam." Zaidi says the radios set up by the
United States and the VOA are "commending" the work of Jundallah and its leader.

Kamran Khan establishes video link in Islamabad with retired Lt. Gen. Hamid Gul,
defence affairs analyst and former Inter Services Intelligence chief, to discuss
the importance of the incident in light of the present situation in region. Gul
says Iran's Sistan province is its "//soft underbelly//" because it is Sunni
majority province dominated by Baluch tribe. Gul says the Sistan province has
been the target of the opponents of Iran's Revolution like Mujahideen-e Khalq.
Gul says today's incident should be viewed as part of the United States efforts
to use "all kinds of machinations" to "pressurize or target Iran" as it is also
increasing its naval presence near the Makran coast. Gul says it will not be
speculative to say that the United States is using the Baluchistan region to
"//destabilize//" Iran. Continuing, Gul says apparently the "air attack" on Iran
will coincide with efforts to "// internally destabilize// it. Gul says the
United States wants a "//regime change// in Iran and it wants to achieve this
aim by first destabilizing it. Gul says in his views "there is strong link
between the US [military] presence and this incidents [today in Sistan]."

Segment II

Kamran Khan says West, especially the United States, are "watching with keen
interests" the outcome of India-China-Russia trilateral talks in New Delhi
today. Khan says three countries considered adopting "joint strategy" on various
issues. Khan says although, three countries have declared that their dialogue
does not aim at forming a "//front//" against any other country, but observers
believe that India, China and Russia want to assess increasing US influence in
the region and adopt a joint strategy on various issues in this context.

Kamran Khan establishes telephonic contact in New Delhi with C. Udhay Bhaskar,
defence analyst at Institute of Defence Studies and Research, and asks him about
basic objectives of the trilateral cooperation. Bhaskar says a "//consultative
mechanism//" at foreign minister-level exists between India, China and Russia,
but it should not be viewed as of "//anti-western or anti-US orientation//."
Bhaskar says the joint communique issued today points out that strategic
objective of India, China and Russia is to achieve "//multi-polar framework//"
at global level. Bhaskar says three countries are also attaching importance to
the UN role in world affairs and diplomacy and negotiations in tackling issues.
Continuing, Bhaskar says interesting thing to note is that all three countries
are also strengthening their bilateral relations with the United States on their
own respective "//tracks//,' so it would be, perhaps, mistake to view their
trilateral cooperation in the "//Cold War//" perspective. Bhaskar says the
energy and environment aspects of cooperation among three countries are very
important because in coming years securing energy supply will be a "very
//critical dimension//" in the policies of India and China and Russia is
becoming a major energy supplier.

Segment III

Kamran Khan says UK's Independent Police Complaints Commission [IPCC] has issued
a report which says that during [anti-terrorism Forest Gates] raids on some
Muslim family homes in June last year, excesses were committed with some Muslim
families, and that is why the British police should apologize to these families.
Khan says at the same time impression is gaining ground in the United Kingdom
that the police is "targeting and //hounding//" Muslims, especially Pakistani
Muslims.

Kamran Khan establishes video link in London with Shahid Saadullah, resident
editor of Pakistani English daily The News, and asks him about the background of
the Forest Gates police raids. Saadullah says two persons were arrested in a
raid on a Muslim family home in June last year on the assumption that it was a
bomb factory, but later both were released as they were not connected with any
act of terrorism. Saadullah says although the IPCC report says that the police
had to take action on the information it had received, but as the two have been
proved innocent, the police should apologize to them. Kamran Khan asks Saadullah
to comment on the perception found UK's Muslims that "the United Kingdom is
becoming a "//police state// for Muslims." Saadullah says such feelings exist in
a section of the Muslim community and "some people who claim to be the leaders
of the community" have tried to exacerbate this feeling by saying that "the
police is //hounding// this community." Saadullah says a big majority of those
convicted under anti-terrorism acts are not Muslims, which points out that the
bigger aspect of terrorism is linked to the Ireland situation. Khan asks whether
targeting Muslims is part of the policy of UK establishment or it is just that
the police is focusing attention on the Muslims because of some recent incidents
involving Muslims. Saadullah says he does not think it is part of the
government's policy, but unfortunately some Muslims were involved in two or
three incidents, so obviously the police attention will be on this community.
Saadullah says he does not think it is a "//knee-jerk reaction" or the Muslims
are being "specifically targeted." [Saadullah's comment received with poor audio
quality]

Segment IV

Kamran Khan cites announcement of 15-men Pakistani team for the cricket world
cup in West Indies next month. English daily The News Sports Editor Gul Hamid
Bhatti joins Khan in studio to discuss the selection of team.

Segment V

Kamran Khan notes across the board selling today at the Karachi Stock Exchange
in spite of reports that foreign investors are interested in Pakistan equities.
Farooq Awan, head of investment of Employees Old-Age Benefit Institution and
stock exchange expert, joins Khan in studio to discuss "panic selling" in the
market. Awan claims a "//syndicate//" by taking help of in-house holdings
manipulated the stocks today. Awan says it is unfortunate that "//black
Wednesday// took place at the time when foreign investors are reportedly showing
interest in Pakistani stocks. Awan regrets that the regulations to check stock
manipulations are "//toothless//.

Source: GEO TV, Dubai, in Urdu 1800 gmt 14 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 15, 2007 Thursday

UN chief condemns terrorist attack in Zahedan, Iran

LENGTH: 126 words


Text of report in English by Iranian news agency IRNA website

United Nations, New York, 15 February: UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon here
Wednesday condemned the terrorist bomb attack against a bus passengers in Iran's
Zahedan City [in southeastern Iran] that claimed 13 lives and wounded some
others.

In a statement released by his spokeswoman Michele Montas, the UN Chief has
stressed, "No cause can justify the use of violence." Ban has in his message
condoled with the bereaved families of the attack's victims, the Iranian nation
and government.

Armed bandits on Wednesday morning in a horrendous terrorist attack exploded an
IRGC bus, martyring 11 revolutionary guards and wounding 18 others.

Source: IRNA website, Tehran, in English 2305 gmt 14 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 16, 2007 Friday

Pakistan: four "terrorists" said likely to carry out attacks in Islamabad

LENGTH: 304 words


Excerpt from report by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 16 February

[Report by Mohammad Asghar and Munawer Azeem: "Islamabad on terror alert"]

ISLAMABAD, Feb 15: Security has been tightened in Islamabad in the wake of
information received from intelligence agencies that four terrorists are likely
to penetrate into the capital city with intentions to carry out attacks with the
help of a local person, sources told Dawn on Wednesday.

The suspects  [names omitted] belonged to a banned militant group, said the
sources, adding that one of them had black curly hair.

The four terrorists would enjoy the support of a local, [name omitted], and stay
with him.

Intelligence and law-enforcement agencies had started checking hotels in the
twin cities for the presence of any suspects, they said.

Railway stations and bus terminals were under surveillance, they said, adding
that all airports in the country were also maintaining the red alert, declared
on February 6 after an armed men blew himself at the Islamabad International
Airport.

They said security around important buildings, government offices, shopping
centres had already been tightened, and hospitals alerted.

According to the sources, security around the diplomatic enclave is further
tightened and personnel of the Frontier Constabulary and elite force have been
deployed there. Check posts have also been set up.

The rangers, FC and elite force had been conducting full dress rehearsals, they
added.

Islamabad and Punjab police had established pickets at all main roads in the
capital as well as exit and entry points, and vehicle were being checked
strictly, they said.

In the similar move, the Foreign Office has asked foreign diplomats and
foreigners to restrict their moments till further announcement.

[Passages omitted]

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 16 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 16, 2007 Friday

Terrorist attack likely to target officials, diplomats - Pakistani paper

LENGTH: 320 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 16 February

[Report by Shakeel Anjum: "Islamabad on high alert"]

ISLAMABAD: The law-enforcement agencies were on high alert on Thursday, as
sensitive agencies have informed them that terrorists would try to target
government officials and diplomats as well as sensitive installations here,
reliable sources told The News on Thursday.

Two tasks were given to terrorists - to target important national and foreign
personalities and to hit sensitive installations and foreign missions, sources
said while mentioning the report.

"A suicide bomber, having black complexion and wearing a black dress
(Shalwar-Kameez) and a green jacket, has sneaked into the federal capital",
sensitive agencies said in a 'secret letter' sent to different law-enforcement
agencies Thursday. The militant would target sensitive installations and foreign
mission buildings in Islamabad, warned the letter.

"A vehicle, carrying explosive material, has entered Islamabad to hit important
personalities", secret agencies informed in another letter. But sensitive
agencies didn't mention the model and colour of the vehicle, sources said.

SSP (Islamabad) Sikandar Hayat, when contacted by this scribe for his comments
on security measures taken for checking terror attacks, said "We are fully
geared and exercising extra vigilance". "There are 56 entry points at IJ
Principal Road from Faizabad to Pirwadhai and we have deployed policemen on all
of them", Sikandar Hayat said.

The snap checking and extensive patrolling is being conducted round-the-clock,
the SSP said. Rigorous security measures have been adopted in and around the
metropolis amid fear of terror attack, the SSP said. "The adjacent green areas
are being scanned with sophisticated security equipment and horse-riding
security personnel keep patrolling round-the-clock", he said.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 16 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 16, 2007 Friday

Chechen authorities report sharp fall in number of terror attacks in 2006

LENGTH: 171 words


Excerpt from report by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS

Groznyy, 16 February: The number of terrorist acts in Chechnya has gone down by
nearly 60 per cent and the number of particularly serious crimes has gone down
by more than 4 per cent, Prosecutor for the Chechen Republic Valeriy Kuznetsov
said at a conference in Groznyy attended by Deputy Prosecutor-General for the
Southern Federal District Ivan Sidoruk.

The conference looked at the results of work in 2006 and plans for this year,
ITAR-TASS was told at the republican prosecutor's office.

"As in previous years, the operational situation in Chechnya in 2006 remained
difficult. But at the same time a fall of 7.8 per cent has been recorded in the
overall number of crimes, which is 603 fewer crimes than in 2005. The detection
rate has risen by 6.3 per cent. Also, the number of abductions has fallen: while
168 people were abducted in 2005, last year it was half as many," Kuznetsov
said. [Passage omitted]

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0919 gmt 16 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           February 16, 2007, Friday
                                  1ST Edition

Saudi terrorists in oil attack plea;
INTERNATIONAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 211 words


A Saudi Arabian terrorist faction affiliated with al Qaida has urged Muslim
militants to attack world oil facilities to stop the flow of oil to the United
States.

Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula said in its monthly magazine posted on an
Islamic Web site that "cutting oil supplies to the US, or at least curtailing
it, would contribute to the ending of the American occupation of Iraq and
Afghanistan".

The group said it was making the statements as part of Osama bin Laden's
declared policy.

Al Qaida claimed responsibility for last year's attacks on oil installations in
Saudi Arabia and Yemen after bin Laden called on militants to stop the flow of
oil to the West.

The group also was behind the 2002 attack on a French oil tanker. The article in
an online magazine said the US would always need more oil.

"In the long run, America might be able to lessen its dependence on Middle East
oil and would be satisfied with oil from Canada, Mexico, Venezuela and other new
customers or double its dependence on alternative energy resources; therefore,
oil interests in all regions that serve the US and not only in the Middle East,
should be attacked," said the article.

In Ottawa, Canadian Public Safety Minister Stockwell Day told reporters: "We
take this threat seriously."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Burnley Express

                               February 16, 2007

Carving Knife Attack Terror

LENGTH: 414 words


A WOMAN who knifed her partner of three years in a row over cash could end up
behind bars - even though he did not even want her prosecuted. Lisa Marie Marsh
(22), stabbed victim Eric Norton in the back with a carving knife, leaving him
bleeding profusely from a one-inch wound. He told police he had slipped and
fallen on the knife but later revealed the truth, Pennine magistrates heard.

The court was told how Mr Norton, who was in hospital for two days, did not make
a statement, did not want his girlfriend prosecuted and did not want her to go
to prison. He loved her and the couple were still together. Marsh, of Mostyn
Avenue, Earby, admitted unlawful wounding, on December 5th. She was committed on
bail to the crown court for sentence on March 23rd. She had no previous
convictions. Mr Bill Maude, prosecuting, told the court the case had to be
prosecuted because it was serious. Police were called to the home of the
defendant and the victim at 12-40 a.m. and found Mr Norton had a one-inch
puncture wound in his lower back. Mr Norton claimed he had fallen but when Marsh
left the room, he said she had attacked him. He smelled of drink. Officers also
noticed marks on the kitchen door, consistent with somebody stabbing repeatedly
at it. Mr Norton said he and Marsh had argued over money, she had stabbed him
but he loved her. Mr Maude said the victim told officers both of them had
recently lost their jobs and had been out all day drinking. He said the
defendant had gone "ballistic," had grabbed him by the throat, he had got free
and she had then gone into the kitchen. He held the kitchen door closed and she
was stabbing the door and shouting:"Let me in. I will kill you." Mr Norton said
he then let go of the door, tried to calm Marsh down, she wouldn't calm down and
as he pushed her away, he turned away and was stabbed in the lower right hand
side of his back. The victim said the defendant thought he had only been nicked,
but freaked out when she saw the wound and called an ambulance. John Nuttall,
defending, said the pair had been to Earby Sports and Social Club. Marsh had
been sacked and Mr Norton, who worked at the same factory, had resigned in
protest. The couple rowed about money, a slanging match followed and the offence
was committed in a "moment of madness." Marsh was no threat to the public. Mr
Nuttall continued:"If she receives a custodial sentence, the victim will lose
his home. The last thing that he wants is that his partner goes to prison."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                            February 16, 2007 Friday

Hero talks about terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 186 words


Hull: A survivor of the 9/11 terrorist attack has spoken to an audience about
how he risked his life to save others from the World Trade Center.

William Rodriguez rescued 15 lives and helped hundreds of others flee the Twin
Towers in New York, US, when two planes hit in 2001.

But, speaking in Hull last night, Mr Rodriguez said his mission was not one of a
hero.

Instead, he wanted to let people know the truth about 9/11.

Mr Rodriguez, who was a senior caretaker at the World Trade Center, gave a
harrowing  account of the morning when he arrived late for work, to a packed
hall at the Friends Meeting House in Percy Street, central Hull.

He described how  he had been in the building only 15 minutes when he heard an
explosion.

Mr Rodriguez was the only person on the site with a master key for the North
Tower stairwells and, following the explosions, led firefighters into the
building.

Martin Deane, of the Hull Peace Network, who organised the event, said he was
delighted so many people had turned up.

He said: "It's a great turnout from Hull and I hope as a result people will be
more committed to the cause of peace."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 17, 2007 Saturday

Moroccan sources reportedly say terror cell dismantled, attacks feared

LENGTH: 576 words


Text of report by Muhammad al-Ashhab in Rabat headlined: "Cell planning attacks
dismantled. Fears 'sensitive centres' will be targeted. Moroccan officials link
in Washington between [Western] Sahara crisis and fight against terror",
published by London-based newspaper Al-Hayat website on 15 February

Morocco has linked its efforts to resolve the [Western] Sahara conflict to the
attempts to contain the "security lawlessness" in the Sahel region south of the
Sahara where hardline fundamentalist groups are active.

Members of a high-level Moroccan ministerial delegation that held talks with
White House officials and the US State Department to present Rabat's plan for
granting the Sahara province self-rule were cited as saying that they discussed
in Washington the "security challenges" that Africa's northern and western
regions are facing.

The delegation, which included Interior Minister Chakib Benmoussa; Taieb El
Fassi Fihri, minister delegate to the minister of foreign affairs and
cooperation; Fouad Ali Himma, minister delegate to the interior minister; and
Mohamed Yassine Mansouri, the director general of studies and documents (foreign
intelligence), "underlined Morocco's commitment to full cooperation with the
United Nations" and added that the self-rule proposal "was in response to the
Security Council's repeated appeals urging the parties concerned with the Sahara
conflict to overcome the present impasse and approve a reconciliatory political
solution".

[Passage omitted]

On the other hand, official Moroccan sources have warned of "possible
cooperation between the extremist organizations in the Sahel region south of the
Sahara and the terrorist and sabotage networks". Minister of State Mohamed
Bouzouba said his country "is monitoring moves aimed at attracting Moroccan
nationals to volunteer and join the Iraqi resistance".

Security sources reported that the Moroccan authorities arrested three persons
before two days and are now questioning them on the charge of planning to launch
attacks on civilian and commercial installations in Tangiers and other cities.
They said the security organs dismantled the cell after monitoring its members'
movements. New arrests are expected following the increase in the level of
security alert.

Information indicated that reports which Rabat has received warned of the
possibility that the Algerian "Salafi Group for the Call and Combat " might
recruit Moroccan activists to launch attacks on "sensitive centres" in the
country after the group changed its name into "Al-Qa'idah Organization in the
Islamic Maghreb".

They asserted that members of extremist organizations received training on the
use of weapons in isolated area in the Sahel region south of the Sahara. Sources
pointed out that some of those responsible for this training were former members
of the Algerian army and noted that the extremists have "an important centre" in
the area which might turn into a base for launching the attacks.

Moroccan security delegations contacted the Spanish, French and Mauritanian
authorities to exchange information and an official meeting of security
officials in Morocco last Sunday [11 February] discussed coordination in
confronting possible attacks and ended with decisions to tighten up controls at
the crossings and vital installations. Rabat also reopened the dossier of
hunting down those wanted on charges of terrorism inside and abroad.

Source: Al-Hayat website, London, in Arabic 15 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           February 18, 2007, Sunday

SHAME OF THE NATION;
 JADE GOODY MUM JACKIEY TELLS OF TERROR AS GANG LAUNCH RACIST ATTACK

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 337 words

HIGHLIGHT: SIMMERING: Shilpa (centre) with housemates including Jackiey, Jade,
Danielle and Jo on Day Six; HATED: Jade; RANT: Jackiey has a go at Shilpa in the
BB house


JADE Goody, her mum and housemates Danielle Lloyd and Jo O'Meara embarrassed the
nation and triggered a worldwide uproar with their vile treatment of Shilpa
Shetty.

At one point Jade said about Shilpa: "I look at her and I wanna headbutt her. I
wanna wipe that smug look off her face."

When Shilpa was bleaching her facial hair, former Miss Great Britain Danielle,
23, asked: "Do you get stubble?"

Former S Club singer Jo, 27, sneered: "Like a man."

Danielle added: "She wants to be white, she's a dog."

And when Shilpa tried to console Danielle when Carole Malone was evicted, Jade
said: "She makes me feel sick. She makes my skin crawl."

Later that night, as Jade and her boyfriend Jack Tweedy lay in bed, Jack said:
"I don't like her. In fact, I hate her."

Channel 4 deny he also called her a "Paki".

When Shilpa cooked the housemates a roast chicken dinner, Jo refused to eat it
saying: "I don't trust that chicken. I want to eat it but I'm scared." She also
claimed it was undercooked and too spicy.

Jo added Indians were thin because they undercooked food which made them ill.

Danielle said she didn't like Shilpa touching her food and added: "They eat with
their hands in India, don't they - or is that China? You don't know where her
hands have been."

The appalling remarks caused a worldwide protest.

Prime Minister Tony Blair and Chancellor Gordon Brown were forced to step in and
give Shilpa their backing to prevent a diplomatic disaster with India, where
effigies of Jade were burned.

The show's £3 million-a-year sponsor, Carphone Warehouse, also pulled the plug,
and anti-bullying campaigners called for the show to be axed.

Police are still probing alleged racism in the Big Brother House despite
Shilpa's wish not to press charges.

The TV watchdog Ofcom received 45,000 complaints of racist bullying on the show,
with a further 3,000 to Channel 4 directly.

And Hertfordshire police are to interview more than 30 people who complained to
them.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                            February 18, 2007 Sunday

Grandmother's terror as yob mob attack car

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 535 words


Agrandmother was left terrified and shaking after a 15-strong mob of baying
teenagers attacked her car.

Helen Leyland was travelling down Chell Heath Road, Bradeley, at night when she
slowed down to drive round a youth sitting in the road.

Mrs Leyland says a gang of about 15 youths then circled her car and some chased
her down the road, banging on the vehicle and trying to break in.

The grandmother-of-four, aged 53, said: "One young lad was sitting in the road
on my side so I slowed down and pressed my car horn so he would move out of the
way.

"He didn't, so I crawled around him and as I did they started thumping and
kicking my car.

"That shook me up so I drove further down the road before the junction with
Duddell Road and stopped the car.

"I was shaking that much I couldn't drive. They chased the car and they were all
around it. It was just like a nightmare, I couldn't believe it was happening.

"The same boy who had been in the road was thumping on my bonnet, loads of
others ran down the road. They were trying to get in my side and the passenger
side.

"Thankfully I always lock my doors. I was flashing my lights at cars going in
the opposite direction. There was a little blue van that came slowly and I
thought it might stop, and there were another two cars. Maybe they didn't want
to get involved.

"I started my car and revved it and he moved out of the way but they were still
running as I got to the traffic lights.

"Luckily they were on green. I think if they had been on red I would have had to
carry on and not stop.

"I went into Ford Green Road and pulled over again. I phoned 999. I just
couldn't drive I was shaking so much.

"It would have been even worse for someone who was older or who had a heart
condition.

"I don't know what they would have done if they had got in or if I had crashed."

The mother-of-four called her son who picked her up, and the group, aged between
13 and 16, had dispersed when the police arrived.

Mrs Leyland added she had seen children playing 'chicken' in the road before and
youngsters congregating, but they had never been aggressive.

Residents said youths were as much a problem there as in other areas, but some
said more could be done to address trouble-makers.

A spokesman for the Co-op pharmacy near where the incident happened said the
next-door doctor's surgery had been vandalised recently.

One resident, who asked not to be named, said noisy gangs sometimes caused
problems until 4am.

She said: "There have been problems with graffiti and they can be noisy, but I
haven't seen them playing chicken."

Councillor Peter Kent-Baguley, who represents Chell and Packmoor on
Stoke-on-Trent City Council, said: "We have got teenagers drinking from seven to
11 at night in Packmoor.

"I did 18 months ago persuade the city youth services we should have a detached
youth worker. But that is only two or three hours once a week.

"We need professional people making contact with young people and diverting them
from misdemeanours into something more constructive."

Police have appealed for information to catch the culprits, who struck at
10.25pm on Monday night.   A spokesman said: "We advise drivers to lock their
doors when travelling at night."

gill.bonnett@thesentinel.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           February 19, 2007, Monday
                               City North Edition

Yobs attacked me and nobody helped;
BUS TERROR: Teenager targeted at bus stop by gang of eight girls

BYLINE: Mark Cowan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 452 words


A YOUNG woman who was attacked by a mob of girls on a bus today accused the
driver and other passengers of turning a blind eye to her ordeal.

Ramanpreet Kaur Bhalla said her pleas for help were ignored as she was left at
the mercy of the teenage thugs who dragged her from the vehicle and laid into
her.

The 19-year-old student said the experience had "shattered her faith in
humanity" and left her scared to travel on public transport.

Travel chiefs today promised an urgent investigation. Footage from on-board CCTV
cameras has been recovered and handed to police. Details of the attack have
emerged days after the Birmingham Mail carried out a survey which revealed
disturbing levels of crime and violence experienced by readers on buses.

Almost 1,300 readers filled in an extensive poll with 35.4 per cent saying they
had regularly experienced threatening or anti-social behaviour towards
passengers.

In addition, some 45.7 regularly spotted drug taking, while 60.9 per cent said
they regularly saw smoking, which is banned.

The incident has also raised the issue about whether members of the public
should step in to help fellow citizens defend themselves from violence.

Ramanpreet, an A-Level student, who plans to study psychology, was travelling
home on the number 11 bus on December 20 when the attack happened.

She said a gang of eight girls started causing trouble with other passengers,
forcing the driver to stop the bus in Greenhill Road, Handsworth.

As Ramanpreet joined passengers to get off the bus the gangs of girls barged
into her. "One of them spat in my face," said Ramanpreet, who lives in
Handsworth with her parents.

"They grabbed my hair and dragged me off the bus and on to the pavement. They
kicked me and slapped me.

"I was scared. They were in a group and I was on my own. No one did anything to
help me, I couldn't believe it. They could have had a knife. I could have been
stabbed.

"I was shouting 'Help, please, someone help me'. But the bus driver and
passengers just stood there. No one lifted a finger."

The gang eventually fled with Ramanpreet's purse, containing cash and valuables.

A spokesman for Travel West Midlands said: "We have identified the bus and
driver who has now been interviewed. We have also recovered CCTV film which has
been placed with West Midlands Police.

"It is clear there was a scuffle and there was little support coming from other
passengers. We are still actively investigating the incident."

A West Midlands Police spokesman said: "We can confirm we received a report of a
robbery on December 20 at the junction of Greenhill Road and Rookery Road,
Hands-worth. A 19-year-old woman was assaulted on a bus and her purse was
stolen."

OUR SAY: PAGE 46 PHONE VOTE: PAGE 47

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARED OFF THE BUSES... Ramanpreet, who was attacked on the No 11 bus
in Handsworth.;Pictures: Trevor Roberts

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               February 19, 2007

Cops hunt woman's attacker after terror abduction bid in city

BYLINE: By DEBORAH ANDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 341 words



HIGHLIGHT: A man tried to drag the woman into his car on Dumbarton Road at
Scotstoun Street


POLICE are hunting an attacker who tried to drag a woman into his car as she
walked home.

The 27-year-old victim was assaulted by a man who tried to pull her into the
passenger seat of his hatchback car in Glasgow's West End.

The attempted abduction happened around 1.30am on Saturday.

The woman was walking from Dumbarton Road along Scotstoun Street in Whiteinch
when she noticed a car being driven close by.

He car drew up and the driver tried to pull her into the car, but the victim
managed to escape.

She was not hurt but was left badly shaken by the ordeal.

Police are appealing for any witnesses.

Despite the time of the attack, detectives hope passing motorists or a resident
may have seen something.

West End workers and residents were today shocked to learn of the attack.

One woman, who didn't want to be named, said: "I heard about it on my way into
work and it's very disturbing.

"I wouldn't like to have been walking alone in Scotstoun Street at that time of
the morning, as it leads to South Street, where there are just warehouses and
workshops.

"It's horrible to think a woman went through such an ordeal."

An all-night garage was open around the time of the attack but shop staff were
unaware of the incident.

One worker said: "I'd no idea what had happened, although we later heard there
had been an attempted abduction."

The attacker was said to be white, aged 30-35, with receding, blonde, fluffy
hair.

He was wearing a navycoloured tracksuit and was driving a dark-coloured
hatchback car.

Anyone with information can call DC Jim Paton, of Partick Police Station, on
0141 532 3500 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

The attack follows a similar incident in Scotstoun less than a year ago.

Last April, a masked man tried to snatch a 13-year-old girl from Queen Victoria
Drive.

The attacker grabbed the schoolgirl's arm but she managed to escape and the man
fled in a car.

Also last year, a 45-yearold woman fought off a man who tried to bundle her into
a car after she left a New Year party in the South Side.

deborah. anderson@ eveningtimes. co. uk

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 20, 2007 Tuesday

India: Railway protection force "ill-equipped" to deal with terror attacks

LENGTH: 401 words


Text of report by Indian newspaper The Telegraph on 20 February

Accompanying snippets

New Delhi, Feb 19 - Terror on trains might have taken more than 250 lives in the
last one year alone, but the Railway Protection Force (RPF) is woefully
ill-equipped to face the challenge.

From Brahmaputra Mail in lower Assam to Mumbai's suburban trains, the strikes
have come at regular intervals and with increased ferocity.

Officers who have worked with the RPF are not surprised. "With the current force
level, the RPF is simply not ready to fight terrorism," said a former
director-general of the RPF.

Several modernisation plans for the force have been put in the backburner at the
railway headquarters. After each terror attack, they are dusted, only to be put
back again, said an officer.

Besides, the basic security apparatus that all railway stations should have is
missing.

Not even important stations like Delhi, Mumbai or Calcutta have enough
closed-circuit televisions [CCTVs]. Proposals have been made for setting up a
comprehensive CCTV network at major stations, increasing the number of dog
squads for bomb disposal and procuring explosive detectors. But they have
remained on paper.

Most railway stations in India have several entry and exit points, and anybody
can walk into a platform and board a train without facing any security check,
the officials said.

The passenger load is so high that the security personnel posted at stations or
on trains cannot handle the pressure without adequate equipment, they added.

There have been cries for increasing the numbers. The RPF currently has a
strength of 67,000 personnel, which is insufficient to man the vast railway
network that ferries around six billion passengers and 750 million tonnes of
freight annually.

The RPF has sought to increase the force by at least 24,000. But no decision has
been taken so far.

Apart from shortage of security equipment and staff, the RPF is also dogged by
administrative problems. The officials say the force is legally entrusted with
the task of passenger safety, but the respective state police, too, perform the
same duty.

This often leads to confrontation, resulting in the two forces piling the blame
on each other for lapses.

The government has been dilly-dallying on the implementation of the
modernisation plan, jeopardising the lives of innocent people, said an official.

Source: The Telegraph, Kolkata, in English 20 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 20, 2007 Tuesday

Israel police on alert in Tel Aviv over terror attack warning

LENGTH: 75 words


Text of report by Israel radio on 20 February

The police have raised the level of alert in Tel Aviv because of warnings that
terrorists plan to carry out an attack. Large police forces are searching the
area and are blocking roads in order to check vehicles. Our correspondent Adi
Me'iri reports that traffic jams are expected and that the police ask the public
to follow police instructions.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1600 gmt 20 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 20, 2007 Tuesday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack on passenger train in India

LENGTH: 122 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 20 February: Turkey condemned the terrorist attack on a cross-border
passenger train between India and Pakistan on Tuesday [20 February].

Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) released a statement and condemned the
attack saying, "The attack on the cross-border train, Samjhauta Express, that
was carrying passengers to Pakistani city of Lahore, which killed 64 people and
injured many others causes deep sorrow and concerns."

MFA stated that Turkey condemns any kind of terrorist attack regardless of its
reason and reiterated Turkey's call for an international cooperation in fight
against terrorism.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1749 gmt 20 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday

Security stepped up in Thai capital in wake of terror attack warning

LENGTH: 239 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 22 February

[Report by Bangkokpost.com from the "Breaking News" page: "Boonrawd: Attacks in
Bangkok possible"]

(BangkokPost.com)

Defence Minister Boonrawd Somtas warned Thursday that Muslim insurgents from the
deep South might expand their attacks to Bangkok.

Gen Boonrawd said the ministry discovered that insurgents were wandering around
universities in the capital.

"It is possible that the insurgents will expand their attacks to Bangkok,
because we have learned of their movements in various universities where they
conceal themselves in uniforms of students," he said, adding that it was
difficult for authorities to differentiate between the separatists and innocent
people 100 per cent.

The Special Branch police unit had earlier said it was closely monitoring Muslim
student groups in Bangkok.

Gen Boonrawd added that curfew might be imposed in the southernmost provinces if
necessary. However, he said the decision had to be done carefully as this might
have an impact on the economics and credibility of the country.

Meanwhile, Bangkok Governor Apirak Kosayodhin told the Bangkokians not to panic
following Gen Boonrawd's remarks because there was no official confirmation that
insurgents would stage violent activities in the capital.

Mr Apirak added that security in Bangkok have already been stepped up.

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 22 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                               February 22, 2007

Women's sex attack terror

LENGTH: 550 words


Two women have told how they were grabbed by a gang of schoolboys in Leeds and
attacked in sex assaults minutes apart. Both were attacked at the same spot on
Woodhouse Moor, in Hyde Park, Leeds. They were held by one of the gang while the
others carried out the attacks. One victim said the gang of 13- to 14-year-olds
were 'out for action'. Today police spoke of several worrying features about the
attacks.

Det Insp Scott Wood, of Pudsey/Weetwood CID, said the attackers had used a 'pack
mentality' to target women. He added: "It is also worrying that the same youths
after assaulting the first victim, stayed in the area - quite brazenly - and
assaulted a second victim about half an hour later. It is disturbing." He said
that officers were concerned that the level of violence used by the youths had
"stepped up" in the second assault, when the victim struggled with her
assailants. Det Insp Wood said police patrols in the area had been stepped up
because of fears that the gang could target more victims. He also revealed they
were examining possible links to a number of robberies which had been carried
out by youths in the area over recent weeks. Elizabeth Bilton a 21-year-old
physics student at Leeds University was walking home with a friend at 5.30pm
last Thursday when she saw five teenagers walking in line blocking the path
ahead. "They were noisy and clearly not going to move, so we walked around them.
One spoke but I carried on. He blocked my path and said something like 'Give me
a hug' and grabbed me in a bear hug." Then three of the other four boys
indecently assaulted her. She was then assaulted for a second time before she
hit one of the gang in the face. "He stopped and I managed to push them all off
me. They just casually walked away." Ms Bilton then rang the police. Eva Lindup,
also 21, who is studying physical exercise at Leeds Metropolitan University was
walking to Leeds city centre when the gang struck at 6pm. "I must have been at
the same point as the first attack," she said after reading about the first
attack in the YEP. "I was walking and heard two lads shouting as they ran past
me. Then I saw another youth standing at the side. He made some comment to me,"
she said. "I carried on walking when suddenly he grabbed me around the shoulder
and neck with his arm," she said. Two other boys appeared and she was repeatedly
indecently assaulted while she was being held by one of them. "I was trying to
shake them off and swung out. I had my water bottle in my hand and caught one on
the nose. The other youth punched me in the face. "I managed to break free and
one of them kicked me as I walked away. They just walked off still shouting.
They were quite cocky. I got the impression they had been out for what they
would call 'action'. "I will never walk across there again in the dark," she
added. Police said the youth who instigated both attacks was African-Caribbean,
aged about 14, 5ft 5in tall and slim. He had short hair and a diamond stud in
his left ear. He wore black trousers and a white sports coat with black stripes
or a logo on the sleeve. The other four youths in both attacks were believed to
be Asian and aged 13 to 14. Anyone with information is urged to ring Weetwood
Police on 0113 2413459 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111 anonymously.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 23, 2007 Friday

Thailand urged to tighten security against terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 762 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper The Nation website on 23 February

[Editorial: "Complacency no longer an option"]

The government must come clean about the threat of terrorism and how society can
best be organized to fight it

Eventually, the Surayud government and Council for National Security (CNS) will
have to admit that they need all the help they can get from ordinary citizens in
the war on terrorism. This is especially true when our security forces have
failed over the past three years to contain the raging insurgency involving
Islamic militants/Malay separatists in the deep South. Some 2,000 people, most
of them civilians, have been killed in the southern provinces of Yala, Pattani,
Narathiwat and certain parts of Songkhla.

Few people in Bangkok, and indeed in the rest of the country, need to be
reminded that insurgents now have the capability to launch terrorist attacks
anywhere, given the bombings in the capital city on New Year's Eve, which killed
three people and injured dozens of others. Our sense of smug complacency has
been shattered and we have come to the realisation that Bangkok and other
commercial, industrial and tourist centres are not invulnerable to terrorist
strikes.

In their first reaction to the blasts in Bangkok on December 31 last year, the
Surayud administration and the military junta ruled out the possibility that
terrorists sympathetic to the separatist cause in the Malay-speaking South were
responsible for these heinous crimes. They preferred to put the blame on
"disaffected elements with links to those who have recently lost political
power" -a thinly veiled reference to allies of deposed prime minister Thaksin
Shinawatra.

Obviously, the government and the CNS would be reluctant to admit that their
failure to suppress the insurgency in the South had resulted in terrorism
spreading to other parts of the country. But almost two months after the Bangkok
bombings, police investigators have yet to produce any evidence to substantiate
charges against rogue police and military officers known to have close
connections with the old regime.

The time has come for the government and the CNS to tell people the truth about
terrorism -which is the number one national security threat -and the need for
our society to get organized to fight it.

People must be told in no uncertain terms that these terrorists, who have no
qualms about killing and maiming men, women and children, want not only to
destabilise politics, wreak havoc on the economy and damage social harmony. They
also want to strike fear in the hearts of common citizens, disrupt their
everyday lives and wear down their will to oppose terrorists' devious designs.

Less than two months after the terrorist attacks in Bangkok, most people have
already been lulled into a false sense of security. The fact that the Bangkok
attacks involved small, improvised explosive devices that killed only a few
people does not mean that the next wave of strikes will follow suit.

To be successful in preventing terrorist attacks, we must succeed 100 per cent
of the time. The odds are in the terrorists' favour: they only need to be
successful once out of numerous failed attempts, in order to commit an atrocity
of disproportionate consequences.

It is better for the government to come clean with the public about its
anti-terrorism, counter-insurgency capabilities and what sorts of specific help
they might need from citizens in order to reinforce a countrywide security
shield.

In Bangkok and other big cities, security must be tightened in all public
places, not just in some specific areas. The government must deploy visibly
armed and well-trained troopers at public places from bus terminals, railway
stations and airports, to government offices and public buildings. This is the
only way to constantly remind people to stay alert.

To prevent widespread panic, members of the public must be educated about the
clear and present danger of terrorism and how individuals can contribute to
public safety by staying vigilant. Emergency medical services must be upgraded
so that they will be able to offer life-saving pre-hospital care to victims in
the event of a large-scale terrorist attack. The fire brigade and emergency
rescue units must be equipped with heavy-lifting equipment and machines that can
cut through wreckage and collapsed masonry.

This country will be in the fight against terrorism for the long haul. And the
time to raise public awareness and improve our capability to fight terrorism is
now.

Source: The Nation website, Bangkok, in English 23 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 23, 2007 Friday

Pakistan claims to have averted four terror attacks

LENGTH: 423 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 23 February

[Report by Munawer Azeem: "4 attacks averted, claims ministry"]

ISLAMABAD, Feb 22: Law-enforcement agencies claimed on Thursday to have averted
at least four major terror attacks in different parts of the country and said
that 19 suspects, who were being controlled by some people in tribal areas near
the Afghan border, had been arrested.

An interior ministry official told Dawn that seven people had been arrested from
Dera Ismail Khan on Jan 29. They were local Taleban and belonged to the Mehsud
tribe from the South Waziristan Agency.

Twelve Afghan nationals were arrested for suspected links with militants in
Faisalabad on Jan 29, he added.

On Wednesday night, local administration had placed state-run hospitals on high
alert apprehending terror attacks.

In a similar move, the Foreign Office asked foreign diplomats and nationals to
restrict their movements till further notice.

The interior ministry official said that a countrywide terror alert, especially
in Islamabad, had been issued after investigations revealed presence of some
suicide bombers in various parts of the country. The terror threat level had not
been lowered from 'red alert', he added.

He said that motels and hotels were being closely monitored to trace the
remaining suspects, and airports, railway stations and bus terminals were under
watch.

About the arrests in Dera Ismail Khan, he said the suspects had been brought to
Islamabad for interrogation, adding that explosive belts had been found in their
possession, besides cellphones with videos of Taleban activities.

The official said that during interrogation of the suspects, clues had been
found to some potential suicide bombers who were arrested in Karachi, Sukkur and
Hyderabad.

He said that major terrorist attacks had also been planned in Faisalabad, Bannu
and Kohat between Jan 28 and Jan 30 but they were averted.

The official said that two unexploded rocket shells were seized in Bannu on Jan
28 and hand-grenades and a large quantity of explosive material was seized on
Jan 30.

An improvised explosive device was found in a place where a women's majlis was
in progress in Kohat on Jan 29, while two remote-controlled bombs were recovered
from a railway crossing in Bannu near a mosque on Jan 30, he added.

He said that after a threat issued by local Taleban leader Baitullah Mehsud to
avenge the Jan 16 air strike in Zamzola with severe attacks, a series of suicide
bombings in the country.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 23 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 23, 2007 Friday

Ethiopia: Ministry says terrorist attacks foiled through concerted efforts

LENGTH: 223 words


Text of report in English by Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 23 February: The Ministry of Information says, the government and
the peoples of Ethiopia will intensify the task of eliminating terrorism
parallel to the on-going efforts of ensuring rapid and sustainable development.

In a weekly statement on Friday [23 February], the ministry said the Eritrean
government has been carrying out various attempts of terrorist attacks as
manifested by different incidences, following its border claim and its
aggression aimed at Ethiopia.

It said the report made public recently by the National Intelligence and
Security Service and the Anti-terror Task Force of the federal police asserts
that the government of Eritrea is making relentless efforts to wreak havoc in
Ethiopia through acts of terror.

The latest attempt, a second round of planned terror attacks, has been brought
under control prematurely and without any significant result through the
concerted efforts of the peoples and government security forces, it said.

It said the Eritrean government made its second attempt because it did not
attain the desired result in the first. "Any expectation that the Eritrean
government and related forces engaged mainly in terror to restrain from their
evil deeds is pointless."

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 23 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday

Embassies warn travellers of Thailand terror attack threat

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 287 words


The British embassy in Thailand has renewed warnings to travellers over possible
terror attacks in the region.

At least three western embassies in Thailand updated their warnings yesterday
after the country's defence minister said Moslem insurgents in the south could
extend their attacks to the capital, Bangkok.

The Australian, Canadian and British embassies revised their advisories,
cautioning travellers to exercise caution in Bangkok as well as the south  -
the scene of a bloody three-year rebellion.

The US embassy, however, did not change its standing advice to exercise care in
both areas.

Thai Interior Minister Aree Wong-araya said that although Bangkok should be on
the alert for terrorism, he did not anticipate any imminent attacks, the state
Thai News Agency reported.

The country's defence minister, General Boonrod Somtad, warned on Thursday that
the Moslem insurgents could extend their attacks to Bangkok after the rebels
demonstrated their strength this week with a string of high-profile attacks in
the south. He said the insurgents include 1,000 armed fighters and 10,000
second-line hard-core sympathisers, and that the rebels were infiltrating
universities in the capital.

Ian Proud, deputy spokesman for the British embassy, said: "We are not referring
to today as a specific risk but there remains a possibility of attacks happening
at any time in the future."

The separatist insurgency, which has led to about 2,000 deaths in the past three
years, has been largely confined to Moslem-dominated provinces in southernmost
Thailand.

Recent incidents include 29 co-ordinated bombings and 20 other arson and
shootings on Sunday and an ambush of the motorcade of a confidante of the Thai
queen on Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday

Family terror during arson attack

BYLINE: Gazette Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: The Wiltshire Gazette And Herald


A family looked on in horror as an arsonist targeted a car parked just feet away
on their drive.

The 4x4 vehicle was completely destroyed in the blaze, which also melted the
front door and windows of the house.

Police say it would have been a frightening experience for anyone who saw it.

DC Claire Wyness, of Swindon CID, said the victims felt they had been
deliberately targeted by the fire starters.

The car was parked outside a house in Frobisher Drive, Walcot, while the owner
was away on holiday.

DC Wyness said: "The family were looking after it while the friend was overseas.

"It's been completely destroyed, it's an absolute wreck and beyond all
recognition."

The car will now undergo a forensic examination to see if the police can gather
any evidence.

The family were woken by the fire just after 3am on Sunday.

"The flames rose so high there was a crack to the double glazing window and the
door melted," DC Wyness said.

"There were young children in the house and they awoke to this car being
completely engulfed in flames.

"It would have been frightening for the family, the vehicle was parked quite
close to the property and it's hard to say how it would have reacted with enough
fuel.

"Obviously it was a very ferocious fire and the family were quite distressed."

As for why the car had been set alight, DC Wyness said they were keen to hear
from anyone with information.

"There may or may not be a bit of background," she said.

"The family have some reason to believe they are being targeted."

The police have not yet been able to track down the owner of the vehicle, who is
travelling in Europe.

The damage is such that the make of the car is not known.

Firefighters from Swindon spent half an hour putting the flames out. Officers
from the Wiltshire Fire and Rescue Service investigated the scene and said it
was not a mechanical fault that started the fire.

Anyone with information should call DC Rob Sweeney of Swindon police on 0845 408
7000 or Crimestoppers, anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                           February 25, 2007, Sunday
                                  FST Edition

'No medical cover' for holidaymakers in terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 293 words


MORE than 10 million holidaymakers have travel insurance which leaves them with
no medical cover if they are caught up in a terrorist attack, it emerged today.

The Treasury Select Committee called for a crackdown on the industry after
finding huge numbers of people travelling abroad with policies that did not meet
their needs.

In a scathing report, MPs warned that many policies are unsuitable, leaving
travellers exposed in the case of accidents and other problems experienced while
overseas.

In particular, there was insufficient awareness among consumers of 'small print'
exclusions in cover relating to terrorist acts and pre-existing medical
conditions.

The committee said it was particularly concerned at the high number of people
who would not be covered for medical bills if they were caught up in a terrorist
atrocity.

John McFall MP, chairman of the Treasury Committee, said there was an
'astonishing' number of people exposed to financial loss caused by terrorism.

"All too often, exclusions are buried in the small print of insurance policies,"
he said. "Holidaymakers are risking their health, or considerable financial
loss, if they require treatment while abroad or repatriation to the UK.

"Consumers are suffering here. Overcoming this is a mammoth challenge for the
insurance industry, for those who sell travel insurance and those who regulate
them."

Nick Starling, director of insurance at the Association of British Insurers,
denied there was a big problem.

"The Committee is wrong to call for a crackdown," he said.

"They have produced little or no evidence to support their call.

"The risk of consumers getting a bad deal is very low.

Some 15 million policies were sold last year, and they generated only 1,700
complaints to the Financial Ombudsman."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 26, 2007 Monday

Algerian police arrest eight suspected of supporting "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 447 words


Text of report by Said Gada headlined "Following latest attacks in provinces of
Boumerdes and Tizi Ouzou: Eight people remanded in custody" by Algerian
newspaper El Watan website on 26 February

In a statement received by our regional editorial office, the Tizi Ouzou
Province's security agency said that eight people suspected of having served as
a support network to the terrorists had been remanded in custody.

The police statement also stated that the accused had been identified as being
"the main elements of support to the armed group reigning supreme in the
provinces of Boumerdes and Tizi Ouzou." Following interrogation, the detainees
have been charged with supporting the perpetrators of the car bomb attacks of 13
February in the two provinces. Seven people were killed in these attacks,
several were wounded and major materiel damage had been caused in Souk El Had,
Si Mustapha, Boumerdes, Draa Ben Khedda, Mekla, and Boubhir. The ages of the
accused vary between 24 and 45. According to the pieces of information supplied
by the police, four individuals are natives of Bordj Menaiel, two from Algiers,
one from Les Issers, and another from Tizi Ouzou. According to some sources, the
police investigation started in Azazga after a preliminary investigation by the
city's prosecution service following the explosion of a Renault 4 vehicle in
Boubhir on the route linking Azazga to Ain El Hammam. The eight accused were
brought before the Azazga prosecutor the day before yesterday [24 February] In
connection with this explosion.

The coordination between police forces in the cities involved made it possible
to trace the network and proceed to arrest these people. In the light of the
clues found at the scene of the explosion of the R4 [vehicle] in Boubhir,
fingerprints and cross-checked intelligence information the police were able to
proceed to identify the accused and interrogate them. There is still a
possibility that other arrests will be made within the next few days. According
to the police statement, the prosecution service pressed several charges against
the detainees, including "membership of a terrorist group, taking part in the
manufacture of explosive devices, assassination and attempted assassination and
deliberate destruction of state buildings and the property of others using
explosives."

Since the 13 February attacks, elements from the national security agency have
been on a state of maximum alert and investigators have been working diligently.
Moreover all police stations, gendarmerie brigades and other public
establishments have beefed up their security, installing security perimeters.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 26 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 26, 2007 Monday
                                  Eire Edition

MAN QUIZZED OVER GRENADE ATTACK;
'FEUD LINK' TO HOME TERROR

BYLINE: BY KATHRYN HAYES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 190 words


A MAN was being questioned last night after a house was targeted in a GRENADE
attack.

The device is believed to have bounced back from the building, destroying the
garden and leaving a crater of mud.

Shots were also fired into the residence at O'Malley Park, Southill, Limerick,
at 9.50pm on Saturday.

There was one person on the premises at the time but they escaped injury.

It was the second time the house had been attacked over the weekend.

At 2.30am on Saturday a petrol bomb was thrown at the property but it failed to
ignite.

The same house was shot at last December just hours after the murder nearby of
40-year-old Noel Crawford who was gunned down outside his parents' house.

A Garda spokesman confirmed a male in his late 30s was arrested in the Southill
area shortly after 11am yesterday.

He added the man was being held for questioning under Section 30 of the Offences
Against the State Act.

The spokesman said he was being questioned about a number of recent serious
incidents in the Southill area including the weekend grenade attack.

It's thought all the incidents are linked to an ongoing feud in the Southill
area.

news@irishmirror.ie

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: Limerick house yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday

Thai general warns of possible terror attack in Bangkok in March

LENGTH: 187 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 27 February

[Report by Bangkokpost.com from the "Breaking News" page: "Saprang warns about
attacks in March"]

Insurgents might stage an attack in Bangkok in mid-March, Saprang Kalayanamitr,
the assistant secretary-general of the Council for National Security, said on
Tuesday.

Authorities last week warned about possible attacks in the capital. The warning
prompted three western nations and Japan to urge their citizens to stay away
from crowded places in Bangkok. But in the event, there were no violent
activities on Friday or over the weekend, as the warnings implied.

However, Gen Saprang, quoting unspecified intelligence information, said that it
was possible such attacks might take place from March 13 to 15. Staging a major
attack on important days is advised by war books, he added.

March 13 is the anniversary of the Barisan Revolusi Nasional Melayu Pattani
(BRN).

Gen Saprang had no number of terrorists who might have infiltrated Bangkok. He
only said, "Only one rebel can launch an attack."

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 27 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           February 27, 2007, Tuesday
                                Solihull Edition

Solihull News: Pair jailed after gun attack terror;
SMITHSWOOD: Couple threatened with weapon in their own home

BYLINE: Ross McCarthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 365 words


A SOLIHULL man and his accomplice who carried out a terrifying gun attack on a
couple in their own home have been jailed for a total of nine years.

During the ordeal Graham Paul had the weapon forced into his mouth and was
threatened with having his brains blown out.

James Cowans, 35, of Kingfisher Drive, Smithswood, who had previously pleaded
guilty to assault and possessing an offensive weapon, was given a four year jail
sentence.

James O'Grady, 28, of Kingsbury Road, Erdington, who admitted charges of assault
and possessing an imitation fire arm, was jailed for five years.

In passing sentence Mr Recorder Roderick Henderson, sitting at Birmingham Crown
Court, said although the defendants had used an imitation gun anybody on the
receiving end of it would have assumed it was real.

He said the victims ordeal had lasted for between 20 to 30 minutes and that it
had left them shaking with fear.

Tarlowchan Dubb, prosecuting, said O'Grady knew Mr Paul and his girlfriend
Michelle Pedley and had been involved in a relationship with Pedley's sister.

He said the dispute between them was over a child who O'Grady and his girlfriend
were supporting financially but were being denied access to.

Mr Dubb said matters came to a head on the evening of October 19 2005, when
O'Grady and Cowans forced their way into the victims' home in Barrows Lane,
Stechford.

They then started punching and kicking Mr Paul causing him to fall to the floor
and when Miss Pedley tried to phone police O'Grady ripped the telephone wires
out of the wall.

Afterwards both defendants continued to kick Mr Paul as he cowered in a corner
and Miss Pedley then saw O'Grady with a black gun while Cowans had produced an
iron bar.

O'Grady then started threatening Mr Paul with the gun putting it to his
forehead.

After forcing the weapon into Mr Paul's mouth O'Grady threatened to kill both
him and Miss Pedley before pointing the weapon at her head.

The defendants were unaware that the police had actually been alerted and
officers who arrived at the address arrested them.

Lynette McClements, for O'Grady, said both he and Cowans had been drinking
before the attack and that O'Grady was deeply embarrassed about what he had
done.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Pet owner's plea for action to stop dog attacks terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 126 words


A PET owner and RSPCA voluntary worker is calling for action on out-of-control
dogs after being attacked.

Angela Flowers, aged 30, of Croft Road, Nuneaton, was walking her two dogs near
her friend's home in Wood Street, Collycroft, Bedworth, when two Staffordshire
bull terrier crosses started to attack her collie Oliver on Thursday night. They
also lunged at Angela's arm and, despite a padded jacket, she has been left with
bruising and puncture wounds. Oliver needed antibiotics and stitches.

Angela said: "There have been three attacks in one year and nothing's been done.
It will be too late when it goes for a child."

A police spokeswoman said: "We will be gathering evidence and if there is an
offence that has occurred we will be taking positive action."

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday

MOBILE PHONE IMAGES: Sleeping man's terror attack ordeal

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: The Bolton News


A sleeping man was attacked in his house by four masked men armed with an axe, a
crowbar and a gun.

The men smashed their way through the patio doors of the house in Old Clough
Lane, Walkden, at 7.10pm last night.

Our mobile phone video click Video, aboveshows the scene of the attack

They threatened the 41-year-old occupant, who was asleep on the sofa, and
dragged him through the house, demanding money.

The men then escaped with cash and an Xbox and drove off in an unknown
direction.

During the incident, one of the men hit the victim on his arm with a baseball
bat which was inside the house.

He suffered cuts to his face and bruising to his arm but did not require
hospital treatment.

The man with the axe is described as slim, 5ft 11in, wearing beige trousers. A
second man is described as 5ft 2in and medium build.

The two other men are believed to be 6ft 2in, with one being of medium build.
All four were wearing dark clothing and balaclavas.

Anyone with any further information about this incident is asked to contact
Salford CID on 0161 856 5351 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday

I feared for my life in terror dog attack

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 481 words


A woman has told how she "feared for her life" when she and her friend were
attacked by two vicious Staffordshire bull terriers while walking their dogs on
a Westcountry beach.

Teachers Debbie Pledger and her best friend Kate Woolford were enjoying the
half-term break with a short holiday at Padstow, North Cornwall, when the
terrifying incident happened.

Both of their small dogs were set upon by the two terriers and when they tried
to save them, Mrs Pledger and her friend were then attacked themselves.

"It was horrendous," said Mrs Pledger. "Kate and I were screaming. The dogs were
in for the kill. If people hadn't come to save us I dread to think what would
have happened."

On Thursday afternoon, Mrs Pledger and Mrs Woolford were walking along  Rock
beach with their two dogs on their leads. They had been for lunch in Rock and
were strolling along the beach to get the ferry back to Padstow.

They were coming to the end of what had been, up until that point, a perfect
short break away.

When suddenly, out of nowhere, two snarling Staffordshire bull terriers ran
towards Mrs Pledger's dog Minke, a small, white West Highland terrier.

"It was a completely unprovoked attack, and we were completely shocked," said
Mrs Pledger. "Minke is a placid dog, she would never fight anything."

Mrs Woolford's dog Marlie, a jack russell cross, started barking and the dogs
then turned on him.

"I grabbed hold of Minke and the two Staffordshire bull terriers went for
Marlie. Kate tried to pick up Marlie. As Kate picked up Marlie, the terrier
wouldn't let go and was holding on with his teeth growling. The other one was
jumping and biting at myself and at Kate.

"We were horrified.

"We shouted at an old man nearby who owned the dogs. He came nearer and waved
his arms around ineffectively and I couldn't believe it. He didn't even shout at
them to stop."

Mrs Pledger said their screams were heard by other people on the beach who ran
over to try and help. She was pulled away from the vicious dogs and protected by
a group of people but her friend Mrs Woolford was now getting attacked by both
dogs.

Eventually, the crowd pulled the out-of-control dogs away from Mrs Woolford and
the dogs left them alone.

Mrs Woolford suffered nasty bites and bruising to her hands and her arms and
bruising also on her legs. Mrs Pledger suffered similar injuries but not as
severe.

Mrs Pledger said: "To be honest, the shock was the worst thing. I keep waking up
in the night in a fright and I still feel in shock now.

"I dread to think what would have happened if there were young children there."

"Kate and I are not out to prosecute the man but to stop this from happening to
someone else."

The two friends, who both live in Devon, want to thank all those who came to
their rescue on Thursday afternoon.

Anyone who helped or witnessed the attack is asked to contact the police and
quote log number 1081 of February 22.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                               February 27, 2007

Estate terror teen jailed for violent attack

LENGTH: 217 words


A THUG who battered a man around the head with a piece of wood on a West
Yorkshire housing estate has been locked up. Michael Boggett, 19, was jailed for
13 months for assault and received an anti social behaviour order to stop his
reign of terror in the Monkhill area of Pontefract.

Leeds Crown Court heard how Boggett, of Monkhill Avenue, got into a dispute with
Paul Hudson on July 2 last year as Mr Hudson tried to find his son's partner on
the estate. Mr Hudson was injured in the attack but later chose to discharge
himself from hospital. The court heard Boggett had previous convictions include
battery and two offences of criminal damage. The Recorder of Leeds, Judge Norman
Jones QC, told Boggett: "There is not a great deal of difference between this
and kicking someone in the head when they are down. "Hitting people with a
weapon is what you did and it could have killed this man." The judge also
imposed a two-year anti-social behaviour order after an application from
Wakefield Council. He is banned from behaving in a threatening or abusive manner
anywhere in the Wakefield district and must not be in possession of alcohol
except on licensed premises. He is also banned from associating with Ben
Richardson, 18, Adam Moran, 18, and a 16-year-old boy who cannot be named for
legal reasons.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday

Algerian "terrorists" attack Municipal Guard posts near capital

LENGTH: 163 words


Text of report by Ali D. headlined "Bouira: Skirmish in Ahnif", published by
Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 1 March

The two encampments of the Tixeraine and Ighil Nath Ameur Municipal Guard [some
30 km east of Algiers] were attacked simultaneously on Tuesday [27 February]
into Wednesday morning by two terrorist groups.

The skirmish, according to our sources, lasted a half-hour. A military
detachment that happened to be in the area, alerted by the exchanges of
sustained fire between the municipal guard and the horde of assassins, came to
the rescue, forcing the two groups of terrorists to flee. During the morning
yesterday, the elements of the People's National Army [ANP] going over the
sector with a fine-toothed comb discovered three homemade bombs, two of them
planted outside the Tixeraine Municipal Guard and the third placed near the
Ighil Nath Ameur Municipal Guard. All three were defused by the bomb squad.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 1 Mar 07

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday

Local official notes drop in terrorist attacks in Russia

LENGTH: 139 words


The number of terrorist attacks in the country fell by 40 per cent last year
owing to the joint work of federal agencies and local bodies of the republics of
the North Caucasus, Valeriy Stepanov, head of the Karachay-Cherkess
antiterrorist commission and deputy head of the Karachay-Cherkess presidential
administration, has said.

Speaking at a session of the antiterrorist commission held in
Karachay-Cherkessia and presided over by Karachay-Cherkess President Mustafa
Batdyyev, Stepanov said that several "successful special operations were carried
out last year" against rebels. During these operations, an end was put to the
"activities of over 120 most dangerous bandits and emissaries of international
terrorist organizations. Over 300 terrorist attacks were prevented," he said.

Source: Caucasus Times, Prague, in Russian 1 Mar 07

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Blackpool Gazette

                                 March 1, 2007

Gang mount terror attack

LENGTH: 156 words


A GANG of four terrorised a man in his own flat. The victim who was punched and
kicked, had a mirror smashed over his head and a cord wrapped around his throat.
Jonathan Nash, 18, formerly of Argosy Avenue, Grange Park, Blackpool, now of no
fixed address, pleaded guilty to assault and was given a 12-month conditional
discharge by Blackpool magistrates. Julie Fogarty, prosecuting, said Anthony
Aitken was at his flat in Dickson Road, on New Year's Eve. An argument about
rent arrears started when Nash and three other men visited him. She said: "The
group began to assault him. He was kicked and punched and had a mirror smashed
over his head." Steven Townley, defending, said his client was not involved in
the row over rent but threw one or two punches at the victim. "He quickly
realised the incident was escalating and took no further part. "When a chord was
put around the victim's neck, Nash intervened to stop him being throttled."

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Burnley Express

                                 March 2, 2007

Taxi drivers attacked working in 'Valley of terror'

LENGTH: 434 words


THREE Asian taxi drivers and a cab base were attacked in a series of separate
incidents in three days in Colne. Rocks were thrown through the windows of two
cars which were stopped at traffic lights near Vivary Way, a driver was punched
in the head while filling up with petrol off North Valley Road and two men
hurled stones and shouted racist abuse at the offices of Eagle Star Taxis in
Dockray Street. Police put a stop to a similar outbreak of attacks involving
taxis last year by sending plain clothes officers to pose as customers and
drivers in cabs.

Officers said the scheme would be reintroduced immediately after the latest
spate of incidents which happened between Thursday and Saturday. Hot spot areas
will be targeted, including the North Valley "corridor" and retail park, Vivary
Way and the town centre. Extra marked patrols will also be sent out. Mr Mohammad
Akram, of the Pendle Taxis Association, which holds monthly meetings with
police, said: "Everybody has to do a job, and taxi drivers are just trying to
provide a service. It's shocking and frightening what's gone on after everyone
worked so hard to stop attacks on taxis before Christmas. "Police, Pendle
Council and taxi companies did everything they could, and hopefully we can stamp
this thuggery out again. If similar attacks occur, those responsible will be
caught. There's no doubt about that, because it's worked before." The attack at
the petrol station, which happened at 9-20 p.m. on Saturday, was captured on
CCTV. Four youths aged about 17 verbally abused the driver, before one of them
struck him on the forehead. The victim was shaken but did not need hospital
treatment. A passenger was lucky to escape injury when a rock thrown from behind
a wall smashed through the window of the cab he was travelling in along Vivary
Way at 7-45 p.m. on Thursday. A taxi driver was alone in his car and waiting at
traffic lights near Preston's BMW garage when he was confronted by a gang of 15
boys at 6-15 p.m. on Friday. One of them threw a stone at the vehicle and the
group ran off towards Dale Street. Sgt John Fryer said: "We don't think the same
people are behind these incidents, but they all involve taxi drivers. Hundreds
of vehicles use that road every hour, so it does appear that these are not
random attacks. "It's a stupid thing to do. Not only could a brick hit the
driver or a passenger, they are showered with shards of glass when the windows
break." Two 23-year-old men from Colne were arrested in connection with a racist
attack on the Eagle Star Taxis office on Dockray Street. Both were released on
police bail.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                              March 5, 2007 Monday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Terror as care home attacked

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 168 words


ELDERLY residents of a Warwickshire care home were terrified when vandals
launched a night attack on the building.

Three yobs first tried in vain to smash through the doors of the Woodside
residential home in Spinney Hill, Warwick.

When they couldn't bash through the reinforced glass doors by punching and
kicking them, they ripped metal covers from the retirement home's drainpipes and
used them to shatter two large windows.

A relative of a resident, who did not want to be named, said: "The gang of
youths were trying to break into the place. The old folks were terrified and
staff rang the police but they said they couldn't do anything about it."

to the shops and vandalising property.

Steve Hadland, a partner in property development company Hadland Young in
Spinney Hill, said Sunday's attack was the latest in a month of vandalism in the
area.

A Warwickshire police spokeswoman said: "When they phoned up, the vandals had
already gone, so, because they weren't there, we couldn't treat it as an
emergency."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                              March 5, 2007 Monday
                              Warwickshire Edition

Terror as vandals attack care home;
CRIME: Police explain why they were unable to respond immediately to call from
staff

BYLINE: By Marc Meneaud

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 364 words


ELDERLY residents of a Warwickshire care home were terrified when vandals
launched a night attack on the building.

Three yobs first tried in vain to smash through the doors of the Woodside
residential home in Spinney Hill, Warwick.

When they couldn't bash through the reinforced glass doors by punching and
kicking them, they ripped metal covers from the retirement home's drainpipes and
used them to shatter two large windows.

A relative of a resident, who did not want to be named, said: "The gang of
youths were trying to break into the place. The old folks were terrified and
staff rang the police but they said they couldn't do anything about it."

She said the attack had been the latest in a number of incidents of antisocial
behaviour in the area. They have included youths intimidating elderly people
walking to the shops and vandalising property.

Steve Hadland, a partner in property development company Hadland Young in
Spinney Hill, said the area had been blighted by vandalism for the past month.

He said: "What I can't understand is this pointless vandalism that achieves
nothing."

The three yobs targeted the care home between about 1am and 1.30am last Sunday.

Police turned up to take statements from night staff at about 11.30am.

Manager Pat Ashwell said: "Our doors are self-locking, so when they started to
attack it, it locked itself and they couldn't get in, no matter what they did.
But I don't know what would have happened if they had.

"We have three night staff and they called the police but they didn't attend
until 11.30am or 11.45am that day. Most of the residents were tucked up in bed
when it happened and the staff that were on duty made sure they were fine. They
were all really good and handled it really well." A spokeswoman for Warwickshire
Police said: "When they phoned up the vandals had already gone, so, because they
weren't there, we couldn't treat it as an emergency. Our officers were
incredibly busy and we have to prioritise our resources. We did apologise to the
people concerned when we went out to visit them. It was unfortunate that we
couldn't get out there but there were a lot of major incidents and we did
explain that when we contacted them."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DJ2802070AP3 TARGET... The Woodside residential home in Spinney Hill
which was attacked by three yobs who tried to break in in the middle of the
night. Picture: Joe Bailey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 7, 2007, Wednesday
                             Staffordshire Edition

Bombs could not stop hero husband;
AWARD: Wife nominates brave dad who rescued his family from bus terror attack
LOCAL HEROES

BYLINE: Patrice John

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 306 words


A BIRMINGHAM father who fought through the wreckage of a bomb blast to save four
family members is the Birmingham Mail's latest Local Hero.

Alex Beckford, aged 39, was holidaying in Turkey with his ten-year-old son
Louis, his wife Jenny, his mother Suzanne, aged 65, and his mother-in-law
Dorothy, aged 73, last August.

When a terrorist bomb ripped through the bus they were travelling on, Alex, from
Quinton, wasted no time rescuing his family.

Jenny, aged 38, who almost lost her left foot in the incident, nominated Alex
for the award.

She said: "When that bomb went off my left foot was hanging off by a piece of
skin and I had lost a lot of blood.

"I thought our son was dead. Alex went running back into the bus to get Louis.
He then went back to get his mother and my mother as well.

"It's the fact that he had injuries himself and he never considered them. He was
just thinking about us. Alex saved my life."

The family were holidaying in Marmaris last August - a resort they loved and had
been to for the past six years.

Dorothy suffered two broken legs, while Jenny - whose foot doctors were able to
save, Alex, Louis and Suzanne were left with burns and shrapnel wounds.

Jenny said Alex, who is qualified in First Aid, had never used his training
before the bombing.

"He had done First Aid at work for his job," she said.

"He has never had to use it before this. Thank goodness he knew what he was
doing."

Alex, who is a shift coordinator for food distribution company DHS, said: "There
was blood everywhere.

"I really wanted to know where everyone was and I just had to keep going back to
get people.

"It was a spur of the moment thing and I didn't even think about it. I just had
to do it.

"We are a close-knit family before this but this has brought us much closer. We
make the most of life and thank the Almighty that we are still here."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LUCKY TO BE ALIVE... (from left) Louis and Alex in hospital, Alex,
Louis and Jenny, grandma Dorothy Hughes and Louis with his grandma Susan
Beckford.; TERRIBLE ORDEAL... How the Mail reported the bomb blast.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                            March 7, 2007, Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Girl's terror after attack

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 422 words


A dog walker has spoken of the moment a frightened nine-year-old girl emerged
from woodland after an alleged sex attack.

"She just looked terrified. I've got two daughters, but I've not seen a child
look as frightened as that little girl did," said Middlesbrough resident Elaine
Gill.

She told a Teesside Crown Court jury yesterday: "She was just shaking. She was
very afraid. She was grey."

The woman was walking her two dogs near woods in the Coulby Newham area on the
evening of September 6 last year.

The mother of the girl, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, said her
daughter had cuts and scratches and was behaving strangely and crying when she
was brought home. "She didn't want to tell me what had happened, pushing me
away."

The mum said her daughter initially said nothing because she was concerned for
her friend - a boy, aged ten, who was with her when they met the alleged sex
attacker at a bus stop earlier that day.

The girl then told her mother that the man asked her for directions, and to help
him find a lost key in the woods.

There, the girl said, the man sexually assaulted her, took photos of her and
claimed a man outside the woods would "get" the girl's friend "if she didn't do
as she was told".

"He told her there's no point in phoning the police because I've done it before
and I've got away with it," the mum told the court.

She added that her daughter said if she rang police, "he'll kill her."

The prosecution say Kevin Toner, 20, followed the girl on and off the bus, then
lured her into the woods to attack her, tricking her and controlling her with
the threat of the other, fictitious, man.

The mum said the girl identified Toner, of Thomas Street, Middlesbrough, as her
attacker when a picture from bus CCTV footage was shown in the Gazette.

That front page has become an exhibit in the trial, where Toner denies sexual
assault and causing a child to engage in sexual activity.

The ten-year-old boy, who played "tigs" with the girl at the bus stop but did
not get onto the bus with her, said she asked the man for fare money.

The boy said the skinny man with a "cheesy grin" claimed he was 17 and offered
to give them a bus ticket if they walked him down the road.

He also said the man "booted" him between the legs, perhaps thinking the boy had
flicked an insect at him.

The man stared at him from the bus as it pulled away, the boy added.

Toner's girlfriend at the time, a 15-year-old female, told the jury he spoke to
her that night and claimed he had argued with and punched a man on the bus.

Proceeding

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 8, 2007 Thursday

Australia warns citizens about terrorist attacks in Thailand

LENGTH: 178 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 8 March

[Report by Bangkokpost.com from the "Breaking News" page: "Australia warns of
attacks in Thailand"]

(Bangkokpost.com from reports) -Australia warns its citizens about safety in
Thailand, saying that intelligence information showed a high threat of insurgent
bomb attacks.

The warning, issued on Thursday, is the second in little more than two weeks.

"We continue to receive reports that terrorists may be planning attacks against
a range of targets, including tourist areas and other places frequented by
foreigners," Australia's Department of Foreign Affairs said in its latest
advisory.

It said more attacks could occur "at any time, anywhere" in Thailand.

"The increase in violence in Southern Thailand may lead to attacks elsewhere in
Thailand, including Bangkok and other tourist areas, such as Phuket and
Pattaya," it said.

Bangkok has been on high alert since New Year's Eve bombings that left three
people killed and more than 30 injured.

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 8 Mar 07

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 8, 2007 Thursday

Pakistan knows how to avoid NATO attacks on terror camps at home - Afghan paper

LENGTH: 981 words


Excerpt, "Is US congress speaking on basis of guesses or reality?" from report
by Afghan newspaper Daily Afghanistan on 5 March

The plan to attack terrorists and their bases outside the country has been
proposed by senior coalition and ISAF officials for almost one year, as Taleban
attacks create a difficult situation for the foreign forces deployed in
Afghanistan. But the proposal has never been put in practice.

[Passage omitted: when under pressure Pakistani officials arrest a few Taleban
fighters]

Four months ago, NATO officials in the country concluded that the fight against
terrorism and the uprooting of extremism in the region will be successful only
when NATO operations extend beyond Afghan borders and when the terrorist nests
and insurgent groups are targeted beyond the borders of Afghanistan. But,
although this was the NATO officials' conclusion following meetings and
professional assessments, these operations were never put into practice. The
decision remained on paper and was only announced to journalists and reporters
by a NATO spokesman.

At the time, Daily Afghanistan analyzed this under the title "Notion or reality"
and decided it would be an effective way of fighting terror, but doubted the
practical implementation of the plan because the political games behind the
curtain presented an obstacle to an aerial attack by NATO on terrorist bases in
northern areas of Pakistan and the two province - North-West Frontier Province
and Baluchistan. These political games behind the curtains changed the NATO plan
for operations beyond Afghan borders into a notion rather than a reality and,
thus, the terrorists, using the opportunity, have been able to increase their
capability in the past few months. Al-Qa'idah bases were activated again in
Pakistan and the terrorists established a number of training centres there.

Taleban fighters have revived their fighting capability and increased their
weaponry and can have reached a level at which they can even carry out extensive
attacks in Afghanistan before the arrival of spring. Taleban forces take over
one or two districts every day.

All the political and military experts admit that Taleban fighters have
increased their capability beyond Afghan borders to an extent that they will be
able in the coming spring and summer to carry out on Afghan soil the most
serious guerilla attacks and hundreds of suicide attacks. This increase in the
terrorist's capability is only because of negligence and recklessness over a few
months and political games behind the scenes that have prevented NATO operations
beyond Afghan borders, making terrorist bases in Pakistan safe from NATO aerial
attacks over the past few months. Now, with the increase in Taleban and
Al-Qa'idah activities on Pakistani soil, it has once again been proposed that
the terrorist bases in Pakistan should be attacked and destroyed.

Passage omitted: both Republicans and Democrats have asked for aerial operations
by NATO and US troops on training camps in Pakistan]  US Senate members have
said to President Bush that if Pakistan cannot take measures against the
terrorist bases and shelters run by Taleban fighters and Al-Qa'idah members on
its own soil, then the USA should take proper measures against Al-Qa'idah camps
in Pakistan.

Members of the Democrat party and the Republican party in the USA have asked US
Defence Department officials to make sure that international law allows the
American forces deployed in Afghanistan to conduct operations and attack tribal
areas in Pakistan where Al-Qa'idah and Taleban fighters are active and have
established new bases.

A US senator has suggested the USA use the same legal documents to eliminate the
Al-Qa'idah bases on Pakistan soil as those referred to when they attacked the
Taleban regime in Afghanistan in 2001. He has also asked the US Defence
Department to tell Pakistani officials that they may be supporting these groups
because they do not want to have control of their own country. He has asked the
Defence Department to tell them that, in such a situation, neither the terrorist
groups nor the government are acceptable for the USA and the USA cannot tolerate
this situation anymore.

A Senate member from Indiana State has said that the Pakistani officials had
better take stringent measures against the terrorists immediately, or the USA
will act.

Now, the main question is whether these words will also only be ideas and
notions, like the words and proposals made in the past, or whether they will be
put into practice. What we can see from the political and security situation is
that Pakistan is once again carrying out a political manoeuver for propaganda
purposes.

They arrested a number of Taleban fighters in Quetta and have reported that one
of the people arrested was the former Taleban defence minister, Mullah
Obaydollah. Pakistan is once again trying to make deals behind the scenes and is
once again trying to eliminate a proposal when it is  still at the stage of a
notion.

Even though the US Congress members seem to be determined about their proposal,
a political game is being played back behind thick curtains that makes it
difficult to predict things easily. Maybe, the idea of attacking Al-Qa'idah and
Taleban camps on Pakistani soil remains in words because of political and
diplomatic games. Because there has been no positive improvement in the
proposal, a number of political analysts think the new proposal is only an idea.

However, it is possible that the USA will not be able to tolerate things this
time and will put the idea into practice. It is hoped that the proposal, if put
in to practice, will be successful in the region and will dry out the roots of
terrorism and extremism in the region.

But, anyway, we must once again wait and see whether our expectations will come
true or not.

Source: Daily Afghanistan, Kabul, in Dari and Pashto 5 Mar 07

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            March 8, 2007, Thursday

ROBBERY TERROR FOR GIRLS AS GUN GANG ATTACK CAR;
POLICE RACE TO SCHOOL

BYLINE: By Joanne Curran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 220 words


FIVE schoolgirls were targeted by a gang of armed thugs in a terrifying
carjacking bid in Glasgow.

One attacker pulled out a handgun and smashed the window of the Mini car while
the teenage victims cowered inside.

The girls, all pupils at a top fee-paying school in the city's south side, were
sitting chatting in the car in Dalziel Drive, Pollokshields, when the three men
attacked.

The gunman shattered the drivers' window with the pistol and tried to grab hold
of the keys.

But the quick-thinking teen at the wheel managed to slam the car into gear
before speeding off to safety.

The gang, believed to be Asian, struck in an upmarket area close to exclusive
all-girls school Craigholme.

None of the teenagers, who are all aged about 17, were injured but they were
left shaken by the ordeal. A police spokesman said: "Three men approached the
car in Dalziel Drive yesterday at 1.35pm.

"One male had what appeared to be a handgun which he used to smash a window. The
weapon was not discharged and nobody was injured. Our inquiries are ongoing."

The incident is the latest in a series of carjackings in the south side.

In November 2005, armed thugs shot at two women and stole a convertible car in
Fotheringay Road, Pollokshields. Thieves also stole a Porsche worth pounds
50,000 from the same area in another robbery a month earlier.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENE: Craigholme School

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 March 8, 2007

Schoolg irls' luncht ime carjacking gun terror;
Parents' shock after attack on pupils in upmarket city area

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By DEBORAH ANDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 443 words



HIGHLIGHT: The incident took place near Craigholme School where the girl victims
are pupils


FIVE schoolgirls were subjected to a terrifying carjacking gun ordeal after a
gang smashed their way into their car.

The teenagers, pupils at a fee-paying all-girls school in Glasgow's South Side
were sitting in the new-style Mini during their lunch break.

The gang, understood to be Asian, smashed a window with a handgun and tried to
grab the keys to the vehicle in Dalziel Drive, near Craigholme School.

The quick-thinking girls, all 17, managed to drive off and called police.

A full scale search was launched for the gang and a police helicopter was seen
circling the area around the school yesterday afternoon.

The gang of three men approached the vehicle around 1.30pm.

The teenagers were parked close to the school overlooking Maxwell Park which is
surrounded by luxury properties costing up to a million pounds.

Today parents dropping children off at school were horrified by the incident.

One parent said: "My daughter told me what happened when she came home last
night and I could tell she was shocked and upset by it.

"I can't believe something like this could happen to a young girl sitting in a
car so close to a school."

Another parent said: "I learned about it last night and haven't had a chance to
speak to the school yet.

"I heard the window was smashed and the men had a gun. It is just beyond
belief."

Gillian Stobo, principal of Craigholme, said: "The school is aware of an
incident that took place yesterday afternoon between three youths and some S6
pupils.

"Fortunately no one was harmed, although there was some minor car damage. Police
action was immediate, with patrol cars at the scene, and an investigation is
under way.

"I would emphasise that the security and safety of our girls is, as always, of
paramount importance and we will continue to look after the welfare of all
pupils."

A police spokesman said investigations were continuing in a bid to track down
the gang.

He said: "Three men approached five teenage girls while they were sitting in a
car in Dalziel Drive.

"One of the men was in possession of what appeared to be a handgun and used it
to smash the window of the vehicle.

"The weapon was not discharged and no one was injured. Our inquiries are
continuing."

It is the latest in a series of carjacking incidents in the South Side.

In November 2005, two women were shot at by carjackers who made off with the
owner's convertible after the women got out of the vehicle in Fotheringay Road
near Maxwell Park railway station in Pollokshields.

The previous month a Porsche worth GBP50,000 was stolen from the same area.

The first carjacking case in Glasgow was in February 2002 when a 68-year-old
woman had her Honda Civic stolen in Yoker.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            March 10, 2007 Saturday

Coup for Bush as Iraq terror leader behind hundreds of attacks 'is held'

BYLINE: WILLIAM LOWTHER

SECTION: ED 3RD; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 310 words


IRAQI military forces claimed last night to have captured the country's most
notorious terrorist leader.

Abu Omar Al-Baghdadi took over from the murderous Abu Musab Al Zarqawi after he
was killed by U.S. forces last year and has been behind hundreds of attacks on
British and American troops.

If his capture is confirmed, it will be a major blow for Al Qaeda in Iraq and
the most significant victory to date for Iraqi troops.

The White House was urgently trying to verify the arrest which would be a boost
to President Bush and his latest military strategy to send a 'surge' of new
soldiers to reclaim the streets of Baghdad from insurgents. Al-Baghdadi has
remained a shadowy figure since replacing Al Zarqawi, who was filmed beheading
kidnapped westerners.

He has been remarkably successful at recruiting and deploying suicide bombers
and death squads that have left the bodies of thousands of Iraqis on the
capital's streets.

A Sunni with a deep hatred of the rival Shiite Muslims, Al-Baghdadi has led much
of the insurgency battling U.S. and British troops.

If he has been captured unharmed it will be a particularly valuable coup because
he will have full details of the terrorist infrastructure in Iraq.

An Iraqi military spokesman said last night that Al-Baghdadi had been captured
in a raid west of Baghdad in an area close to the infamous Abu Ghraib prison.

'One of the terrorists who was arrested with him confessed that the one in our
hands is Al-Baghdadi,' said the spokesman.

According to extremist Islamic websites, Al-Baghdadi was last year proclaimed
leader of the Islamic State of Iraq, an Al Qaeda-inspired group challenging the
authority of Iraq's government.

Al Qaeda has placed all its fighters in Iraq under the control of Al-Baghdadi
who has warned Iraqis cooperating with the U.S. that he and his supporters would
'sever your necks with our swords'.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AL-BAGHDADI: INTERROGATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 12, 2007 Monday

German terrorism expert finds threats of attacks "disturbing"

LENGTH: 131 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp

Erfurt (ddp) -Terrorism expert Rolf Tophaven reckons that the recent threats of
attacks on Germany need to be taken seriously. The situation was "disturbing,"
even though the authorities still had "no indications" of specific attacks,
Tophoven told Monday's [ 12 March] edition of Thueringer Allgemeine newspaper.

Tophoven sees a possible link with the Bundestag's decision to deploy "Tornado"
aircraft in Afghanistan. "The more we engage there, the more we become a target
for terrorism," he said. Even though it could also not be ruled out that
criminal terrorist free riders were involved, the fact was "that what is
involved here is utter professionals at handling the media," he added.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1901 gmt 11 Mar 07

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday

Teenager suffers sex attack terror

BYLINE:  Tom Bennett

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 501 words


A 17-year-old woman was subjected to a terrifying sex attack in the street by
two men who leapt out of a car.

While one man held the victim, another indecently assaulted her during the
attack in Scraptoft  Lane, Leicester.

It is the third incident in six days in which women walking alone have been
targeted by men in cars.

It follows two attempted abductions in the city centre in which women were
chased down the street or nearly forced into a car.

In two of the three incidents, the victim has been able to describe a silver
hatchback car, similar to a Vauxhall Corsa.

Officers said they are aware of the "similarities between the attacks" but so
far have not linked them.

They have urged women to be on their guard and to not walk alone, especially at
night.

Pc Jason Edwards, of Hamilton police, said: "We don't want to scare women
unnecessarily, but taking extra care could reduce your chances of being a victim
of crime.

"We would urge women not to walk alone, particularly at night. If you have no
other alternative, try to stick to busy, well-lit areas and carry a personal
attack alarm.

"If possible, get someone to meet you or let a friend or family member know the
route you are taking, and how long you expect to be out."

In the latest attack, on Friday, the victim was walking towards Uppingham Road
when she noticed a silver car driving slowly alongside her with four Asian men
inside.

As she began walking faster, she heard a car door open and close.

She was then grabbed by a man, who held her while a second man indecently
assaulted her. She managed to break free and ran off.

The attack happened at 11pm between Peters Drive and Crofters Drive.

The attackers were aged between 25 and 35. One had short, dark, spiky hair and
wore a black T-shirt. The driver wore a light-coloured or white shirt.

Four days earlier, a 19-year-old was walking along Millstone Lane at 12.30pm
when she was approached by two men in a silver Vauxhall Corsa.

The front seat passenger tried to persuade her to get into the car.

When she refused, he chased her down Horsefair Street, but she managed to
escape.

The man who chased her was Asian, aged 23 to 25, about 5ft 7ins and of large
build. The second man was of Eastern European appearance, slim and about 6ft.

The previous day, another woman was attacked and almost bundled into a car by
two men before escaping.

The 18-year-old was approached by two men in a car as she walked along Short
Street, near St Margaret's Bus Station, at about 6.45pm.

The men tried to force her into the vehicle, but she broke free and ran to
Mansfield Street, where a member of the public came to her rescue.

The attacker was described as Asian, about 5ft 9in and of large build.

A police spokeswoman said: "We are aware of the similarities between the
attacks, but we have not linked them yet. We are keeping an open mind.

"The first two attacks were attempted abductions. The third was an indecent
assault, and there is nothing to suggest it was an attempted abduction."

* Contact police on 0116 222 2222.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 14, 2007 Wednesday

Algerian daily casts doubt on US embassy warning of potential terror attack

LENGTH: 726 words


Text of report by Hassan Moali headlined "The American alert about Algeria: Is
there the risk of a 9/11 in Algeria?", published by Algerian newspaper El Watan
website on 14 March; first paragraph is El Watan introduction; subheading is as
published:

The alert that was issued Monday [10 March] evening by the embassy of the United
States in Algiers on its Internet site had to have caused every Algerian to
shiver with fear.

So, if the Americans' "fears" are to be believed, extremists are allegedly
making preparations for an attack on a commercial airplane transporting Western
workers in Algeria (sic). It must first be noted that the "warning message" from
the US embassy in Algiers was short on specifics in the sense that it identified
neither the terrorist group that was allegedly making preparations for this
attack nor the Western city from which the plane would allegedly take off, and
even less the timing of this potential attack. If it is true that prevention and
vigilance should remain in force as long as Algeria, like many countries, is not
hermetically protected from this type of dramatic terrorist actions, one wonders
how and why the American chancellery did not pick up enough information that
might have given more credibility to this alert and made it possible for the
Algerian authorities to take such a threat very seriously. "For the immediate
future, no additional information is available about the targeted carrier or
about the date of such a (possible) attack." That is the only specific detail
provided by the embassy, thus adding a layer of uncertainty and flux to the
ambient fear that has seized minds (again) in Algeria.

When contacted by this paper, officials at the US embassy in Algiers stated that
they could not say anything beyond what had been emphasized in their communique.
Some rumours are, however, saying that the US fears are based essentially on
"rumours" and that the concern is to "put American nationals working on Algeria
on warning." But if the FBI of the CIA were able to discover the preparations
for a possible 9/11 in Algeria, one wonders why the "information" that was
behind the alert has been so fragmentary, so vague, and so random. The fact is,
for an attack of this scope, for which the terrorists are supposed to adopt a
highly sophisticated modus operandi, the Americans should be capable, even if
only in terms of intelligence, to unravel the terrorist tangle, having become
knowledgeable as they are by the New York attacks. Now, in this area, the
American agencies have left the Algerians hungry for more and afraid of course.
So what part of the American alert about Algeria is true? The response to such a
question is just as uncertain as the US embassy's alarming message.

Al-Qa'idah and the military base

However, and when one remembers that the only airplanes full of foreigners that
come into our country fly straight towards Hassi Messaoud, one wonders whether
somewhere there might not be a connection with the domestic petroleum and gas
industry and the stakes that this generates on the international market. In
addition, "serving up" such an alert 24 hours following the suicide attack that
was committed in Casablanca, in Morocco, somewhat resembles a sort of balancing
of the threat in the Maghreb. Oddly, this "outburst" by the Americans comes just
several days after the blunt and faultless rejection issued by the foreign
affairs minister to the famous proposal to set up US military bases on Algerian
territory as part of the new military command that they expect to install in the
region that has been dubbed Africom. One week ago, General Raymoud Helaut,
NATO's emissary, suffered the same rebuff from Algerian political and military
officials. So the possibility is not totally ruled out that this terrifying
threat that is being bandied about might in the last analysis only be a piece of
worthless propaganda that would, they believe, force Algeria's hand to yield on
its principles. This resembles the "trademark" of Al-Qa'idah, which has become
an all-purpose tool that the Americans brandish to justify all of this war
madness and the excesses committed by George Bush's administration. For all
that, should we neglect this thunderclap in the Algerian skies, skies which we
thought were quiet once and for all?

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 14 Mar 07

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              North Devon Journal

                            March 15, 2007 Thursday

Knife attack man imprisoned for 'reign of terror' against partner

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 468 words


A vicious and manipulative Bideford man who slashed his partner with a kitchen
knife and repeatedly harassed and beat her has been jailed for 30 months.

Exeter Crown Court heard how Stephen Kent, 44, had a history of violence towards
his partner  before the incident that left  her with knife wounds on her arms as
well as  bruises on her head and face.

Prosecutor David Sapiecha said the attack was a "step up" from what had gone
before. Kent went home to Rosemont in Hilltop Road, Bideford, and climbed in
through a window.

He was immediately aggressive to his partner, ripping off her watch and punching
and kicking her  repeatedly for some time.

Kent then placed a line of toast on the floor and told his terrified  victim not
to cross the line, threatening to beat her again if she did.

The prosecutor said toast was later found on the window sill with the victim's
hair attached to it.

After making those threats Kent went into the kitchen, armed himself with a
knife, then without warning slashed the woman across the arms. She screamed out
in pain, saying: "What have you done? You've hit an artery".

Momentarily, Kent was concerned, taking off his T-shirt and seeming quite
shocked. He said: "What have I done?"

But he then held the knife to her throat and threatened her again, before
dragging her by the hair from the lounge.

Mr Sapiecha said the victim was able to  escape to a neighbour's flat when Kent
went into the bedroom.

By the time  police arrived the defendant had left, taking the  victim's car,
which he crashed  before being arrested.

When interviewed, Kent claimed  his partner had inflicted the  injuries on
herself and denied  hitting her or causing her any harm.

The court heard that the woman had been subjected to a reign of terror at the
hands of Kent between March 2005 and July 2006.

Mr Sapiecha said the prosecution was seeking a restraining  order against Kent,
preventing him from deliberately approaching within 100 metres of the victim;
going within half a mile of Rosemont, Hilltop Road, Bideford while the victim
lived there; writing  letters to her; telephoning her or shouting at her in the
street.

Kent pleaded guilty to unlawful wounding, assault occasioning  actual bodily
harm, aggravated vehicle taking and driving while disqualified.

The court heard he had 81  previous convictions including  assault and affray.

In addition to the immediate prison term, Judge Graham Cottle made an extended
sentence order of a further 30 months: if Kent breaches his licence on release
or commits another offence he will be put back in jail for another 30 months.

Judge Cottle, who said the attack was "vicious and prolonged", also made a
restraining order  until  further notice. Kent was  banned from driving for 12
months and can only get his licence back if he passes an extended driving test.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 North Devon Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                             March 16, 2007 Friday

Alleged confession to role in terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 204 words


The alleged confession of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed to the September 11 attacks and
plots to target other symbolic buildings around the world will, if true, shock
many.

The attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York and the Pentagon in Washington
DC were as spectacular as they were devastating. The impact of further targeting
of Big Ben, Heathrow Airport and 30 other sites around the world is almost
impossible to imagine.

But there are doubts about Mohammed's statement. Sections of it detail the
"torture" he received and whether or not this influenced his confession.

Then there is the nature of the tribunal at which he is said to have admitted
his part in the attacks. It is a "court" without lawyers or established
procedure conducted in a controversial detention centre run by the American
military.

The breadth of Mohammed's confession is also very convenient. Support for the
war on terror has never been lower and with an election looming the future of
the campaign in Iraq is in the balance.

However, none of this proves that there were not plots to cause devastation on a
bewildering scale and the world must remain vigilant because if one thing is
true, it is that terrorists of some hue or other will strike again.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 16, 2007 Friday

US instructors teach Kyrgyz commando to prevent terror attacks

LENGTH: 252 words


Text of report by Kyrgyz AKIpress news agency website

Bishkek, 16 March: Instructors of US special task military subunits held
training exercises with the personnel of Kyrgyz special-task military
detachments as part of a special programme at a base of the Kyrgyz Internal
Troops in February and March 2007, the press service of the Internal Troops
reported today.

It said that the special tactical training exercises were held at a highly
organizational and methodical level. The participants in the training exercises
learnt how to act during special operations to find and besiege a conflict area,
prevent armed clashes, disarm and destroy illegal terrorist groups in conditions
close to the real situation. Servicemen of the Sher [Lion] special task
detachment succeeded in improving their special military skills in the training
exercises held under the supervision of the instructors.

The training exercises were carried out in different circumstances which were
remodelled in accordance with local conditions.

All the participants took qualification tests at the end of the training course.
The personnel of the subunits held a special operation to seize and destroy
terrorist bases in a given area.

The participants in the training exercises were given certificates. The US
instructors were awarded Mykty [Strong] medals, Aybat [Courage] badges and
diplomas following orders by the commander of the Internal Troops, Ashyrbek
Bakayev.

Source: AKIpress news agency website, Bishkek, in Russian 0914 gmt 16 Mar 07

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 16, 2007 Friday

Turkish Foreign Ministry commemorates diplomats, officials killed in terrorist
attacks

LENGTH: 402 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 16 March: Turkish diplomats, officials and their relatives who fell
victim in terrorist acts while serving abroad were commemorated at a ceremony at
the Foreign Affairs martyrdom in the Cebeci graveyard in Ankara.

Thirty-nine martyrs who were killed in terrorist attacks while serving abroad
and their location of duties are as follows:

27 January 1973 - Consul-General Mehmet Baydar and Consul Bahadir Demir in Santa
Barbara;

22 October 1975 - Ambassador Danis Tunaligil in Vienna;

24 October 1975 - Ambassador Ismail Erez and his chauffeur Talip Yener in Paris;

16 February 1976 - Chief Secretary Oktar Cirit in Beirut;

9 June 1977 - Ambassador Taha Carim in Vatican;

2 June 1978 - ambassador's wife Necla Kuneralp and retired Ambassador Besir
Balcioglu in Madrid;

12 October 1979 - ambassador's son Ahmet Benler in the Hague;

22 December 1979 - Tourism Counsellor Yilmaz Colpan in Paris;

31 July 1980 - Administrative Attache Galip Ozmen and his daughter Neslihan
Ozmen in Athens;

17 December 1980 - Consul-General Sarik Ariyak and Security Attache Engin Sever
in Sydney;

4 March 1981 - counsellor for labour affairs, Resat Morali, and counsellor for
religious affairs, Tecelli Ari, in Paris;

9 June 1981 - Secretary Savas M. Yerguz in Geneva;

24 September 1981 - Security Attache Cemal Ozen in Paris;

28 January 1982 - Consul-General Kemal Arikan in Los Angeles;

4 May 1982 - Honorary Consul-General Orhan Gunduz in Boston;

7 June 1982 - Administrative Officer Erkut Akbay and his wife Nadide Akbay in
Lisbon;

27 August 1982 - military attache, Col Attila Altikat, in Ottawa;

9 September 1982 - Administrative Attache Bora Suelkan in Burgaz;

9 March 1983 - Ambassador Galip Balkar in Belgrade;

14 July 1983 - Administrative Attache Dursun Aksoy in Brussels;

27 July 1983 - counsellor's wife Cahide Mihcioglu in Lisbon;

28 April 1984 - secretary's wife Isik Yonder in Tehran;

20 May 1984 - counsellor for labour affairs, Erdogan Ozen, in Vienna;

19 November 1984 - International Officer Enver Ergun in Vienna;

7 October 1991 - Press Attache Cetin Gorgu in Athens;

11 December 1993 - Administrative Officer Caglar Yucel in Baghdad;

4 June 1994 - Counsellor Haluk Sipahioglu in Athens;

17 December 2004 - police officers Nihat Akbas, Bilal Urgen, Adem Cicek, Bulent
Kiransal and Suleyman Karahasanoglu in Mosul.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1527 gmt 16 Mar 07

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 16, 2007, Friday
                                 Mersey Edition

Mastermind of 9/11 attacks 'admits UK terror plots'

BYLINE: SAM JONES Daily Post Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 447 words


THE terror mastermind behind the September 11 New York attacks has confessed to
plotting a series of strikes on UK targets including Big Ben, Heathrow Airport
and Canary Wharf, according to the Pentagon.

Khalid Sheikh Mohammed made the admission during a military hearing at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, according to a transcript released by the US military.

The transcript lists more than 30 targets around the world.

It makes clear that al-Qaida wanted to down a transatlantic aircraft during
British would-be shoe bomber Richard Reid's operation.

London-born Reid is serving a life sentence in a US prison for attempting to
blow up a flight with explosives hidden in his trainer.

Mohammed said he planned the September 11 attacks "from A to Z" as well as the
bombing of a nightclub in Bali which killed 202 people and a string of further
attacks.

The transcript connects Mohammed to dozens of the worst terror plots attempted
or carried out in the last 15 years and to others that were planned but not
carried out.

In a transcript of the proceedings on the Pentagon's website, Mohammed said: "I
was responsible for planning, surveying and financing for the operation to
destroy Heathrow Airport, the Canary Wharf building and Big Ben on British
soil."

President George Bush has previously said that information from terror suspects
"helped stop a plot to hijack passenger planes and fly them into Heathrow or the
Canary Wharf in London".

Thousands died in operations Mohammed has now confessed to directing.

The Guantanamo Bay hearing at the weekend ruled that Mohammed was an "enemy
combatant" who should remain in detention indefinitely.

The move opens the way for him to face criminal charges and a trial before a
military tribunal at Guantanamo Bay.

Mohammed said he was involved in planning the 2002 bombing of a Kenya beach
resort popular with Israelis and the failed missile attack on an Israeli
passenger jet after it took off from Mombasa, Kenya.

His words draw al-Qaida closer to plots of the early 1990s, including the 1993
World Trade Center truck bombing.

Other plots Mohammed said he was responsible for included planned attacks
against the Sears Tower in Chicago, the Empire State Building and New York Stock
Exchange and the Panama Canal.

He also said he was involved in planning assassination attempts against former
presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton.

Mohammed, who is believed to have been al-Qaida's third in command, said he was
responsible for planning 28 individual attacks.

Mohammed also claimed he was tortured by the CIA.

In one rambling remark, Mohammed appeared to express some regret for some of the
child casualties of 9/11.

I was behind the planning of several attacks

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged September 11 mastermind, is seen
shortly after his capture in Pakistan, in 2003

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 16, 2007 Friday
                                 Fourth Edition

THE CONFESSIONS OF A TERROR MASTERMIND?;
This is the transcript of the appearance before a Guantanamo Bay tribunal of the
alleged al-Qa'ida leader Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. But who can judge how much of
it is true?;
On trial for terror attacks

SECTION: TERROR TRANSCRIPT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 2816 words


PRESIDENT: Before we begin, Khalid Sheikh Mohammad (KSM), l understand you speak
and understand English. Is that correct?

KSM: (Nods).

PRESIDENT: All right. Are you comfortable in continuing in English or would you
like everything translated in Arabic?

KSM: Everything in English but if I have a problem the linguist will help me.

PRESIDENT: We will proceed in English. If you indicate to me that you would like
something translated we will go ahead and do that. All right? ... This tribunal
will determine whether Khalid Sheikh Mohammed meets the criteria to be
designated as an enemy combatant against the United States or its coalition
partners or otherwise meets the criteria to be designated as an enemy combatant.

PRESIDENT: Recorder, please read the unclassified summary of evidence for the
record. But before you proceed, Khalid Sheikh Mohammad, let me remind you that
you must not comment on this evidence at this time. You will be provided with an
opportunity shortly to provide any comments that you would like. Recorder,
please proceed.

RECORDER: The following facts support the determination that the Detainee is an
enemy combatant:

Paragraph a. On the morning of 11 September 2001, four airliners travelling over
the United States were hijacked. The flights hijacked were: American Airlines
Flight 11, United Airlines Flight 175, American Airlines Flight 77, and United
Airlines Flight 93. At approximately 8.46am, AmericanAirlines Flight 11 crashed
into the North Tower of the World Trade Centre, resulting in the collapse of the
tower at approximately 10.25am. At approximately 9.05am, United Airlines Flight
175 crashed into the South Tower of the World Trade Centre, resulting in the
collapse of the tower at approximately 9.55am. At approximately 9.37am, American
Airlines Flight 77 crashed into the southwest side of the Pentagon in Arlington,
Virginia. At approximately 10.03am, United Airlines Flight 93 crashed in Stoney
Creek Township, Pennsylvania. These crashes and subsequent damage to the World
Trade Centre and the Pentagon resulted in the deaths of 2,972 persons in New
York, Virginia, and Pennsylvania.

Paragraph b. The Detainee served as the head of the al-Qa'ida military committee
and was Osama bin Laden's principal al-Qa'ida operative who directed the 11
September 2001 attacks in the US.

Paragraph c. In an interview with an al-Jazeera reporter in June 2002, the
detainee stated he was the head of the al-Qa'ida military committee .

Paragraph d. A computer hard drive seized during the capture of the detainee
contained information about the four airplanes hijacked on 11 September, 2001
including code names, airline company, flight number, target, pilot name and
background information, and names of the hijackers.

Paragraph e. A computer hard drive seized during the capture of the detainee
contained photographs of 19 individuals identified as the 11 September 2001
hijackers.

Paragraph f. A computer hard drive seized during the capture of the detainee
contained a document that listed the pilot license fees for Mohammad Atta and
biographies for some of the hijackers.

Paragraph g. A computer hard drive seized during the capture of the detainee
contained images of passports and an image of Mohammad Atta.

Paragraph h. A computer hard drive seized during the capture of the detainee
contained transcripts of chat sessions belonging to at least one of the 11
September 2001 hijackers.

Paragraph i. The detainee directed an individual to travel to the United States
to case possible targets for a second wave of attacks.

Paragraph j. A computer hard drive that was seized during the capture of the
detainee contained three letters from Osama bin Laden.

Paragraph k. A computer hard drive seized during the capture of the detainee
contained spreadsheets that describe money assistance being sent to families of
known al-Qa'ida members.

Paragraph l. The detainee's name was on a list in a computer seized in
connection with a threat to United States airlines, United States embassies and
the Pope.

Paragraph m. The detainee wrote the bojinka plot, the airline bomb plot which
was later found on his nephew Ramzi Yousef 's computer.

Paragraph n. The bojinka plot is also known as the Manila air investigation.

Paragraph o. The Manila air investigation uncovered the detainee conspired with
others to plant explosive devices aboard American jetliners while those aircraft
were scheduled to be airborne and loaded with passengers on their way to the
United States.

Paragraph p. The detainee was in charge of and funded an attack against United
States military vessels that were heading to the port of Djibouti.

Paragraph q. A computer hard drive seized during the capture of the detainee
contained a letter to the United Arab Emirates threatening attack if their
government continued to help the United States.

Paragraph r. During the capture of the detainee, information used exclusively by
al-Qa'ida operational managers to communicate with operatives was found.

Paragraph s. The detainee received funds from Kuwaiti-based Islamic extremist
groups and delivered the funds to al-Qa'ida members.

Paragraph t. A computer hard drive seized during the capture of the detainee
contained a document that summarised operational procedures and training
requirements of an al-Qa'ida cell.

Paragraph u. A computer hard drive seized during the capture of the detainee
contained a list of killed and wounded al-Qa'ida martyrs.

And lastly, Paragraph v. Passport photographs of al-Qa'ida operatives were
seized during the capture of the detainee.

RECORDER: Sir, this concludes the summary of unclassified evidence.

[The tribunal president then rules that KSM's request for two witnesses - fellow
prisoners Ramzi bin al-Shibh and Mustafa Hawsawi - are denied on the grounds
that their evidence would be irrelevant.]

PRESIDENT: Let me take up a few things that have come up as based on my review
of these documents that have been provided to us so far. D-d, appears to be a
written statement regarding certain treatment that you claim to have received at
the hands of agents of the United States government as you indicated from the
time of your capture in 2003 up until before coming here to Guantanamo in
September 2006. Is that correct?

KSM: Yes.

REPRESENTATIVE: Mr President, the detainee has asked me to read his final
statement to the Tribunal with the understanding he may interject or add
statements if he needs to, to correct what I say. According to the detainee:

"I hereby admit and affirm without duress to the following:

1. I swore Bay'aat (ie allegiance) to Sheikh Osama Bin Laden to conduct Jihad of
self and money, and also Hijrah (i.e. expatriation to any location in the world
where Jihad is required).

2. I was a member of the al-Qa'ida Council.

3. I was the Media Operations Director for Al-Sahab, or "The Clouds," under Dr.
Ayman Al-Zawahiri. Al-Sahab is the media outlet that provided
al-Qa'ida-sponsored information to Al-Jazeera.

4. I was the Operational Director for Sheikh Osama Bin Laden for the organising,
planning, follow-up, and execution of the 9/11 operation under the Military
Commander, Sheikh Abu Hafs Al-Masri Subhi Abu Sittah.

5. I was the Military Operational Commander for all foreign operations around
the world under the direction of Sheikh Osama Bin Laden and Dr Ayman
Al-Zawahiri.

6. I was directly in charge, after the death of Sheikh Abu Hafs Al-Masri Subhi
Abu Sittah, of managing and following up on the cell for the production of
biological weapons, such as anthrax and others, and following up on Dirty Bomb
Operations on American soil.

7. I was Emir (i.e. commander) of Beit Al Shuhada (i.e. the Martyrs' House) in
the state of Kandahar, Afghanistan, which housed the 9/11 hijackers. There, I
was responsible for their training and readiness for the execution of the 9/11
operation. Also, I hereby admit and affirm without duress that I was a
responsible participant, principal planner, trainer, financier (via the Military
Council Treasury), executor, and/or a personal participant in the following:

1. I was responsible for the 1993 World Trade Centre Operation.

2. I was responsible for the 9/11 Operation, from A to Z.

3. (REDACTED)

4. I was responsible for the Shoe Bomber Operation to down two American
airplanes.

5. I was responsible for the Filka Island Operation in Kuwait that killed two
American soldiers.

6. I was responsible for the bombing of a nightclub in Bali, Indonesia, which
was frequented by British and Australian nationals.

7. I was responsible for planning, training, surveying, and financing the new
(or second) wave attacks against the following skyscrapers after 11 September,
2001:

a. Library Tower, California.

b. Sears Tower, Chicago,

c. Plaza Bank, Washington state.

d. The Empire State Building, New York City.

8. I was responsible for planning, financing, and follow-up of operations to
destroy American military vessels and oil tankers in the Straits of Hormuz, the
Straits of Gibraltar, and the Pots of Singapore.

9. I was responsible for planning, training, surveying, and financing for the
operation to bomb and destroy the Panama Canal.

10. I was responsible for surveying and financing for the assassination of
several former American presidents, including President Carter.

11. I was responsible for surveying, planning, and financing for the bombing of
suspension bridges in New York.

12. I was responsible for planning to destroy the Sears Tower by burning a few
fuel or oil tanker trucks beneath it or around it.

13. I was responsible for planning, surveying, and financing for the operation
to destroy Heathrow Airport, the Canary Wharf Building, and Big Ben on British
soil.

14. I was responsible for planning, surveying, and financing for the destruction
of many nightclubs frequented by American and British citizens on Thailand soil.

15. I was responsible for surveying and financing for the destruction of the New
York Stock Exchange and other financial targets after 9/11.

16. I was responsible for planning, financing, and surveying for the destruction
of buildings in the Israeli city of Eilat by using airplanes leaving from Saudi
Arabia.

17. I was responsible for planning, surveying, and financing for the destruction
of American embassies in Indonesia, Australia and Japan.

18.I was responsible for surveying and financing for the destruction of the
Israeli embassy in India, Azerbaijan, the Philippines, and Australia.

19. I was responsible for surveying and financing for the destruction of an
Israeli El-Al Airlines flight on Thailand soil departing from Bangkok Airport.

20. I was responsible for sending several Mujahadeen into Israel to conduct
surveillance to hit several strategic targets deep in Israel.

21. I was responsible for the bombing of the hotel in Mombasa that is frequented
by Jewish travelers via El-Al airlines.

22. I was responsible for launching a Russian-made SA-7 surface-to-air missile
on El-Al or other Jewish airliner departing from Mombasa.

23. I was responsible for planning and surveying to hit American targets in
South Korea, such as American military bases and a few nightclubs frequented by
American soldiers.

24. I was responsible for financial, excuse me, I was responsible for providing
financial support to hit American, Jewish, and British targets in Turkey.

25. I was responsible for surveillance needed to hit nuclear power plants that
generate electricity in several US states.

26. I was responsible for planning, surveying, and financing to hit Nato
headquarters in Europe.

27. I was responsible for the planning and surveying needed to execute the
Bojinka Operation, which was designed to down 12 American airplanes full of
passengers. I personally monitored a round-trip, Manila-to-Seoul, Pan Am flight.

28:I was responsible for the assassination attempt against President Clinton
during his visit to the Philippines in 1994 or 1995.

29. I was responsible for the assassination attempt against Pope John Paul II
while he was visiting the Philippines.

KSM: I was not responsible, but share.

REPRESENTATIVE: I shared responsibility for the assassination attempt against
Pope John Paul II while he was visiting the Philippines.

30. I was responsible for the training and financing for the assassination of
Pakistan's President Musharraf.

31. I was responsible for the attempt to destroy an American oil company owned
by the Jewish former Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger, on the Island of
Sumatra, Indonesia.

KSM: Because war, for sure, there will be victims. When I said I'm not happy
that 3,000 had been killed in America. I feel sorry even. I don't like to kill
children and the kids. Never has Islam given me the green light to kill people
??? We are not making up laws. When we need Fatwa from the religious we have to
go back to see what the scholar said. To see what they said yes or no. Killing
is prohibited among all what you call the peoples of the book, Jews, Judaism,
Christianity, and Islam. You know the Ten Commandments very well. The Ten
Commandments are shared between all of us. We all are serving one God ???

PRESIDENT: Does that conclude your statement, Khalid Sheikh Muhammad?

KSM: Yes.

The al-Qa'ida suspect's charge-sheet

SEARS TOWERS

Two separate plans to attack the Sears Towers in Chicago, America's tallest
building. One of the plans involved destroying the towers by burning a number of
fuel trucks around or underneath the skyscraper.

NUCLEAR PLANTS

Admitted plans to attack a number of unspecified nuclear power stations across
the US.

"SECOND WAVE"

As part of a so-called "second wave" of attacks post 9/11, plans were made to
attack a number of US targets including the Plaza Bank, Washington state and the
Library Tower, Los Angeles.

PANAMA CANAL

Said he was responsible for the planning, training and financing of an operation
to attack the Panama Canal, one of the world's busiest shipping channels.

FORMER PRESIDENTS

Boasted of plans to target a number of former US presidents, and specifically
mentioned targeting Jimmy Carter.

SHIPPING

Planned to attack US military vessels and oil tankers as they passed through
vulnerable shipping channels, including the Strait of Gibraltar and the Straits
of Hormuz.

NEW YORK

Often described by the US as the mastermind behind the 9/11 attacks, in his
statement Khalid Sheikh Mohammed confirmed that he was indeed responsible for
the attacks in New York, which killed nearly 3000 people. He has also admitted
responsibility for the 1993 World Trade Centre attacks which killed six people.
Mohammed's nephew, Ramzi Yousef, was convicted of carrying out the attack and is
currently serving a life sentence in the US. Confessed to backing the failed
British shoe bomber Richard Reid. Other attacks Mohammed said he had planned in
New York included bombing suspension bridges, the city's stock exchange and
other key financial targets.

LONDON

Confessed to planning a number of attacks in London including Heathrow airport,
Big Ben and Canary Wharf.

TURKEY

Admitted providing financial support for plans to target American, British and
Jewish interests in Turkey.

ISRAEL

Admitted to two separate plans to hit Israeli targets inside Israel including
"sending several mujahedin" to conduct "surveillance operations". In a mirror of
the 9/11 attacks, Mohammed also spoke of a plan to hijack airliners in Saudi
Arabia and crash them into the Israeli city of Eilat.

NATO

Planned to attack Nato's headquarters in Belgium, in Brussels

THAILAND

Surveyed nightclubs in Thailand and reportedly financed an operation to carry
out attacks on American and British targets holidaying there.

MOMBASA

Admitted to planning and financing the 2002 Mombasa attacks which included an
attack on a hotel, killing 14, and a failed attempt to down an Israeli passenger
jet.

ISRAELI EMBASSIES

Targeted a number of Israeli embassies around the world including in Azerbaijan,
India and the Philippines.

KUWAIT

Claimed responsibility for an October 2002 attack in Kuwait which killed two US
soldiers.

MUSHARRAF

Admitted to planning and financing the numerous assassination attempts on
Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf.

BOJINKA

Admitted to planning with Ramzi Yousef the so-called Bojinka plot, an attempt to
blow up multiple US passenger jets on their way from Asia to America.

SUMATRA

Claimed to have targeted "an American oil company owned by the Jewish former
secretary of state Henry Kissinger" on the island of Sumatra, Indonesia.

SOUTH KOREA

Surveyed a number of US military targets in South Korea and planned to attack
nightclubs frequented by US soldiers.

AMERICAN EMBASSIES

Targeted American embassies in Japan, Indonesia and Australia.

POPE

Admitted "shared responsibility" into an aborted plan to assassinate the Pope
during a visit to the Philippines.

EL AL FLIGHT

Planned to destroy an Israeli El Al flight after takeoff from Bangkok airport.

BALI

Confessed to masterminding the 2002 attacks on a nightclub in Bali which killed
202 people. It was the worst terrorist attack since September 11.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                             March 16, 2007 Friday

Pensioner's terror in arson attack on home

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: The Bolton News


POLICE are appealing for information after a pensioner was trapped in her home
when arsonists pushed burning tissues through her letterbox.

The 69-year-old was asleep at her home in Sultan Street, Bury, at 12.20am
yesterday and woke up when she heard a bang.

A net curtain on the back of her front door had been set alight and the woman
was beaten back by the flames.

When the firefighters arrived, she was pulled out of the building while the fire
was put out. The woman was left shaken, but uninjured.

At around the same time, a 72-year-old man next-door had noticed a lit tissue
had been pushed through his letter box, but it failed to ignite and burnt itself
out.

Police are investigating.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Bury CID on 0161 856 8150 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 19, 2007 Monday

German authorities warn of increased risk of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 765 words


Text of report by German newspaper Die Welt on 16 March

Berlin - The security authorities believe that the risk of attacks carried out
in Germany has grown after the threat video published by Islamist terrorists.
"The existing high abstract danger has risen further," a spokesman of Interior
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble (Christian Democratic Union [CDU]) said. The lead
that Britain and the United States had over Germany with regard to threats had
clearly become smaller. "It is no dramatic change, though," the ministry said.
Germany was threatened by forces preparing attacks, but there were still no
specific clues indicating imminent charges. Joerg Ziercke, President of the
Federal Office of Criminal Investigation (BKA), intends to present a similar
analysis of the situation today.

Defence Minister Franz Josef Jung (CDU) warned not to panic. The terror threat
had to be taken seriously and it was advisable to be prepared: "But we must not
panic now."

The German Interior Ministry called reports according to which the BKA had
suggested to the government to raise the threat alert as incorrect. The video
messages published by Islamist terrorists last weekend [ 10-11 March] were not
seen as a warning, rather than a political attempt to build up a threatening
backdrop. In one of the two videos, Islamist extremists had threatened to carry
out attacks in Germany, should the Bundeswehr fail to withdraw from Afghanistan.
The kidnappers of two Germans in Iraq had earlier made the same demand,
threatening to kill their hostages otherwise.

Wolfgang Bosbach (CDU), Deputy Chairman of the Bundestag Group of the Christian
Democratic Union/Christian Social Union, believes it is likely that the terror
video was formulated and produced by people who have been living in Germany for
a long time. The make of the video, in which the withdrawal of the Bundeswehr
from Afghanistan is demanded, indicated that the authors "are perfectly familiar
with Germany and live in the middle of our society."

He warned of hysteria with regard to the terror threat. Bosbach referred to
intensified searches on the Internet and an increased police presence during big
events such as the festivities to mark the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of
Rome in Berlin on 25 March. However, experience showed that terrorists looked
for less spectacular targets such as commuter trains and railway stations.

In the view of security expert Joachim Krause, the BKA warning of an increased
terror threat should be taken seriously. "The BKA is right to pronounce a
clear-cut warning, referring to especially critical points such as railways and
air traffic," the director of the Institute for Security Politics at Kiel
University said.

Social Democratic Party politicians have praised the heightened vigilance of the
security authorities. There was, therefore, no reason for a renewed assessment
of the terror threat in Germany, Sebastian Edathy, Chairman of the Bundestag
Domestic Affairs Committee, said. The Bundestag had only recently increased the
funding earmarked for intelligence work to 132 million euros this year and in
the two following years. Free Democratic Party domestic affairs expert Max
Stadler told Die Welt that the security authorities were well advised to be
vigilant and prudent, without getting into a panic immediately.

Constitution protection officials believe that the Islamist video represents a
new quality. An anti-Islamist campaign at Munich's Ludwig Maximilian University
has recently caused a major commotion. A circular letter had urged employees to
keep an eye on students, fellow employees, and visitors and report them if they
displayed any conspicuous type of behaviour indicating a change towards Islamic
fundamentalism. This included a break in the way of life, willingness to use
violence, making radical verbal statements, or reading relevant literature. The
letter appealed to employees to be more watchful because of the threats against
Germany. After the hunt for Islamists on campus had become known due to an
e-mail sent by a university employee, President Bernd Huber regretted the
campaign of the security authorities.

Bavaria's Interior Minister Guenther Beckstein (CSU) defended the campaign. "The
point is not to put everyone under suspicion," Beckstein said. A
head-in-the-sand strategy was irresponsible and fateful: "It is indispensable
for everyone, particularly at universities, to keep their eyes open." Since the
recent terror threats needed to be taken seriously, people had to be alert to
what was going on around them.

Source: Die Welt, Berlin, in German 16 Mar 07

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 20, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Terror attacks planned for year;
Home News IN BRIEF

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 101 words


The idea for the alleged July 21 terrorist attacks was dreamt up nearly a year
before because mainstream protest against the war in Iraq was not working,
Muktar Said Ibrahim, 29, told Woolwich Crown Court yesterday. He has already
confessed to making the rucksack devices which failed to go off across London
transport in 2005, but insisted they were not supposed to hurt anyone. Mr
Ibrahim is on trial alongside Yassin Omar, 26, from north London; Mafo Kwaku
Asiedu, 33 and Hussein Osman 28, both of no fixed address; Ramzi Mohammed, 25,
of west London and Adel Yahya, 24, of north London. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            March 21, 2007 Wednesday

Texan student's terror during 'sex attack in remote bothy'

BYLINE: ALAN DOW

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 433 words


A DEVOUT Catholic student confessed to her priest she had been the victim of a
sex attack on a mountaineering trip to Glencoe.

The American girl waited 36 hours before raising the alarm because she was 'a
stranger in a strange country'.

Fort William Sheriff Court heard yesterday that the oil engineering student had
only been at Aberdeen University for two weeks when she went with the Larig
Climbing Club to Glencoe.

The 22-year-old described how she did not know the others in the 20-strong group
when they bedded down for the night in the remote Smiddy Bothy in Glen Etive.
While some, including the girl, went to sleep in the bunks, about half-adozen
stayed up drinking.

She told the jury and Sheriff Douglas Small that she was woken up by a young man
sitting on her bed.

She said: 'He asked if it was OK if he shared my bunk. I thought he must either
be too drunk to climb on to his or someone else had taken it.

'I told him it was all right to do so. I have worked in Alaska and it is not
uncommon for a woman to share a bunk with a male when there is a shortage of
mattresses.' 'There is nothing sexual about it and I assumed it must be common
practice in Scotland as well.' She claimed she then fell asleep, but was woken
by the start of a prolonged sex attack lasting up to two-and-a-half hours.

She said: 'I was scared. I was frightened that if I shouted for help I would
provoke him to do more.' Asked by fiscal Fiona Murray why she did not tell the
other climbers the following morning, the girl said: 'I was unaware of the
social dynamics of the group, of who they would support. So I kept it to
myself.' Several hours later, she said the young man apologised, claiming he may
have mixed her up with an exgirlfriend.

But when she got back to Aberdeen, she broke down and went to visit Father James
Claffey at the university's Catholic chapel.

She said: 'It was just after Mass. I broke down and told him what happened, that
I had been sexually assaulted.

'I did not go into detail. I let him notify the police.

'I asked them if it mattered that I was an American. I did not know what to
expect. I had never been in that position before. I was a stranger in a strange
country.' She agreed with defence counsel James Reilly that she was 'no
shrinking violet' and was used to male company. She had also been a member of a
judo club in Texas.

On trial for assault and sexual assault is 26- year- old James Vybiral, of Logan
Cottage, East Langton, Market Harborough, Leicestershire.

He denies the October 2005 assaults on the female student, who travelled from
the U.S. to give evidence.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MOUNTAINEERING TRIP: GLEN ETIVE, NEAR GLENCOE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 March 21, 2007

Street attack terror of OAP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 64 words


AN 81-YEAR-OLD woman was left badly shaken after a bag-snatch bid at a Glasgow
bus stop.

The frail old lady was approached in Gallowgate near Bain Street by a woman who
grabbed her bag.

The suspect, who fled empty-handed, is white, 5ft 2in tall, slim and gaunt with
dark hair.

Anyone with information on Monday afternoon's incident should call 0141 532 4600
or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            March 22, 2007, Thursday
                              North Wales Edition

WALES: Late-night terror attack on teen girl;
Police release e-fit to help track down assault thug

BYLINE: DAVID GREENWOOD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 292 words


THIS is an e-fit of a man being hunted by police investigating a terrifying late
night indecent assault on a teenage girl in North Wales.

The 16-year-old was walking alone along Abergele Road from Llanddulas towards
Old Colwyn, when she was approached by two men and grabbed by one of them

Despite her attempts to fight him off he punched her in the face injuring her
right eye.

Sgt Tim Evans said: "This was a totally unprovoked and despicable attack on a
vulnerable young woman and I urge anyone who may have seen these men to contact
us immediately."

The attack, shortly before midnight on Tuesday last week, happened 200 yards
from the junction with Highlands Road.

Bothmen carried on walking in the opposite direction towards the
Llanddulas-Llysfaen area.

Despite her ordeal the girl has given detectives a detailed description of the
man who grabbed and assaulted her.

He is aged 27 to30 and around 5ft 8ins to 5ft 9ins. He has dark hair, described
as being cut shorter at the sides with distinctive "tramlines" on the side just
above the ears.

A North Wales Police spokeswoman said: "He is alsodescribed as having a
square-shaped face with around chin and hazel-coloured eyes with dark
outlines.He also had stubble around the chin and cheek area and faintly above
his lips."

"Officers are anxious to trace the man. He was wearing a dark hooded top with
dark-coloured jeans and black trainers."

Witnesses or anyone who may have any information were last night urged to
contact officers at Colwyn Bay police station on 0845 607 1001 (Welsh language
line ) or 0845 607 1002 ( English language line ) or Crimestoppers anonymously
on 0800 555 111.

This was a totally unprovoked and despicable attack on a vulnerable young woman

Sgt Tim Evans

dgreenwooddp@hotmail.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police have issued this e-fit to help track down the man who viciously
attacked a 16-year-old girl in Old Colwyn

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            March 22, 2007 Thursday

Britain - Amnesty attacks US terror trials

BYLINE: Louise Nousratpour

LENGTH: 415 words


Amnesty International called on the British government on Wednesday night to
refuse any co-operation with the "deeply unfair" US military trials due to take
place at Guantanamo Bay.

"Military commission" tribunals due to begin on Monday at the US military prison
in Cuba would be "a travesty of justice," the human rights group says, in a
hard-hitting report to be published on Thursday.

The trials will be run wholly by the US military.

The hearings will allow evidence obtained under torture and from shadowy secret
CIA detention centres.

The Guantanamo tribunals have the freedom to impose the death penalty -
including for "spying" - with only limited means of appeal, the Justice Delayed
and Justice Denied report warned.

Amnesty International UK director Kate Allen demanded that the US government
abandons these "shabby show trials."

Ms Allen also urged Prime Minister Tony Blair to "step in," to ensure that
British detainees receive fair trials or are immediately released.

At least eight men with British residency rights are among the 370 or so
detainees currently held at Guantanamo.

"Recently, we have begun to hear relatively strong criticism from the UK
government about the 'affront to democracy' that Guantanamo represents. Now we
want to see that backed by action," Ms Allen insisted.

British detainee Omar Deghayes's sister Amani called on the government to "stop
sitting on its hands" and help her brother and other British residents to get
justice.

"We are not looking for special favours, only justice," she stressed. The
British government has repeatedly refused to assist the British detainees held
at Guantanamo.

Islington MP Jeremy Corbyn backed Amnesty's call for the British government to
intervene, adding: "The idea of a fair trial for someone who has been detained
for over five years is ludicrous.

"Any case would be deemed a mistrial anywhere else in the world after such a
long period of detention."

Stop the War Coalition convenor Lindsey German agreed: "All the evidence shows
that people will confess to anything if they are held for long enough and
tortured or threatened with torture.

"All detainees should either be charged and tried in normal courts or be
released immediately."

Amnesty International called on all governments to refuse co-operation with US
military commissions and to press for the closure of Guantanamo and all the
secret CIA-run "torture camps."

These demands will be included in a letter addressed to the US Secretary of
Defence Robert M Gates.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 26, 2007 Monday

Iran press: Commentary details reasons 'terrorists' undertook Zahedan attacks

LENGTH: 416 words


Text of commentary authored by: Seyyed Majeed Raravi, managing director of the
security department in the Ministry of Interior, from the Note column: Blind
traitors, by Hamshahri on 18 February

Although yesterday's terrorist incidents in Zahedan hurt the people of that part
of our country as well as the officials, it made us remember several matters.
First, the operations conducted have had no military value and were merely
conducted to cause terror among the citizens of the region. Second, the
confessions obtained from the criminals arrested in these incidents are
important. The reason is that these criminals confessed that the people's
turnout in the 22 Bahman [11 February - anniversary of Islamic Revolution in
1979] demonstrations in the Sistan va Baluchestan Province was surprising for
them and their masters. They stated that they never expected different ethnics
and religious classes to join together in this rally, and that this matter
brought the anger of the imperialists.

The other important matter to which these criminals confessed is the main goals
behind committing these crimes. The arrested terrorists all confessed that they
conducted these crimes in order to disturb peace and create commotion. On the
other hand, in the interrogations it became apparent that they were convinced
about the public preparedness for the performance of such operations. Meanwhile,
the people were the first to react to such crimes. The other matter is the
record that these criminals have. They have committed crimes such as robbery.
They also confessed that they did what they were told to for money, not as part
of an ideological campaign. In fact, one of these criminals confessed that he
had filmed the operations of the abovementioned group and received money in
return.

However, the important matter in regard to the terrorist operations in Zahedan
is the people's full support for the criminals' arrest. For example, Moslem
Kaykhah was a 33-year-old employee of Zahedan Medical University who died while
trying to catch one of the elements involved in yesterday's blasts. With the
cooperation and help of the brave people of Sistan va Baluchestan and the
coordinated actions of the security, military, and law enforcement institutions,
all the plots of the terrorist groups in the region have been controlled. As
many of the elements involved in the actions have been arrested, the central
core of the operation has been damaged greatly.

Source: Hamshahri, Tehran, in Persian 18 Feb 07

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             March 26, 2007 Monday

Paddington train crash 'was as senseless as terror attack';
Profits more important than safety to Network Rail bosses, court told

BYLINE: PAUL CHESTON

SECTION: B MERGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 530 words


THE Paddington rail crash was "as senseless and unnecessary" as a terror attack,
a court heard today.

Years of institutionalised failure stretching down from the high command of
Britain's biggest rail operator was responsible, the judge was told.

Profit had been more important to rail bosses than taking steps to ensure the
safety of the railway, the court heard. As a result, the catastrophic dangers of
one particular signal - the SN109 at Ladbroke Grove Junction - were ignored.

An exhaustive investigation had decided this was not a case of blunders by a few
individuals jeopardising a broadly safe rail system, said Philip Mott,
prosecuting.

"The failings started with a culture at the top of the body responsible for the
track and affected staff at all levels," he said.

"The dangers were appreciated by some but were buried both by the complicated
nature of the track and signals [and] from time to time by the desire not to
affect the throughput of trains on this busy section of the track, which would
affect both the timetable and the profitability of Network Rail/ Railtrack."

Network Rail faces an unlimited fine after admitting one charge of breaching the
Health and Safety at Work Act leading up to the 1999 crash, which killed 31
people and injured more than 400.

The tragedy occurred when First Great Western Trains' 6.30am Cheltenham Flyer
crashed into a Thames train leaving Paddington for Bedwyn, Wiltshire.

Mr Mott told Blackfriars Crown Court: "In October 1999 an incident of
catastrophic damage and destruction left dead and injured at a location quite
close to the centre of London. This was no terrorist attack but to many who
suffered and still suffer it must have seemed as senseless and unnecessary."

Watched in court by survivors and relatives of the dead, Mr Mott said: "The
forces involved in such a high-speed crash were enormous and the damage and
destruction was compounded by fireballs of diesel vapour which shot through the
wrecked carriages.

"The driver of the Great Western train was killed and in coach H, six passengers
were killed, while the Thames train driver and 23 of his passengers were
killed."

Mr Mott blamed the crash on a "catalogue of failures to act".

"Michael Hodder, driver of the Thames train, missed signal SN109 at red and
continued for a further 700 metres before hitting the GWT train at a combined
closing speed of 130mph.

"That signal had been passed at danger on seven previous occasions," said Mr
Mott. "It was on the list of the top 22 most often passed at danger on the rail
network and was the one that created the most danger overall because of the risk
of head-on collision."

Changes to rail infrastructure in the years before the crash had worsened signal
visibility, the court heard. The danger of the signal visibility problem had
been reported and investigated but had not been acted on. Five separate railway
group standards were breached.

Network Rail Infrastructure has pleaded guilty to one charge of breaching Health
and Safety legislation between January 1995 and October 1999. The company's plea
is an admission of risk creation and does not mean it accepts responsibility for
the death and injuries. The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIM: PAM WARREN WAS AMONG MORE THAN 400 PEOPLE INJURED IN THE
OCTOBER 1999 CRASH - 31 DIED

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 27, 2007 Tuesday

Head of Russian security service says terrorist attacks fell by half in 2006

LENGTH: 191 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Interfax-AVN

Rostov-na-Donu, 27 March: The fulfilment of tasks by the antiterrorist
commissions in the Russian regions will make it possible to reduce the number of
terrorist attacks, Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) head and head of the
National Antiterrorist Committee Nikolay Patrushev has said.

"This involves getting the regional agencies and structures involved in
preventing terrorism. We mentioned the tasks that face antiterrorist
commissions. I believe that if the tasks assigned are fulfilled, the probability
of terrorist attacks will be reduced dramatically," Patrushev told journalist
after a meeting with the heads of antiterrorist commissions in the regions of
Russia's Southern Federal District.

According to Patrushev, there were 112 terrorist attacks committed in 2006. "We
still believe that is a lot therefore we are talking about the need for
preventative measures. However, if we take 2005, in which there were 257
terrorist attacks, we see that the number was more than halved," Patrushev said.

Source: Interfax-AVN military news agency website, Moscow, in Russian 1110 gmt
27 Mar 07

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             March 27, 2007 Tuesday

Paddington rail crash was 'as senseless as a terrorist attack'

BYLINE: COLIN FERNANDEZ

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 406 words


THE Paddington rail crash was 'as senseless and unnecessary' a catastrophe as
any terrorist attack, a court heard yesterday.

The claim came at a hearing to decide Network Rail's punishment - likely to be a
multimillion-pound fine - after the rail maintenance company admitted health and
safety breaches in the run-up to the 1999 disaster in West London.

Thirty-one people died and more than 400 were injured when a Thames Trains
service leaving Paddington passed a red light and hit another train head on at
Ladbroke Grove junction.

Philip Mott, QC, prosecuting, told a courtroom packed with survivors and friends
and relatives of those killed, how the 130mph crash could have been avoided if
the red stop light had been easier to see, blaming a 'catalogue of failures' by
Network Rail.

Mr Mott told Blackfriars Crown Court: 'This was no terrorist attack, but to many
who have suffered and still suffer, it must have seemed as senseless and
unnecessary.' He added that the signal involved was 'in an inadequate state,
consistently missed by experienced and inexperienced drivers', despite being the
'last protection against a head-on collision with a train travelling at high
speed'.

The court heard that safety measures that could have averted the tragedy could
have been put in place for less than Pounds 100,000 - and that the disruption to
services would have been minimal.

Mr Mott said: 'The sad conclusion that we reached is that the failings started
with the culture at the top of the body responsible for the track and affected
staff at all levels of the organisation.' As victims sobbed, Nigel Sweeney, QC,
apologised on behalf of Network Rail - the first time the company has apologised
for the tragedy, responsibility for which it inherited when it replaced
Railtrack in 2002. Previously, the then Railtrack chairman John Robinson had
expressed his 'deep sorrow'.

Mr Sweeney said: 'First and foremost, on behalf of Network Rail, I want to say
sorry.

'Sorry for the failings of Railtrack, which contributed to the tragedy at
Ladbroke Grove, sorry to all the victims of the tragedy and the families of
loved ones.

Sorry for the deaths, the serious injuries and all their various consequences.'
Mr Sweeney said 'a great deal had been done' to make the rail approach to
Paddington station safer and denied that safety was put behind profit.

Thames Trains has already been fined Pounds 2million for its role in the crash.

The hearing continues.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                             March 27, 2007 Tuesday

Rail crash 'like a terror attack'

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 780 words


A "catalogue of failures to act" by Railtrack led to the devastating 1999
Paddington Rail Disaster, a court heard.

The failures in Railtrack, which was then tasked with maintaining Britain's
railways, started at the top and permeated the whole organisation, Blackfriars
Crown Court was told.

Network Rail, which has since replaced Railtrack, faces an unlimited fine after
earlier admitting health and safety blunders leading up to the crash.

Opening the case for the Crown yesterday, Philip Mott QC compared the crash,
which left 31 dead and more than 400 injured, with a terrorist atrocity.

The tragedy happened when the London-bound First Great Western express train
from Cheltenham crashed into a Thames Trains local service to Bedwyn, Wiltshire.

The first-class carriage at the front of the high-speed Inter-City service burst
into flames.

Four people from Gloucestershire died - Bryan Tompson from Ampney Crucis, John
Raisin from Painswick, Bob Cotton from Dursley and Juliet Groves from Hartpury.

Among the many injured was Gloucestershire-based author Jilly Cooper, who had to
be pulled from the wreckage.

On the first of a two-day sentencing hearing, Mr Mott said: "This was no
terrorist attack, but to many who have suffered and still suffer it must have
seemed as senseless and unnecessary.

"But no one who has studied the evidence in this case can fail to be aware of
the individual tragedies which lie behind each and every one of those names and
numbers."

The crash happened when the Thames Train went through a red light at Ladbroke
Grove shortly after leaving London's Paddington Station.

Mr Mott said: "As I outline the story against Network Rail, what will become
clear is a catalogue of failures to act over a number of years, which left one
particular signal in an inadequate state, consistently missed by experienced and
inexperienced drivers.

"It was the last protection against a head-on collision with a train travelling
at high speed."

He went on: "The sad conclusion that we reach is that the failings started with
the culture at the top of the body responsible for the track and affected staff
at all levels of the organisation."

There had been seven previous occasions where a driver passed through the signal
at Ladbroke Grove when it was at red in the previous five years, the court
heard.

Concerns were raised about the signal in question - named SN109 - as early as
November 1995, Mr Mott said.

SN109 had one of the country's highest rates of train drivers going through red
lights, known in the industry as Signal Passed at Danger (Spad), incidents and
created a particular danger because of the risk of a head-on collision.

A series of working groups were set up to discuss the potentially dangerous
signalling problems around Paddington but were ineffective, Mr Mott said.

Signal SN109 did not comply with rail safety requirements at the time of the
crash because it was only fully visible from 164 metres away rather than the
required 188 metres, the court heard.

Michael Hodder, driver of the Thames train, probably assumed that he was free to
go because of the "absence of a visible red at SN109", the prosecutor added.

Network Rail Infrastructure Ltd pleaded guilty at an earlier hearing to a single
count indictment detailing various breaches of the 1974 Health and Safety at
Work Act between January 1, 1995 and October 5, 1999.

The company's guilty plea is simply an admission of risk creation and does not
mean it accepts responsibility for the deaths and injuries.

Thames Trains was fined £2 million in 2004 for its role in the incident.

Railtrack's failings were "longer lasting'' and "more potent causes'' of the
risks that led to the accident than those of Thames Trains, Mr Mott said.

A Spad in February 1998, involving a First Great Western train and which nearly
resulted in a crash, was "virtually a dress rehearsal for the fatal collision",
Mr Mott said.

Nigel Sweeney QC, for Network Rail, started his mitigation by apologising for
the failures that led to the crash.

He said: "On behalf of Network Rail I want to say sorry. Sorry for the failings
of Railtrack that contributed to the tragedy at Ladbroke Grove, to the victims
and to their families and loved ones."

Mr Sweeney accepted the track layout around Paddington was complicated, but said
it was designed to be used only by trains fitted with ATP, a system to stop them
automatically if they went through a red light.

The First Great Western train involved in the October 5, 1999 crash was fitted
with the system, but the Thames Trains service was not.

Mr Sweeney said there was no profit motive in Railtrack's failings, that it had
recognised its mistakes and had taken "substantial remedial steps".

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 29, 2007 Thursday

Turkey condemns Iraq bomb attacks, hopes terrorism is eradicated

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) -29.03.2007 -Turkey strongly condemned the bomb attacks and
following hostilities that targeted innocent civilians in Iraqi city of Tal Afar
where many Iraqi citizens were killed and injured.

Releasing a statement, Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) indicated, "we
hope that the sectarian violence comes to an end, terrorism is eradicated and
common sense prevails in Iraq. Turkey is committed to continue with its efforts
for the well-being and prosperity of the Iraqi people."

"We share the pain of the Iraqi families who lost their loved ones and of those
who were injured and wish them patience, endurance and convey them our
condolences," the statement added.

The bomb attacks in Tal Afar killed 75 and injured about 200 the previous day.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0825 gmt 29 Mar 07

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                             March 30, 2007 Friday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Fire attack terror for woman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 105 words


A WOMAN was left distressed after someone tried to set fire to her doorstep.

Petrol was poured on to it and set alight at 12.45am yesterday in Craners Road,
Hillfields, Coventry.

Only the outside of the front door was damaged as the fire had not spread
inside.

Fire officers from Radford and Binley went to the address and Radford station
crew commander Richard Basnett said: "We got the call for an attempted fire
bombing.

"A woman who lived there came out and saw it and was distressed. "It doesn't
look like a huge amount of fuel was used as the fire was out when we arrived. We
made sure everything was safe."

Police are investigating.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                             March 30, 2007 Friday
                                   Edition 1

Terror as women are attacked by muggers

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 281 words


Robbers have targeted young women in a spate of street attacks.

One victim was struck on the arm with a metal bar during a hold-up in an area of
Newcastle.

Detectives warned women walking alone in particular to be vigilant after four
strikes, mainly on students.

The women were targeted separately in the Brighton Grove and Leazes Park areas
of Newcastle.

A 21-year-old walking in the playing field at Brighton Grove was confronted by a
man between 9.20pm and 9.30pm on Wednesday. He demanded money and a mobile
phone. When she refused she was struck with what may have been a spanner, and
had her mobile phone stolen.

And at Castle Leazes last Saturday at 2.20am, a 19-year-old woman was targeted
as she walked home after a night out.

Two men asked for her IPod before headbutting her and stealing it.

At Nuns Moor Park, Newcastle, at 8.45pm, on Tuesday, a 24-year-old woman was
threatened by a man with an iron bar and handed over a mobile telephone and
cash.

The day before, Monday, March 19, a 22-year-old was confronted between 8.30pm
and 8.40pm while walking along Brighton Grove.

She was threatened by a man with a metal bar and forced to hand over an IPod.
The offender ran off towards Studley Terrace.

Acting Det Insp Paul Young of Newcastle CID said: "The women were targeted
separately, although we believe there may be different attackers involved.
Fortunately, there have been no serious injuries, but the women were very
distressed."

The only descriptions of the offenders involved are that they are in their
teens.

Anyone who saw anything in any of the four incidents or anyone with any
information is asked to contact PC 8774 Peter Watson at Etal Lane CID on 08456
043 043, ext 62555.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 2, 2007 Monday

Jordan military court convicts six for planning terror attacks

LENGTH: 238 words


Text of report by Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

["The State Security Court Issues Verdicts Against Six Suspects Accused of
Carrying out Terrorist Attacks" - Petra headline]

Amman, 2 Apr (Petra) - The State Security Court today sentenced to jail six
defendants, five of whom to life imprisonment. The defendants - three Iraqis, a
Libyan, and a Saudi - were accused of conspiring to carry out terrorist
operations, including an attack on Queen Alia International Airport in Amman
last year in coordination with the Al-Qa'idah Organization.

The court sentenced the Libyan national Muhammad Sa'id al-Dirsi; the Saudi
national Turki Nasir; and the three Iraqi nationals Sa'd al-Nu'aymi, Yusuf
al-Ubaydi, and Sa'd al-Ubaydi, to life imprisonment.

Moreover, the court sentenced Iraqi national Muhsin Mazlum to 15 years in prison
and acquitted Abd-al-Karim Jamil, another Iraqi national, of all charges.

It is worth noting that three persons among those who were handed down a life
sentence were tried in absentia. These persons are the two Iraqi nationals,
Yusuf al-Ubaydi and Sa'd al-Ubaydi, and the Saudi national Turki Nasir.

The State Security Prosecution had earlier accused the seven defendants of
illegally possessing explosive materials with an illicit intent and of
conspiring to carry out acts of terror.

It is worth noting that the verdicts are subject to appeal.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in Arabic 1210 gmt 2 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Blackpool Gazette

                                 April 2, 2007

Dog attack terror for girl

LENGTH: 330 words


A TEENAGE girl could only watch in terror as her family pet was savaged by
another dog.

Jessica Pedder-Wright, 14, and her father Glenn Wright were walking their Jack
Russell terrier Jarvis when it was set upon by a bull mastiff, being walked by a
couple.

The attack ripped Jarvis's throat leaving the dog needing emergency treatment.

Mr Wright, 42, of Beardshaw Avenue, South Shore, had to jump in and wrestle his
dog free before rushing Jarvis to the vet.

He said: "This dog came round the corner and just made a grab for Jarvis.

"It picked him up and just started shaking him by the neck.

"The dog's owners stood there and did nothing.

"Jessica was very frightened.

"Jarvis ended up with a big rip in his neck.

"I picked him up and rushed to the vets who said he was lucky to be alive."

Mr Wright said he could not believe what he was seeing during the incident on
Princess Street, Blackpool.

He said: "I just panicked, so did Jessica.

"That dog wasn't going to let go.

"I had to go in myself and pull Jarvis free.

"I could have been bitten myself."

Mr Wright believes his daughter was in danger during the incident.

He said: "That dog was just going to bite the first thing which came round the
corner.

"It might not have been my dog.

"It could have been Jessica, or another person.

"Animals like that just shouldn't be allowed out."

Mr Wright believes the dog which attacked Jarvis was a bull mastiff type.

Mr Wright says the dog's owners simply walked off along Princess Street

He has reported the incident to the police, who referred him to Blackpool dog
wardens.

Last week, an 11-year-old girl suffered serious injuries to her leg when she was
set upon by a Staffordshire bull terrier as she tried to get off a train at
Layton.

Megan Hall underwent emergency surgery following the attack and is now
recovering at home in Mellwood Avenue, Layton.

The dog involved was tracked down to an address in Buxton and voluntarily put
down by its owner.

British Transport Police are investigating the incident.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Essex

                             April 3, 2007 Tuesday

Victim tells of terror at racist attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 200 words

DATELINE: Echo


A WOMAN is living in fear after being subjected to racist attacks.

Student Yvonne Tamabang, 26, of Cawdor Avenue, has only lived in South Ockendon
for seven weeks, but in that time her life has turned into a nightmare.

In the latest incident, her car windows were smashed with large rocks and banana
skins were scattered around it.

Ms Tamabang said: "I am a prisoner in my own home. They are so cruel."

She said every time she went outside, teenagers used racist abuse at her.
Yvonne's neighbour, Nina Ayiwe, 24, has also endured similar torment.

She said: "They still sit on my wall and have slowly demolished it, brick by
brick."

Ruth Jewett, from the Thurrock Racial Unity Support Task Group, said: "We
completely abhor such an attack on an ethnic minority.

"We are here to support anyone who has been the victim of a racially-motivated
attack. I will be seeing Yvonne and her family to offer help."

A spokesman for the Thurrock African Group said: "We completely condemn
racially-motivated crime in Thurrock.

"Yvonne and Nina need full protection from the law and support from appropriate
agencies."

Insp Nick Morris, from South Ockendon police said they would give the attacks
their full attention.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday

Algerian Army reportedly attacking terrorist stronghold in Biskra

LENGTH: 655 words


Text of report by Lynda Nacer headlined "People's National Army attacking a
terrorist stronghold in Biskra: About 50 elements surrounded", published by
Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 5 May

The security forces seem determined to continuously harass the last terrorist
stronghold. One week after the start of the offensive in Amizour, in the
province of Bejaia [some 230 km east of Algiers], another one, on a larger
scale, has just been kicked off in the province of Biskra [some 500 km southeast
of Algiers] . Reliable sources have reported the presence in the targeted zone
of 50 or so terrorists, who have very sophisticated weaponry.

So a search operation has been launched by the forces of the People's National
Army [ANP] in the Mechounech region, in the province of Biskra, where more than
50 or so terrorists have been surrounded since this past Tuesday [3 April]. The
operation, which is being carried out with major human and material resources,
came following the attack that was perpetrated on Sunday night into Monday
morning in the Lahbal region and which, let us remind readers, cost three
soldiers their lives and wounded seven others, two of them municipal guards. At
the same time two terrorists, one of whom was a native of the province of
El-Oued, have been slain by the security agencies. The latter, according to our
sources, have set up a major security presence starting from National Road [RN]
31 connecting the two provinces of Biskra and Batna and going as far as the far
south of the latter.

So the helicopter-borne forces have been called upon to shell the areas likely
to serve as rear bases to the armed groups which, according to our sources, are
active on a perimeter that runs over four provinces in the east of the country,
to wit, Biskra, Batna, Tebessa, and Khenchela where, in the mountains of Djebel
Boudoukhen, to be more precise, which is reputedly a fief of the Salafi Group
for Call and Combat [GSPC; the group now known as Al-Qa'idah in the Land of the
Islamic Maghreb], close to 50 or so terrorists are reportedly surrounded.

Indeed, according to our source, the operation which, on Sunday, targeted a
forward security forces post in Mechounech was reportedly perpetrated by the
elements of the GSPC from Zone 9 which Amar Laouar, alias Mokhtar Belmohktar,
directs. The goal of that terrorist action, according to our sources, was to
relax the vise on the terrorist group affiliated with Al-Qa'idah in the [Land of
the Islamic] Maghreb which, since this past 25 March, has been experiencing
strong pressure from the ANP's forces in the Amizour region, in the province of
Bejaia and which, up until yesterday [ 4 April], has lost 21 of its elements.
The group that is surrounded in Biskra, according to our source, reportedly has
very sophisticated weaponry, a part of which was financed by the money from the
shakedown of the German tourists who were abducted in 2003 in Tamanrasset by the
sinister Mokhtar Belmokhtar.

It was this very same man who was able to profit from having accomplices at the
borders to get into Mali, Niger, Mauritania, or even Chad. These were
relationships that were privileged through alliances among relatives and by the
stated connection between terrorism and smuggling. Moreover, among the 50 or so
terrorists who are currently surrounded in Mechounech are Africans from the
Sahel, among them Malians and Nigeriens and Moroccans too. If, for observers of
the security scene, the goal of the Mechounech attack was, without the slightest
doubt, to create a "diversion," the fact nevertheless remains that Mokhtar
Belmokhtar's target was always the soldiers. In November 2006, the latter's men,
let us remind readers, were prepared to perpetrate an attack on the special
forces, an attack that was aborted though not until it had cost three soldiers
and two elements of the self-defence [forces] their lives.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 5 May 07

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday

Afghan paper says terror attacks cannot stop progress

LENGTH: 438 words


Text of article by Hematyar in Pashto, "Suicide and terrorist attacks cannot
break Afghans' determination", published by Afghan state-run newspaper Hewad on
4 April

Terrorist and suicide attacks and subversive activities cannot deter Afghans
from bringing positive changes and developing the country. Such acts cannot
impede the development process. They will not succeed in achieving their
destructive goals. The terrorists are behind such inhuman and anti-Islamic acts.
Any sympathetic and peace-loving person hates and condemns them and describe the
culprits as the enemies of peace and stability.

The terrorists and enemies of peace and stability have been making subversive
efforts on the instructions of foreign intelligence circles since the collapse
of the Taleban's regime and destruction of terrorist network in Afghanistan.
They want to create an atmosphere of fear by killing students, teachers,
doctors, engineers, mullahs and other innocent people. They cut off their noses
and ears and behead the innocent war-hit Afghans.

Their aim is to create obstacles to democratic developments and the
reconstruction drive and lead people towards the middle ages and deprive them of
technological developments in the 21st century. It is another example of the
subversive acts carried out by terrorists, subversive elements and mafia circles
who have sold out themselves to foreign intelligence.

The beheading of innocent people in Helmand Province, burning of a dead body in
Khost and the recent incident in Nurestan in which the noses and ears of some
defenceless drivers were cut off have outraged people. The international
community should never remain indifferent about such distressing and inhuman
acts.

It should destroy terrorist training camps on the other side of the border and
prevent terrorist activities by exerting pressure on supporters of terrorism.
The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the peace loving Afghans should not
remain indifferent about it either. They should serve the country and pave the
way for restoration of peace and security by striking serious blows at
terrorists.

We suggest that peace and reconciliation initiatives like the regional peace
jerga should be preferred to fighting and maximum caution should be exercised to
avoid civilian casualties during operations against insurgents. People's hearts
should be won and they should be encouraged to strongly cooperate with the
government. Let's support our national security forces and turn the subversive
plans and goals of terrorists into their dreams to restore lasting countrywide
security.

Source: Hewad, Kabul, in Pashto 4 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                             April 6, 2007, Friday
                               News Extra Edition

Three due in court over terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 75 words


The first three people to be charged over the 7/7 terror attacks will appear in
court tomorrow.

Three men were charged with conspiring with the July 7 suicide bombers to target
London's tourist attractions and its transport network. Mohammed Shakil, 30,
Sadeer Saleem, 26, and Waheed Ali, 23, are accused of conspiracy to cause
explosions likely to endanger life.

The accused are from Beeston in Leeds, where three of the July 7 bombers had
connections.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                 April 6, 2007

Three men charged over July 7 London terror attacks

LENGTH: 353 words


Three men from Leeds have been charged over the July 7 terror attacks on London.

Mohammed Shakil, 30, a taxi driver of Firth Mount, Beeston; Sadeer Saleem, 26,
of Rowland Place, Beeston; and Waheed Ali, 23, who was recently living in Tower
Hamlets, east London but for most of his life lived in Beeston, were arrested on
March 22, in connection with the bombings. Until recently Ali was known as
Chipon Ullah.

They are accused of conspiring with the four July 7 suicide bombers, who killed
52 innocent people.

Sue Hemming, head of the Counter Terrorism Commission of the Crown Prosecution
Service, said of the charges: "The allegation is that they were involved in
reconnaissance and planning for a plot with those ultimately responsible for the
bombings on July 7 before the plan was finalised."

She said the charges had followed a careful review of the evidence that had
emerged and "full consultation" with the Director of Public Prosecutions. They
are the first people to be charged in connection with the attacks.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke, head of Scotland Yard Counter
Terrorism Command, said the investigation had now reached "a new stage".

Yesterday's charges followed 21 months of "intense investigation" by his force
and West Yorkshire Police into the "murder of 52 innocent victims", Mr Clark
said.

Two of the men were arrested at Manchester Airport when they were due to catch a
flight to Pakistan while a third was arrested at a house in Leeds shortly
afterwards.

They were taken to London where they have been held since.

The charge against them alleges that between November 1, 2004 and June 29, 2005,
they "unlawfully and maliciously" conspired with the four July 7 bombers -
Mohammed Siddique Khan from Dewsbury, Shezhad Tanweer, from Beeston, Jermaine
Lindsay, originally from Huddersfiled, and Hasib Hussein, from Holbeck - to
cause by explosive substance explosions on the transport for London system
and/or tourist attractions in London in a nature likely to endanger life or
cause serious injury to property.

The three men will appear before City of Westminster Magistrates' Court
tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                 April 8, 2007

In brief: Three charged over London terror attacks

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 76 words


The first three people to be charged over the London terror attacks on 7 July
2005 appeared in court yesterday. Mohammed Shakil, 30, Sadeer Saleem, 26, and
Waheed Ali, 23, were remanded in custody by Westminster magistrates charged with
conspiring with the suicide bombers to target London's tourist attractions and
its transport network. The three, who are charged with conspiracy to cause
explosions likely to endanger life, are all from Beeston in Leeds.


LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                             April 8, 2007, Sunday
                                 First Edition

THREE IN COURT OVER 7/7 TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: MERCURY REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 196 words


THE first three people to be charged over the 7/7 London terror attacks appeared
in court yesterday.

Mohammed Shakil, 30, Sadeer Saleem, 26, and Waheed Ali, 23, appeared before
Westminster Magistrates Court charged with conspiring with the July 7 suicide
bombers to target London's tourist attractions and its transport network.

They are accused of conspiracy to cause explosions likely to endanger life.

The three accused are all from Beeston in Leeds. However, Ali, has been living
in Tower Hamlets, east London.

They are the first people to be charged over the 7/7 terror attacks - 21 months
after the four blasts which killed 52 people.

Their alleged co-conspirators are the four men who detonated rucksack bombs on
three London Tube trains and a bus on the morning of July 7, 2005 - Mohammed
Siddique Khan, Shezhad Tanweer, Jermaine Lindsay and Hasib Hussein.

The alleged targets of the conspiracy were the Transport for London system
"and/or tourist attractions in London". The attractions were not specified in
the details of the charge.

Senior District Judge Timothy Workman remanded all three men in custody to
appear for a preliminary hearing at The Old Bailey on April 20.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EXPLOSION: bus on 7/7

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday

Pakistan police find leads in Afghan border terror attacks

LENGTH: 410 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 10 April

[Report by Mohammad Ali Khan: "Clues found to bomb attacks, says PPO"]

Peshawar, April 9: NWFP Provincial Police Officer Mohammad Sharif Virk on Monday
said the law enforcement agencies had found clues to the bomb explosions which
had taken place in various parts of the province.

He said: "Investigations show that recent bomb explosions in the province,
including its capital, have links across the border, which hindered the arrests
of the culprits."

The PPO was talking to the business community in a meeting held at the Sarhad
Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) here on Monday.

It must be mentioned here that there has been a sharp increase in the number of
explosions in the NWFP since 2004. That year there had been 27.

By 2006, the number had increased to 35. In January and February this year at
least 25 such incidents took place, claiming a total of 23 lives.

The police officer conceded that the law and order situation in the province was
deteriorating, which he mainly linked to shortage of police personnel and
insufficient equipment.

Mr Virk said: "In 1955, there were 30,000 police personnel in the NWFP in
addition to 11,000 personnel of the Frontier Constabulary, whereas today the
actual strength of the police force is 35,000, which is not sufficient for
maintenance of law and order in the Frontier province."

He lamented that terrorists and criminal gangs possessed more sophisticated
weapons than the police force.

He said the province needed a 65,000-strong police force equipped with
sophisticated weapons.

He said the federal government was being pressured to honour its commitment
regarding recruitment of 15,000 additional personnel for the police force.

The police chief said the NWFP's case was particular as the presence of more
than 2.2 million Afghan refugees and the influx of weapons in the backdrop of a
three-decade long Afghan conflict were the main contributing factors that
affected the law and order situation here.

Regarding the treatment meted out to people at police stations, he said efforts
were being made for bringing a visible change in the 'Thana culture'. He added
that police officials had been directed time and again to talk politely to
complainants.

He agreed to a proposal for formation of a liaison committee at the SCCI level
to discuss day-to-day problems with senior officials of the local police.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 10 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday

Gang in terror attack on balti

BYLINE:  JAMES COXON

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 351 words


A Takeaway owner has told of his terror after up to 20 youths threatened him
with an array of weapons including knives, hammers and bricks.

Six police cars were called to the scene as the gang, also armed with sticks,
cricket bats, golf clubs and baseball bats, descended upon the Alvaston Balti in
London Road, Derby, last night.

Three people were arrested on public order offences following the incident,
which saw all the windows in the shop owner's car smashed, causing £2,000
damage.

Trouble began outside the takeaway at 5pm when a fight broke out between four
youths. One ran into the takeaway  to try to escape, but the others followed.

The  shop owner, who did not want to be named, told them to get out but 15
minutes later a gang of about 20 returned.

The shop owner said he now feared for his staff's safety and was worried that
further attacks would take place.

He said: "We had nothing to do with the first youth who ran into the takeaway.
The others  were chasing him and my business partner went out to tell the gang
this, but then the police arrested my partner.

"One of the gang told me to shut the shop or he would shoot me." He said the
youth did not have a gun but made a gesture with his hand.

The owner said: "He threatened me in front of a policeman but they didn't arrest
him or anything, they just told him to go home. I'm worried something else will
happen."

A teenage witness, of Westminster Street, Alvaston, said: "There were around 15
or 20 lads all shouting abuse at a worker in the shop.

"They were all holding different weapons and there were two police officers
there trying to calm things down.

"Then six police cars came screaming down London Road and everyone started to
run in different directions

"A few people threw away their weapons. It was chaos, I thought there was going
to be a riot."

Another witness, who did not want to be named, said she was amazed by the scene.

She added: "I thought someone was going to get seriously hurt."

A  police spokesman said: "Six cars were sent to the scene after a fight was
reported involving around 15 youths. Three people have been arrested."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                           April 11, 2007, Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

War on terror 'fuels the threat of attacks'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 159 words


The war on terror - particularly the Iraq War - is increasing the likelihood of
more terrorist attacks on the scale of September 11, a major academic study says
today.

The report by the Oxford Research Group says support for "political Islam" is
growing worldwide and terror attacks are on the rise. The US is "increasingly
viewed as the greatest threat to world peace", it adds.

Lead author Chris Abbott said: "There is a clear and present danger - an
increasingly marginalised majority living in an environmentally constrained
world, where military force is more likely to be used to control the
consequences of these dangerous divisions."

Meanwhile, a separate report from Oxfam described the Iraq invasion as a
"terrible misadventure" which had seriously undermined Britain's reputation and
capacity to act as a force for good.

But director Barbara Stocking insisted it must not prevent Britain from sending
in troops to deal with future humanitarian crises.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           April 11, 2007, Wednesday
                               News Extra Edition

Terror attacks risk 'is rising'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 51 words


The war on terror - particularly the Iraq War - is increasing the likelihood of
more terrorist attacks on the scale of September 11, a major academic study says
today.

The report by the Oxford Research Group says support for 'political Islam' is
growing and the number of significant terror attacks is rising.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           April 11, 2007, Wednesday
                                 First Edition

'War on terror likely to increase attacks'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 138 words


THE war on terror - particularly the Iraq war - is increasing the likelihood of
more terrorist attacks on the scale of September 11, an academic study said
yesterday.

The report by the Oxford Research Group said support for 'political Islam' is
growing worldwide and the number of terror attacks is on the rise.

The US is 'increasingly viewed as the greatest threat to world peace', it added.

Lead author Chris Abbott said, 'There is a clear and present danger - an
increasingly marginalised majority living in an environmentally constrained
world, where military force is more likely to be used to control the
consequences of these dangerous divisions.

'Add to this the disastrous effects of climate change, and we are looking at a
highly unstable global system by the middle years of the century unless urgent
action is taken now.'

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            April 12, 2007 Thursday

Fan recalls terror of being attacked by thugs in kiev

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 370 words


One Scottish football fan who has been following the game for more than 20 years
has described an international away match as one of the most terrifying moments
of his life.

Ed Leonard, who travels with the Tartan Army to all Scotland's games, said
attacks by up to 200 thugs in Kiev before the match with Ukraine last  October
were "frightening".

The violence was filmed by the thugs and subsequently distributed via the
internet.

He said: "When we travel abroad we usually congregate in a town, in a square for
example, and everything is good-natured. In Kiev, however, we were subjected
both to organised and sporadic attacks by up to 200 Ukrainians armed with bricks
and bottles, and many Scottish fans were injured.

"I was horrified and insulted that this was the way they were treating people
who were visiting their country in an atmosphere of friendship and fun."

The local police stood by and watched as the attacks were made, he said, but
threats were made that any Scottish fan who made a complaint against them would
be denied free medical treatment if they needed it.

Unlike the experience of Manchester United fans in Rome, a trip to Bari for last
month's Euro qualifier against Italy passed trouble-free, said Mr Leonard. There
were no feelings of fear in the stadium and there was no violence.

"One Italian fan said that it would have been very different had we been
English, however."

Sadly, a quiet post-match drink in an Aberdeen bar after a recent Dons home game
turned ugly when a local thug marched in and challenged a visitor to a fight
outside,  said Mr Leonard.

The thug was no youngster. He was in his late 30s.  Seconds later, a group of
hooligans burst into the premises, bar stools were thrown and customers were
threatened with violence. Police were called and arrests were made.

Mr Leonard said: "One officer told me that he feared football violence could be
on the rise in Aberdeen again.

"He said they were determined to come down as hard on it as they could,  to make
sure we don't go back to what it was like before.

"I have never seen much trouble in 20 years of following Scottish football, and
certainly nothing on the scale they face abroad.  I think that is down to the
policing we have here."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 12, 2007 Thursday

China publishes book on how to respond to terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 197 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["China Publishes Book To Popularize Anti-Terrorism Knowledge Among Public"]

Beijing, April 12 (Xinhua) - A book on how to respond to terrorist attacks aimed
at the general public has been published in China.

The attractive, snappily illustrated paperback book priced at twenty yuan covers
a broad range of issues associated with terrorism, said Du Xiangwan,
vice-president of the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE).

The CAE started a research programme on anti-terrorism measures in 2002.

"Terrorism is an international reality and a threat to people's safety
everywhere, including China," said Du. "By making the public more aware of
terrorism, and providing them with scientific information, we can improve their
capacity to respond," Du stressed.

Dozens of academicians and experts have contributed to the book.

Du said that there are plans to publish populist science books focusing on
various aspects of terrorism in order to teach the public how to respond to
terrorist bombing, or to biological, chemical and nuclear attacks.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0750 gmt 12 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 12, 2007 Thursday

Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in Algeria

LENGTH: 153 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 12 April: Turkey has strongly condemned yesterday's terrorist attacks in
Algeria.

Releasing a statement on Thursday [12 April], the Turkish Ministry of Foreign
Affairs said, "Turkey once again reiterates that terrorism could not have any
religion, nationality or geography and that it could not be justified whatever
its motives are.

"International cooperation and solidarity are essential in the fight against
terrorism."

"Turkey condemns yesterday's attacks targeting innocent civilians in Algeria. We
call on all countries to carry out a joint struggle against terrorism," it
added.

Nearly 30 people were killed and about 200 others were injured in yesterday's
suicide attacks in Algerian capital city of Algiers, one of which targeted
Algerian Prime Minister Abdelaziz Belkhadem's office.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0900 gmt 12 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 12, 2007 Thursday

Pakistani PM condemns terror attacks in Algeria

LENGTH: 145 words


Text of report by Associated Press of Pakistan (APP) news agency

Islamabad, 12 April: Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz has conveyed a message of
condolence to the Algerian Prime Minister Abdelaziz Belkhadem, on the loss of
lives in two suicide bombing incidents in Algiers on 11 April.

[The] prime minister expressed grief over the loss of precious lives and damage
to public property including the prime minister's office, says a press release
issued here Thursday [12 April].

Prime Minister Aziz said Pakistan unequivocally condemned such cowardly attacks
by terrorists and extremist elements against the innocent people.

He expressed the hope that such criminal acts would not weaken the resolve and
determination of the valiant people of Algeria to continue their fight against
terrorism.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1356 gmt
12 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 12, 2007 Thursday

Egypt's Shura Council condemns terror attacks in Algeria

LENGTH: 74 words


Text of report in English by Egyptian news agency MENA

Cairo, 12 April: Egypt's Shura Council condemned Thursday [12 April] the twin
explosions that rocked Algiers Wednesday, claiming the lives of 24 innocent
people and injuring 162 others.

Shura Council Speaker Safwat al-Sharif vehemently denounced all kinds of terror,
condoling with Algerian people for the martyrs of the bombings.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1223 gmt 12 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 12, 2007 Thursday

No terrorist will be ever allowed to attack Egypt - Mubarak

LENGTH: 485 words


Text of report in English by Egyptian news agency MENA

Alexandria, 12 April: President Husni Mubarak on Thursday [12 April] said he
would never let any terrorist carry out any act that would harm Egypt's tourism
and investment and increase unemployment rates.

Speaking to the press after opening a number of Alexandria Harbour development
projects, the president said he was working on safeguarding the Egyptian
citizen's livelihood.

President Mubarak said no one can amend the Arab Peace Initiative, launched at
Beirut summit in 2002.

He also stressed that no one can cross Palestinians' right of return out of the
initiative, accusing the Israelis of trying to skirt around the initiative.

About Sharm al-Shaykh conference on Iraq, due on 3-4 May, President Mubarak said
"the Iraqis have asked us to host the conference. Turkey wanted to host the
conference but the Iraqis want us."

He hoped the conference would reach solutions to some of Iraq's problems but he
stressed that Iraqis cannot solve all their problems in one conference.

About his visit to France next week, Mubarak said he will meet President Jacques
Chirac, Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin and some candidates for the French
presidency.

Mubarak said he will also hold talks with several French businessmen on trade
issues between Egypt and France.

About the development of Alexandria harbour, President Mubarak lauded the
development works of the port, saying it is the oldest harbour in Egypt as it
was established 4000 years ago during the era of Alexander the Great.

"I visited the harbour before and it was not like what I saw today. Investors no
more have to deal with many sides. They are now dealing with one window,"
Mubarak said.

He lauded the development of the train station at the port that allows tourists
to travel by train from the port to any tourist destination in Egypt.

Regarding the recent bombings in Algeria and Morocco, President Mubarak again
reminded that he had called for holding an international anti-terror conference
back in the 1980s, but with apparent scarce interest due to a lack of awareness
of the seriousness of the dangers posed by terror.

He said terror is everywhere, noting that the amendment of Article 179 was not
meant, as some thought, to intensify search campaigns as the emergency law
already allowed more stringent measures.

Mubarak said if the terror phenomenon was not addressed, then this could
jeopardize Egypt's stability at all levels.

Concerning the Israeli stance vis-a-vis the Arab peace initiative, Mubarak
believed no one was in a position to tinker with the overture, noting that
Israel wanted to change the item on Palestinian refugees' right to return home.

Regarding political mobility in Egypt and the upcoming Shura Council elections,
Mubarak called for strengthening parties, asserting that obstacles facing
parties were removed.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1122 gmt 12 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                            April 12, 2007, Thursday
                                  Home Edition

Family in gun attack terror

BYLINE: ALAN McEWEN and GARETH ROSE

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 689 words


A TERRIFIED family were caught up in gang warfare today after a shotgun was
blasted at their front door in what is believed to be a case of mistaken
identity.

The mother and her teenage son have been moved to a safe location following the
attack on their home in Muirhouse Green at 3am, when a single shot was fired.

Detectives are believed to be investigating whether the previous occupants of
the house were the actual targets.

Ian Cawkwell, 19, who lived in the property with his brother James, 17, until a
few weeks ago, was stabbed during a fight which left their teenage friend dead.

The murder of 17-year-old Kevin Smith sparked fears of a gang war on the streets
of Pilton last September after his friends vowed to avenge his death. His killer
was jailed last month.

A single shot smashed the frosted glass of the house's front door today, leaving
a hole in the centre of the door and chipping the wood.

The family called police, who dispatched the armed response unit to the area.
Police confirmed the family had been "relocated"

in the wake of the incident. Forensic experts spent the morning examining the
door and the immediate vicinity. Door-to-door inquires were mounted in a bid to
trace witnesses.

Neighbour Annie Wallace, 93, of Muirhouse Green, said: "I heard it - it woke me
up at 3am, and I didn't get up.

"The noise was one big bang. I thought it must have come from a van that was
passing, I didn't know what it was until the police came and told me this
morning.

"They've only been living there a couple of weeks. I've never heard of anything
like this happening round here. It really worries me when something like that is
happening so close at my age."

A 34-year-old man, who asked not to be named, added: "I was sitting watching TV
when it happened. I never saw the person and I never heard a thing until the gun
went off. I can usually hear every footstep outside the window.

"All I heard was a big bang and it made me jump off the settee. At first I
thought 'where did that come from, what the hell was that'."

The shooting comes weeks after a 16-year-old, who cannot be named, was ordered
to serve a minimum of nine years for murdering Kevin.

The teenager was drinking with a friend in West Pilton Grove when an argument
broke out over Kevin's stolen moped with other youths who had gathered outside
the building.

A second teenager aged only 14, who repeatedly kicked and stamped on Kevin's
head, was detained for two years and eight months at the High Court in Glasgow.

Ian Cawkwell was stabbed in the arm after confronting the killer moments before
Kevin was stabbed. The Cawkwell brothers, who are now believed to be staying in
the Fort area, spoke to the Evening News days after Kevin's murder and said they
had no plans retaliate.

A chilling note had been left at the murder scene, signed by half a dozen
people, which read: "We will get them. I won't rest until I get them."

Neighbours said today that their former home in Muirhouse Green had been
attacked with a petrol bomb in the weeks before the murder. It is not known if
the two incidents were connected. Residents complained of frequent trouble in
the area with teenage gangs drinking and fighting.

Brenda Tonner, director of Muirhouse Housing Association, which owns the
property, said the family involved had been left shaken by the incident.

"They are upset, it's been a real shock for them. They are looking for
reassurance from the police as to the cause of the incident.

"The family are staying with relatives at the moment but they do want to return
to the house."

Lord Provost Lesley Hinds, who is councillor for the Muirhouse area, called for
people to stay calm. "One life has been lost already.

"Young people should try to keep calm, this does not help anyone - it does not
help the reputation of the area and does not help the family of Kevin Smith, who
will be trying to get their lives back to normal as much as they can."

A police spokeswoman appealed for information: "We are keen to hear from people
living in the vicinity of Muirhouse Green or anyone who was in the area at
around 3am this morning and who may have seen or heard anything suspicious."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                            April 12, 2007, Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Family in gun attack terror

BYLINE: ALAN McEWEN and GARETH ROSE

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 530 words


ATERRIFIED family were caught up in gang warfare today after a shotgun was
blasted at their front door in what is believed to be a case of mistaken
identity.

The family, believed to be a mother and her teenage son, have been moved to a
safe location following the attack on their home in Muirhouse Green at 3am, when
a single shot was fired.

Detectives are believed to be investigating whether the previous occupants of
the house were the actual targets.

Ian Cawkwell, 19, who lived in the property with his brother James, 17, until a
few weeks ago was stabbed during a fight which left their teenage friend dead.

The murder of 17-year-old Kevin Smith sparked fears of a gang war on the streets
of Pilton last September after his friends pledged to revenge his death. His
killer was jailed last month.

A single shot smashed the frosted glass of the house's front door today, leaving
a hole in the centre of the door and chipping the wood.

The family called the police, who dispatched the armed response unit to the
area. Police

confirmed the family had been "relocated" in the wake of the incident.

Forensic experts spent the morning examining the door and the immediate
vicinity. Door-to-door inquires were mounted in a bid to trace witnesses.

Neighbour Annie Wallace, 93, of Muirhouse Green, said: "I heard it, it woke me
up at 3am, and I didn't get up.

"The noise was one big bang. I thought it must have come from a van that was
passing, I didn't know what it was until the police came and told me this
morning.

"They are just a new couple, they've only been living there a couple of weeks.
I've never heard of anything like this happening round here. It really worries
me when something like that is happening so close at my age."

A 34-year-old man, who asked not to be named, said: "I was sitting watching TV
when it happened. I never saw the person, I never heard a thing until the gun
went off, I can usually hear every footstep outside the window.

"All I heard was a big bang and it made me jump off the settee. At first I
thought 'where did that come from, what the hell was that'.

"I went to the window but I could not see anyone.

"The new couple who have moved in have only been here a couple of weeks it must
have been an awful shock for them."

The 16-year-old killer who knifed Kevin Smith was ordered to serve a minimum of
nine years behind bars last month.

A second teenager aged only 14, who repeatedly kicked and stamped on Kevin's
head, was detained for two years and eight months at the High Court in Glasgow.

The Cawkwell brothers, who are now believed to be staying in the Fort area,
later spoke to the Evening News days after Kevin's murder and said they had no
plans retaliate.

Neighbours said today that their former home in Muirhouse Green had been
attacked with a petrol bomb in the weeks before the murder. It is not known if
the two incidents were connected. Residents complained of frequent trouble in
the area with teenage gangs drinking and fighting.

A police spokeswoman said today: "We are keen to hear from people living in the
vicinity of Muirhouse Green or anyone who was in the area at around 3am this
morning and who may have seen or heard anything suspicious."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 12, 2007

Timeline: terror attacks in Africa

LENGTH: 570 words


April 2007

Two near-simultaneous bomb blasts in Algiers, one targeting the office of the
prime minister, Abdelaziz Belkhadem, killed at least 30 people.

September 2006

Eleven people were killed in a failed assassination attempt on Somalia's
transitional president, Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, with the president's brother and
six of the attackers among the dead. The attack was blamed on the Islamic Courts
Union, which controlled Mogadishu between the summer of 2006 and the end of that
year.

April 2006

Bombings at three locations in the Egyptian resort city of Dahab killed 23
people, including three foreigners. More than 80, including many foreign
tourists, were injured. Security officials blame an Islamist group.

July 2005

Sixty-three people, including 11 Britons, died and more than 100 were injured by
bombings in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh. Two of the attacks were
suicide car bombings, while a third device was planted. An Islamist group
claimed responsibility.

April 2005

Three foreign tourists were killed by a suicide bomber at the Khan al-Khalili
market in Cairo. Three weeks later, a bomb was detonated in another incident
linked to the same militant group and a tourist coach was sprayed with bullets.
There were no fatalities in those attacks.

October 2004

Three terror attacks in resorts and hotels in Taba and near Nuweiba in the Sinai
Peninsula, Egypt, killed 34 people and injured 159. They were the first terror
attacks in Egypt since the 1997 killings in Luxor (see below).

May 2003

Thirty-three people were killed and more than 100 injured by five almost
simultaneous suicide bomb attacks on "western and Jewish" targets in Casablanca.
Twelve of the 14 bombers, who were all Moroccan and had alleged links to
al-Qaida, died in the attacks.

November 2002

A suicide car bomb exploded at an Israeli-owned hotel in Mombassa, killing three
Israelis and ten Kenyans. Minutes earlier, a surface-to-air missile had narrowly
missed a plane flying to Tel Aviv from the nearby Moi airport.

April 2002 Twenty-one people were killed and more than 30 injured after a
natural gas truck loaded with explosives was driven into the Ghriba synagogue on
the Tunisian island of Djerba.

Fourteen German tourists, six Tunisians and one Frenchman died. Christian
Ganczarski, a German national and a Muslim convert arrested at a French airport
in 2003, is suspected of planning the attack.

August 1998

Two huge bombs exploded near the US embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es
Salaam, Tanzania, within minutes of each other. The blasts killed 264 people and
injured thousands. Twelve Americans were among the dead.

The attacks were blamed on local supporters of Osama bin Laden, and brought his
name to international prominence for the first time. In retaliation, the Clinton
administration controversially hit a pharmaceutical factory in Sudan with cruise
missiles, claiming the building was helping the al-Qaida leader to build
chemical weapons. It later became clear that the evidence for such a link was
weak.

November 1997

Sixty-two people, including 58 foreign tourists, were murdered at an
archaeological site across the Nile from Luxor, Egypt. Six gunmen, later linked
to al-Qaida, posed as security forces before attacking the Hatshepsut temple,
gunning down tourists indiscriminately. Thirty-five of the victims were Swiss,
ten were Japanese and six were British. All the gunmen died after Egyptian
security forces arrived.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 13, 2007 Friday

French "terrorism expert" comments on attacks in Algeria, Morocco

LENGTH: 632 words


Text of report by French newspaper Liberation website on 12 April

[Interview with terrorism expert Jean-Francois Daguzan by Marc Semo; place and
date not given: "'Perhaps a Mixture of Negligence, If Not Deliberate
Laissez-faire'"]

An expert in terrorism, in particular the jihadist circles, Jean-Francois
Daguzan, senior researcher at the Strategic Research Foundation, in particular
is the author of "Terrorisme(s), abrege d'une violence qui dure" [Terrorism(s),
summary of a lasting violence] (CNRS [National Scientific Research Council]
publishers).

[Semo] What group committed these attacks?

[Daguzan] We obviously think of the GSPC (Salafist Group for Preaching and
Combat), which has established a sort of monopoly over Algerian Islamist
terrorism after the surrender of the Islamic Salvation Army in 1997, then the
disappearance of armed Islamic groups. It is now the only structured force of
the jihadist circles against the Algerian state. The group has sworn allegiance
to Al-Qa'idah, and Ayman al-Zawahiri (editor's note: Bin Ladin's right-hand
man), has publicly acknowledged the subordinate position. Since then the GSPC
has taken the name of "Al-Qa'idah of the Islamic Maghreb," thus giving its
actions an international resonance.

[Editor] Does Al-Qa'idah's claim strike you as credible?

[Daguzan] It is part of the logic of a "franchised terrorism" that is the great
strength of Al-Qa'idah: local groups take care of the preparation and commission
of attacks, but against targets and using watchwords decided by the
organization. This group of the GSPC that previously had been limited primarily
to aggressive statements threatening France and Europe has been showing genuine
capabilities for acting in Algerian territory for the last year and a half.
These attacks have in fact been preceded by other operations, including the one
on a bus carrying employees working for a subcontractor of the American company
Halliburton in December 2006. Four Britons and an American were wounded. There
is also a resumption of clashes with the army. We thus find ourselves facing a
significant resurgence of violence, which is long-term and extends to the entire
region, to both Morocco and Tunisia. There is the example of the GSPC with the
possible irradiation, but above all a fertile soil, for example in the slums of
Casablanca.

[Semo] How do you explain this reappearance?

[Daguzan] The policy of reconciliation in Algeria has restored freedom to
numerous Islamists, causing concern among some who fear a reconstitution of
clandestine organizations. There is some degree of truth in these fears, but
also a good deal of manipulation. Less than a month from the legislative
elections, these attacks seem like the demonstration of the failure of this
policy conducted by President Bouteflika. But I am wary of conspiracy theories.
An orchestration of the return of terrorism by military security or certain
sectors of the army strikes me as moderately credible since the purge carried
out in recent years by President Bouteflika has had certain effects. But it is
very possible to imagine a mixture of negligence, if not deliberate
laissez-faire, the effect of which is to weaken the Algerian president and
prevent him from running for a new term in two years.

[Semo] Is French territory particularly threatened?

[Daguzan] I think France has always been a target in recent years regardless of
the period, and in fact regardless of its foreign policy. Since 2001 several
groups have been successively dismantled, which proves that the attempt to
export Algerian jihadist terrorism towards what it calls "the distant enemy" is
a long-term phenomenon. The latest Europol report just released notes a greater
threat to France, the UK, and Spain.

Source: Liberation website, Paris, in French 12 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 14, 2007 Saturday

Algerian editorial slams president's silence over terror attacks in capital

LENGTH: 374 words


Text of editorial by Tayeb Belghiche published by Algerian newspaper El Watan
website on 14 April

What is happening in the president of the republic's head? While numerous heads
of state from the entire world and the UN Security Council have officially and
publicly condemned the Algiers attacks, Mr Abdelaziz Bouteflika has been
observing total silence. Is he embarrassed somewhere because this horrible crime
is his own failure, with his "charter for peace and national reconciliation"? Is
he insensitive to the Algerian people's sorrow? From him the citizen expects at
least messages of condolences to the families of these new Islamist victims.

Following the Boulevard Amirouche attack on the central police station on 30
January 1995, President Liamine Zeroual went to Mustapha Hospital to give
comfort to the wounded and assure them of his support. It was quite a normal
gesture for a head of state. Unfortunately President Bouteflika seems to have
quite a different relationship with Algerians. We saw this following the Bab El
Oued floods. He went to the scene only three days afterwards. Or, again, after
the crash of the Air Algerie airplane in Tamanrasset! At the Algiers airport, he
walked right next to a tent where the victims' families were. He did not deign
to stop a single instant to express his sympathy to them. Even if the attack [as
published] on the Government Palace and the police station emphasizes the
unanimous nature of his policy of the hand outstretched to Islamism, that in no
way justifies his behaviour in the face of the tragedy that was witnessed on
Wednesday [11 April].

Without asking him for any sort of admission of failure, he could at least have
exhibited compassion. And there is no one to ask him for an accounting. It is
true that he succeeded in turning the National Assembly and the Senate into
recording studios with great spinal flexibility. So he has nothing to fear from
that quarter.

The notion that the country is poorly governed or not governed at all is going
to build up further among Algerians who already feel themselves abandoned to
their fate by leaders who are using contact flight rules. Is Algeria so little
loved to suffer such a fate?

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 14 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 14, 2007 Saturday

Jordanian king condemns 'cowardly' terrorist attacks against morocco, Iraq

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report in English by Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

Amman, 14 April: His Majesty King Abdallah II on Saturday condemned terror
operations and suicide bombings designed to destabilize Morocco and terrorize
innocent people in the country.

In a cable to King Mohamed VI of Morocco, King Abdallah affirmed Jordan's stand
by Morocco in facing all forms of cowardly terror acts which target the
country's stability and security.

King Abdallah also sent a similar cable to Iraqi Speaker of Parliament Mahmud
al-Mashadani in which he denounced the terrorist attack targeting Iraqi
parliament members. King Abdullah asserted Jordan's support to Iraqi people and
their democratic institutions and to Iraq's effort in encountering terror
groups.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 1625 gmt 14 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 16, 2007 Monday

Italy alert to terror threat after Maghreb attacks

LENGTH: 711 words


Text of report by Italian newspaper La Stampa website on 13 April

[Interview with anti-terrorism expert Stefano Dambruoso by Paolo Colonnello;
date and place not given: "Stefano Dambruoso: 'The Risk Exists, But Italy Is Not
Algeria'"]

[Colonnello] After the atrocity in Algiers, the intelligence services are
issuing a new alert over attacks in Italy, too. How concrete is this risk?

[Dambruoso] Nobody can say with certainty, but without being too alarmist it is
always better to keep one's guard up. We are dealing with a world, the world of
Islamic fundamentalism, which takes action horizontally, and is made up of many
individual groups, without a single, clear political strategy. The task of
investigators is truly very arduous, in that respect. [Dambruoso ends]

Stefano Dambruoso, the magistrate who, at the public prosecutor's office,
carried out the most important investigations against Islamic extremism, and is
currently regarded as one of our most significant experts on international
terrorism, was being very cautious, as always.

[Colonnello] Mr Dambruoso, after the investigations and the round-ups in the
last few years, it seemed that the danger of an attack in Italy was rather
remote.

[Dambruoso] International Islamic terrorism does not perceive the passage of
time, which is why it is possible that, regardless of the magistrates'
investigations, there are very long periods without anything happening, and
then, suddenly, serious episodes take place. The assessments of the intelligence
services rely, from one time to the next, on the sources which are used. I do
not know in this case what those sources are, but there is no doubt that there
is a correspondence between the report from the intelligence services and the
general warnings made by analysts and experts regarding the possibility that
there are dangerous activities afoot.

[Colonnello] Does this mean that we must begin to regard ourselves as a target
on a par with cities in North Africa?

[Dambruoso] I trust that, for a little more time yet, I can consider the risks
which one faces in Italy in a different way compared with those which,
objectively speaking, one faces in countries which have seen, for more than a
decade, a strong fundamentalist presence. The civil war in Algeria has left
after-effects which are in no way comparable to the situation over here.

[Colonnello] In Europe, however, London and Madrid have already been hit, and
severely too, unfortunately.

[Dambruoso] And this, indeed, is the worrying aspect. The investigations into
the Madrid attack have shown that a group with a leadership of recent formation,
in a relatively short space of time, had devised and organized a massacre by
purchasing explosives with money deriving from the sale of hashish. This was a
demonstration of the fact that when there is terrorist intent, it is certainly
no great problem to get prepared in logistical terms. But let us not forget that
the people responsible were identified very quickly.

[Colonnello] Scant consolation. In the meantime, Al-Qa'idah has once again
reared its head.

[Dambruoso] Al-Qa'idah is a name, a container which represents a constant
feature for the ideological terms of reference of the people who carry out
attacks. But it is an established fact that rarely have the members of these
terrorist cells travelled to Pakistan or Afghanistan to meet with the leaders of
Al-Qa'idah. The idea which one gets of Al-Qa'idah as a significant, structured
organization, able to direct from afar the operational capacity of cells
scattered across the world, does not correspond, in my view, with the actual
state of affairs.

[Colonnello] So who are these terrorists?

[Dambruoso] In the past, we have had a demonstration that it was mainly a
question of groups, including minor groups, which looked to Al-Qa'idah only in
ideological terms. The actual reality is composed of active entities which make
unpredictability their best weapon. In other words, it is hard to identify a
clear political programme in groups which continually draw their sustenance from
very young individuals, who often manifest their desire to be active even just
as a result of questions to do with their own identity, and a spirit of
emulation.

Source: La Stampa website, Turin, in Italian 13 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 16, 2007 Monday

Attack on parliament reflects "defeat" of "terrorist gangs" - Iraqi president

LENGTH: 156 words


Text of report by Iraqi TV station Al-Iraqiyah TV on 16 April

President of the Republic Jalal Talabani has said that the sinful attack against
the Council of Representatives, the destruction of Al-Sarrafiyah Bridge, and the
criminal attacks against citizens reflect the failure and defeat of the
terrorist gangs. This came during Talabani's meeting with Hamid Majid Musa,
secretary general of the Iraqi Communist Party, in Baghdad today.

Talabani said that these acts will not affect the Law Enforcement Plan. He
asserted the government's determination to go ahead with uprooting the
phenomenon of terrorism from Iraq.

In another development, the president of the republic received in Baghdad today
the ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Iran to Iraq. The talks dealt with the
way and means of developing relations between the two countries and boosting
security cooperation.

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1400 gmt 16 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 16, 2007 Monday

Syrian minister condemns terror attacks targeting Iraqi civilians

LENGTH: 196 words


Text of report in English by Syrian News Agency SANA website

Damascus, (SANA)-Minister of Information Muhsin Bilal on Monday [16 April]
renewed Syria's condemnation of terrorist acts which target Iraqi civilians,
stressing that Syria stands by Iraq's unity and territorial integrity, Iraqi
people reconciliation and the withdrawal of foreign troops from Iraq.

"We reiterate Syria's commitment to achieve the just and comprehensive peace in
the region according to international relevant resolutions, Madrid Conference
and the Arab peace initiative," Minister Bilal said in a press conference on the
forthcoming 'International Conference on Arab-Islamic Media to Support
Palestinians' due in Damascus on April 30.

He added "the Conference will tackle a number of researches on the Arab media
discourse, the concept of resistance in the Arab media and the role of media in
distinguishing between terrorism and the right of resisting occupation".

More than 350 intellectuals and media men will take part in the Conference which
will be held under the patronage of President Bashar al-Assad from April 30 to
the second of May.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 16 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 17, 2007 Tuesday

Philippines: Over 30 Abu Sayyaf terrorists attack marine troops in Sulu

LENGTH: 302 words


Text of report by Philippine newspaper Taliba on 16 April

[Unattributed report: "3 ASG Killed Vs Marines"; passages within slantlines in
English]

Three members of the Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG) were killed and a marine personnel
was injured when terrorists attacked the marine troops that conducted /clearing
operations/ in the village district of Kanjimao, Datayan Village, Patikul, Sulu
last Monday, as stated in the delayed report from the Naval Public Information
Office.

The fighting lasted 25 minutes and the ASG terrorists retreated when they were
fought by a strong force of the marines. Private First Class Erwin Valenzuela
was injured in the upper back but he is now in good condition.

The /clearing operations/ that were conducted was in preparation for the /free
medical mission/ for village that lacks in health facilities.

In the investigation that was conducted, more than 30 ASG fighters fought the
marines and a certain Jul Asbi was identified as the leader of the group. Asbi
is linked to the dreaded ASG group of terrorists.

Despite the encounter, 3rd Marine Brigade Commander Colonel Natalio Ecarma III
said, "The residents have long been waiting to have /medical check up/ and we
cannot compromise their safety just because of the ASG's evil acts at the
moment."

More than 86 patients benefited from the free medication that included a /cyst
surgical operation/, nine /dental operations/ and 76 /general consultations/.

Vitamins, /cough/ and /cold syrups/ and other medical supplies were also
distributed.

Fifth Battalion Commander Colonel Nestor Herico again promised the residents
that they have absolutely controlled and strengthened the tight security in the
area.

He added that they were gladly welcomed by the residents ever since they arrived
in the area.

Source: Taliba, Manila, in Tagalog 16 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 18, 2007 Wednesday

US interests in Morocco "under serious threat" of terror attacks - paper

LENGTH: 336 words


Text of report by Essiddiq Bougzoul headlined: "Watch intensified over American
interests in various towns of the country", published by Moroccan  newspaper
Assabah website on 17 April

The police have intensified watch over several American buildings in Casablanca
and most other Moroccan towns after it has become clear from last Saturday's [14
April] bombings that US interests in Morocco are under serious threat.

In this respect, the American consulate, the American language centre and an
American school located in California quarter, Casablanca, have been surrounded
by policemen for fear of their being targeted by expected bomb attacks.

According to Assabah sources, investigations of some recently captured suicide
bombers have revealed that American interests in Morocco are top of the list of
threatened sites. The same sources say that the suicide bombers Mohamed and Omar
Maha were in fact planning to blow up the American consulate and the American
language centre in two successive attacks, whereas the target remains unclear of
the third suicide bomber whose belt has been found by the police.

Police watch has been tightened also in Moulay Youssef Avenue that was the scene
of two suicide bomb attacks last Saturday. In this connection, people and cars
are no longer allowed to circulate in the street where the US consulate is
located.

Likewise, a police watch has been imposed on several other buildings for fear of
acts of sabotage. The police have also raised the level of the state of alert at
Mohamed V Airport where both passengers and employees are meticulously searched.
Surveillance has been also upgraded over the Samir company [oil refinery
business: Societe anonyme marocaine de l'industrie du raffinage] to avoid
terrorist attack against it.

Furthermore, policemen stationed outside foreign embassies and consulates have
been instructed to be vigilant and to watch out for any bomb attacks by the
suicide bombers who are still on the run.

Source: Assabah website, Casablanca, in Arabic 17 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 19, 2007 Thursday

Spanish interests in Morocco said "easy target" of Islamist terror attack

LENGTH: 956 words


While Spanish diplomatic staff based in Morocco prefer to speak of "concern"
rather than "alarm" at the threat radical Islamist terror attacks in light of
recent incidents there, some members of the security forces say the "relaxed"
attitude prevailing among personnel makes Spain's interests in the country an
"easy" target, according to a Madrid daily. The following is the text of the
report, published by the Spanish newspaper ABC web site on 19 April; subheading
as published:

Rabat: Spain and the Spanish are "vulnerable" and "easy" targets of attack in
view of the risk of terrorist assaults that Morocco is facing these days, so
several members of our country's security forces stationed in the Alawite
kingdom have confirmed to ABC.

The government in Rabat yesterday acknowledged that it remains "vigilant"
throughout the country after the government spokesman said that his words had
been misinterpreted when hours earlier it was broadcast that he had spoken of
"extreme alert". "The authorities have stepped up security at the consulates, at
hotels frequented by foreigners and at places of worship in Casablanca",
explained Nabil Benabdallah, who mentioned the exchange of intelligence on
terrorism with different countries, Spain among them.

Climate of threats

However, there is not too much concern among the Spanish diplomats consulted.
They prefer to be discreet, avoid describing the situation as alarming and speak
of normality within a climate of more serious threats, especially for the USA.
"Terrorism has become just another aspect of our daily hygiene", says one
diplomat in his office with reinforced glass.

"Everything will change when there is a death on the table". This is the warning
from a Spanish counterterrorism source in Morocco who believes that there are
many people who are not aware that they can become targets. The death of two
Spanish tourists in an attack perpetrated on a hotel in Marrakech in 1994 or the
suicide attacks - among them those against the House of Spain [cultural centre]
- which caused the death of some 50 people in Casablanca on 16 May 2003 appear
to have occurred too long ago.

There are diplomats and officials from the embassy and the consulates who, in
the opinion of this source, are relaxed when it comes to keeping up certain
self-protection measures in day-to-day life, such as trying not to repeat
schedules and itineraries like visiting the same cafes or parking in the same
places. Some of them have even acknowledged it directly to ABC.

In addition, the vehicles of diplomats in Morocco have yellow plates with a
series of numbers on, thanks to which anyone can know even what country they
belong to.

Although so far more personnel have not been sent from Spain, it is not being
ruled out that security at Spanish official buildings will be reinforced soon,
once it has been confirmed on the ground what the needs are to tackle the
current threat. Police officers stationed in Morocco are already assessing the
situation, especially at the consulate in Casablanca. "More than alarm one might
speak of concern", says one of them.

While no few people describe the five terrorists who have killed themselves in
Morocco in recent days, causing the death of a police officer, as "bunglers",
the confirmation of the fact that they have diplomatic delegations and foreign
interests among their targets has been enough to ensure that extra precautions
are being taken, though always discreetly. The aim is to maintain the level of
security high without disturbing the normality of the significant flow of
tourists that visit the Maghrebi country.

In February the government of Morocco acknowledged that Al-Qa'idah is trying to
strike inside the country. Since then, seven terrorists have died in Casablanca.
The first on 11 March in an Internet cafe. Last week, one was riddled with
bullets and the other five committed suicide to avoid being held. The last two
kamikazes blew themselves up last Saturday [14 April] just metres from the US
consulate.

Thus something was confirmed about which there was not too much doubt, that
Islamic radicals seek Western interests in Morocco among their targets. In that
same quarter of the country's economic capital there are other diplomatic
delegations, such as the consulate of Spain.

Rabat, which had already increased their deployment since February, has raised
the number of officers who guard these buildings and there are more vehicles
patrolling the surrounding areas on a permanent basis. One of those police
officers was attacked on the door of the consulate in Tetuan by an Islamic
radical armed with a sword and dressed in the Afghan style on 1 March.

Access to the embassy and the consulates has been more controlled since then.
More attention is paid to the cameras that film the exterior, visitors are
searched and they are prevented from entering with bags, the undersides of cars
are inspected with mirrors and in some cases car boots are opened.

As one official explains, the danger can come from the crowds of hundreds of
people that form outside some of these buildings to request visas and the
authentication of documents. Moroccan police officers try to keep them on the
opposite side of the street, but they do not always succeed. The measures that
Spain has taken are not as strict as those that the USA has been applying for
several years in its buildings in Morocco, where queues of people are subject to
more control and it is prohibited to enter with mobile telephones or any
electronic device. This is what happens at the consulate in Casablanca next to
which the brothers Mohamed and Omar Maha blew themselves up on Saturday and
which, for the time being, remains closed.

Source: ABC website, Madrid, in Spanish 19 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                            April 19, 2007 Thursday

My knife attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 396 words


A Robbery victim has told of her terror as two men pushed a knife against her
face as she walked to her boyfriend's house.

The 25-year-old woman said she is afraid to walk alone in Carrington after being
attacked in broad daylight in an alleyway.

"I feel like I'm always looking over my shoulder now and I don't like people
being too close to me. I'm very aware of that now," she said.

The attack happened in a walkway between Mansfield Road and Selkirk Way, next to
the Co-op store.

Two men forced the victim, who did not want to be named, to hand over her
handbag before riding off on a lime green moped at 7.50pm last Thursday.

The woman said she regularly used the walk-through, which is wide and well-lit
during daylight.

"It's all a bit of a blur and happened so quickly," she said. "I noticed a guy
sat on a lime green motorbike but just carried on walking. Then I heard him
shout something, but I don't know what it was.

"Before I knew it another man ran up behind me and pushed me against the wall.
He pushed a knife into my face and shouted 'Give me your bag.'"

She described the knife as medium-sized with a serrated silver blade.

She handed over her handbag before the man jumped on to the back of the moped,
which sped off in the direction of Jenner Street.

"It was all over so quickly," the woman said.  "But when it sank in I was
absolutely terrified. I had to stand there for a few minutes to get my composure
back.

"There was no one else around anywhere. I thought there would be because it's so
close to Mansfield Road.

"I went straight to my boyfriend's house and called the police from there. I
couldn't even speak for the first five minutes after I got there."

The victim only moved to the area from Sandiacre two months ago.

She said: "I've spoken to my friends around the area and nothing like this has
happened to them. Everyone's  shocked by it."

The woman, who works as an IT administrator, praised Notts police.

"They came out straight away and have been absolutely brilliant," she said. "I'm
not going to let this change my life but I know I've got to be a bit more
careful."

Officers in the robbery team at Central Police Station want to hear from anyone
who has information about the attack or recognises the distinctive moped used by
the robbers. Call 0115 967 0999 ext 5031 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800
555 111.

kate.skelton@nottinghameveningpost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                             April 20, 2007 Friday

Cash plea for victims of terror attacks abroad

BYLINE:  Emily Beament

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 475 words


British victims of terrorist attacks abroad should receive the same financial
and emotional support as those caught up in atrocities in the UK, their families
said yesterday.

Survivors and the relatives of those killed in bombings in Bali, Sharm El Sheikh
and Turkey are calling for Government help for victims of terrorist attacks
overseas.

Backed by human rights organisation Liberty, they are supporting a Government
assistance scheme proposed in a Private Member's Bill by Lord Brennan. The bill
proposes most of the scheme's funds could be met  by the insurance market, with
a fallback fund from Government as a last resort.

At a press conference yesterday to promote the bill, families said they had been
left with no support in the aftermath of tragedies abroad.

Glenn Shadbolt, 22, from Midhurst, West Sussex, was badly injured in the Sharm
El Sheikh bombings in 2005.

He has had numerous operations and is still receiving treatment for his eye and
shoulder, and his mental health. He said: "I haven't received any help from
Government as regards to expenses or anything like that. It has been very
difficult.

"I had no means of income because I couldn't work because of my injuries and
without friends and family, it would have been near-impossible for me to carry
on and have any normal life."

Trevor Lakin's son, Jeremy, was killed at Sharm El Sheikh in 2005. Mr Lakin,
from Peterborough, said: "All we're asking for is to give the British citizens
what they would have got had they been in Blackpool or Bournemouth."

Sharon Holden's daughter Helyn was killed in a bomb blast while on holiday in
Kusadasi, Turkey, while five other members of her family were seriously injured.
Ms Holden, from Pennymoor, near Durham, said: "Once we got home there was no
aftercare."

The Victims of Overseas Terrorism Bill would introduce a statutory scheme to
ensure those injured or killed in overseas terrorist attacks receive
compensation. Lord Brennan said the scheme would cost an estimated £3million a
year, most of which would come from the insurance market. The bill will receive
its second reading in the House of Lords today.

Since the September 11 attacks in 2001, more than 40 Britons have been killed in
terrorist incidents and scores have received serious injuries.

Incidents abroad are not covered by the UK's Criminal Injuries Compensation
Authority and insurers often have clauses meaning they do not need to pay out
for terror attacks. While the Foreign Office and Department of Culture, Media
and Sport already provide emergency help for victims, the bill would also put
such aid on a statutory footing.

Bournemouth MP Tobias Elwood, whose brother died in the Bali bombing in 2002,
said  Tory leader David Cameron supported the scheme.

The Government has pledged a £1million fund for victims of terrorism abroad, but
campaigners say it is "inadequate".

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 20, 2007 Friday

US embassy in Germany warns of heightened threat of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 211 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp

["US Warns of Heightened Threat of Terrorism in Germany" - ddp headline]

Berlin (ddp) - The United States is warning its citizens in Germany of a
heightened threat of terrorist attacks. In light of a "heightened threat
situation," Americans should increase their vigilance in the interest of their
own security, according to a statement posted on the US Embassy website. At the
same time, all US facilities will step up their security measures.

The warning was prompted by indications that US facilities could be "subject to
a heightened threat," the German Ministry of Interior announced. German security
authorities share this "concern" and have for some time now been working closely
with their US counterparts to apply all appropriate measures.

The US Embassy said that the warning was based in part on an assessment by the
Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA). As German officials have noted repeatedly,
Germany is confronted with a heightened threat of terrorism, the Embassy in
Berlin declared. It went on to say that US government facilities are constantly
assessing their security measures in light of information related to this
heightened threat environment.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1311 gmt 20 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                             April 20, 2007 Friday

Cash appeal for victims of terror attacks abroad

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 363 words


A Lincolnshire father has backed a new Bill aimed at giving  British victims of
terrorist attacks abroad  the same financial and emotional support as those
caught up in atrocities in the UK.

Survivors and the relatives of those killed in bombings in Bali, Sharm El Sheikh
in Egypt and Turkey are calling for Government assistance for victims of
terrorist attacks overseas.

Backed by human rights organisation Liberty, they are supporting a Government
assistance scheme proposed in a Private Member's Bill by Lord Brennan.

The Bill proposes that most of the scheme's funds could be met through premiums
introduced by the insurance market, with a fallback fund provided by Government
as a last resort.

At a press conference yesterday to promote the Bill, families said they had been
left with no support in the aftermath of tragedies abroad.

Among them was Trevor Lakin,  a company director from Bourne, in south
Lincolnshire.

He is the father  of  Jeremy Lakin (28) who, with his girlfriend Annalie Vickers
(31), died in in the Sharm El Sheikh bombings in 2005.

As well as Jeremy, the death toll  of 11 included four Grantham residents. They
were Mandy and Alan Bentley, aged 43 and 29, 16 year-old David Sayer and Charith
Jayawardena (17).

Glenn Shadbolt (22), from Midhurst, West Sussex, was badly injured in the same
attack.

He has had numerous operations and is still receiving treatment to  his eye and
shoulder and for  mental health.  "I haven't received any help from Government
as regards   expenses or anything like that. It has been very difficult," he
said.

"I tried to go to university but couldn't cope because of the injuries and my
mental health so I had to quit.

Trevor Lakin  said: "Nobody can compensate me or my family for what we lost and
we want nothing from this Government for ourselves.  All we're asking for is to
give the British citizens what they would have got had they been in  the UK.
People have had their lives devastated by terrorists and to not help them in
their time of need  I find unbelievable."

The Victims of Overseas Terrorism Bill would introduce a statutory scheme to
ensure those injured or killed in overseas terrorist attacks receive
compensation.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Wigan Evening Post

                                 April 21, 2007

Gang in terror attack at home

LENGTH: 269 words


A man was battered into unconsciousness while his brother was bitten on the neck
when a gang of youths attacked them in their own home.

The pair were savagely set upon when their attempts to barricade themselves into
the house in Lancaster Avenue, Tyldesley, failed.

Moments earlier they had become involved in a street altercation with the pack
of youths, who were outside the Home Ground pub.

As the situation escalated, the men, aged 21 and 34, fled to their nearby flat.

But the gang pursued them and managed to force their way through the front door
to continue their attack.

The younger brother was knocked unconscious and the older man was bitten on the
neck.

The attackers then stole a games console and laptop computer and fled.

After regaining consciousness, the 21-year-old was taken to Bolton Royal
Infirmary where he received treatment for two minor cuts to his head.

His brother received treatment at the same hospital for his neck wound.

The attack took place at 11.20pm on Friday, March 23 but it is only now that the
police have gone public on the incident and appealed for witnesses.

A spokesman for Wigan CID said: "This was a nasty incident in which the two
brothers could have suffered more serious injuries.

"We want to speak to anyone who saw the disturbance outside the pub and would
also ask anyone with other information about the incident to get in touch."

The youths have been described as white, aged between 17 and 22 and were wearing
baseball caps, trainers and hooded tops.

Anybody who has any information is asked to contact Wigan police on 0161 856
7255 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 24, 2007 Tuesday

Algerian investigators say 11 April terror attack explosives made in Baraki

LENGTH: 357 words


Text of report by F. Lamia, translated from Arabic by B. A., headlined: "New
elements in the investigation into the recent terrorist attacks: the explosives
used in the 11 April attacks were manufactured in Baraki"; published by Algerian
newspaper El-Khabar website on 24 April

Security sources have revealed that the security agencies' investigations into
the 11 April attacks have managed to determine the location of the workshop
where the explosives that were used in the two operations were manufactured,
which, by way of a reminder, targeted the Government Palace and a police station
in Bab Ezzouar. Well informed sources have indicated that the security agencies
were currently working to find the terrorists' hideouts located in the suburbs,
and which were probably the starting point for the attacks.

During investigations into elements from a support group in the municipality of
Bourouba, who were arrested for involvement in the terrorist attacks, the
security agencies got confessions from certain of the group's elements, which
made it possible for them to get to the workshop where the explosives were
manufactured. It is highly probable that the workshop served as a hideout for
the capital city's terrorist groups. After having seized the workshop's
products, the security agencies were unsuccessful in arresting the person in
charge of the manufacture of the explosives.

According to well informed sources, investigators think that the group that
planned and executed the 11 April attacks has hideouts in different
neighbourhoods located in the suburbs of Algiers. The sources added that is a
strong chance that the cars that were used had started from those same
neighbourhoods.

Sources close to the investigation stated that the three people who carried out
the explosions had not been wanted by the security agencies and that it was for
that specific reason that the terrorist organization had chosen them.

The explosions were set off remotely, based on what was found at the scene - a
Nokia 1100 telephone and a remote control - it was learned from responsible
sources.

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in French 24 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            April 25, 2007 Wednesday

Anzac day terror attack warnings

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 448 words


Australia and New Zealand warned their nationals yesterday of possible terrorist
attacks on tourists in Turkey as Australians and New Zealanders converge on
Turkey's Gallipoli Peninsula to mark a 1915 battle today. Anzac Day, April 25,
commemorates the day in 1915 when a British-led force, including Australian and
New Zealand troops, stormed ashore on Gallipoli Peninsula to be met by a
powerful Turkish army - and eventually forced to retreat with the loss of
thousands of men.

Navy saves sailors

ROYAL Navy warship HMS Montrose yesterday rescued 11 Turkish seamen who were
found drifting in two small boats after their ship sank beneath them two days
ago. The Plymouth-based Type 23 frigate was in the Mediterranean on maritime
security operations when she found the sailors without food and water after the
sinking of their vessel the MV Sunshine.

French vote battle

THE battle between French conservative Nicolas Sarkozy and socialist Segolene
Royal heated up yesterday as their camps tried tactics to woo voters in the
political centre  -  the key decision-makers in the presidential race. Centrist
candidate Francois Bayrou is no longer in the running, but his strong
third-place showing in Sunday's first round of balloting could make him a
kingmaker. Polls show Mr Sarkozy is in the lead, but Ms Royal still has a
fighting chance in the May 6 run-off.

Charges over rink

GERMAN prosecutors yesterday filed criminal charges against five people who were
involved in building and maintaining an ice rink that collapsed last year,
killing 15 people. The structure in the Bavarian town of Bad Reichenhall
collapsed  on January 2, 2006. Most of the 15 victims were children, and 34 more
people were injured.

Texas school scare

AN ELEMENTARY school in Southlake, Texas, was evacuated for more than an hour
yesterday morning after a fourth-grader showed up with a hand grenade. The
grenade still had the pin in it, but it was later determined to be inactive,
school district spokeswoman Julie Thannum said.

Keep on burning

A ROAST duck restaurant in China's capital that has kept its ovens going
non-stop for nearly 150 years says it will keep the fire alive through six
months of renovations. The Quanjude Qianamen restaurant just off the southern
end of Tiananmen Square in central Beijing  has had its wood-fired ovens going
continuously since it opened in 1864.

Mutilated leopard

OFFICIALS are investigating the death of at least one leopard suspected to have
been killed and mutilated as part of a religious ceremony in India's eastern
jungles. On Monday villagers found three large animal carcases with their heads
and legs severed in the Brahmagiri forest range in the eastern state of Orissa.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Eastwood Advertiser

                                 April 25, 2007

Sex attack terror for teenager

LENGTH: 222  words


A 17-YEAR-OLD girl was subjected to a "terrifying" sexual attack on Plumtre Way
in Eastwood.

The girl, who is from Eastwood, was walking towards Plumtre Island when a man
approached her from behind and subjected her to a serious sexual assault in the
gardens of The Island Flats at around 11.30pm last Thursday night.

After the assault, the offender ran off along Plumtre Way.

DESCRIPTION

The offender is described as a white man in his forties of a heavy build and
approximately 5ft 10in tall. He had a bald or shaved head and was wearing a
black denim jacket.

Det Insp McHattie, who is investigating, said: "This was a terrifying attack on
a young girl who was walking home after meeting her boyfriend.

"Incidents like this are rare and we are treating this report seriously. We
would urge anyone with information to come forward."

Insp John Lees at Eastwood Police Station said: "We're increasing our patrols
around the area to both reassure the public and detect the offence.

"People are not to be scared about going out, normal safety precautions should
be taken such as letting people know where they're going and keeping to lit
paths."

Witnesses or anyone with further information should contact officers at West
Bridgford CID on 0115 940 0999 extension 6134.

Alternatively, call Crimestoppers for free and in confidence on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                       April 27, 2007 Friday 2:45 PM GMT

Saudi terror suspects plotted airborne attacks on army

LENGTH: 77 words


RIYADH - Some of the 172 terror suspects arrested in Saudi Arabia were plotting
to attack military bases and oil installations, including by aircraft, the
interior ministry told AFP Friday.

tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomson.com

afp/bsd

COPYRIGHT


Copyright AFX News Limited 2007. All rights reserved.

The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News Content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 27, 2007 Friday

Saudi Arabia says held terror suspects planned oil plant attacks

LENGTH: 246 words


"The Saudi security forces have foiled a major terrorist plan to destabilize the
kingdom by striking military bases and oil plants with aircraft," Al-Arabiya TV
reported on 27 April. "The Saudi security forces arrested seven terrorist cells
that include 172 extremists, most of whom are Saudis and others are Yemeni and
Nigerian residents. These cells are suspected to have connections with
Al-Qa'idah Organization, particularly because some of these members received
training in aviation to carry out terrorist attacks against oil plants in Saudi
Arabia and against military bases."

The report cites Saudi Interior Ministry Spokesman Major General Mansur al-Turki
as saying that the arrested group had planned to revive terrorist activities in
the kingdom.

The report is followed by a recorded telephone interview with Al-Turki, who is
observed to say: "Arresting these terrorist cells is proof of the continued
security action to foil terrorist plans by the stray group anywhere in the
kingdom. The statement [issued by the Saudi Interior Ministry] shows that the
stray group aims at reviving its activities. At the same time, there are notable
foreign connections with the stray group, which exploits restive spots outside
the kingdom for purposes of planning, recruitment, and training."

Al-Turki adds that "the terrorist cells were positioned in different areas and
some of these cells were formed outside the kingdom."

Source: Al-Arabiya TV, Dubai, in Arabic 1400 gmt 27 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 27, 2007 Friday

Greek, Bulgarian ministers agree on measures against terrorist air attacks

LENGTH: 338 words


Text of report in English by Bulgarian news agency BTA website

Athens, 26 April: Bulgarian Defence Minister Veselin Bliznakov told a news
conference here today after a session with Greek National Defence Minister
Evangelos Meimarakis that the two defence ministries are to sign a memorandum on
airspace protection against terrorist threats from the air.

Bliznakov said the document is exceedingly important in respect of the potential
risk of terrorist attacks against Bulgaria, Greece or both countries. The
memorandum provides for the conduct of various operations in the border-area
airspace, the Bulgarian defence minister said.

Under the document, Bulgarian or Greek fighter planes will be able to enter
either country's airspace within 60 km from the border without advance clearance
when they pursue an airspace violator, a Bulgarian military expert explained.
Some legal technicalities related to the memorandum have yet to be sorted out.

Bliznakov and Meimarakis stressed the excellent relations between their
countries.

"We are following closely developments in Kosovo, and we support only a
sustainable, long-term solution," the Greek national defence minister said.

He told his Bulgarian counterpart that when Greek President Karolos Papoulias
visited Libya, he conferred with Libyan leader Mu'ammar al-Qadhafi and raised
the question about the Bulgarian nurses.

Bliznakov thanked the Greek side for the position it is expressing in support of
the Bulgarian nurses in Libya.

The Bulgarian defence minister also conferred with President Papoulias, who
asked him about the progress of planned activities involving the Bulgarian-US
military facilities in Bulgaria. Bliznakov answered that, for the time being,
everything runs smoothly.

The guest also had talks with Hellenic Parliament Standing Committee on Defence
and Foreign Affairs Chairman Panayiotis (?Kammenos). They focused on regional
stability, the status of Kosovo, cooperation in NATO's operation in Afghanistan.

Source: BTA website, Sofia, in English 1313 gmt 26 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 28, 2007 Saturday

Ethiopian Parliament calls on the world to condemn terrorist attack

LENGTH: 179 words


Text of report in English by pro-Ethiopian government Walta Information Centre
website on 28 April

Addis Ababa, 28 April: The House of People's Representatives said the
international community should denounce the horrible and cold-blooded massacre
of innocent Chinese and Ethiopians, as the attack is international terrorism.

In a statement it sent to Ethiopian News Agency on Friday [27 April], the House
said the international community should stand in unison with Ethiopia in the
efforts geared towards freeing the Chinese and Ethiopian hostages.

Eritrean government should understand that Ethiopian development and
democratization efforts would not be hampered by whatsoever terrorist attack
committed by it and its international terrorist allies. The House expressed its
firm conviction that the government would chase and bring to the law those
mercenaries who committed the crime.

The House expressed its deep condolence to the bereaved families of the victims
and the Chinese people and government.

Source: Walta Information Centre website, Addis Ababa, in English 28 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            April 28, 2007 Saturday

Saudi claims 172 suspects were ready for terror attacks

BYLINE: Ian Black, Middle East editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 582 words


Saudi authorities announced yesterday the arrest of 172 suspected terrorists
linked to al-Qaida, some of them said to have been training as pilots and
preparing suicide attacks on oil installations, public figures and military
bases in the kingdom and abroad.

General Mansour al-Turki, security spokesman for the interior ministry, said the
detainees had reached "an advance stage of readiness and what remained only was
to set the zero hour for their attacks. They had the personnel, the money, the
arms."

Most of those held were Saudi nationals. There were a smaller number of Yemenis
and Nigerians, Arab media reports said last night. The ministry did not name the
organisation the men belonged to, calling them only adherents to a "deviant
ideology" - standard Saudi terminology for a jihadi groups.

Previous attacks have been claimed by al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula. The
Saudi-backed al-Arabiya channel suggested they were linked to al-Qaida.

The ministry said some suspects had been trained in "turbulent areas", an
apparent reference to Iraq. Some had been "sent to other countries to study
flying in preparation for using them to carry out terrorist attacks inside the
kingdom". The Saudi captives had sworn allegiance to their unnamed leader at the
Kab'a in Mecca, Islam's holiest site, it said.

The ministry statement also said the men had operated in seven separate cells
and had been found in possession of 20m riyals (£2.6m) as well as weapons and
communications equipment. One group planned to attack a prison in Jeddah.

The unprecedented scale of the arrests seemed to undermine official Saudi claims
that jihadi terrorism had been all but eradicated by effective intelligence and
security, a powerful publicity campaign and inducements to terrorists to repent.
Some believed the announcement was intended to signal that vigilant security
forces were safeguarding the world's largest oil producer and exporter.

The Saudi state TV channel al-Akhbariya broadcast footage of weapons discovered
buried in the desert. These included AK-47 and other rifles, plastic explosives,
magazines, and handguns wrapped in plastic sheeting. It showed investigators
smashing tiled floors with hammers to uncover pipes containing weapons. In one
scene, an official upends a pipe and bullets and packets of explosives spill
out.

Prince Nayef, the powerful Saudi interior minister, signalled last week that an
important security announcement was imminent. But western diplomats said
yesterday they were puzzled by some of the details that had been released.

The large number suggested that some of those arrested were likely to have been
neighbours, acquaintances and contacts of a much smaller number of militants. It
also seemed likely the seven cells had been rounded up separately but announced
simultaneously to make a greater public impact.

According to official figures, about 144 foreigners and Saudis, including
security personnel, and 120 militants have died in attacks and clashes with
police since May 2003, when al-Qaida suicide bombers hit western housing
compounds in Riyadh.

In May 2004, 22 people, including an American, a Briton and an Italian, died in
an attack on oil company and housing compounds in Khobar.

Days later, gunmen killed Simon Cumbers, an Irish cameraman working for the BBC,
and seriously wounded his British colleague Frank Gardner as they filmed in
Riyadh.

The last terrorist attack in the kingdom was in February, when four French
expatriates were shot dead near Medina.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                 April 28, 2007

'Terror cell all set for attack'

LENGTH: 378 words


THREE alleged members of the violent Basque separatist group ETA arrested in
Sheffield were awaiting orders to commit attacks in Spain, a court heard.

The two men and a woman had formed a 'reserve cell' after a former 'command' was
dismantled, City of Westminster Magistrates Court heard.

The three were taken to London after being detained in Sheffield by officers
from the Metropolitan Police and South Yorkshire Police.

They were named as Zigor Ruiz Jaso, alias "Lukas", aged 28, from Pamplona, Inigo
Maria Albisu Hernandez, 23, from San Sebastian, and Ana Isabel Lopez Monge, 36,
from Bilbao.

The court heard Spain wants them for alleged offences of "participation in a
criminal organisation and terrorism".

The Spanish Interior Ministry said in a statement earlier that top Spanish
anti-terror judge Baltasar Garzon had issued warrants and a request for judicial
co-operation.

The three were remanded in custody until next Tuesday. There was no application
for bail.

Melanie Cumberland, representing the Spanish judicial authority, said it was
alleged that the three were awaiting orders to return to Spain to commit
terrorist attacks there.

Ruiz is alleged to have been the author of a February 2006 attack, for which ETA
claimed responsibility, in Motrico, Spain, which caused no injuries but
significant damage to property, she said.

After Albisu was held, he said: "I'm not Spanish, I'm Basque. It's true, I am
ETA. I am fighting for my country, you are my enemies," Ms Cumberland said.

The three had legal representation, but an interpreter assisting them in the
dock made it clear they were not going to answer questions from the court.

They were flanked by police officers and security staff during the 30 minute
hearing.

A South Yorkshire Police spokeswoman said: "Three people were arrested in
Sheffield on behalf of the Spanish authorities for alleged terrorism offences in
Spain.

"The three people are suspected of being members of the Spanish Basque
separatist group ETA."

Anti-terrorist sources said the arrests were the result of a Civil Guard
operation on March 28 when the Donosti cell of the ETA terrorists was broken up
in San Sebastian. It is thought they used the Santander ferry to escape from
Spain when the raids against the Donosti cell were taking place.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 30, 2007 Monday

India condemns terror attack in Pakistan

LENGTH: 157 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 29 April: India Sunday [29 April] condemned the terror attack in
North West Frontier Province (NWFP) Saturday in which Pakistan's interior
minister, Aftab Khan Sherpao, was injured and 30 people killed.

Home Minister Shivraj Patil has written a letter to Sherpao condemning the
incident and offering condolences to the bereaved families who lost their kith
and kin in the suicide attack at a public meeting in Charsadda in the NWFP.

"India condemns the terrorist attack and expresses deep condolences over the
loss of lives," External Affairs spokesman Navtej Sarna said.

Police said the suicide bomber was barely 10 feet away from the interior
minister when he detonated the explosive strapped around his body. Sherpao was
proceeding towards his jeep after addressing the meeting at Charsadda town,
about 28 km northeast of Peshawar.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1747 gmt 29 Apr 07

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             April 30, 2007, Monday
                              North Wales Edition

Iraqi premier warns Iran on terror attacks;
INTERNATIONAL

BYLINE: ED JAMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 640 words


IRAQ'S Prime Minister Nouri Maliki told an Iranian envoy yesterday that the
persistent attacks in Iraq also threaten the security of other countries, a
pointed warning amid US accusations that Tehran is helping to stoke the violence
by supporting Shi'ite militias.

Maliki met with top Iranian envoy Ali Larijani in Baghdad, as Iran agreed to
attend a major US-backed regional conference on Iraq set for this week in Egypt,
raising hopes that bringing Iraq's neighbours together will help stabilise the
country.

"Terrorist operations targeting Iraq will affect all countries in the world that
are supposed to be supporting the Iraqi government in its war against
terrorism," Maliki said in a statement issued by his office, adding that the
prime minister also thanked Iran for agreeing to participate in this week's
conference in Sharm el-Sheik.

The prime minister also said Sunni tribal leaders in the insurgent stronghold of
Anbar province have had success in fighting the militants, and said tribes in
other provinces plan to do the same thing.

For his part, Larijani expressed Iran's readiness to help rebuild Iraq and said
that "countries that want security and stability in the region have no choice
but to support Iraq's elected government".

Iran has considerable influence among Shi'ite parties in Iraq, who now lead the
country's government. It is alleged to have links with Shi'ite militant groups,
which is why numerous American politicians and analysts have urged Washington to
engage Iran in talks designed to curb the violence in Iraq.

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said she would not rule out the
possibility of a bilateral meeting with Iran, but stressed the focus would stay
on Iraq. The Americans have refused to hold one-on-one talks with Tehran over
its disputed nuclear programme.

"Well, I think we all know that if in fact everybody believes a secure Iraq is
important, then we need to stop the flow of foreign fighters," she said on CNN's
Late Edition.

"We need to stop the help to militias that then go out and kill innocent Iraqis.
We need to stop the flow of advanced (roadside bomb) technology, explosive
device technology that's killing American soldiers," she added.

Iraq has found itself in a difficult position since the US-led invasion in 2003,
with the government trying to maintain good relations with its predominantly
Shi'ite neighbour while not angering the Americans.

The Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini said that Larijani
would raise "some questions and ambiguities about the agenda" in his talks with
the Iraqi government.

The Iranian government has demanded the release of five Iranian officials
detained in the northern Iraqi city of Irbil by US troops in January, but
Hosseini denied his country had linked its participation at the conference to
that demand.

Rice also insisted there was no deal made regarding the detained Iranians in
exchange for Tehran's participation in the conference.

"There was no guarantee. We've talked to the Iraqi government and informed them
that the detainees will be dealt with in the normal course," she said.

Iran says the officials were diplomats who should not have been detained. The US
military has said the Iranians are suspected of links to a network supplying
arms to Iraqi insurgents - an accusation that Iran has denied.

The head of the Iranian parliamentary committee on national security and foreign
policy, Alaeddin Boroojerdi, also said Iran's failure to participate in Sharm
el-Sheik would lay the Islamic republic open to criticism from the US.

"Iran should attend the conference, actively and powerfully," he said.

Iraq's other neighbours as well as Egypt, Bahrain and representatives of the big
five UN Security Council members - the US, France, Britain, China and Russia -
have agreed to attend the meetings on Thursday and Friday.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki said terrorist operations
targeting Iraq will affect other countries in the world

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             April 30, 2007 Monday

7/7 BOMBING SENSATION;
SUISIDE PAIR SEEN BY MI5 WITH TERROR MASTERMIND A YEAR BEFORE ATTACKS ON THE
TUBE: YET THE FAILED TO STOP CARNAGEAS FIVE BRITONS GET LIFE FOR LONDON PLOT

SECTION: C

LENGTH: 673 words


CHANCES to prevent the 7/7 bombings were missed by the security services 15
months before the attacks, it was revealed this afternoon.

Just how close MI5 and the police came to stopping the atrocity emerged after
five British-born Muslim men were found guilty of a plot to murder thousands of
Londoners with fertiliserbased bombs. Among their targets were the Bluewater
shopping centre and the Ministry of Sound nightclub but they were being
monitored in a massive MI5 operation.

It was during this surveillance that two of the 7/7 bombers were seen meeting
the Bluewater plotters. Mohammad Sidique Khan, the 7/7 ringleader, was a close
associate of Omar Khyam, the man behind the Bluewater plot, and had been seen
meeting him four times. Fellow London bomber Shezhad Tanweer was seen by MI5
meeting Khyam twice.

But the two 7/7 men were dismissed as criminal associates of the radical Islamic
cell planning the Bluewater attack.

The revelations prompted immediate calls from families of the 7/7 victims for a
full independent inquiry. Liberal Democrat leader Sir Games 46 Readers' Views 47
Sport 58-64 Menzies Campbell said a public inquiry was essential and demanded a
Commons statement from Home Secretary John Reid, while shadow home secretary
David Davis repeated his call for an independent inquiry.

Mr Davis said: "Two facts are now crystal clear. First, our intelligence
services were monitoring two of the London bombers, but stopped before July
2005. Second, whether deliberately not told the public the whole truth about the
circumstances and mistakes leading up to the July 7 attacks. As a result, after
nearly two years and five government reports, we still don't know the truth. And
that means we still can't learn the lessons from those tragic events." The full
details about the extent of MI5's knowledge of the 7/7 bombers was made public
today after legal restrictions imposed because of the Bluewater trial. Graham
Foulkes, who lost his 22-year-old son David on 7 July, said that he was
"absolutely overwhelmed with a sense of sheer disbelief ".

"The consequences of that level of incompetence were such that my son was
killed. That is truly appalling," he said. Mr Foulkes, whose son, a media sales
manager for The Guardian in Manchester, was killed in the Edgware Road blast,
added of Dame Eliza Mannigham- Buller's departure from the top job at MI5: "She
has fallen on her sword. I think she jumped before an inquiry was held, which
undoubtedly would have criticised her personally. Could the bombings have been
prevented?

As a father who lost a son, I am drawn to that conclusion." Mr Reid infuriated
victims' families and MPs this afternoon by rejecting calls for an independent
inquiry. He said a full-scale probe would be "a massive diversion" of time and
money from the security services and the police. Mr Reid added that he did not
believe that the information thrown up by the Bluewater trial about 7/7 which
was made available to an inquiry last year by the Intelligence and Security
Committee in confidence had raised any new questions that had not been addressed
in the committee's report and insisted that "no mistakes" had been made over the
7/7 bombers.

Jonathan Evans who replaced Dame Eliza as director-general of MI5 this month,
said that the security services had foiled a "potentially devastating attack" by
the Bluewater plotters and denied that it had been "complacent" over the London
bombers. He added: "The attack on 7 July in London was a terrible event.

The sense of disappointment, felt across the service, at not being able to
prevent the attack (despite our efforts to prevent all such atrocities) will
always be with us.

The Security Service will never have the capacity to investigate everyone who
appears on the periphery of every operation." Security sources insist that the
evidence at the time was that Khan and Tanweer were both criminal, rather than
terrorist, associates of Khyam involved in credit card fraud and that they were
right to concentrate on others linked to the Bluewater gang.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLOTTING A MASSACRE: ANTHONY GARCIA FROM ILFORD AND OMAR KHYAM FROM
CRAWLEY. THE BRITONS WERE JAILED FOR LIFE TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Banker

                                  May 1, 2007

Thailand - Harsh Lessons Learned Amid Economic Uncertainty - Thailand Seemed To
Be Ushering In A Golden Age Of Financial Security, Until High-level Political
Scandal And Terrorist Attacks Sent Its Fragile Economy Crashing Back Down To
Earth. Simon M

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 1343  words


The assumptions about Thailand's economic stability and its openness to foreign
capital have been turned on their head since last September's military coup and
the suspension of constitutional safeguards. Bankers say the next few months
could be decisive in restoring business confidence in the military-installed
interim government and providing a framework for a return to democratic rule.

Bangkok's capital markets initially cheered the dramatic removal of two-term
prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra after months of uncertainty and legislative
log-jam. Bankers took hope from a team of technocrats appointed to the interim
administration who pledged to restore stability and keep the economy humming. A
budget stimulus was promised, as well as a kick-start to long- delayed
infrastructure projects for Bangkok.

But a series of policy blunders, including capital control measures introduced
in December, have hurt investor sentiment at a time of slowing economic output.
An investigation of Shin Corp, the telecommunications group that Mr Shinawatra
sold for $1.9bn last year to Singapore's Temasek Holdings, and revisions to
foreign ownership laws, also jolted foreigners who thought they had a handle on
Thailand. Foreign bankers say their phones were "ringing off the hook" as
customers wanted to understand how capital controls impacted their local
currency dealings.

Terror attacks

Adding to Thailand's woes, a series of deadly co-ordinated bombings shook
Bangkok on December 31. Police have yet to pinpoint who was behind the blasts,
though the military government blamed ousted politicians. More turmoil followed
when Pridiyathorn Devakula, the former central bank governor who was seen as the
architect of the controversial capital controls, resigned abruptly in February
as finance minister. His replacement, Chalongphob Sussangkarn, a director of an
independent economics research centre, has tried to strike a more conciliatory
tone than his predecessor, who had advocated sweeping financial sector reforms.
These reforms, including the separation of the supervisory function of the Bank
of Thailand to create an independent regulator, appear to be on the legislative
backburner for now.

Amid the political bumps, bankers drew some comfort from the government's
announcement in April that parliamentary elections would be held in December
under a new constitution being drafted by a handpicked assembly. But the risk of
a political upset is enough to keep many participants on their toes. Opposition
rallies against the military government have begun to build up, setting the
stage for a showdown over the fate of Thai Rak Thai, the political party founded
by Mr Shinawatra, which is being investigated for alleged electoral fraud. "The
political situation is highly uncertain in the next two months and anything
could happen. If we survive this period, then we could [have cause for]
optimism, the key is the survival of this government. If they can survive,
that's a positive," says Supavud Saicheua, an economist and managing director of
Phatra Securities.

Diminishing returns

Slowing output in recent months has prompted economists to revise forecasts for
Thailand's 2007 growth rate to less than 4%, well behind regional rivals such as
Indonesia and Vietnam. That slowdown is putting a dampener on targets for loan
growth and raising doubts over the quality of bank assets, particularly in
highly leveraged sectors such as residential property in Bangkok. First-quarter
loan growth fell below 5% in most categories, and isn't likely to pick up until
the second half of 2007.

"I think this is going to be a tough year for the banks. Despite the political
troubles last year, most banks recorded solid results. But if you look at the
fourth quarter of last year, the slowdown is starting to impact," says Vincent
Milton, managing director of Fitch Ratings in Thailand.

Amid the negative headlines over capital controls and the perception that rules
on business ownership are being changed to squeeze out foreign players, there
has been little relief for foreign bankers in Bangkok. Market chatter last year
of a "wall of money" looking for a home in Thailand has given way to a more
sanguine assessment of foreign appetite for fixed assets, as well as competition
from other Asian economies.

Foreign bankers say much will depend on how the business laws are revised, and
whether the whiff of protectionism is dispelled. In the meantime, they are
keeping a close eye on existing portfolios. "We expect there to be stresses on
balance sheets. We're much more guarded than we were a year ago on signs of
deterioration and inability to pay back - the normal warning signs," says Marcus
Hurry, CEO of HSBC in Thailand.

Testing times

Local bankers say the slowdown could be a test for risk-management systems that
were overhauled after the 1997-98 recession, when bad loans overwhelmed the
banking industry. Some asset categories are holding up, though overall loan
growth is slowing as many companies put capital investment programmes on hold.

"We're seeing more non-performing loans, but not to a serious extent. We're
quite cautious on this. We're migrating our overdue customers to longer terms of
repayment," says Prasarn Trairatvorakul, president of Kasikornbank.

Local bankers reject claims that Thailand is closing its doors to foreign
capital after decades of liberalisation. Some of the confusion is the result of
inexperienced government ministers failing to communicate their policies, while
trying to cope with inflows of speculative funds. Far from trying to block
foreign investors, the revised business act is designed to clarify the rules on
which sectors are open to full or partial ownership. A final version is being
debated by an interim legislative assembly. "There is no indication of any
fundamental shift of country policy away from openness. I don't think the
capital controls will be a permanent shift. Some measures have already been
reversed, and now it's just a symbol, not really substantial," says Mr Prasarn.

Overseas investment

One sign that Thailand is still open to foreign investment came in March, when
Canada's Bank of Nova Scotia agreed to pay about $200m to acquire 25% of
Thanachart Bank, ranked ninth in assets among local lenders. Bankers say Scotia
paid a substantial premium on the book value for Thanachart, which is a leading
auto financier and has more than 140 branches. The deal, due for completion in
June, follows GE Money's 25% acquisition late last year of mid- sized Bank of
Ayudhya, and US private equity investor Texas Pacific Group's entry into
state-owned BankThai.

As these small and mid-sized banks partner with foreign lenders, Thai bankers
are watching to see how they perform in a competitive market, particularly with
the cost of compliance with Basel II requirements by 2008. Holding on to a
market niche may not be viable in an era of universal banking where economies of
scale are crucial to efficient output.

"I think the message will not be lost on smaller banks. They're starting to ask
what will happen next. Thanachart is in survival mode, because niche banks today
face a difficult future," says Vichit Suraphongchai, chairman of Siam Commercial
Bank, which recently celebrated its centenary.

One answer may be merger and acquisition activity among local lenders to build
up their capital base and shift their competitive focus. "I think the sector is
approaching a period of shake out. This is the first sign of probably more to
come in terms of consolidation, particularly among smaller banks," says Fitch's
Mr Milton.

Retail lenders are keeping a close watch on credit card receivables after the
Bank of Thailand raised the minimum monthly repayment in April to 10%. That may
put a dampener on consumer spending at a time when retailers are suffering a
slowdown in sales, particularly in Bangkok, where the New Year's Eve bombings
deterred shoppers from visiting malls. To boost consumer spending, the
government has agreed to defer a planned raise in VAT to 10%, from the temporary
level of 7%.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                Copyright 2007 Financial Times Business Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday

UK terror plot: Victims of July 7 attacks join calls for public inquiry:
Reaction Tories and grieving relatives say MI5-led operation needs
investigation, but Reid says no

BYLINE: Jeevan Vasagar and Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 460 words


Families of victims of the July 7 attacks yesterday demanded a public inquiry as
both opposition parties heaped pressure on the government for an independent
investigation into the shortcomings of the security service operation run by
MI5.

Rachel North, who survived the bomb on the Piccadilly line, said: "Now that we
have discovered these men were very much on the radar of the security service
and could have been stopped, that is going to be very difficult to come to terms
with. This has fuelled my desire for an independent inquiry because it appears
we have not been told the truth about what happened and what we knew about these
bombers prior to 7/7."

Graham Foulkes, whose son David, 22, died in the attacks, said he was
"absolutely overwhelmed with a sense of sheer disbelief", adding: "The
consequences of that level of incompetence were such that my son was killed.
That is truly appalling. Could the bombings have been prevented? As a father who
lost a son, I am drawn to that conclusion."

The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "Two facts are now crystal clear.
First, our intelligence services were monitoring two of the London bombers, but
stopped before July 2005. Second, whether deliberately or not, the government
have not told the British public the whole truth about the circumstances and
mistakes leading up to the July 7 attacks."

The former Tory homeland security spokesman Patrick Mercer, a security expert,
also called for an independent inquiry: "We have got to find out why the home
secretary of the time described these men as 'clean skins' and the fact that the
attacks came 'out of the blue'."

The home secretary, John Reid, told the House of Commons: "I do not believe that
a public inquiry is the correct response at this time because it would divert
the energies and efforts of so many in the security service and the police who
are already stretched greatly in countering that present threat. Our
responsibility as a government is to try to minimise the chances of any other
group of families having to suffer in the way the families of 7/7 have
suffered."

Paul Murphy, chairman of the intelligence and security committee, which oversees
MI5, said his members remained satisfied there were "no culpable failures" by
the security and intelligence agencies.

The MI5 director general, Jonathan Evans, said: "My service has never been
complacent. The attack on July 7 in London was a terrible event. The sense of
disappointment felt across the service at not being able to prevent the attack .
. . will always be with us.

"The reality is that whilst we will continue to do everything in our power to
protect the UK public, we must be honest about what can and cannot be prevented
in a democratic society that values its freedoms."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday
                                  Eire Edition

WE WERE STONED BY KILKENNY FANS;
ATTACK TERROR AT HURLING FINAL

BYLINE: BY CIARAN MURPHY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 173 words


WATERFORD fans were spat on and stoned after Sunday's National Hurling League
Final, it was claimed yesterday.

One man named John said most Kilkenny fans were gracious after losing 0-20 to
0-18 at Semple Stadium, Thurles, Co Tipperary.

But when drivers from Waterford queued to leave three youths aged around 17
jumped out and started spitting on their windscreens.

One listener to WLRfm said his son was terrified when their car was attacked. He
told presenter Billy McCarthy when he stopped to "give out" to the youngsters he
noticed a number of adults watching and laughing.

He added: "I tried to ignore it... this could have ended up in serious trouble.
They also spat on a silver jeep.

"This is not typical of the people in Mooncoin or of Kilkenny fans. It was
people who weren't even at the match who caused all the trouble."

Local councillor Davy Walsh said the incident "was at odds with the spirit of
the match".

He added: "I was appalled to hear what happened. You can dress a vandal up...
but he's still just a vandal."

news@irishmirror.ie

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JOY: Waterford lifts cup

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday
                                 2 Star Edition

TARGET TALIBAN;
BRITISH TROOPS LEAD MAJOR ATTACK AGAINST AFGHAN TERROR STRONGHOLD

BYLINE: BY CHRIS HUGHES SECURITY CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 507 words


BRITISH troops stormed a Taliban stronghold yesterday as they spearheaded Nato's
biggest push yet against the fanatical Islamic extremists in southern
Afghanistan.

The attack began at dawn in the lawless Sangin Valley, a dusty, bone-dry expanse
crisscrossed with irrigation ditches that feed the numerous opium poppy fields.

The infantry platoons pushed cautiously forward, supported by Apache helicopters
that circled overhead and heavy artillery that pounded the enemy positions from
the surrounding high ground.

As the British troops inched up the valley the sporadic fire from the Taliban
grew heavier.

Most of the insurgents were sheltering in the compounds that dot the valley,
using their high mud walls as cover.

Small arms fire, mortar bombs and rocket-propelled grenades whistled ominously
over the heads of the British squaddies. They replied with barrages from their
mortars and heavy machine guns.

Gradually the Taliban gunmen were systematically flushed out of the compounds,
their walls flattened by the powerful British Javelin anti-tank missiles.

Last night Nato said the operation had been a great success with no reports of
casualties among the British troops. A spokesman said: "It has successfully
destroyed several positions used by the Taliban extremists to launch harassing
attacks."

The British-led assault was the first leg of a Nato offensive codenamed
Operation Silicon.

It is designed to flush the Taliban out of their strongholds in the volatile
Helmand province and give Afghanistan's president Hamid Karzai a firmer foothold
in the region, which is the Taliban's tribal heartland.

About 1,200 British soldiers are backed by 600 Americans, more than 1,000 Afghan
government troops and contingents from Netherlands, Denmark, Estonia and Canada.
Yesterday's assault was preceeded by an information campaign, with leaflet drops
and radio messages warning locals it would be beginning soon.

They were told to stay inside their homes when fighting began or to flee if the
Taliban was using them for cover.

But there was a dangerous side-effect to the publicity - because it meant the
Taliban knew the Brits were coming and had time to prepare.

Major Mick Aston admitted: "Everyone there wanting to fight will be a determined
fighter, since the message that we are coming has gone out."

The region is the centre of the poppy-growing industry, which supplies most of
the world's opium and heroin. But Nato has admitted the troops are turning a
blind eye to the poppy fields for fear of antagonising the two million farmers
whose livelihoods depend on it.

As the Brits were yesterday battling up the valley, US-led forces reported
killing 136 Taliban in three days of fierce fighting in and around the western
city of Herat. One US soldier was also killed.

American sources said it was the most severe fighting since the Taliban was
overthrown as Afghanistan's ruling party in 2001.

But the bloodshed enraged locals and a 500-strong mob fired guns in Herat and
yelled: "The Americans are killing us. We are innocent!"

c.hughes@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HERE WE GO: British troops move forward; DANGER ROUTE: Soldiers consult
map; FIREPOWER: Mobile British unit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             May 3, 2007, Thursday
                              North Wales Edition

BRITAIN: Bomb probe ruled out;
Blair refuses to hold new inquiry into the London terror attack

BYLINE: GAVIN CORDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 746 words


TONY Blair yesterday ruled out demands for a new inquiry into the July 7
bombings amid claims that MI5 overlooked crucial evidence which could have
prevented the attacks.

In the Commons, the Prime Minister said a fresh inquiry would be a "mistake" and
would undermine support for the security services in the fight against
terrorism.

His comments came amid reports that MI5 did not show surveillance photographs of
the bombers' ringleader Mohammed Sidique Khan to the original inquiry by the
parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee (ISC).

The BBC reported that although MI5 had six photographs of Khan taken during the
investigation of another terror plot, only one was shown to the ISC.

Whitehall sources said that while the committee did not see the photographs, it
was told that they existed.

"The reason they were not shown them is because it didn't add to the facts. If
they had felt the need to ask to see them, they would have asked," one source
said.

The sources said the ISC was given only one photograph of Khan as it was the one
used to show to a detainee to see if he could identify the man in the picture.

They strongly denied suggestions that the other photographs were withheld from
the ISC because they were taken by police rather than MI5.

At Prime Minister's questions, Mr Blair insisted that the ISC was shown all the
relevant material.

The committee, chaired by former Northern Ireland Secretary Paul Murphy, is to
look at the evidence again in the wake of the disclosures in the fertiliser bomb
plot trial which ended this week at the Old Bailey with the convictions of five
defendants.

It emerged that Khan and his right-hand man Shehzad Tanweer were recorded by
surveillance teams on several occasions with the ringleader of the fertiliser
bomb plot, Omar Khyam.

Although Khan was heard discussing the prospect of going to Pakistan to fight
with the militias, neither man was identified until after the July 7 bombings in
London more than a year later.

In the Commons, Tory leader David Cameron said that a "proper, independent
inquiry" was now needed to "enhance public confidence" in the fight against
terrorism.

He said the ISC, which is appointed by the Prime Minister and is made up of
senior parliamentarians, lacked the necessary investigative powers to do the
job.

However, Mr Blair said that a new inquiry would divert resources away from the
fight against terrorism.

"It would be wrong to say that in some way or other they (the ISC) didn't have
the information they wanted. Any information they want to have, they can," he
said.

"If we end up now saying that the Intelligence and Security Committee was not an
adequate inquiry, we have another inquiry, we will simply cause great anxiety
and difficulty within the service.

"We won't get any more truth, because the truth is there in the intelligence and
Security Committee, but what we will do is undermine support for our security
services and I am simply not prepared to do it."

The survivors and families of those killed in the July 7 attacks said the
disclosures about surveillance photographs underlined the need for a full public
inquiry.

John Falding, whose partner Anat Rosenberg died in the Tavistock Square bus
bomb, said there appeared to be a lack of communication between MI5 and police.

"It really confirms the feelings and suspicions that relatives and survivors
have had, that there was so much we were not being told and what we were being
told was not entirely truthful," he said.

Jacqui Putnam, who survived the Edgware Road blast, said the stream of
disclosures was simply adding to their anguish.

"I do not understand why they lie so inadequately to cover up these things. It
is inevitable that it is going to come out and it makes you wonder what the
purpose of it is," she said.

"If you are going to get the truth in dribs and drabs, it is going to drag on
and on. The very least they can do is say we are going to have an inquiry.

"It is disrespectful, it seems to me, to the people who died and the families
who are struggling to live with it."

Rachel North, who survived the blast on the Piccadilly Tube, said it now
appeared that the ISC did not have all the material it was entitled to when it
carried out its original inquiry.

"The fact they have been asked to look at the matter again causes problems
because they did not do it right the first time," she said.

"What we want is an independent personwho can trawl through all the information
available and make recommendations."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tony Blair during Prime Minister's questions in the Commons yesterday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gloucester Citizen

                              May 3, 2007 Thursday

Bike boy, 12, in terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 139 words


A 12-year-old boy was assaulted and had his bike stolen as he walked through
Gloucester Park.

The Gloucester youngster was walking through Barnwood Park playing fields off
Church Lane when he was confronted by a man at around 3.45pm on Monday.

He was assaulted when he refused to hand over the 21-speed mountain bike.

A police spokeswoman said: "A man approached him and demanded he hand over his
bike. When he refused, the man punched him in the arm and cycled off."

She said the offender was described as being a black youth, aged between 17 and
18, with short cropped hair and brown eyes.

He was wearing a black Adidas zip-up top, black trainers and black jogging
bottoms.

Anyone with information about the incident should contact police on 0845 090
1234, or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 11, quoting incident number 456
of April 30.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Gloucester Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                   UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is York

                              May 3, 2007 Thursday

York mother s attack terror

BYLINE: Press reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1119 words

DATELINE: York Press


A WOODCARVER has been sent to jail for two years after he beat up his mother and
threatened to kill her.

Christian Paul Dawson, 39, pleaded guilty to repeatedly punching June Smith
"with great force" all over her body at her New Earswick home last October, but
said he could not even remember assaulting her.

Ms Smith said she had never seen her son so drunk, York Crown Court heard.

She said he shouted to her he was going to kill her during the attack, which
left her with a broken finger.

Ms Smith played dead during the assault, hoping this would stop her son. But she
had to resort to hitting him on the head with a candle, after he had kicked her
between the legs when she was on the floor.

She eventually managed to escape to a neighbour's property, and Dawson, who was
on medication for depression, was arrested and taken to hospital. He was treated
there for a suspected overdose of prescription drugs.

But Dawson then headbutted a police officer, PC Matthew Edwards, when he tried
to remove him from the hospital because he was being so abusive.

Geraldine Kelly, mitigating, said: "At the time of the offence, Dawson hadn't
been in contact with his mother for some time and went to York to help her out."

The court heard that Dawson had been helping his mother to decorate her flat,
after she had invited him to stay. He had been living in Tottenham, north
London.

He "desperately craved" a loving relationship with his mother, and her being
"verbally abusive" towards him had sent him in a "downward spiral".

Sentencing him, Judge Paul Hoffman said: "You said you blamed your mother for
your actions, and that you did not see yourself as having committed a crime.

"This was a very aggressive assault on your mother - you kicked her on the legs,
and punched her body and head, fracturing one of her fingers. Not content with
that, you assaulted a police officer.

"You're a very volatile man indeed, and you present a danger of committing a
serious injury against your mother in the future."

He jailed Dawson for two years in total for affray, inflicting grievous bodily
harm on his mother and actual bodily harm on PC Edwards.

Woman in heartfelt appeal for jailed son who assaulted her in drunken rage

THE mother and victim of jailed Christian Dawson today issued a heartfelt plea
to those dealing with her son: "Help him - do not punish him."

June Smith, 61, was attacked by her 39-year-old son last October, after he
returned from a night out drinking with a friend.

But she said Christian had been suffering from long-term depression, caused by
his father walking out on the family 23 years ago.

Speaking after her son was sentenced, she said: "He needs somewhere where he
will be looked after and assessed. I have looked after him a couple of years and
he really needs help."

Christian is a master stonemason, and worked wonders on the restoration of York
Minster following the 1984 fire.

But, said Ms Smith, he had never got over the family break-up.

She said: "I will not turn my back on him. I never will. I just want him to get
the help he needs to get his life and his career back on track because it's a
tragedy. All my friends say it's a tragedy."

She said she was not asking for him to be set free, but felt it was vital that
he was given support to ease his cycle of depression. She said she felt a purely
medical institution would have been better than prison for her son.

She said: "He does suffer from depression, which he has suffered since his
father left him. That goes back 23 years, to when he was 16. I think that's the
cause of it."

She said Christian had begged his father to stay, and was never the same after
he left.

Ms Smith said Christian had been more or less living at her house for the past
three and a half years, and said: "We are probably too close really. We have
always been there for each other and always looked after each other. It's just,
I think, you always hurt the one you love don't you?"

The doting mother said she was angry with the person who had taken Christian out
drinking on the night in question. She added: "Christian's old enough to know
not to do it, but then again, you do things you shouldn't. Everyone does
really."

Whether or not to appeal the sentence was, she said, a decision for Christian
and his defence team, but she would support anything which saw him getting as
much help as possible.

She said: "He's in Hull at the moment, but I just hope he can be moved somewhere
where he can be assessed and get help with his problems, and get him back on
track with his career. It's a waste and a tragedy because he's just so
talented."

Psychologist makes plea for counselling

FAMILY psychologist Kevin Browne said Ms Smith was right - her son needs support
more than punishment.

He said: "He Christian needs counselling, so I think his mother has a point.
What he desperately needs is help. Someone needs to talk to him."

Prof Browne, an expert based at the University of Birmingham, said depression
and resentment often resulted from a family break-up.

He added: "They are obviously suffering from the breakdown of the family.

"Family breakdowns can often lead to violence between those members left.

"If you are living with a depressed individual it can be quite frustrating."

Prof Browne said the wider disintegration of wider family networks and community
as a whole meant family crises could be more traumatic now than in the past, as
there was less readily-available support now."

Genius of the young carver

IT was the biggest restoration project York has ever seen. And Christian Dawson
was right at the heart of it.

Presented with a block of wood, stone or marble he was a genius, and he played a
pivotal role in helping return York Minster to its former glory, following the
devastating fire of 1984.

He became an apprentice carver at the Minster when he was 17, and benefited from
a £2,000 bequest from retired timber merchant Anthony David Christie Smith.

Christian's mother, June Smith, said he had designed three or four of the bosses
on the restored South Transept roof, and been introduced to the Queen when she
re-opened it in 1988. She said he also appeared on Blue Peter to help judge
children's designs for bosses.

He left York after several years, and went on to work at Lincoln Cathedral and
the Houses of Parliament, and also in Cambridge.

Ms Smith said: "He did very well when he got the Minster. He went to sixth form
college to do joinery, then got this job at the Minster and that was wonderful.
He was really, really happy there."

She said he wished her son had stayed at the Minster rather than moving away,
and she hoped he would be given the help and support he needed to get his career
back on its successful track.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Christian Dawson beat up and threatened to kill his mother in a
drink-fuelled attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 6, 2007 Sunday

Russian special forces learn from terror attacks, adjust tactics

LENGTH: 852 words


Excerpt from "I Serve Fatherland" military programme report by Russian Channel
One Europe TV on 6 May

[Presenter] In 1996, the Raduyev gang seized the Dagestani town of Kizlyar. The
Internal Troops posted a security cordon along the entire perimeter and
surrounded the terrorists. However, the federal forces were forced to make
concessions, and had to let Raduyev's people go.

On buses, the bandits, with hostages, headed for the nearby village of
Pervomayskoye. And although our special services considered the possibility of
an operation to storm the militants there and then, in their buses, they decided
against it.

Since then, those events have been carefully studied, which has laid the
foundation of work to instruct and train the storm troops. [Passage omitted:
Kizlyar events recalled]

[Sergey Shikhanov, deputy commander of the Rus special-purpose detachment] The
first principle to be used is that, by fair means or foul, the bus must be
stopped. Means are employed to shock the enemy, that is to say the militants,
even for a very short time, two to three seconds within which the man is
disoriented. They can neither see nor hear anything.

[Voice-over] Here, you can see a tactical exercise by a special-purpose subunit.
Such training takes place several times a week. The tactics of the snatch squads
are constantly improved. However, according to the director of the FSB, Nikolay
Patrushev, the life of hostages is valued by the special services above all
else. [Video, captioned "Training base of a special-purpose detachment, April
2007", shows the storming of a bus]

Here, you can see unique footage from October 1995, when a bus with South Korean
hostages was seized on Vasilyevskiy Spusk, near the Kremlin. As the snatch
squads began to storm it, an unforeseen circumstance arose: The first attempt to
smash the thick glass of the bus window failed. The criminal even had enough
time to fire his weapon, although the return fire killed him immediately. No
hostages were harmed, even though the terrorist had threatened to detonate an
explosive device.

It was following that incident that the tactics employed by the Spetsnaz
changed. Now, bus windows are broken by means of a small-yield directional-blast
charge, as for instance in this case, rather than smashed. [Video: a charge is
held up to a bus window in a practice operation to storm a bus]

[Officer, masked, to others, also masked] As you enter it, try to practise it,
your hand will hold a pistol and will be occupied. So, do not use it as you
enter through the window. So, as you enter with a pistol, it will be used to
fire it, if you are jumped by a terrorist. OK?

[Voice-over] This is a subunit that specializes specifically in the capture of
criminals on road transport. Each participant in the storming has a strictly
defined function to carry out.

[Officer, as above] Your job is not only to put up a live ladder but also then
to cover each your own sector, as the terrorist may have accomplices some way
off, away from the bus, in their own transport, in a support role. Your task,
once the storm group goes in, is to cover each your own sector.

[Voice-over] The area of the operation is split into sectors, like the face of
the clock. So, for example, during the storming a soldier is positioned in the
12 over three sector, which means that he covers the sector ahead of him and to
the right.

[Officer, as above] Once he is led out of the bus, with him put against it, the
more you shout at him, the more he is frightened and the less he wants to put up
resistance. The way for you to stand is, as you search the left side of the man,
preferably with your right leg in the area behind his knee. If he tries to put
up resistance or escape, you can hold him fast if you press on the back of the
joint.

When your No 1 searches him, when he is ready he [says] Op! and moves over to
the other side. You do the same. As he moves over, first - in short movements -
lower your pistol. Why? So as not to harm your No 1 if you fire it accidentally,
God forbid. Once he has moved over, raise it again. OK? [All illustrated by
video]

[Voice-over] The short and effective final phase of a special operation is
preceded by thorough preparation, which includes negotiations, the examination
of routes to approach the target, the gathering of intelligence on what the
terrorists are armed with, what their tactics and plans are; the special
equipment is made ready; and, the most important thing, operations are practised
on a mock-up of the particular vehicle.

[Shikhanov] As for Kizlyar and Pervomayskoye, our adversaries, enemies,
terrorists - whatever, I think it was the first and last time when they were
allowed to do it - the first and last time. I think that all the special-forces
subunits have drawn lessons, conclusions from those situations. And, as the
latter's subsequent actions in all the special operations have shown, the former
do not stand a chance.

[Video: In drills, troops storm buses, explain actions, carry weapons; with
archive footage, as above]

Source: Channel One Worldwide (for Europe), Moscow, in Russian 0335 gmt 6 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 9, 2007 Wednesday

Pakistani intelligence agencies say terrorists may attack phone exchanges

LENGTH: 230 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 9 May

[Report by Nadeem Shah: "Terrorists may hit PTCL installations"]

MULTAN: Intelligence agencies have warned the PTCL management that terrorists
and suicide bombers have planned attacks on its installations, including phone
exchanges, to create unrest and challenge the writ of the government, sources
said on Tuesday.

The intelligence agencies, in a top-secret letter, warned that terrorists might
target communication centres and phone exchanges in the coming months. It stated
that some terrorists had already entered the Punjab from Waziristan to launch
suicide attacks.

PTCL sources disclosed that security had been beefed up at the installations of
the company. The PTCL management is said to have urged its regional managers and
senior engineers in the districts to take necessary measures for preventing any
untoward incident.

The management has also put up "prohibited area" boards at its offices and
installations and nobody is allowed inside except staffers. The sources said all
PTCL employees had been strictly asked to display their service cards and
badges, while all their personal articles would be checked with metal detectors
before being allowed into offices and installations. Separate entry cards would
also be issued to visitors, the sources added.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 9 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                    PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

                       May 9, 2007 Wednesday 6:46 PM BST

`RURAL TERRORISTS' SOUGHT AFTER WIND FARM ATTACK

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 271 words


Detectives are hunting ``rural terrorists'' accused of trying to stop the
development of a Norfolk wind farm by destroying a piece of testing equipment
worth more than £100,000.

Farmers behind plans to develop the wind farm at Marshland St James in Norfolk
said they were horrified after a 279ft (85m) tall anemometer being use to
evaluate wind strength was felled when a 0.75in (19mm) steel supporting rope was
cut.

A spokesman for the Marshland wind farm consortium said he feared that opponents
of wind farms in other areas of the UK might be tempted to attempt copycat
attacks.

``This is rural terrorism - there is no question about it. People have a
democratic right to complain about anything they don't want in there area but
this is going too far. It's criminal damage.

``This structure could have killed someone when it fell. The steel supporting
rope could have taken someone's head off when it whiplashed. It's horrifying.

``It could spread to other areas. People might be tempted to try the same thing.
But we will not be put off. We will keep going but what has happened will delay
us.

``The anemometer is worth between £100,000 and £200,000. It's a serious piece of
kit. And all the data it had collected has probably been lost.''

Police said they were treating the attack on the steel tower as criminal damage
and detectives wanted to hear from anyone with information.

The Marshland spokesman said the farmers behind the plans had received
threatening letters and abuse in recent weeks from locals opposed to the
development of a wind farm.

He said a number had pulled out of the consortium because of ``harassment''. end

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday

Macedonian Islamic community condemns planned terrorist attack on US base

LENGTH: 169 words


Text of report by Macedonian newspaper Utrinski Vesnik on 10 May

Yesterday the Islamic Religious Community condemned the planned terrorist attack
on Fort Dix military base in New Jersey, United States, as inhuman and contrary
to civilization and to the fundamental principles of Islam.

The announcement reads that the Islamic Religious Community finds "the act to be
distressing and alarming also because of the involvement of citizens belonging
to our religion and nationality. One's participation in a terrorist act against
a military installation of a country that is a friend to the Albanians makes one
an anti-Albanian who opposes a country that fosters democratic values."

The Islamic Religious Community expresses support for the US Administration's
fight against terrorism and wants the masterminds of this plot to be brought to
justice.

[Three of the six arrested suspects, the Duka brothers, are from the Macedonian
town of Debar on the border with Albania]

Source: Utrinski Vesnik, Skopje, in Macedonian 10 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday

Financial: Directors have not grasped risk of British terror attack, says report

BYLINE: Phillip Inman

SECTION: GUARDIAN FINANCIAL PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 355 words


Businesses are failing to plan for major terrorist incidents despite the
likelihood that al-Qaida or a homegrown terrorist group will succeed in carrying
out another atrocity in the next few years, said a report published yesterday.

Directors also misunderstand the nature of political and terrorist threats
abroad and how they might have an impact on their operations, said the report
for the Lloyd's of London insurance market.

The result is a kind of paralysis that prevents companies from making big
investments in many developing-world countries or locating head offices in large
cities overseas.

The report, Under Attack: Global business and the threat of political violence,
showed that more than a third of companies avoided investing overseas for fear
of political violence. A further 20% have missed promising business
opportunities for the same reason, the report said.

Lord Levene, chairman of Lloyd's, said: "There is a large gap between what
businesses perceive as a threat and the reality. Many companies are changing
their plans based on perceived threats, which is a problem if their information
is incorrect.

He said companies relied on media reports for information about foreign
countries, which was usually focused on radical religious terrorism. "Media
coverage rarely touches on the emergence of new risks, such as threats to the
supply chains, cyber terrorism, homegrown terrorism and the threat of
biological, nuclear and radioactive attack."

The report's author, Paul Kielstra, a contributor to the Economist Intelligence
Unit, said he was surprised that only 30% of business leaders believed they had
a good idea of the risks they faced from political violence and terrorism. He
said respondents believed there was a growing threat from terrorism when the
number of international terrorist incidents had fallen sharply in the past three
years. "If you exclude Iraq, we are experiencing a historic low," he said.

He said that while groups such as al -Qaida targeted western businesses, they
also hoped to bring economic activity to a halt. This wider threat can harm all
business in a country affected by an attack.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday

International: German police claim G8 terror attack foiled

BYLINE: Kate Connolly, Berlin

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 310 words


Hundreds of German police combed offices and flats associated with leftwing
activists across six northern cities yesterday, saying they had evidence that a
terrorist organisation was planning to disrupt next month's G8 summit.

The biggest early-morning raid took place in the northern port city of Hamburg,
at a popular leftwing cultural centre known as Red Flora. In Berlin, two
cultural centres were among the 40 buildings searched. Eighteen people arrested
were being questioned last night.

Prosecutors in the German capital said they had launched an investigation into
the so-called Militant Group, a leftwing movement believed to be responsible for
25 attacks during the past six years.

The interior ministry said border controls would be tightened in response to
information abouut plans for fire bombings and other attacks. Unlike last year's
G8 meeting at St Petersburg, the summit venue, Heiligendamm, on the Baltic
coast, is easy to reach, lying close to the borders of both Poland and Denmark.

"We suspect those targeted, who belong to the militant extreme-left scene, of
founding a terrorist organisation, or being members of such an organisation,
that is planning arson attacks and other actions to severely disrupt or prevent
the summit from taking place," a spokesman for the state prosecutor's office
said.

"We're not talking about paint bombs," an investigator told Spiegel Online.
"We're talking here of groups with the potential to commit terrorist acts."

Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, will host the leaders of Britain, the US,
Canada, France, Italy, Japan and Russia at the talks, which will focus on
climate change and African poverty as well as economic cooperation.

German G8 protesters in a statement said the raids were a deliberate attempt
prior to the event to disrupt their communication network and their plans for
peaceful protest.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              May 11, 2007 Friday

Cameron: One in 10 Muslims in denial about terror attacks

SECTION: A

LENGTH: 561 words


AT least one in 10 British Muslims is in denial about the 7 July bombings in
London, David Cameron is warning.

The Tory leader raised his concerns after staying with a Muslim family in
Birmingham.

Arguing that parts of the Muslim community are in denial about terrorism, he
writes on his website: "In the mosque and elsewhere I got the familiar
depressing questions about who was really responsible for 9/11 and even 7/7.

"Dig a bit deeper and it all comes out, 'CIA plot ... Jews told to leave the
twin towers'. Even when it comes to 7/7, 'how do we know the suicide bomber
videos are real and not fakes?' "Even if this is a view held by five or 10 per
cent of British Muslims

and I suspect it is at least that

this is a real problem which we have all got to get to grips with." However,
after staying with a Muslim couple and their three children in the Balsall Heath
Electronic area of Birmingham, he also accused the media and MPs of causing
anger among some Muslims with inappropriate language.

Calling for people to stop using the words "Islamist terrorists" he adds: "It's
hard to overemphasise the importance of language.

"Every time the BBC or a politician talks about Islamist terrorists they are
doing immense harm (and yes I am sure I have done this too, despite trying hard
to get this right).

"Think of Northern Ireland

'IRA terrorist' was fine because it marked them out as part of a terrorist
group. Catholic terrorists would have been a disaster. Yet that is the
equivalent of what we are doing now. When they hear this kind of language.

Muslims simply think 'they mean us'." Mr Cameron also echoed criticisms by some
Muslims of tags used western society for its drinking, drug-taking and
anti-social behaviour, stressing people should be "inspired" to integrate in
Britain and could not be "bullied" into doing so.

He writes: "Integration is a two-way street. Yes we can ask minority ethnic
communities to work at integrating with British society as a whole, but we have
to recognise that it won't happen unless there's something attractive to
integrate into." Highlighting his experiences during his stay in a Muslim
community he added: "Time after time I heard people here talking about the
uncivilised behaviour and values that they see all around them.

"As I've said before, we can't just bully people into being more British, we've
got to inspire them. And frankly, there are many aspects of our society today
which are hardly inspiring

the drinking, the drugtaking, the rudeness and incivility, the lack of
consideration for others, anti-social behaviour ... we've got a serious fight on
our hands to build a responsible society that is the kind of society people
admire and want to be part of. " He also voiced concerns among some Muslims that
not enough is being done to stop extremist preachers coming to Britain and
radicalising young people. However, people he met also admitted they needed to
talk more about terrorism issues. School governors also told him of their
concerns that low aspirations for pupils from deprived neighbourhoods were
leading to poor educational achievements.

"That is a disgusting attitude and we've got to drive it right out of our
education system. If ever there was a case for zero tolerance this is it.

Wherever such low standards and bad attitudes persist, schools should be taken
over or closed, period," Mr Cameron writes.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Spenborough Today

                                  May 11, 2007

Terror attack widow quizzed

LENGTH: 373  words


THE widow of London bomber Mohammed Sidique Khan, of Thornhill Lees, has been
arrested in connection with the attacks on July 7, 2005.

Hasina Patel, 29, was arrested with a Batley man who is believed to be her
brother Arshad Patel, and a man from Leeds, both in their 30s, by officers from
West Yorkshire Police and the Metropolitan Police Counter Terrorism Unit.

Another man was arrested in the West Midlands.

The four were then taken to London for questioning.

The raids took place early on Wednesday morning at four addresses in Pentland
Road, Savile Town; Dale Street, Thornhill Lees; Hayburn Gardens in Batley; and
Millbrook Gardens in Staincliffe.

Searches were also carried out at addresses in Beeston and Birmingham.

A Metropolitan Police spokesman said: "This was a pre-planned, intelligence-led
operation involving the MPS Counter Terrorism Command and the Counter Terrorism
Units in West Yorkshire and the West Midlands.

"This remains a painstaking investigation with a substantial amount of
information being analysed and investigated."

A spokesman for Kirklees police added: "Neighbourhood policing team officers are
meeting local people to keep them updated and informed about activity in their
areas and to reassure the wider community.

"We would like to thank people for their understanding and support at this time
and would ask that it continues."

Dewsbury and Heckmondwike MP Shahid Malik said: "I have no doubt that the police
investigation will reassure the victims of 7/7 and the public at large that the
police will leave no stone unturned to try to establish who may have been
involved directly or indirectly in the events of 7/7.

"The conviction last week of the fertiliser bombers gives us a good indication
that there is an on-going security threat from terrorists to this country."

Batley and Spen MP Mike Wood urged people to co-operate with the investigation.

He added: "Information is limited but the police are working closely with local
councillors and myself.

"They appear to be committed to keeping local people informed, working
sensitively and in partnership with the community.

"Obviously local people should co-operate with the police fully and be as
patient as possible while the police conduct their investigation."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 14, 2007 Monday

Two Algerian soldiers killed, three wounded in "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 241 words


Text of report by K. Ouahab headlined "Terrorist Attack in Skikda: Two Soldiers
Killed and Three Others Wounded" published by Algerian newspaper El Watan
website on 14 May. First paragraph is El Watan introduction.

Two soldiers, one commander and one sergeant major, were killed yesterday [13
May] in a bomb blast near Boulballout in the far southwest of Skikda Province.

Three others were also injured. The attack was carried out at 1000 [local time,
0900 gmt] in Lemkhizna on the road leading to Boulballout - the military
convoy's destination. According to local sources, the convoy, made up of
soldiers and municipal guards, was travelling to reach the metropolitan area of
Chaaba Oum Daou following news reports on a terrorist group in the region.

The same sources said that while the convoy was driving down the Lemkhizna road
a device, which is believed to have been triggered remotely, exploded as one of
the trucks went past. Two soldiers, Commander Najib B., 47, the leader of the
Boulballout unit, and one sergeant major were killed instantly. Given the
intensity of the explosion, the bodies of the two victims were almost torn to
bits. Three other soldiers, including Commander Ahmed B., head of the Tamalous
sub-sector, were wounded. Ahmed B's condition is regarded as very critical
because he was reportedly sustained serious lesions to the abdomen and the eyes.
[Passage omitted]

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 14 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 14, 2007 Monday

Greek police warn next terrorist attack might turn bloody

LENGTH: 269 words


Text of report by Greek newspaper Ta Nea on 8 May

[Unattributed Report: "Greek Police on Alert Over New Terror Attack"]

"This is the toughest proclamation by Revolutionary Struggle," claim
Counter-Terror Squad officials. "The tone of the proclamation is very
aggressive, and leads us to the conclusion that the terrorists are not only
prepared to strike again soon, they are prepared to make it bloody. Next time,
they will aim to spill blood", notes one high-ranking Counter-Terror Squad
official.

The analysis of the proclamation is a source of concern for the police because
of the lack of any reference to the 17N trial or to concurrent political
developments, namely the bonds issue and developments in the judiciary. "Judging
by the character Revolutionary Struggle is trying to assume, we believe it is
very likely it will use a strike to offer its own perspective on these issues.
For this reason, we are worried about the absence of any reference to these
issues", say Public Order ministry officials.

"From the first moment of its emergence, Revolutionary Struggle made it clear
that it considers the police and judges as the enemy. In this way, it also
revealed its ideological perspective, which is not far from 17N and ELA
[Revolutionary Popular Struggle]. We were lucky there were no victims during the
former Cadet Academy and Petrou Rally Street attacks. It appears now that after
a number of attacks on targets that they tried to link to sociopolitical issues,
the terrorists are returning to their original goals" one high-ranking
Counter-Terror Squad official.

Source: Ta Nea, Athens, in Greek 8 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Blackpool Gazette

                                  May 16, 2007

Man stabbed in terror attack

LENGTH: 125 words


POLICE were hunting two men after a delivery driver was stabbed in a terrifying
attack.

The 49-year-old victim fears his assailant used a syringe during the assault on
Marsden Street in Kirkham.

Detectives are now appealing to the public for help in catching the two
attackers.

Det Sgt Andy Lawless of Blackpool's robbery team said: "This is a very serious
and upsetting incident, but luckily the victim is not believed to be badly
injured.

The victim, a self-employed delivery driver from Preston, had dropped off at
package at the back of the Kirkgate Centre when he was approached by two men in
the car park.

The pair demanded money before launching at the victim with what he believed to
be a syringe and running off empty handed towards Poulton Street.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 17, 2007 Thursday

Uganda says to stay put in face of Somalia "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 611 words


Excerpt from report by Alfred Wasike, Milton Olupot, John Odyek and agencies
entitled "Four UPDF killed in Mogadishu", published by Ugandan newspaper The New
Vision website on 17 May; subheading inserted editorially

[Passage omitted: summary of wire reports] Four Ugandan soldiers serving under
the African Union force in war-torn Somalia were killed and five wounded by a
remote-controlled bomb on their convoy in northern Mogadishu yesterday.

A child playing nearby was also killed and another wounded in the roadside
blast, witnesses said. The children had been playing football.

An eye-witness was quoted as saying another man urinating in a bush near the
bomb was blown to pieces.

Some 1,500 Ugandan peacekeepers are in Somalia as part of a planned 8,000-strong
force that the AU is struggling to assemble. The latest deaths brought to five
the number of Ugandan troops killed since they deployed in Somalia on 6 March.
The first soldier was killed on 1 April by artillery fire near Mogadishu's
presidential palace.

The Wednesday attack came just as the Somali President, Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmad,
was concluding his three-day official visit to Uganda.

The explosion shattered a relative calm in Mogadishu that had endured since the
end of two major battles between insurgents and the interim government, backed
by its Ethiopian allies, in March and April. At least 1,300 people were killed.

"Kicks of a dying horse"

Reacting to yesterday's attack, Ugandan army chief Gen Aronda Nyakairima said:
"It is a terrorist attack to try and intimidate our force. Those are kicks of a
dying horse."

"The attacks will not change our resolve to help pacify Somalia. Our soldiers
were on a routine patrol near their base. They are engaged in
confidence-building patrols," said Nyakairima. He added that the Ugandan troops
had been called several times by wananchi [citizens] to detonate bombs or take
away unexploded ordinances.

"We shall stay put and wait for the other countries to deploy their troops
alongside ours."

In Addis Ababa, the AU Commission chairperson, Alpha Oumar Konare, expressed
"utter shock and disbelief" at the unprovoked attack. Condemning the attacks as
"despicable", Konare expressed his condolences to the families of the bereaved
and commiserated with the wounded.

According to a statement issued in Addis Ababa, Konare, praising the Ugandan
troops who are "deployed in Somalia under the most difficult circumstances,"
appealed to them to remain "engaged in the noble action of helping the people of
Somalia, especially those who continue to suffer from the senseless carnage,
harassment, displacements and killings." UPDF's [Uganda People's Defence Forces]
commander of Land Forces, Lt-Gen Edward Katumba Wamala, said: "It is very sad."

The spokesperson for the AU troops, Capt Paddy Ankunda, added: "Four of our
soldiers were killed and five wounded by the blast which took place at Aruba
Hotel area while on duty."

Army spokesperson Maj Felix Kulayigye said: "The wounded have been evacuated for
treatment in Nairobi." He added that the identities of the dead soldiers would
be made public after their next of kin had been informed.

The interim Somali government accused Al-Qa'idah of involvement in the attack.
"The attack against the Ugandan troops has all the hallmarks of Al-Qa'idah. The
Somali government is treating the matter as a terrorist attack," said Hussein
Mohamud Mohammed, the Somali presidential spokesperson.

Several people at the scene were immediately arrested, a Somali security officer
said, adding that the person who detonated the bomb could not have fled very
far. [Passage omitted]

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 17 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 18, 2007 Friday

Estonia calls for a Nato strategy on 'cyber-terrorists' after coming under
attack

BYLINE: Adrian Blomfield in Moscow

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 534 words


ESTONIA urged Nato to develop a unified strategy against "cyber-terrorists''
yesterday after suspected Russian hackers launched a third wave of attacks on
leading government, banking and media websites this week.

The three-week cyber-offensive, which has been linked to a furious diplomatic
row between Russia and Estonia, is believed to be the first time that a single
state has come under concerted attack by hackers.

Some officials in Estonia, one of the most wired countries in the world, have
suggested that the Russian government was behind the campaign.

The Baltic state has suffered serious electronic disruption since it decided to
relocate a controversial Soviet war memorial, a move that prompted Russia to
threaten sanctions.

The presidential administration's website was inaccessible for six days late
last month while those of most cabinet ministries suffered reduced connection
speeds after they too were targeted.

While there has been greater preoccupation in Tallinn with more tangible
assaults on Estonian interests, including attacks by pro-Kremlin youths on its
Moscow embassy and the disruption of fuel supplies, officials said the
cyber-attacks set a worrying precedent.

Mikhel Tammet, a senior government official who chairs Estonia's cyber-defence
co-ordination committee, said that Nato and the European Union had to establish
how to respond to cyber warfare before other members fell victim to a very 21st
Century weapon.

"This is a kind of terrorism,'' he said. "The act of terrorism is not to steal
from a state, or even to conquer it. It is, as the word suggests, to sow terror
itself. If a highly IT country cannot carry out its every day activities, like
banking, it sows terror among the people.

"The EU and Nato have to work out its doctrines and position on these kinds of
attacks and how to deal with them.''

Estonia has launched an investigation. While the source of some of the earliest
attacks has been linked by Estonia to Russian government computers, including
one in President Vladimir Putin's office, there is no evidence to connect the
campaign to the Kremlin.

This is because the hackers used robots to infiltrate hundreds of thousands of
computers around the world without their owners' knowledge. The infected
machines would then have flooded Estonian websites with bogus information in
what is known as a Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack.

It is believed that hackers have infected up to a quarter of the world's
computers, making tracing the true culprits almost impossible.

Whether the Kremlin was involved, or not, some observers say that the level of
anti-Estonia hysteria it has whipped up might have encouraged nationalist
hackers to take matters into their own hands. Thousands of ordinary people are
believed to have joined in after instructions on how to carry out a DDoS attack
were posted on dozens of Russian websites.

While most Estonian ministry websites are now functioning normally after
technicians blocked hostile internet portal addresses, some companies in the
banking and media sector say they are still encountering problems.

Estonia was expected to feature heavily at an EU-Russia summit which began in
the Urals city of Samara yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday

Israel: No casualties in rocket attack, soldiers clashing with terrorists unhurt

LENGTH: 134 words


Text of report by Israel radio on 19 May

A rocket salvo was fired some time ago at the western Negev. Nobody was hurt but
damage was caused. Our correspondent Nisim Qeynan reports that nine rockets were
fired in the past hour at the Eshkol region, as well as at Sederot and its
environs. There were no casualties, but a public building in a locality in the
Eshkol region was damaged. Our correspondent points out that at a meeting to
assess the situation it was decided not to reopen the schools in Sederot.

An IDF unit operating in the northern Gaza Strip ran into several terrorists and
a gun battle erupted on the scene. None of the soldiers was harmed. Our
correspondent Karmela Menashe reports that the terrorists were not harmed
either.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1900 gmt 19 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 21, 2007 Monday

Georgia planning terrorist attacks ahead of Independence Day - South Ossetia

LENGTH: 344 words


Text of report by South Ossetian Press and Information Committee website on 20
May

20 May: The Georgian special services continue to stick to their intentions of
destabilizing the situation in the Georgian-Ossetian conflict zone in the very
near future, the power-wielding agencies of the [self-declared] republic of
South Ossetia [RSO] have told Res news agency.

"Yesterday's military clash (a shoot-out took place on the outskirts of [South
Ossetian capital] Tskhinvali on the evening of 19 May - Res's note) is further
confirmation to the fact that the Georgian special troops are continuing to
commit acts of sabotage and provocations on the territory of the RSO. The way
the shooting started draws special attention. None of the members of the South
Ossetian law-enforcement agencies opened fire. Nonetheless, the two first single
shots came from our territory. The investigation into this incident has not been
completed yet, but already now one can assert. People who provoked the shoot-out
are not members of the power-wielding agencies of the RSO. Considering the
dramatically increased number of the Georgian special troops in the immediate
vicinity of the outskirts of Tskhinvali, it cannot be ruled out that a sabotage
group whose task was to provoke fresh aggravation between the conflicting sides
was operating near our posts yesterday .

"Unfortunately, yesterday's incident is not the only cause for concern.
Information has been received about the plans of the Georgian special services
"to step up the staging of special events in the period of preparations ahead of
Independence Day." Thus, one should expect new provocations by Georgian special
troops up until 26 May.

"It cannot be ruled out that an attempt will be made to foil the rotation of the
Russian peacekeeping battalion planned for the next few days. One cannot also
completely rule out the possibility of terrorist attacks being committed," RSO's
power-wielding agencies told Res news agency.

Source: South Ossetian Press and Information Committee website, Tskhinvali, in
Russian 20 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday

Killed Dagestani militants were plotting terror attacks, say Russian police

LENGTH: 318 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Interfax

Makhachkala, 22 May: The militants killed yesterday evening [21 May] in Kaspiysk
[in Dagestan] have been identified thanks to fingerprint analysis, the press
service of Dagestan's Interior Ministry has told Interfax.

The press service said: "One of the killed militants was Dzhunaid
Magomedgadzhiyev, born in 1976, from Botlikhskiy District, a member of illegal
armed groups who had taken part in battles against federal forces in Chechnya.
He was found with a Baykal pistol and an F1 grenade. The second killed militant
was Artur Kurbanov from Kaspiysk, born in 1984, who was wanted by the state for
inflicting bodily injuries. A Makarov pistol, six magazines and a home-made
grenade were found on Kurbanov's person. In addition, a notebook was found on
one of the militants, which contained diagrams showing how to make explosive
devices, as well as the licence plate numbers of cars used by Dagestan Interior
Ministry personnel."

Overnight on 21-22 May, Interior Ministry personnel searched a flat at 17 Engels
Street in Makhachkala where the killed militants had lived. Two home-made
explosive devices and several grenades were found and seized during the search.

A criminal case under Article 317 (attempting to kill a law-enforcement officer)
and Article 222 (illegally obtaining, keeping, transporting and carrying
weapons) has been opened into the shooting in Kaspiysk in which the two
militants were killed, said the Dagestan Interior Ministry's press service.

[In a separate report, in Russian, at 0530 gmt 22 May, Russian Ren TV said that
harmless peaceful people were wounded in the operation. Four people have been
admitted to hospital in Kaspiysk. All of them received gunshot wounds; a
six-year-old boy was among the victims. He was wounded in his hip and doctors
had to operate on him.]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0511 gmt 22 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday

Turkish foreign minister condemns Beirut terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 244 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 22 May: Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul called Lebanese Prime
Minister Fu'ad Sanyurah on Tuesday [22 May] to express Turkey's concern over
recent developments in this country, a statement by the (MFA) [Ministry of
Foreign Affairs] indicated.

According to a statement by the MFA, Gul underlined importance of settlement of
peace and order, and overcoming the crisis in Lebanon as soon as possible.

Gul also told Sanyurah that Turkey is in solidarity with the Lebanese government
and people, and is ready to extend necessary assistance and support, the
statement pointed out.

"We hope that clashes will be ended as soon as possible and the current crisis
will be taken under control without harming the civilians," the statement noted.

Condemning the terrorist attacks in Beirut, the MFA statement reads, "We call on
Lebanese people to maintain their calm in front of these attacks aiming to
escalate tension."

The statement recalled that Gul also called Palestinian leader Mahmud Abbas and
Prime Minister Isma'il Haniyah last week, and told them that Turkey was ready to
do its best to prevent any bloodshed in Palestine, maintain unity and
solidarity, and support the national unity government.

Fifty people, including 30 officers, died and many others were injured in
clashes between the army and Fatah al-Islam militants in Lebanon.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1258 gmt 22 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday

Russia's emergency services practise responding to metro terror attack

LENGTH: 256 words


Emergencies Ministry personnel held a training exercise overnight to practise
evacuating passengers and putting out a fire in the St Petersburg metro, Russian
Channel One television reported on 23 May.

According to the practice scenario, there had been an explosion in a metro train
carriage. The number of injured and cause of the explosion were unknown. In the
exercise, the emergency services arrived on the scene within minutes.

Video first showed firemen working to evacuate victims, and medics setting up a
temporary treatment point outside the metro station. Then, said the
correspondent, field engineers, police dog handlers and chemical experts started
work to find out what had caused the explosion, and whether there was a threat
of further explosions. Video showed men in protective suits with sniffer dogs
and kits for taking chemical samples.

This is the first such practice exercise for St Petersburg's emergency services,
said the correspondent, although they have training on how to deal with
terrorist attacks several times a year. So far there has never been a serious
fire in the St Petersburg metro, he added.

Video shows Leonid Belyayev, captioned as head of the main directorate of the
Emergencies Ministry in St Petersburg, who says "we have everything [that is
needed], and we are ready to provide complete assistance" for potential victims
during an attack.

"Firemen, police and medics all passed this training with top marks," concluded
the correspondent.

Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 0500 gmt 23 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday

Premier warns of further terrorist attacks in Turkish cities

LENGTH: 419 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Istanbul, 23 May: "Terror has no religion, ethnicity, homeland or nation," said
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Wednesday [23 May] in reference
to Tuesday's explosion in Ulus district of Ankara that killed six people and
injured more than 100.

Erdogan spoke at the first meeting between the Association of Turkish
Industrialists and Businessmen (Tusiad) and leaders of political parties in
Istanbul.

In regard to Tuesday's bomb attack in Ankara, Erdogan indicated that "security
forces were expecting similar attacks by the terrorist organization in
metropolitans and touristic locations".

Erdogan stressed that the best way to respond to such bomb attacks is to
preserve unity and solidarity as well as stability in Turkey.

"At a time like this, Turkey needs to talk about political and economic
stability," underlined Erdogan.

"There can be no economic stability without democratic stability," said Turkish
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Wednesday.

Erdogan made a keynote speech at the first meeting of the Association of Turkish
Industrialists and Businessmen (Tusiad) and leaders of political parties, in
Istanbul.

"For many years, Turkey suffered from coalition governments unable to make
decisions, guide foreign policy and manage foreign trade. Between 1946 and 2006,
45 governments have been formed. Just look at the servicing periods of these
governments. It is 17 months (on average). What can those governments do in 17
months? It is impossible to implement an action plan in such a (short) period of
time. The Justice and Development (AK) Party was established at a time when a
coalition government of three parties suffered of political, economic and social
instability," noted Erdogan.

In reference to the recent decision of the Turkish Constitutional Court on the
lack of quorum at the parliamentary general assembly during the presidential
election, Erdogan said, "History will judge those who have made such a decision.
This is my belief."

He also underlined that the main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP) "ran
away from the people by not participating in the presidential election rounds at
the parliament".

Prime Minister Erdogan recalled that the upcoming election should not be
considered as an "early election" since it will take place after five years.

He added that "immunity" should be lifted for every one, including public
servants and judiciary.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0957 gmt 23 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday

British, French, Russian, Spanish leaders condemn terrorist attack in Turkey

LENGTH: 236 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Paris/Moscow/Madrid/London, 23 May: Leaders and ministers from France, Russia,
Spain and Britain condemned the attack in the Turkish capital Ankara in which
six people were killed and 91 others injured.

Russian President Vladimir Putin sent a message of condolence to Turkish Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan for those who lost their friends and relatives in
the attack.

"This event is an evidence that international efforts for fighting terrorism
should be strengthened," said Putin in his message.

On the other hand, French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner sent a message to
Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, stating "his deep" anger because of the
attack. Kouchner stressed that France will support Turkey in its fight against
every kind of violence and extremity.

Meanwhile Spanish Ministry of Foreign affairs released a statement condemning
the terrorist attack in Turkish capital.

The statement affirmed Spain's full support to Turkey in its fight against
terrorism and will for cooperation.

In the meantime, the British minister of state for Europe, Geoff Hoon, released
a statement condemning the attack in Ankara.

Hoon stated that Britain condemns the horrible terrorist attack in Ulus district
of Ankara, adding Britain will stand by Turkish government in its fight against
terrorism.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1603 gmt 23 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                  May 23, 2007

Amnesty International report attacks anti-terror laws

LENGTH: 629 words



HIGHLIGHT: Amnesty International today accused armed groups and the British
government, among others, of eroding human rights and creating an increasingly
polarised world.


Amnesty International today accused armed groups and the British government,
among others, of eroding human rights and creating an increasingly polarised
world.

In its annual report, the London-based human rights group said Britain was
damaging the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary - particularly in
relation to its anti-terror legislation.

It castigated governments for their "fear-mongering and divisive policies" that
undermined the rule of law and sowed the seeds for more violence and conflict.

The secretary general of Amnesty, Irene Khan, called on governments to reject
the politics of fear and invest in human rights institutions and the rule of law
at the national and international level.

Amnesty criticised armed groups that continued to thrive in countries such as
Sri Lanka and Iraq. It said such groups committed gross human rights abuses with
impunity, safe in the knowledge that the international community would not curb
their activities.

The group also cited the "war on terror" and the war in Iraq for creating deep
divisions, making it more difficult to resolve conflicts and protect civilians.

"Nothing more aptly portrayed the globalisation of human rights violations than
the US-led 'war on terror' and its programme of 'extraordinary renditions',
which implicated governments in countries as far apart as Italy and Pakistan,
Germany and Kenya," Ms Khan said.

Amnesty said the US had suffered a loss of moral authority because of the
invasion of Iraq on dubious grounds, limiting its ability to put pressure on
countries such as Sudan over the genocide in Darfur, where an estimated 200,000
people have died.

"When Sudan initially rejected a peace keeping force, it made comparisons to the
US invasion of Iraq," said Widney Brown, a policy director at Amnesty. "When a
government pursues war on questionable grounds, it allows others to exploit the
same kind of subterfuge."

Amnesty said the Sudanese government was running rings around the UN, with the
security council hampered by distrust and double-dealing by its most powerful
members.

Its criticisms of Britain focused on the Terrorism Act 2006, which doubled, to
28 days, the length of time terror suspects could be detained without charge.

"Some of its provisions were inconsistent with fundamental human rights," the
report said.

It also attacked the government's emphasis on deporting terror suspects, or
placing them under control orders, rather than subjecting them to criminal
prosecution.

On Zimbabwe, Amnesty found fault with its president, Robert Mugabe, for using
fear of Britain, the former colonial power, to justify repressive policies.

Amnesty cited as an example the arrest of several union leaders last September
as they attempted to stage a peaceful demonstration about worsening economic
conditions.

Reports said all 15 were tortured and eight had the soles of their feet beaten,
which causes permanent problems with walking. One union figure, Lucia
Matinbenga, was beaten so badly that one of her eardrums was perforated.

On Europe, Amnesty said European politicians played on fears of uncontrolled
immigration to justify tougher measures against asylum seekers and refugees in
western Europe, while migrant workers were left unprotected and exploited around
the world.

"Increasing polarisation and heightened fears about national security reduced
the space for tolerance and dissent. Around the world, from Iran to Zimbabwe,
many independent voices on human rights were silenced in 2006," Ms Khan said.

As positives Amnesty cited: the upcoming trial at The Hague of Charles Taylor,
the former president of Liberia, for war crimes; the growing insistence on the
right to criticise governments in the Middle East; and investigations into
renditions by several European countries.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                  May 23, 2007

UK Government: Minister for Europe Geoff Hoon has condemned the terrorist attack
in Ankara, Turkey yesterday.

LENGTH: 140 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-MAY 23, 2007-UK Government: Minister for Europe Geoff Hoon has
condemned the terrorist attack in Ankara, Turkey yesterday. ©1994-2007 M2
COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Mr Hoon said:

"The UK condemns in the strongest terms the terrible act of terrorism in the
Ulus district of Ankara last night. We are horrified by this callous attack on a
busy shopping district. We are committed to working with the Turkish government
to combat terrorism, in all its forms.

"We express our sympathy and solidarity with the families and friends of the
victims and the people of Turkey at this time."

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday

Teen speaks of terror at airgun attack

BYLINE:  chris peregrine

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 408 words


A Swansea teenager has spoken of the moment he was shot in the head while
walking with his pals outside Port Tennant cemetery.

Steven Thomas is still suffering headaches after an airgun pellet was lodged
just above his right eye.

The pellet had to be removed by doctors at Morriston Hospital.

A police investigation is  underway.

Bishop Gore Comprehensive School pupil Steven labelled the incident as
terrifying adding: "Why would someone want to do this?.

The 15-year-old, from Mackworth Terrace, in St Thomas, said:  "I was walking
outside Port Tennant cemetery with my mates when I heard a gun go off.

"I felt something in my head and I spun around onto the ground. I could feel
blood on my head."

He managed to get up and went to his grandmother's house nearby to raise the
alarm.

A short while later he was in hospital having the pellet removed.

"I am still getting headaches and pain," he said.

Steven did not see anyone else in the area at the time, but said there were
problems with youths using airguns there.

"I don't go to that area any more," he said.

Steven's father, Alan Thomas, spoke of the moment he knew about the incident,
which happened at around 5.30pm last Thursday.

"He went to his grandmother's house nearby," he said. "She rang me to say he had
been shot, which wasn't a nice feeling."

Paramedics were quickly on the scene and took the youngster to the city's
Morriston Hospital, where the pellet was removed.

"He was in terrible shock and a tremendous amount of pain," added Mr Thomas.

Mr Thomas praised all the medical staff involved and the two police officers who
accompanied them to the hospital.

He kept his son off school last Friday and he spent the weekend recovering from
his ordeal before returning on Monday ahead of his mock GCSE examinations later
this term.

Now Mr Thomas hopes local people will provide information to enable police to
crack the case.

He said there seemed to be a problem with youths firing  airguns from the Grafog
Street cemetery.

"It is disgusting that they are in the cemetery in the first place, let alone
with airguns," said Mr Thomas.

"If they want to have airguns they should join a gun club and leave them there."

Head of Swansea North CID Detective Simon Davies said it had been an unprovoked
attack.

He added: " We want to hear from the public about the incident.''

Can you help? Anyone with information should contact Swansea CID North on 01792
456999 or  call  Crimestoppers in confidence  on  0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday

Afghan daily says suicide attacks are "worst form of terrorism"

LENGTH: 592 words


Text of report by Afghan state-run newspaper Hewad on 22 May

There is not one undisputed interpretation of terrorism and everyone interprets
it in the light of his political and other goals. However, one thing that
everyone admits is that one concise definition of terrorism is the killing of
civilians. If a political or military group or government kills civilians to
create an atmosphere of fear, or uses such killings as a tool to achieve its own
goals, that cannot be considered anything but terrorism. Carrying out suicide
attacks in crowded areas is considered the worst form of terrorism.

The enemies of peace and stability carried out a suicide attack in a crowded
area in Konduz Province on 29 Sowr [19 May 2007], killing civilians as well as
foreign troops. Also, the terrorists carried out a suicide attack in Gardez town
on 30 Sowr [20 May] and reports indicate that 14 civilians were killed and many
others were wounded. The wounded are in critical condition. The suicide attacks
in Gardez and Konduz are considered the worst form of terrorism. Both attacks
have a common nature. If we compare them, the terrorists may say that their
target in Konduz was German troops.

This is an unacceptable reason. If that is so, how will the terrorists justify
the attack in Gardez? There were neither foreign troops nor national army,
police, officials and foreign guests. Only civilians were working there and they
were not affiliated to any political party or warring group. The attack in
Gardez once again demonstrates that the terrorists have no value for foreigners
and Afghans, soldiers and civilians, Muslims and non-Muslims, men and women, and
children and the old. The attacks in Gardez and Konduz clearly show that the
terrorists' claim to defend Islamic values is merely an empty slogan and a tool
for propaganda campaign.

In fact, they are not committed to Islamic values at all. Killing an innocent
person is prohibited in Islam and is tantamount to killing all human beings.
However, we see terrorists apparently chanting slogans in defence of Islam
target and kill innocent people so brutally that it is shocking. Children and
women were also killed in the attack in Gardez. How do the terrorists and their
supporters justify such attacks? Is it defence of Islam or a subversive attempt
to defame Islam? The answer is clear.

Islamic is a religion of peace, friendship, fraternity, reconciliation,
forgiveness and salvation. Islam is the religion of a joint peaceful life. It is
the religion of hard work, development, prosperity and success. However, the
terrorists want to defame Islam and misrepresent it among non-Muslims by
carrying out such acts. Such attacks are against Islamic injunctions and rules.
Religious scholars strongly condemned suicide attacks at a gathering in Kabul
some days ago and openly said that suicide attacks are prohibited in Islam.
Moreover, suicide attacks are against the accepted values of Afghan nation.

Historically, Afghans have never resorted to suicide attacks, they have fought
the enemy face-to-face on the battlefield. They have sacrificed their lives for
this country. As a horrible phenomenon, suicide attacks are imposed on
Afghanistan from abroad. Those who brainwash people into carrying out suicide
attacks and suicide bombers are neither committed to Islamic values nor our
national values. As a determined nation, we should strongly stand against this
worst form of terrorism in the present critical circumstances and employ all our
resources against it.

Source: Hewad, Kabul, in Pashto 22 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday

Amnesty attacks Britain over Terror Act

BYLINE: Alex Spillius

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 145 words


AMNESTY International's new annual report on the world's human rights has
devoted more space to Britain than Burma or Zimbabwe, it was revealed yesterday.

The 327-page study summarises abuses and concerns over rights in most nations.

The report claims Britain committed "serious human rights violations'',
particularly with the Terrorism Act 2006.

The Act doubled the amount of time terror suspects can be detained without
charge to 28 days, and the Government's emphasis on deporting such suspects or
placing them under control orders rather than subjecting them to criminal
prosecution.

The Foreign Office is

likely to object formally to Amnesty in the coming days. A Foreign Office
spokesman said: "We think it is right that western democracies receive close
scrutiny because they set a standard for others. But some elements in the UK
country report are disappointing.''

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                             May 24, 2007, Thursday
                                  Home Edition

Missing terror suspects 'planned to attack UK troops abroad'

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 211 words


THREE missing terror suspects who escaped from control orders were planning to
target UK troops overseas, a Government security watchdog revealed today.

Lord Carlile, the Liberal Democrat Peer and independent reviewer of terrorism
laws, said there was "solid intelligence" which indicated that the trio wanted
to target Britons in Iraq or elsewhere.

Lamine Adam, 26, his brother Ibrahim, 20, and Cerie Bullivant, 24, went missing
after failing to report to the police under the conditions of their control
order earlier this week. The Adams' brother, Anthony Garcia, is serving a life
sentence for plotting explosions as one of five men jailed last month over the
plot to target the UK with a giant fertiliser bomb. Their disappearance brings
the total number of people who have absconded from control orders since they
were introduced in 2005 to 26.

The Home Office said there are currently 17 individuals subject to the
restrictions under the Prevention of Terrorism Act which enable a former house
arrest to be imposed.

As Home Secretary John Reid prepared to make a written statement to MPs at
Westminster, Lord Carlile said: "

It was decided in accordance with human rights laws to have the lightest
controls that seemed compatible with the necessity of the occasion."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              May 25, 2007 Friday

ATTACK OF THE CYBER TERRORISTS;
Angry mobs in the streets. Stock market in meltdown.The country running out of
cash. No, not a sci-fi film but the nightmare reality of Britain under cyber
attack ...

BYLINE: MICHAEL HANLON

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1369 words


AT FIRST it would be no more than a nuisance. No burning skyscrapers, no
underground explosions, just a million electronic irritations up and down the
land. Thousands of government web pages suddenly vanish to be replaced with the
Internet's version of the Testcard - that dreaded screen '404 - Not Found' or,
more amusingly, some pastiche or parody.

Then the Labour website starts to promise a wholesale renationalisation of the
railways.

The popular response this generates turns to amusement then bemusement as
everything from Jaguar to BT is, the sites claim, to be taken back into state
hands.

When conservatives.org.uk starts to promise compulsory repatriation and the
return of capital punishment, bemusement turns to alarm.

The disruption continues: thousands of popular websites, from eBay to YouTube,
start malfunctioning or are replaced by malicious parodies. Tens of millions of
pounds are wiped off the share price of companies like Amazon as fears grow that
the whole Internet credit card payment network is now vulnerable and insecure.

Eventually, reports start to flood in that hundreds of thousands of personal
bank accounts have been raided overnight.

Panicked bank chiefs and PR men go on TV to try to reassure, promising that this
is no more than an electronic glitch, but thousands of anxious citizens take to
the streets, many in tears, and pour angrily into the banks to demand their
savings in cash.

When the ATM system goes down, the government steps in. A task force is
appointed. There is a rush on hard cash that leads to a shortage of notes and
coins.

Soon, it is clear that the United Kingdom (and much of Europe) has been
subjected to a sustained and effective cyber-terrorist attack. Disaster is
narrowly avoided when a series of sophisticated viruses disrupt the workings of
the National Air Traffic Control System.

Slowly, the computer network is disinfected; the viruses, botnets and worms that
are the electronic versions of bombs and bullets are defused and rendered
harmless. No one has died, but the attack has cost Britain Pounds 10bn, and
share prices take months to recover.

Such a scenario, say some experts, is not only possible but likely in the near
future.

Look, for example, at what happened to Estonia last week. Ever since the
government of the Baltic state decided (rather tactlessly it must be said) to
remove a war memorial to the Red Army from a square in the capital, Tallinn,
Russian outrage has ensued.

This took the form of demonstrations and even riots. But then something
extraordinary happened: quickly, and wholly without warning, the whole country
was subjected to a barrage of cyber-warfare, disabling the websites of
government ministries, political parties, banks and newspapers.

Techniques normally employed by cybercriminals, such as huge remotely-controlled
networks of hijacked computers, were used to cripple vital public services.

Nato has sent its top cyber-terrorism experts to Tallinn, with western
democracies caught on the hop over the implications of such an attack.

The Estonian defence ministry said: 'We've been lucky to survive this. If an
airport, bank or state infrastructure is attacked by a missile, it's clear war.
But if the same result is done by computers, then what do you call it?

Is it a state of war? These questions must be addressed.' Estonia has blamed
Russia, predictably enough - which, if true, would mean this is the first cyber
attack by one sovereign state upon another.

To be fair, no one ever discovered where the

Angrymobs in the streets. Stock market in meltdown.The country running out of
cash. No, not a sci-fi film but the nightmare reality of Britain under cyber
attack ...

plot was hatched, who carried it out, nor what their motives were.

It is more likely that the attacks on Estonia were similar to the attacks seen
on Danish websites a couple of years ago, after a Jutland newspaper published
cartoon images of the Prophet Mohammed.

The Estonian attacks were more likely to be the work of angry young Russian
hackers working alone than any sort of organised blitz by the Kremlin. But
either way, the implications are serious.

The Internet, developed as a rather ad hoc joint venture between the American
military and academia as a way of sharing information quickly and reliably, has
become - 30 years later - a vast worldwide infrastructure. It is now a huge,
ungoverned electronic machine upon which we are all more and more dependent.

We don't only bank and shop online, our governments use the infrastructure of
the Net to do their business too.

Secure information is entrusted to cyberspace, information held by the likes of
MI5 and the Pentagon, as well as various financial authorities, health services
and treasuries.

The attacks on Estonia show that cyber-terrorism is real, but how worried should
we be? After all, the history of the Internet and IT in general is littered with
false alarms and, to be frank, in Estonia no one died.

In the Nineties, fear and then some panic resulted from the claims that at the
stroke of midnight at the end of the decade, a simple glitch in the way that
some computer software is programmed to deal with dates would lead to a global
catastrophe.

The Millennium Bug was, of course, a false alarm - hyped up by greedy and,
frankly, mendacious

computer consultants who persuaded the planet's companies and governments to
spend what is now estimated to be about $1 trillion fighting a threat that saner
voices always said was either nonexistent or easily containable.

Is the same thing true of cyberterrorism? It is certainly the case that there is
money to be made hyping the threat.

Books, such as the 2001 tome Cybershock by Winn Schwartau have sold well on the
back of general post-9/11 fear of terror.

Scenarios have included hackers gaining control of atomic power plants or even
America's nuclear missiles.

So far we have seen no such disasters. Such attacks as there have been have
mostly been the work of bored young hackers making mischief.

But as computer systems have grown in extent and power (and as the amount of
information and power we entrust to them has also grown) they are inevitably
more vulnerable to attack.

Apart from Estonia, one example of a real cyber attack was when hackers in
Romania illegally gained access to the computers controlling an Antarctic
research station, potentially endangering the lives of the scientists there.

Other attacks have been the result of disgruntled ex- employees taking revenge
on their former employers.

That is why people fired from organisations where a large amount of sensitive
data is stored electronically are often escorted out of the building before they
get a chance to unleash electronic mayhem.

Certainly the potential for mischief is enormous. Greg Day, security analyst at
Internet software firm McAfee, says: 'The challenge with the Internet is the
ease in which the average person can either recruit others to achieve such
attacks or pick up the skills to do it themselves. As the Internet is a global
entity, tracing the origin can be a complex and very timeconsuming task.' There
is certainly no doubt that cyberspace is vulnerable. As British Middle East
expert Mark Allen pointed out in his recent book entitled Arabs, modern
Islamism, although grounded in an ideology that is both puritanical and deeply
conservative, has nevertheless managed to master the power of information
technology and the Internet with some aplomb.

In the United States, the Joint Task-Force Global Network Operations, part of
the Department of Defense, is charged with combating cyber-terrorism.

Its UK equivalent is the Centre for Protection of the National Infrastructure, a
multi- departmental body which comes, ultimately, under the control of MI5 and
MI6.

But policing the Net will probably prove futile. Cyberspace is part of the
world's infrastructure, but it less resembles the railways and airports of
commerce and travel than the oceans upon which so much of the world's trade is
conducted.

The genie is out of the bottle.

Controlling - and policing - the Net, still less trying to shut the thing down,
will probably prove to be as impossible as trying to stop the waves and the
tides.

If you bank online, best keep an eye on your account.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                                  May 25, 2007

American labs attack anti-terror audit

SECTION: WORLD ENCOMPASSED; Pg. 11 No. 1795

LENGTH: 157  words


US higher education institutions will have to undertake a "burdensome" audit of
chemicals in their laboratories under proposed anti-terrorism measures, the body
representing the sector has said.

The American Council on Education said universities, colleges and other
institutions would have to inspect every room where science courses are taught
to see if they contain any one of a list of more than 100 chemicals.

In a statement to the Department of Homeland Security, the council said:

"Even after this effort it is almost certain that not a single college or
university will be found to be a chemical facility that presents a high risk of
terrorist attack.

"We urge the DHS not to divert its resources from the important task of ensuring
that chemical facilities are protected, by converting a programme intended to
regulate chemical facilities into a programme to regulate any facility where
minuscule amounts of a single chemical might exist."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 TSL Education Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                  May 25, 2007

26 years for terror attack on Angolan family party

LENGTH: 1247 words


A gang of 10 thugs who were part of a racist riot on a Leeds estate were today
behind bars for a total of 26 years.

Leeds Crown Court heard how a petrified family from Angola were targeted by more
than 20 yobs who pelted their Seacroft home with missiles in a bid to hound them
out - just four days after moving in.

The family, including three young children, had been celebrating a 10th birthday
in the front garden of the house on Hawkshead Crescent with relatives and
friends when they were surrounded by dozens of white youths.

The mob began hurling bottles, sticks and bricks at the group before smashing up
their cars while screaming racist abuse in an attack lasting up to 30 minutes.

Video footage shown to the court showed some of the defendants, their faces
twisted with rage, wielding fence posts. One was hitting the cars and others
were running up and down the street, hurling stones.

The four-minute video was filmed by the terrified family and was a key part in
nailing many of the defendants whose faces could be identified.

Commenting on that video, Judge Peter Hunt said: "What's desperately striking is
the seething aggression demonstrated by so many persons outside the house."

Chillingly, local residents had been spotted earlier that day stockpiling
weapons in the front garden of a house opposite.

For the prosecution, John Topham said: "Some of the white residents on the
estate were hostile to the presence of a black family in that house. There were
discussions in a café in the locality with the idea of forcing the family to
move out of the estate because

they were black."

The court heard how the family were targeted just days after moving in, when
windows were smashed and their home was broken into.

Fours days after moving in, the family held a barbecue inviting 18 friends and
family - including eight children.

But the happy occasion turned to horror when a gang of 20 or more whites began
gathering on the street outside the front garden.

"The group began a violent attack, throwing stones, missiles towards the family
in the front garden."

The children and women fled into the house, all crying in terror, while the men
in the party threw missiles back in defence.

"The Angolan family, particularly the children, were terrified. One little boy
was crying in the street, saying 'please don't let them kill me'," said Mr
Topham.

The court heard that many of those involved had still not been traced.

Judge Hunt ruled that although the 10 defendants who were sentenced yesterday
may not have been racists or ringleaders, they were still involved in what he
described as an "ugly and protracted event", motivated by "race hatred".

And he added: "Racially motivated violence of any sort must be marked by
deterrent sentences."

The 10 who all admitted violent disorder were: David Holdsworth, 34, Phoenix
Close, Seacroft, described as a "man possessed" showing "extreme violence". He
was jailed for three years seven months for the violent disorder and failing to
surrender to custody; Leanne Montgomery, 19, Tarnside Drive, Seacroft, who "lost
control" battering a car three times with a stick or fence post - three years in
a young offenders institute; Andrew Boylan, 25, Foundry Mill Terrace, Seacroft,
three and a half years for the violent disorder as well as racial harassment for
a separate offence, damaging property and assaulting two police officers, also
on separate offences; Liam Bellwood, 20, Moresdale Lane, Seacroft, three and a
half years for violent disorder as well as drug offences; Wayne Purchase, 31,
South Parkway, Seacroft, two and a half years; Darren Kaye, 19, Tarnside Drive,
Seacroft, 21 months in a young offenders institute for violent disorder and
dangerous driving in a separate offence; Jonathan Wilson, 19, York Road, Gipton,
two and a half years in a young offenders institute; Patrick Burns, 34, of South
Parkway, Seacroft, two and a half years; Wayne Lorimer, 21, Moresdale Lane,
Seacroft, two and a half years; and Glynn Milburn, 33, Alston Lane, Seacroft, 12
months. He was jailed for three years seven months for the violent disorder and
failing to surrender to custody; Leanne Montgomery, 19, Tarnside Drive,
Seacroft, who "lost control" battering a car three times with a stick or fence
post - three years in a young offenders institute; Andrew Boylan, 25, Foundry
Mill Terrace, Seacroft, three and a half years for the violent disorder as well
as racial harassment for a separate offence, damaging property and assaulting
two police officers, also on separate offences; Liam Bellwood, 20, Moresdale
Lane, Seacroft, three and a half years for violent disorder as well as drug
offences; Wayne Purchase, 31, South Parkway, Seacroft, two and a half years;
Darren Kaye, 19, Tarnside Drive, Seacroft, 21 months in a young offenders
institute for violent disorder and dangerous driving in a separate offence;
Jonathan Wilson, 19, York Road, Gipton, two and a half years in a young
offenders institute; Patrick Burns, 34, of South Parkway, Seacroft, two and a
half years; Wayne Lorimer, 21, Moresdale Lane, Seacroft, two and a half years;
and Glynn Milburn, 33, Alston Lane, Seacroft, 12 months.

Comment: Page 10 *A father who fled war-torn Angola only to face terror at the
hands of a race mob in Leeds spoke of his relief at their jail sentences.

Alvaro Vintem, 30, said he was "pleased" his attackers had been sent to prison -
but revealed today that his children still lived in fear even though they had
moved to another part of the city.

Mr Vintem, who lives with his partner Maura Adriano, said: "Even now, when they
see a group of people outside, in the street, they become scared and think they
are going to attack them.

"I came here (to England) for help and then this happened. At the time I
remember thinking 'Oh my God what have I come to'."

Mr Vintem had come to Britain in 2000 from Kwanza Sul in Southern Angola fleeing
anti-Government rebels involved in the 27-year civil war. He fled with his
partner and, at that time, only daughter. After being granted asylum status,
they were based in London before moving to Leeds in 2002 to join friends.

Mr Vintem, who now has three girls aged from two to nine, said they moved on the
day of the attack and felt more settled in their new home.

The jail terms were also welcomed by family friend Leanne Francisco, 22.

She spoke of her "absolute terror" when the gang walked up the street armed with
baseball bats and crowbars and started shouting racist comments.

She grabbed her 18-month-old daughter Jacira, and fled inside the house.

"I was terrified. There were four women and seven children in all and we hid
inside the house terrified. Fortunately no-one was seriously injured but that
was only because the men at the barbecue were defending us, keeping the idiots
from getting into the house.

"The gang smashed up some cars outside, including mine which cost £3,000 to
repair. They even threw the barbecue fire at the windows, trying to set fire to
the boards which had been put up because the house had been broken into twice in
the five days Alvaro and his family had lived there."

Today, Det Insp Andy Knapton, who led the inquiry, said he was pleased for the
victims with the sentences and echoed the judge's words - "I hope it acts as a
deterrent to others". He said police were still investigating the incident and
there was others involved who had still not been identified. He appealed to
anyone with information to call Crimestoppers (0800 555 111) or police on 0845
6060606.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                  May 26, 2007

Girl's terror after attack

LENGTH: 159 words


A SEVEN-year-old girl has been left too scared to leave the house after she was
dragged to the ground and kicked in a horrific happy slapping attack in South
Yorkshire.

Natasha Kimpton was left traumatised by the incident which happened as she made
her way to Rockingham Junior and Infants School, Rotherham.

The youngster was approached from behind by three teenagers who grabbed her
shirt, pushed her to the ground, kicked her leg and then walked away laughing.

They are said to have filmed the attack on a mobile phone.

Police have issued descriptions of the three youths and are appealing for help
in tracking them down.

They were all white, and aged between 14 and 16. One is said to be tall with a
goatee beard and a tattoo on his hand, one has blond streaked hair and another
short shaved hair.

They have since been spotted in Wingfield and were dressed in designer clothes.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Det Sgt Dave Roberts on 01709
832073.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              May 28, 2007 Monday

ATTACK OF THE CYBER TERRORISTS;
Angry mobs in the streets. Stock market in meltdown.The country running out of
cash. No, not a sci-fi film but the nightmare reality of a world under cyber
attack ...

SECTION: IRE

LENGTH: 1112 words


AT FIRST it would be no more than a nuisance.

No burning skyscrapers, no underground explosions, just a million electronic
irritations.

Thousands of web pages suddenly vanish to be replaced with the Internet's
version of the Testcard - that dreaded screen '404 - Not Found' or, more
amusingly, some pastiche or parody.

Then the Fianna Fil website starts to promise the end of income tax. The popular
response this generates turns to amusement then bemusement as it becomes clear
the government has also ditched all commitments to fund education and health,
nor will there be any more social welfare handouts.

The disruption continues: thousands of popular websites, from eBay to YouTube,
start malfunctioning or are replaced by malicious parodies.

Tens of millions of euros are wiped off the share price of companies like Amazon
as fears grow that the whole Internet credit card payment network is now
insecure.

Eventually, reports start to flood in that hundreds of thousands of personal
bank accounts have been raided overnight.

Panicked bank chiefs go on TV to try to reassure, promising that this is no
morethan an electronic glitch, but thousands of anxious citizens take to the
streets and pour angrily into the banks to demand their savings in cash.

When the ATM system goes down, the government steps in. There is a rush on hard
cash that leads to a shortage of notes and coins.

Soon, it is clear that Ireland (and much of Europe) has been subjected to a
sustained cyber-terrorist attack. Disaster is narrowly avoided when a series of
sophisticated viruses disrupt the workings of Shannon's air traffic control
tower.

Slowly, the computer network is disinfected; the viruses, botnets and worms that
are the electronic versions of bombs and bullets are defused and rendered
harmless. No one has died, but the attack has cost Ireland billions.

Such a scenario, say some experts, is not only possible but likely in the near
future.

Look, for example, at what happened to Estonia last week. Ever since the
government of the Baltic state decided (rather tactlessly it must be said) to
remove a war memorial to the Red Army from a square in the capital, Tallinn,
Russian outrage has ensued.

This took the form of demonstrations and even riots. But then something
extraordinary happened: quickly, and wholly without warning, the whole country
was subjected to a barrage of cyberwarfare, disabling the websites of government
ministries, political parties, banks and newspapers.

Techniques normally employed by cyber-criminals, such as huge
remotely-controlled networks of hijacked computers, were used to cripple vital
public services.

The Estonian defence ministry said: 'We've been lucky to survive this. If an
airport, bank or state infrastructure is attacked by a missile, it's clear war.

But if the same result is done by computers, then what do you call it? Is it a
state of war? These questions must be addressed.' Estonia has blamed Russia,
predictably enough - which, if true, would mean this is the first cyber attack
by one sovereign state upon another.

To be fair, no one ever discovered where the plot was hatched, who carried it
out, nor what their motives were.

It is more likely that the attacks on Estonia were similar to the attacks seen
on Danish websites a couple of years ago, after a Jutland newspaper published
cartoon images of the Prophet Mohammed.

The Estonian attacks were more likely to be the work of angry young Russian
hackers working alone than any sort of organised blitz by the Kremlin. But
either way, the implications are serious.

The Internet, developed as a rather ad hoc joint venture between the American
military and academia as a way of sharing information quickly and reliably, has
become - 30 years later - a vast worldwide infrastructure.

It is now a huge, ungoverned electronic machine upon which we are all more and
more dependent.

We don't only bank and shop online, our governments use the infrastructure of
the Net to do their business too.

Secure information is entrusted to cyberspace, information held by the likes the
Pentagon, as well as various financial authorities, health services and
treasuries.

The attacks on Estonia show that cyber-terrorism is real, but how worried should
we be? After all, the history of the Internet and IT in general is littered with
false alarms and, to be frank, in Estonia no one died.

In the Nineties, fear and then some panic resulted from the claims that at the
stroke of midnight at the end of the decade, a simple glitch in the way that
some computer software is programmed to deal with dates would lead to a global
catastrophe.

The Millennium Bug was, of course, a false alarm. Is the same thing true of
cyber-terrorism? It is certainly the case that there is money to be made hyping
the threat. Books such as the 2001 tome Cybershock by Winn Schwartau have sold
well on the back of general post-9/11 fear of terror.

Scenarios have included hackers gaining control of atomic power plants or even
nuclear missiles.

So far we have seen no such disasters. Such attacks as there have been have
mostly been the work of bored young hackers making mischief.

But as computer systems have grown in extent and power (and as the amount of
information and power we entrust to them has also grown) they are inevitably
more vulnerable to attack.

Apart from Estonia, one example of a real cyber attack was when hackers in
Romania illegally gained access to the computers controlling an Antarctic
research station, potentially endangering the lives of the scientists there.

Other attacks have been the result of disgruntled ex-employees taking revenge on
their employers.

That is why people fired from organisations where a large amount of sensitive
data is stored electronically are often escorted out of the building before they
get a chance to unleash electronic mayhem.

Certainly the potential for mischief is enormous. Greg Day, security analyst at
Internet software firm McAfee, says: 'The challenge with the Internet is the
ease in which the average person can either recruit others to achieve such
attacks or pick up the skills to do it themselves.' There is certainly no doubt
that cyberspace is vulnerable. While the US and Britain set up task forces
charged with combating cyber-terrorism, policing the Net will probably prove
futile.

Cyberspace is part of the world's infrastructure, but it less resembles the
railways and airports of commerce and travel than the oceans upon which so much
of the world's trade is conducted.

Policing the Net, still less trying to shut the thing down, will probably prove
to be as impossible as trying to stop the waves and the tides.

If you bank online, best keep an eye on your account.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday

Ethiopia: Somali state vows to hunt perpetrators of Jijiga terrorist attack

LENGTH: 239 words


Text of report in English by Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Jijiga [Capital of Somali state, southeastern Ethiopia], 29 May: The Somali
State Administration said the anti-peace forces that perpetrated terrorist
attack on innocent civilians would be hunted down and brought before law soon.
The state administration chief, Abdullahi Hasan, who suffered injury by the
terrorist attack is in a good health condition.

Administration deputy chief, Jama Ahmad Jama, said in a statement he gave here
on Tuesday [29 May] that the perpetrators of the attack who are mercenaries of
the Eritrean government would not remain at large, as they will be hunted down.

He said in addition to those terrorists caught, a man-hunt would be launched and
would be punished for the heinous crime they committed.

Jama said the subversive activities of the Eritrean government, ONLF [Ogaden
National Liberation Front] and OLF [Oromo Liberation Front] would not hamper the
development and good governance scheme well under way in the country.

He said the activities launched to extricate the nation from grinding poverty
and ensure peace would not be hampered.

The state government strongly condemns the terrorist attack against residents of
Jijiga town who were gathered to celebrate 28 May.

Police said it arrested five people suspected of throwing hand grenade at the
crowd who gathered to celebrate 28 May.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 29 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday

Couple's terror as car attacked

BYLINE: Liz Trainor

LENGTH: 206  words


They escaped as bricks hit windscreen

A COUPLE cheated death when a gang of youths pelted their car with bricks.

Gerard Brown, 24, almost lost control of his car after a brick shattered the
windscreen on the Westlink near the Falls Road in Belfast.

And the funeral director said he believed kids as young as EIGHT were involved
in targeting cars for kicks.

Mr Brown's wife is now refusing to travel on the Westlink after their night out
to celebrate his birthday almost ended in tragedy. He said: "We could have been
killed. The windscreen just shattered.

"I don't know how I managed to keep control of the car but just knew I had to or
we would have been dead."

The couple, from north Belfast, had just hours earlier celebrated with family
and friends and were returning home before 10pm when they came under attack. And
Mr Brown revealed that the stone throwers taunted them and laughed while hurling
more bricks in their direction as he spoke to police near the scene.

He said he will now have to foot the £ 1,000 bill or risk his insurance premium
going up.

Two people have been killed in stoning incidents on the road in recent years but
police say it is impossible to man permanent checkpoints.

Video footage is being studied for evidence.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 31, 2007 Thursday

Lebanon boosts security over "terrorist attacks" threat

LENGTH: 458 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese newspaper The Daily Star website on 31 May

[Report by Nur Samahah: "ISF beefs up patrols across country, especially
Beirut"]

BEIRUT: Security forces throughout the country have been put on high alert after
the Internal Security Forces (ISF) received reports of potential terrorist
attacks. "We have increased our security in Beirut by 100 per cent," Major
General Ashraf Rifi, head of the ISF, told The Daily Star on Wednesday [31 May].
"We have taken every necessary security measure, and so far these measures have
been successful."

The ISF has increased the number of checkpoints -permanent and temporary -as
well as the number of patrols.

"We are conducting patrols in both uniform and civilian clothing around Beirut
and other areas," he said.

Extra security measures have been introduced specifically for Rafiq al-Hariri
International Airport, said an airport security official who requested
anonymity. "We are doing our best to ensure every level of success," the source
said. A significantly higher number of checkpoints and patrols have cropped up
on the routes surrounding the airport.

Terrorist threats to the airport have been reported, as well as a death threat
against an ambassador from one of the Gulf countries. Sources said the security
apparatus has been on high alert since the weekend, following anonymous threats
that the airport was a potential target of attacks.

During the past two weeks, Lebanon has witnessed a spate of bombings and
explosions, totalling five blasts in nine days. The first was a car bomb on late
on May 20 in Ashrafieh next to the ABC mall, while other attacks targeted
Verdun, Aley and Barbir. The last incident was a hand-grenade explosion Monday
evening in Zahle. While only one person has died in the blasts, dozens have been
wounded and stores, businesses and residential homes have suffered damages worth
tens of thousands of dollars.

"While we have put security all over Lebanon, we have increased it specifically
in Beirut because it is the capital and a very sensitive target," Rifi said.
"Our security measures here [in Beirut] are extremely tough."

According to a report in the daily Al-Akhbar, two non-Lebanese nationals were
arrested on Monday evening near the house of an ambassador from the Gulf. They
were found with a high-tech camera and confessed to be working for a third
party, the report said.

Four people have been killed in the past two days for failing to stop at new
checkpoints in Beirut. Three men were killed on the airport road when a taxi
sped away from a checkpoint near the airport on Monday. A young woman was killed
when her husband failed to stop at a Shiyyah checkpoint on Tuesday.

Source: The Daily Star website, Beirut, in English 31 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                             May 31, 2007 Thursday

Terror attack survivor talk

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 113 words


Terror attack survivor Henry Luce will be giving a talk at a presentation lunch
in the Southgate Hotel, Exeter, on June 22.

Mr Luce was caught up in the Egyptian terror blasts in April last year and was
treated for a  shrapnel wound

The director of Kall Kwik's Exeter branch  was on a holiday with his wife
Therese when three home-made bombs ripped through the resort of Dahab.

Mr Luce, from Cadhay near Ottery St Mary, will outline some of the business
issues which he needed to address after his injuries.

Seats at the presentation lunch cost £12.50 per head and booking is essential.

Reservations must be made on a booking form by June 19,  available from Judy
Philips on 01392 879595.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 1, 2007 Friday

Kyrgyz police say explosion in south terrorist attack

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report by Kyrgyz AKIpress news agency website

Osh, 1 June: The press service of the Osh city police department has reported
that a BMU-3 detonator was found while sifting through the rubble at the scene
of the explosion on 31 May. The city's public prosecutor has launched a criminal
case under Article 226 (terrorism) of the Criminal Code the same day.

Evidence in the criminal case has been handed over to the Osh city and the Osh
regional departments of the State Security Committee.

The Osh city police department said that the Osh police had drawn up measures to
prevent people prone to extremism from manifesting themselves and to increase
the preventive work.

There was an explosion inside a building in the centre of Osh at 1230 [local
time] on 30 May. It destroyed the toilet, which was in the epicentre of the
incident. There were no casualties because staff of the Ekho Osha and Osh Sadosi
newspapers [Russian and Uzbek language dailies] had gone for launch.

Source: AKIpress news agency website, Bishkek, in Russian 0516 gmt 1 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                              June 1, 2007, Friday
                                  1ST Edition

BROTHERS' BRICK ATTACK ON HOUSE;
Street rampage terror after row with man, 20

BYLINE: SARAH CHAPMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 256 words


TWO brothers went on the rampage and smashed up a house in Merseyside.

Dylan Hughes, 18, and Dean Hughes, 25, hurled bricks at a house in Kilburn
Street, Litherland, after a row in the street, Liverpool crown court heard.

David McLachlan, prosecuting, said the incident started on December 16 last year
when the brothers headed towards resident Shaun Gibbons, 20, shouting abuse.

Mr McLachlan said Dylan Hughes struck Gibbons with a brick, causing a head
injury, and Dylan Hughes then threw a brick at Gibbons's mother, hitting her in
the stomach.

A few minutes later Dean Hughes and Dylan Hughes pelted their house with bricks.

Mr McLachlan said: "Extensive damage had been caused to that house in Kilburn
Street.

"The front door was hanging off its hinges and several of the windows had been
smashed."

Gibbons was arrested at the scene and told police he had thrown a brick through
the Hughes's window first in revenge for the attack.

Dylan Hughes, of Chaucer Street, Bootle, pleaded guilty to affray and was
sentenced to 12 months' detention in a Young Offenders' Institution. Dean
Hughes, of Hornby Boulevard, Litherland, was jailed for a total of three years
after he pleaded guilty to affray and admitted breaching a community order for
being concerned in the supply of heroin.

Gibbons also admitted affray and was given a six-month jail sentence, suspended
for two years.

Judge John Roberts told them: "This must have been a terrifying spectacle for
anybody unfortunate enough to have witnessed it that day."

sarahchapman@liverpoolecho.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Terror cells plan attack on Britain;
Iranian spies target power stations in nuclear stand-off

BYLINE: From Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 42

LENGTH: 594  words


IRANIAN-BACKED terror cells are plotting devastating attacks in Britain, a
leading intelligence expert warned last night.

Claude Moniquet, president of the European Strategic Intelligence and Security
Centre, said Tehran was setting up sleeper cells across Europe to carry out
terrorist reprisals if the West moves to disrupt Iran's nuclear programme.
British nuclear power stations are among the likely targets.

Mr Moniquet, who has links with intelligence agencies throughout Europe, said
the number of Iranian secret agents operating here had trebled in the past 12
months - with spies directly seeking to recruit extremists in some mosques.

He claimed the secret terror plot was being run at the "highest possible level"
in the Iranian regime. Agents have been spotted carrying out reconnaissance at
nuclear power stations - prompting fears they could be targets.

Mr Moniquet said: "The probability is the UK will be the main target of
Iranian-sponsored terrorists in Europe. It makes no sense to attack the
Netherlands, Italy or Spain - it makes much more sense to attack Britain,
because it is the closest ally of the US in Europe. They will kill British
citizens on the streets of London and elsewhere just as they kill your soldiers
in the south of Iraq.

"We know that the Iranians are working in some mosques in Europe and we know
they try to recruit new activists.

"We know also that in recent months they have conducted some reconnaissance
missions on possible targets in various European countries. Those possible
targets include industrial facilities, critical infrastructure and nuclear power
stations.

"It's clear that if the Iranian nuclear programme is the victim of an attack
then to retaliate by attacking nuclear power makes sense."

Iran has long been viewed as a sponsor of terrorism, particularly in the Middle
East where it supports the radical Hezbollah organisation.

Iran has been blamed for terrorist attacks as far afield as Argentina, but is
not previously thought to have plotted attacks in the UK. Tehran is also widely
believed to be aiding militias in Iran and Afghanistan that have killed dozens
of British troops with sophisticated roadside bombs.

Security at Britain's nuclear facilities has been stepped up, and experts are
confident they could thwart an attack aimed at releasing radiation.

But they concede it is much more difficult to prevent a crude suicide attack
that would bring the terrorists wide publicity, even if it caused relatively
little damage to the nuclear plant. Patrick Mercer, a Tory MP and security
expert, said Mr Moniquet's warning was deeply worrying. He added: "I'm afraid
this rings depressingly and frighteningly true.

"I have no doubt that Iran is killing our soldiers abroad and has its agents in
place inside this country. We underestimate them at our grave peril. We must
take every opportunity to confront Iran with evidence of this unacceptable
activity."

In a little-noticed parliamentary reply last year, Foreign Secretary Margaret
Beckett indicated the Government was increasingly worried about Iranian agents.
She said: "There are indeed concerns about the scale and nature of terrorism in
this country, and about whether some of that is inspired or funded in any way by
forces in and around Iran."

The latest warning comes amid growing concern about Iran's nuclear programme.
Tehran insists its intentions are peaceful. But Mark Fitzpatrick, director of
non-proliferation at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, said it
appeared to be working on long-range missiles capable of reaching Europe.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                 Fourth Edition

'Terror plot' to attack JFK sparks fears of radical Islam

BYLINE: Andrew Gumbel in Los Angeles

LENGTH: 556 words


American officials say they are growing increasingly concerned about the
domestic threat posed by radical Islamists from the Caribbean following the
disruption of an alleged plot to ignite jet fuel tanks and blow up New York's
JFK airport.

Federal prosecutors announced over the weekend that they had arrested a
Guyanese-born former JFK cargo worker who they had been tracking over the past
18 months after he indicated his rage at his adopted country and talked about
ways to strike at the airport.

Authorities in Trinidad arrested two suspected co-conspirators, a former member
of the Guyanese parliament and a Trinidadian Muslim radical.

The alleged plot was very far from completion, and authorities said the former
cargo worker, 63-year-old Russell Defreitas, was still in the early stages of
securing support and manpower via his contacts in the Caribbean.

In fact, US officials made it clear they would have preferred to lay low and
continue to monitor Mr Defreitas's activities through an FBI informant he had
taken into his confidence. Their hand was forced, however, when Trinidadian
authorities arrested one of the suspected co-conspirators, a former Guyanese MP
Abdul Kadir, for reasons that remain unclear.

The FBI immediately swooped on Mr Defreitas, who was arrested while eating at a
Brooklyn diner on Friday night. It also arranged for the arrest of Kareem
Ibrahim in Trinidad. The FBI said it was afraid the men might go to ground if it
waited any longer. A fourth suspect, Abdel Nur, of Guyana, remains at large. In
common with other plots uncovered by the US authorities since the 11 September
2001 attacks, this one raised as many questions as it answered. The testimony of
the FBI informant, who travelled with Mr Defreitas to the Caribbean and recorded
several of their conversations, makes it clear that Mr Defreitas wanted to
launch an attack that would equal or surpass the destruction of the World Trade
Centre.

According to the informant, Mr Defreitas was angry that JFK airport was used to
ship military parts to Israel where they were likely to be used to kill Muslims.
He also liked the symbolism of hitting JFK.

"Anytime you hit Kennedy, it is the most hurtful thing to the United States," he
is quoted saying in a formal complaint issued in the wake of his arrest. "To hit
John F Kennedy, wow ??? They love John F Kennedy like he's the man ??? If you
hit that, this whole country will be in mourning. It's like you can kill the man
twice."

Over the weekend, US officials gave off contradictory signals as to the
significance of all that. At a news conference announcing Mr Defreitas's arrest,
New York's police commissioner Raymond Kelly suggested the Caribbean connection
indeed opened up a whole new potential threat to the United States. "This is an
area in which we have growing concern, and that I think requires a lot more
focus."

In the complaint, at least half a dozen people are mentioned, but not named, as
persons of interest being sought for questioning.

At the same time, however, officials speaking to reporters off the record said
the arrests did not indicate any immediate danger to the United States. "There
are no adjustments to our security posture being made as a result of this plot,"
one Homeland Security official told the Los Angeles Times. Officials have also
ruled out any link to al-Qa'ida.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                              June 4, 2007 Monday

Pizza delivery man's axe attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 216 words


A Fast-food delivery driver was left with a broken nose and a wound to the
shoulder after being attacked with an axe.

Imam Kilinc, from Gainsborough's Marmaris kebab shop, was targeted when he
delivered an order to an address in Glentham Road in the town.

He was waiting outside the house after handing over the food but was suddenly
confronted by customer Paul Henry who was holding an axe above his head.

Lincoln Crown Court heard how Henry  grabbed Mr Kilinc and pulled him into the
house before headbutting him for no apparent reason.

Jonathan Straw, prosecuting, said: "Mr Kilinc was frightened and bemused.

"There was no intimation of any problem when he first knocked on the door."

Henry began shouting that he would kill Mr Kilinc and then held the axe close to
his neck before kicking him as he was kneeling on the floor.

The incident ended when a woman told Henry to stop, allowing terrified Mr Kilinc
- who later needed hospital treatment - to flee to his car.

Henry, of Middlefield Lane, Gainsborough, pleaded guilty to an offence of affray
in Lincoln Crown Court on Friday as a result of the attack on February 25 last
year.

The 40-year-old - who has a number of previous convictions for violence,
including three for inflicting grievous bodily harm - was jailed for 14 months
for the attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday

Somalia parliament condemns terrorist attacks in southeast Ethiopia

LENGTH: 166 words


Text of report in English by Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 5 June: The parliament of the Transitional Federal Government (TFG)
of Somalia condemned in strongest terms the recent terrorist attack executed
against innocent civilians who were gathered in Jijiga town of the Somali State
[southeastern Ethiopia] to celebrate the victory of 28 May, the House of
Peoples' Representatives said.

In its statement sent to the Ethiopian News Agency, the house said on Tuesday [5
June] that Speaker of TFG Parliament, Shaykh Aden Muhammad Nur expressed
heartfelt sadness over the terrorist act which was aimed at disrupting the
existing peace and democracy in the area.

In his message sent to the Ethiopian counterpart Ambassador Teshome Toga, TFG
parliament speaker said his parliament would rally behind the Ethiopian
government and its people in fighting terrorism.

The speaker also wished recuperation to the bereaved, the statement said.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 5 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday

Philippines: Security forces bracing for possible terror attacks in central
Mindanao

LENGTH: 846 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Daily Tribune website on 6
June

Filipino security forces are bracing for possible terror attacks in Central
Mindanao after the United States and Australia warned of a new wave of terror
attacks by al-Qaeda affiliates in the war-torn region.

Armed Forces of the Philippines-Public Information Office chief Lt. Col.
Bartolome Bacarro said government troops in Central Mindanao and in the
Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) have been ordered to stay vigilant
for any eventuality.

He added the National Intelligence Council (NIC), which is composed of the
intelligence units of the AFP and of the Philippine National Police (PNP), among
other agencies, has retained the "extreme-severe" terror alert in Central
Mindanao and the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao due to the recent bombings
in the regions.

Under the extreme-severe terror alert, attacks are highly likely. It is the
second highest after extreme-critical which indicates that a terror attack had
just occurred and that follow-on attacks are expected.

"It (extreme-severe terror alert) is just a reiteration because they
periodically assess that (threat). So the assessment starting June is the
same...Based on definition extreme-severe, (bombing) incidents occurred,"
Bacarro stressed.

He, however, could not say if the NIC has noted that terrorists are plotting
attacks in the region.

"I cannot give you holdings of the AFP. The one who is providing and declaring
this terror alert level is the NIC, not the AFP...There is information but I am
not privy to information because it is actionable intelligence," the military
official added.

Bacarro said based on the military's monitoring, there was a need to retain the
terror alert, citing "previous incidents where there were successive bombings
that took place...during and after elections."

On whether the retention of the terror alert status in the two regions served as
the US' basis in issuing the travel advisory over the weekend, he said he was
not in a position to say that.

"But I would believe that the basis would have been the series of incidents
which would include, maybe, the abduction of a German businessman (in Pikit,
North Cotabato last Thursday)," the official stressed.

Bacarro said the military understands the US in issuing the travel advisory. "We
cannot prevent a country from making such an advisory because it is the
responsibility of this country to protect the interest of its citizens."

PNP chief Director General Oscar Calderon, for his part, said he has issued an
order to the PNP Anti-Terrorism Task Force to intensify gathering and conduct
thorough monitoring of terrorist-linked groups Abu Sayyaf and Jemaah Islamiyah
(JI).

The United States Embassy was warned that terrorists may be planning to bomb bus
terminals and public markets in the towns of Kidapawan and Makilala in North
Cotabato province.

It also advised its citizens to "exercise extreme caution" in Central Mindanao.

Taking its cue from Washington, the Australian government also yesterday banned
all travel to Mindanao due to the high level of terrorist threat in the region.

In its updated travel advisory, Canberra strongly advised its citizens not to
travel to Mindanao, including the Zamboanga Peninsula and the Sulu Archipelago
because of the very high threat of terrorist attack, including kidnapping and
related counter-terrorism operations.

"Recent credible information indicates terrorists may be in the advanced stages
of planning attacks, including potentially during the election period. The
attacks may be imminent and could occur at any time, anywhere in Mindanao," the
travel bulletin said, citing the US Embassy in the Philippines' warden message.

While it has confirmed the authenticity of the US Embassy report, Malacanang,
however, stressed there is no reason for alarm since joint forces of the
military and police are keeping a tight watch in the strategic areas in
Mindanao.

National Security Norberto Gonzales, during a phone interview, admitted the US
report is credible and there is no reason for them to doubt or question it.

"Usually, when the US Embassy reports something, it is very reliable. They are
duty bound to warn their citizens, so it's not a problem for us. There is really
a terror threat in Mindanao, and it remains high until now," he added.

Gonzales said he is also willing to coordinate with the US Embassy on the
matter.

Meanwhile, Maj. Randolph Cabangbang, Philippine Army Eastern Mindanao Command
spokesman, said Basit Usman, an alleged JI member held responsible for recent
bombings in Central Mindanao, has facilitated bomb-making training among his
recruits in remote Barangay Linantangan, Mamasapano, Maguindanao.

"The training went on for eight days starting May 18," he stressed.

Usman is on the US list of most wanted global terrorists and carries a bounty of
$50,000 equivalent to.

Last year, he masterminded the October attack in Makilala, North Cotabato, which
killed eight persons and injured a dozen others.

Source: The Daily Tribune website, Manila, in English 6 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Grantham Journal

                                  June 6, 2007

Terrorist attack simulated in town centre

LENGTH: 149  words


Wednesday, 12.45pm - Members of Grantham's business community learned how to
cope with a terrorist attack in a simulation this morning.

The National Counter-Terrorism Security Office was at Grantham's Guildhall as
part of Project Argus, which aims to help businesses deal with the aftermath of
an attack.

Special branch officers and representatives from Lincolnshire Fire and Rescue,
Lincolnshire Police, East Midlands Ambulance Service and Lincolnshire County
Council were there to give advice on how to help prevent terrorist attacks, how
to cope in an emergency and how to help staff and customers recover from the
ordeal.

The simulation centred around three suicide bomb attacks in the centre of
Grantham.

A special branch officer leading the exercise said: "It's better to have a plan
you don't need than need a plan you don't have."

CLICK HERE to email us your YOUR NEWS or your views on the news.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                    PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

                       June 6, 2007 Wednesday 1:04 PM BST

PETROL TANKERS CHECKED AMID TERROR ATTACK FEARS

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 216 words


Counter-terror police are stopping and checking petrol tankers travelling into
London amid fears they may be used in a terrorist attack.

Officers are searching vehicles and questioning drivers in a bid to disrupt any
plans to use hijacked lorries as travelling ``bombs''.

Scotland Yard said the tactic has been under way for several months as part of a
range of measures to counter the terrorist threat to the capital.

It is part of a wider operation by traffic police who are targeting unsafe and
overloaded heavy goods vehicles.

There is not known to be any direct or specific information that UK-based
terrorists are plotting such an attack.

Checkpoints involving motorcycle officers are set up at major trunk routes into
London to stop and check tankers carrying petrol and other chemicals.

Officers fear suicide bombers in Britain may attempt to copy tactics used by
insurgents in Iraq.

Landmark sites in the capital as well as high-profile businesses, Government
offices and transport hubs are thought to be possible targets.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: ``We currently carry out a range of measures
including roadside vehicle checks as part of our day-to-day business to disrupt,
deter and prevent terrorism and to help create a hostile and uncertain
environment for terrorists to operate in.'' end

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 8, 2007 Friday

Russian prosecutors charge suspects in May Day terror attack plot

LENGTH: 183 words


Text of "Novosti" news report by Russian Channel One TV on 8 June

The Prosecutor-General's Office has brought official charges against two people
who are suspected of plotting a terror attack in Moscow on Victory Day [9 May
2007]. Those arrested in this case, 25-year-old Muscovite Ruslan Musayev and a
23-year-old student of a Moscow higher educational institution, Umar Batukayev,
have been charged under two Articles [of the Criminal Code]: illegal acquisition
and storage of weapons and an attempt at terrorism.

Investigators believe that both young men were members of a criminal gang which
was going to blow up a car with an explosive in Moscow on 9 May. It has been
established that Batukayev and Musayev dealt with buying weapons and explosives
which were later found in the car.

A car with explosives was found by law-enforcement officers on 8 May near a
residential building on Profsoyuznaya Ulitsa [street], an improvised bomb based
on 7 kg of plastic explosive filled with metal balls was hidden on the back seat
of the Zhiguli car.

Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 1100 gmt 8 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 9, 2007 Saturday

Ethiopian premier warns public of Eritrean-backed terror attacks

LENGTH: 284 words


Excerpt from report by Ethiopian TV on 9 June

[Presenter] Prime Minister Meles Zenawi has said great contribution is expected
from the public to foil the Eritrean government's efforts to disrupt Ethiopia's
peace and security. The prime minister said if the public fought anti-peace
forces serving the interests of the Eritrean government, the Eritrean
government's evil deeds would bear no fruits.

Meanwhile, Prime Minister Meles said the upcoming reconciliation conference in
Mogadishu would have significant gains for the Horn of Africa. Ashebr Getnet has
the details:

[Ashebr] Prime Minister Meles said at his news conference [in Addis Ababa on 9
June] that the Eritrean government was known to be making preparations to unite
anti-peace forces which it used to disrupt peace in Ethiopia. He said as long as
such forces existed, it [Eritrean government] would not desist from attempting
to achieve its objectives.

Noting that it was possible to foil the sha'biyyah's [Eritrean government]
efforts by making the public fight the anti-peace forces, the prime minister
said continuous work was being done to get the public understand the danger and
against fight it. According to the prime minister, security measures will be
taken to that end. He said the people should guard their peace in collaboration
with security forces.

[Meles] It is a matter of making sure that there are no forces that are used as
tools. If the Ethiopian people rejected those forces being used as tools to
carry out terrorist acts and made them arrested, the Eritrean government might
organize whatever meeting it wants, but will bring about nothing. [Passage
omitted]

Source: Ethiopian TV, Addis Ababa, in Amharic 1700 gmt 9 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 9, 2007, Saturday
                             Staffordshire Edition

Cabbie hurt in riot terror;
COURT: Attackers 'thought taxi driver was dead'

BYLINE: Ross McCarthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 330 words


A TAXI driver was pelted with bricks and robbed by a mob who had surrounded his
car during rioting in Lozells, Birmingham Crown Court heard.

Mamil Ahmed told the court his attackers only left when someone said they
thought he was dead.

Six men and a youth are standing trial in relation to a series of incidents
which took place over a five hour period facing charges including attempted
murder.

Adrian Redgrave QC, prosecuting, said a race riot erupted in the Lozells area in
October 2005 following rumours that a 14-year-old black girl had been held
captive and gang raped by Asians at a shop.

He said violence broke out following a rally and over the course of the next two
days shops were looted, police were pelted with missiles by mobs and people were
attacked in the street.

Mr Ahmed said it had been the time of Ramadan and that on October 22 at around
6pm he was driving his Ford Mondeo home to break his fast.

He said he had just reached a junction near George Street car park when he was
confronted by around 50 people who had blocked the road.

The taxi driver said he was forced to stop and that the mob then started to
throw bricks and sticks at him.

His vehicle's windows were smashed and he was struck, mainly on the right side
of the head, with the missiles.

Mr Ahmed said demands for money were made and that he handed over about pounds
70. Asked what he thought would have happened if he had not given the attackers
the cash he said: "I do not know. I could not think at that time because I had
been hit."

He said he briefly lost consciousness and that when he came round he heard
someone say: "He's dead, leave him."

Mr Ahmed said he drove further down the road, where he was given help and taken
to hospital where he was treated for injuries including a cut cheek and burst
eardrum.

Earlier, Chief Insp Thomas Coughlin said that one man had been murdered during
the disturbances and that police officers suffered injuries including one who
was shot in the leg.

(Proceeding)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATING... police on the streets during two days of race riots.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             June 9, 2007 Saturday

Hain on the rack after Reid's 'terror' attack

SECTION: 2ND

LENGTH: 299 words


PETER HAIN'S political future is in doubt after he was accused of engineering a
row over new terror powers to boost his bid to be Labour's deputy leader.

He came under attack in an extraordinary leaked letter from Home Secretary John
Reid to Tony Blair claiming that Mr Hain proposed the very powers he is now
denouncing.

The letter was seen as a highly unusual attack on the integrity of a Minister by
a senior colleague.

Mr Hain, the Northern Ireland Secretary, told colleagues this week that new
police 'stop and question' powers could become a 'recruiting sergeant for
extremism'.

But an outraged Mr Reid wrote to Mr Blair accusing Mr Hain of being the only
person to propose the powers in thefirst place - and then leaking the idea that
he opposed them to paint himself as a champion of civil liberties.

Mr Reid wrote: 'I must say that I remain mystified as to why Peter initially
proposed a measure which he now regards as a "recruiting sergeant for
extremism". Any light he could shed on the source of these leaks and "hyped
briefings" would be welcome.' Mr Reid copied the letter to Cabinet Secretary Sir
Gus O'Donnell, the committee for security and terrorism and other Cabinet
committees.

A spokesman for Mr Hain said he had not objected to 'stop and question' powers
but to the portrayal of them as 'tough, new war-time' measures.

Mr Hain caused further irritation yesterday by ignoring pleas from colleagues
not to undermine Labour's appeal by lurching to the Left.

He broke New Labour's greatest taboo by resurrecting the spectre of higher taxes
for the wealthy. He said there was 'a lot of pressure within the party' to raise
the taxes paid by the highest earners.

A source close to Mr Brown said: 'A lot of the things that are being said are
not remotely indicative of Government policy.'

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday

Turkish premier condemns recent attacks, vows fight against terrorism

LENGTH: 195 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Amasya, 9 June: "Those who try to disturb our unity and tranquillity by
targeting Turkish nation, must be aware of that our state with all its
institutions including the troops and policemen will give the necessary answer.
Our fight against those heinous attacks will continue," Turkish Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Saturday [9 June].

Speaking during several inaugurations in the northern city of Amasya, Prime
Minister Erdogan said, "Turkey is one of the countries which has suffered most
from terrorism. Our nation has never made any concessions in its fight against
terrorism."

"Those who try to disturb our unity and tranquillity by targeting Turkish
nation, must be aware of that our state with all its institutions including the
troops and policemen will give the necessary answer. Our fight against those
heinous attacks will continue," he said.

Prime Minister Erdogan added, "Turkey should maintain its fight against
terrorism both in national and international level. The fight against terrorism
requires patience and solidarity."

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 2009 gmt 9 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The News of the World (England)

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday

Terror attack risk raised to highest level

BYLINE: Ian Kirby, Political Editor

LENGTH: 111  words


INTELLIGENCE chiefs are set to raise Britain's terrorism threat level after
being warned of plans for an imminent al-Qaeda outrage.

They believe a terror cell wants to launch an attack before Tony Blair leaves
office on June 27. The current threat level is "severe", which means an attack
is highly likely. But it is expected to move to its highest setting, "critical",
meaning an attack is thought to be imminent. It has not been critical for two
years.

Last week London cops searched fuel tankers. It is thought terrorists might
hijack one and drive it at a tourist attraction.

The 9/11 Mr Big Khalid Sheikh Mohammed plotted to blow up Chicago's Sears Tower
with tankers.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 11, 2007 Monday

Iran Press: "Terrorist" group leader said to have escaped attack

LENGTH: 131 words


Text of report by Iranian newspaper Iran on 11 June

The terrorist group Jondollah have claimed that Abdolmalek Rigi the leader of
this terrorist group has survived an attack by the Iranian Armed forces. The
speaker of this terrorist group added: 'During the attack by Iranian Armed
Forces four of Rigi's companions were injured but Rigi himself and his
bodyguards survived and managed to return to their Head Quarters.'

The Jondollah terrorist group has been responsible for organizing and carrying
out several terrorist attacks against the people of Systan and Baluchestan
Province. After a plot by the American Intelligent Service, the CIA, was
unravelled it was revealed that this terrorist network is funded and
logistically supported by America.

Source: Iran, Tehran, in Persian 11 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                             June 11, 2007, Monday
                                Valleys Edition

Girl's terror as dog attacked her in lane

BYLINE: Liz Keen South Wales Echo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 328 words


A rottweiler dog could be destroyed after a jury found it attacked a Barry
schoolgirl.

Kenneth Viscount, 45, of Windsor Road, had to fight to get it off the
12-year-old it had targeted in a back lane.

But he told Cardiff Crown Court that the animal which had been so difficult to
hold back as it went for the terrified child twice, had not been his dog at all.

"Mine was at home and it never goes out without a harness and muzzle," he
claimed, as he denied a charge of owning a dog which was out of control in a
public place.

He said the dog which attacked the child as she walked to a youth club with a
friend in January, must have belonged to someone else in the town's Manorbier
Court area. He was just passing and stepped in to save her.

"There are other Rottweilers about - three in my street of 17 houses and one
over the road," he said.

The child had been 'wrong' when she thought the man struggling to get the dog
off her leg had called it Blade - his dog's name.

And so was a woman who came to investigate the screams and heard the man
dragging the dog away saying 'wait until I get you home'.

Prosecutor Claire Wilks said the two young friends, had been nervous when they
saw the Rottweiler loose in the lane but had been told by Viscount 'he won't
hurt you', screamed hysterically as it attacked.

"He grabbed it and told them to run but he couldn't control it and it broke free
and attacked the same girl a second time causing an injury to her leg," she
said.

Viscount said his Rottweiler was a family pet which was good with his own three
children and friends. He said it was he who had stopped the girl from being
injured more.

"I grabbed it by its legs but it was too strong for me and went for her again.

"I wrestled with it, I was on top of it but it wasn't my dog," he told the
jurors, who found him guilty.

The court heard there is likely to be an objection to any destruction order for
12-month-old Blade when Viscount returns to the court to be sentenced next
month.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday

Turkish president condemns "separatist" terror attack in southeast

LENGTH: 187 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) -10.06.2007 -"With its nation, its Turkish Armed Forces and its all
security forces, the Republic of Turkey will perpetuate its justified fight
against separatist terrorism  - that targets its unity and indivisible integrity
-  with determination, until the eradication of last terrorist," Turkish
President Ahmet Necdet Sezer said on Sunday.

Sezer released a statement reminding that a lieutenant colonel, a major and a
private were killed and 5 soldiers were wounded in a roadside mine blast in
Guclukonak town of southeastern city of Sirnak.

"I condemn this heinous attack, assailants and their supporters," Sezer said.

"Without any hesitation, the Republic of Turkey will take necessary steps in
this fight by uniting with its nation and give necessary response to those who
dared to stage these heinous acts.

No powers will be able to resist before our nation's and state's unshakable will
regarding this matter," he added.

Sezer also offered his condolences to families of the martyrs.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0851 gmt 10 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday

Uganda boost security following "terrorist" attack in neighbouring Kenya

LENGTH: 356 words


Excerpt from report by Alfred Wasike and agencies entitled "Uganda on the
lookout for terrorists after Nairobi suicide attack" published by Ugandan
newspaper The New Vision website on 13 June

Uganda's security has been put on high alert following the Monday [11 June]
suspected terrorist attack in the Kenyan capital Nairobi, which killed one
person and injured 37.

"We are on full alert as we have always been," said Robert Masolo, the
director-general of the External Security Organisation. "Even before the world
knew about Usamah Bin-Ladin, Uganda learnt that terrorism was a threat to
international security. So we are sharing information with our international
allies."

Masolo said Uganda had been complaining since 90s about terrorists in Sudan and
the DRCongo. "You will recall that Bin-Ladin was training the LRA [Lord's
Resistance Army] into killer squads in Sudan, alongside other Al-Qai'dah
terrorists who he was exporting to other parts of the world."

The army said the upcoming defence meeting of the East African Community was an
opportunity to come up with common security strategies.

"We are very fortunate that Uganda is hosting the defence ministers from east
Africa. This is a great opportunity to draw up strategies to protect our
region," said the UPDF [Uganda People's Defence Forces] spokesperson Maj Felix
Kulayigye.

"What happened in Nairobi is testimony to the presence of terrorists in east
Africa. We have always argued that we need to pacify chaotic places like Somalia
which are a conducive environment for terrorism."

"We are on high alert," confirmed Internal Affairs State Minister Matia Kasaija.
"We are sharing intelligence with our neighbours to fight terrorism."

Uganda had its own experience with terrorism, not only through the Sudan-backed
LRA but also through the Pakistan-trained ADF (Allied Democratic Forces).

At the end of the 1990s, the ADF embarked on a wave of bomb attacks in Kampala
and other towns. All in all, 47 home-made bombs exploded in busy down-town areas
and Kampala suburbs, killing 88 people and injuring 268. [Passage omitted]

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 13 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            June 13, 2007, Wednesday
                              North Wales Edition

Dog charged at me like an express train;
WALES OAP TELLS OF ROTTWEILER ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: ERYL CRUMP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 632 words


A ROTTWEILER knocked a pensioner in to the air then attacked him on a beach, a
jury heard yesterday.

The dog, called Crunchie, was said to have charged at 74-year old Elwyn Thomas
as he walked his daughter's dog, Toby, on Dinas Dinlle beach, near Llandwrog, in
September.

Another rottweiler, Lucy, then joined the attack and Mr Thomas was bitten on the
arm and hand. He needed hospital treatment.

The retired bricklayer, from Penygroes, wept as he told a jury at Caernarfon
Crown Court he thought he would die in the attack.

He said: "The dog charged at me like an express train. I'm 13-stone and I was
thrown into the air.

"I landed on top of Toby, pinning him down. I felt my right hand being chewed
and I closed my eyes and hoped for the best.

"I opened one eye and saw the other dog approaching. I thought 'That's it, I've
had it'."

The rottweiler's owner, Alison Maxine Parry, 42, of Plas Isaf, Betws Garmon,
near Caernarfon, denies two charges of being the owner of dogs which caused
injury whilst dangerously out of control in a public place.

Simon Rogers, prosecuting, told the jury the attack took place at around 12.30pm
on September 11 last year.

Mr Thomas was walking back towards his car along the sand dunes when he saw the
dogs approach.

"One of them was on a lead but the other was running ahead of the lady who was
with them," he said.

"She was shouting to the dog but he wasn't listening."

Mr Thomas told the court that Parry showed him little sympathy after the attack,
even when she saw his cut hand.

He said: "I opened my eyes and I got to my feet. I looked at my arm and saw
blood pumping from a vein.

"The lady was standing nearby. She said I wasn't bleeding much and she walked
away. I suffer from high blood pressure and the doctor said I could have had a
heart attack or a stroke but she went and left me."

Passers-by went to Mr Thomas's aid and called for help. Paramedics from the
Wales Air Ambulance base at nearby Caernarfon Airport were first on the scene
followed by an ambulance crew and police officers.

Toby suffered a torn ear and cuts to the face.

Mr Thomas said the dog was shocked and did not come out of his kennel for four
days after the incident.

Parry was admonished by the judge, Mr Justice Roderick Evans, for shaking her
head and making gestures from the dock during Mr Thomas's evidence.

Cross-examined by Des Parry, defending, Mr Thomas said he did not see if either
of the two rottweilers were muzzled.

He rejected suggestions by Mr Parry that his injuries were caused by Toby trying
to defend himself during the attack.

Mahmood Arain, consultant surgeon at Ysbyty Gwynedd, Bangor, said Mr Thomas had
multiple puncture wounds and bite marks to his hands, wrists and forearms.

The most serious injury was a deep laceration to the left wrist.

Mr Arain said the wound was so deep he could see the muscle structure under the
skin.

He agreed with prosecutor Simon Rogers that all the injuries were consistent
with someone being attacked and bitten by a dog.

Darrell Young and his partner Jennifer Skorzewski from Manchester told the jury
they were on holiday in North Wales last September and were walking their dog, a
Staffordshire bull terrier, at the same time as the incident.

Mr Young said the beach was largely deserted but they saw Mr Thomas walking his
dog off its lead.

A few minutes later the couple saw Parry with her two dogs.

Mr Young said: "I felt uneasy straight away because it didn't look as if she
could control them. One dog was on a lead but the other one wasn't. I took our
dog and put it over a barbed wire fence for safety," he said.

He said he then climbed on to a fence pole and saw the rottweilers attack Mr
Thomas.

"I saw one of the dogs had hold of his arm and the other dog went for his side,"
he said.

The trial continues.

erylcrump@dailypost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Elwyn Thomas said he was thrown in the air by a rottweiler. Inset, dog
owner Alison Maxine Parry who appeared in court yesterday Pictures: GERALLT
RADCLIFFE; A rottweiler

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Runcorn and Widnes World

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday

Mum's terror at axeman attack

BYLINE: Neil Docking

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (RUNCORN WIDNES NEWS)

LENGTH: 362 words


A MUM has told how an axe attack that threatened her and her baby felt like
something out of a horror film'.

Anne-Marie Howarth says she was terrified during the incident on September 15
last year, when the boyfriend of former friend Anne-Marie Helps broke into Miss
Helps' home with an axe.

Peter O'Hare, from Plantation Close, Castlefields, received a two-year community
supervision order at Warrington Crown Court on June 1 after pleading guilty to
the attack.

The 38-year-old turned up at his girlfriend's house at 2am, where she, Miss
Howarth and his cousin, Chris O'Hare, were having drinks while six children
slept.

Miss Howarth was forced to defend her baby after he smashed a kitchen window,
burst into the living room and threatened to cut her head off.

The 28-year-old said: "My son was in the crib in the living room and all the
other kids were in bed.

"I heard the window smashing and Chris stood up in front of the kitchen door
because you have to come through there to get into the living room.

"I stood behind Chris because I thought We can't let him get through to the
kids'."

O'Hare swung the axe near Miss Howarth, and while his cousin managed to restrain
him, continued to swing near her and the 12-week-old child.

She said: "I picked the baby up and as I turned round to run he threw the axe
towards us, it missed me and the baby and hit the TV.

"I ran upstairs into the bedroom to hide with the children.

"I put the chest of drawers behind it and called the police, but I thought it
would only take him two seconds to get through the door."

O'Hare left the scene after he was calmed down by his cousin.

Miss Howarth added: "I have never been that frightened before.

"I just wanted to get out of the way because there was no way I was putting any
of the children at risk "It felt like something out of a horror film when I got
home and thought about it - he could have killed me, Chris and the kids."

l Anne-Marie Howarth would like to point out that she has never been in a
relationship with Peter O'Hare, contrary to reports last week.

The Runcorn and Widnes World apologises for any distress that may have been
caused to Miss Howarth and Miss Helps due to this error.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            June 13, 2007, Wednesday
                               News Extra Edition

FAMILY IN CAR ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Mark Stead South Wales Echo

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 523 words


A DAY out turned into terror for a young family when their car window was
shattered by a roadside missile.

Police are now hunting for the yob whose attack left three children screaming
among a shower of broken glass.

Disgusted driver Kate Clarke said: "Whoever did this put all our lives in
danger."

The 37-year-old play centre manager was heading home on Saturday evening when
her Renault Zafira people-carrier was targeted on the A473 between Llanharan and
Llantrisant.''All of a sudden I heard a noise like a gunshot and the window
popped': A DAY out in the sun turned into terror for a young family when a
roadside missile shattered their car window.

Now the hunt is on for the yob whose attack left three children screaming and in
tears among a shower of broken glass.

And disgusted driver Kate Clarke - whose eldest daughter Alisha, nine, son Kobi,
six, and 12-year-old niece Leanora, were in the car - said: "Whoever did this
put all our lives in danger."

The 37-year-old play centre manager was heading home on Saturday evening after a
visit to Margam Park when her Renault Zafira people-carrier was targeted on the
A473 between Llanharan and Llantrisant.

Glass from the smashed rear window covered the back seats - where luckily none
of the children were sitting - as Kate, of Cowslip Drive, Penarth, swerved in
panic.

And she says: "If any of them had been in the back, where they usually like to
sit, rather than the middle of the car, they could have been badly injured - or
worse.

"We'd had a lovely day and then all of a sudden I heard a sound like a gunshot
and the window popped out. I swerved but managed to keep control - I was just
grateful there were no other cars around. The children pleaded with me to drive
on because they thought we were being attacked, but I stopped, called the
police, then just broke down.

"Alisha and Leanora didn't want to get back in the car, and I was shaking. When
the police arrived, they originally told me a gun had been fired at us."

The damage will cost about pounds 250 to repair, while Kate, who also has a
12-year-old daughter Misty, has been forced to take unpaid time off work. But
she says: "All that matters is the children are safe, although what might have
happened if they had been hit or we had crashed doesn't bear thinking about.
Alisha has said, 'Mummy, I don't want you to use that road again,' and I don't
want to either."

Kate also claims police officers originally told her a 20-year-old fined pounds
80 after being caught firing an airgun at a woodland target near the scene was
responsible for attacking her car and had offered to contribute towards the cost
of the damage.

However, he is not now being linked with the car attack, although South Wales
Police have not ruled out an air rifle being used.

"It's frustrating, bizarre and has caused a lot of confusion because I believed
somebody had been caught," she said.

Chief Inspector Darren Phillips said: "This was a distressing incident for Ms
Clarke and her children. An accident could easily have occurred and we would
consider a serious course of action for anybody stupid enough to throw or fire
anything at a moving car."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 14, 2007 Thursday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack in Lebanon

LENGTH: 156 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 14 June: Turkey on Thursday [14 June] condemned the terrorist attack in
Beirut on 13 June, which killed 10 people, including MP Walid Idu.

In the statement by Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) it is said that the
"terrorist attacks targeting leading names the society and civilians, which
escalated in the recent days, aimed at harming security and stability in the
country".

"Turkey once more underlines that it is in solidarity with Lebanese government
and people" said the statement.

According to the statement, Foreign Minister and Deputy Premier Abdullah Gul met
Lebanese Minister of Interior and Municipalities Hasan al-Sab'a, who is in
Istanbul for participating Second Istanbul Democracy and Global Security
Conference. Gul expressed Turkey's views regarding fight against terrorism in
this meeting.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1512 gmt 14 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            June 14, 2007, Thursday
                             Staffordshire Edition

Jail for man in cabbie attack;
COURT: City taxi driver's terror

BYLINE: Ross McCarthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 266 words


A MAN who subjected a Birmingham taxi driver to a terrifying attack and then
robbed him has been jailed for two and a half years.

Mr Recorder Dennis Desmond said the taxi driver "was punched around his head on
at least eight occasions. It was a relatively sustained attack and it terrified
him.''

Christopher Watts, 22, of Packwood Road, Sheldon, had previously admitted a
charge of robbery and two charges of racially aggravated threatening words and
behaviour.

Tom Kenning, prosecuting, at Birmingham Crown Court said on January 1 this year
taxi driver Raja Khan picked up four passengers, including the defendant, from
an address in Sheldon Heath Road.

He said he was then told to drive to various places, stopping on one occasion so
that someone could get out and urinate and on another for someone to smoke.

The driver was eventually directed to a road which was a dead end and when he
turned round to ask Watts for his fare the defendant pulled up the hood of his
top.

Watts grabbed Mr Khan around the neck from behind while another man in the
vehicle tried to get his belt around the victim's neck. After a demand for money
was made the two men then began punching Mr Khan.

Mr Kenning said Watts then got out of the taxi and was banging on the windows
while the other man continued the assault. Eventually the two attackers ran off
taking pounds 25.

Mr Kenning said the driver went to the police and later made a tour of the area
where he spotted a woman who had been in his car earlier.

She was taken to a police station and later the defendant also went to the
station where he admitted the attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                 June 14, 2007

UN: Security Council Presidential Statement condemns Beirut terrorist attack;
Nine Killed, including member of parliament; Further Condemns Any Attempts to
Destabilize Lebanon Through Political Assassination or Other Terrorist Attacks

LENGTH: 619 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-JUNE 14, 2007-UN: Security Council Presidential Statement condemns
Beirut terrorist attack; Nine Killed, including member of parliament; Further
Condemns Any Attempts to Destabilize Lebanon Through Political Assassination or
Other Terrorist Attacks ©1994-2007 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Expressing its deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims
and the people and Government of Lebanon, the Security Council this afternoon
unequivocally condemned today's terrorist attack in Beirut, which killed at
least nine persons, including Member of Parliament Walid Eido, and injured
several others.

In a statement read by its President, Johan V. Verbeke ( Belgium), the Council
commended the determination of the Government of Lebanon to bring to justice the
perpetrators, organizers and sponsors of that and other assassinations and
underlined its own determination to support those efforts. It condemned any
attempt to destabilize Lebanon, including through political assassinations and
other terrorist acts.

The Council also called upon all parties in Lebanon and the region to show
restraint and a sense of responsibility with a view to preventing any further
deterioration of the situation in Lebanon. It also urged all States to cooperate
fully in the fight against terrorism and reaffirmed its previous calls to all
parties concerned to cooperate fully and urgently in full implementation of all
relevant resolutions.

The meeting was called to order at 5:49 p.m. and adjourned at 5:54 p.m.

The full text of presidential statement S/PRST/2007/18 reads as follows:

"The Security Council unequivocally condemns the terrorist attack in Beirut on
13 June 2007 which killed at least nine persons, including Member of Parliament
Walid Eido, and injured several others. The Security Council expresses its
deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims and to the
people and Government of Lebanon.

"The Security Council commends the determination and commitment of the
Government of Lebanon to bring to justice the perpetrators, organizers and
sponsors of this and other assassinations and underlines its determination to
support the Government of Lebanon in its efforts to this end.

"The Security Council condemns any attempt to destabilize Lebanon, including
through political assassination or other terrorist acts. The Security Council
reiterates its full support to the ongoing efforts by the Government and people
of Lebanon to combat terrorism, solidify democracy and institutions through
national dialogue, and extend the authority of the Lebanese Government
throughout its territory.

"The Security Council calls upon all parties in Lebanon and the region to show
restraint and a sense of responsibility with a view to preventing any further
deterioration of the situation in Lebanon. The Security Council urges all
States, in accordance with its resolutions 1373 (2001), 1566 (2004) and 1624
(2005), to cooperate fully in the fight against terrorism.

"The Security Council reaffirms its previous calls upon all parties concerned to
cooperate fully and urgently with the Security Council for the full
implementation of all relevant resolutions, in particular those concerning the
restoration of the territorial integrity, full sovereignty and political
independence of Lebanon.

"The Security Council requests the Secretary-General to continue to follow
closely and report regularly to the Council on the situation in Lebanon."

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2007 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 16, 2007 Saturday

Iran press: Iran envoy to Iraq says attack shows terrorists' "isolation"

LENGTH: 1240 words


Text of report by Iranian newspaper Iran website on 14 June


[Interview by Banafsheh Gholami from the International Desk with Iranian
Ambassador in Iraq Hasan Kazemi Qomi, entitled: "The terrorists will soon be
disappointed" On page 5]

Banafsheh Gholami, International Desk: One can no longer hear the sound of Azan
and prayers emanating from the minarets at the immaculate shrine of the Asgari
Imams [the 10th and 11th Shi'i Imams] - peace be upon them. Yesterday morning,
for the second time, deep sorrow and grief engulfed the entire town of the Imams
of the Shi'is [reference to the city of Samarra of Iraq]. This time, the
terrorists targeted the two minarets in the shrine which had remained standing
after their last terrorist attack on the same location in 1384 [year which ended
21 March 2006]. The atrocity committed in Samarra yesterday took place at the
height of the confrontation between the Iraqi Government and the Salafi
extremists and terrorist elements. The majority of news circles described that
development as the most important event of the new [Iranian] year [which began
on 21 March], and as a turning point in the ongoing security crisis in Iraq. At
the present juncture, all analysts and observers are waiting for the
consequences and repercussions of that event, and are worriedly looking at the
crucial horizons of the plight-ridden country of Iraq. The minds and hearts of
millions of Muslims who genuinely love the Shi'i Imams are now filled with a
sense of fury and protest, and the religious scholars and sources of authority
too have issued many statements and telegrams of condolences, and at the same
time, while condemning the silence of the Iraqi security officials, they have
also urged the Shi'is of Iraq to maintain their self-restraint and vigilance in
the face of the ongoing plots and conspiracies in their country - that is to say
the plots which led to the explosion on Wednesday morning which toppled the two
sacred minarets of the Samarra shrine.


We have conducted an interview with Hasan Kazemi Qomi, the Ambassador of the
Islamic Republic of Iran in Iraq, and have asked him some questions about the
reasons and causes for that event, and its possible repercussions. We draw your
attention to this interview:

[Banafsheh Gholami] Mr Qomi, what is your assessment of the causes of the latest
atrocity, and on the basis of the information and insight that you have
vis-\à-vis the Iraqi security situation, which terrorist group do you think was
responsible for that horrifying incident?

[Hasan Kazemi Qomi] Those responsible for the incident are the same people who
in Esfand 1384 [February-March 2006] attacked the Asgari Shrine in Samarra. It
is clear that the latest attack took place by the will and resolve of the camp,
which right from the outset, has been seeking to ignite sectarian strife in
Iraq. This camp is the enemy of both the Shi'is and Sunnis of Iraq. On the other
hand, these are the people who plan these moves and incidents as part of their
efforts to use everything in their power to ensure the failure of the security
plan that the current Iraqi Government is trying to implement. After the
previous attack on the Samarra holy shrine, the Iraqi Government tried to
establish calm and security in the country, particularly in the holy sites and
shrine cities. However, we saw that after each security measure by the
Government, the terrorists initiated a new move, and the same chain of terrorist
bomb blasts, which have particularly targeted the arena of relationships among
the various religious and ethnic groups, has hampered the Iraqi Government from
adopting new initiatives, and preventing new tragedies.

[Gholami] After the first terrorist attack in Samarra, there was a plan to
provide special protection for the holy sites in Iraq, and for the armed forces
of the occupying power [US] and the Iraqi police to prevent the terrorists from
infiltrating those venues. How come this did not happen?

[Qomi] As far as we know, after the incident in 1384, a committee was set up to
carry out the necessary investigations into the right type of equipment and new
security measures to provide effective protection for the holy shrines. At the
top of the list of all these plans and programmes, there was of course the
undertaking by the security officials to do their best to ensure that these
events are never allowed to happen again. However, the security problems which
emerged in Baghdad did not allow the security forces to concentrate sufficiently
on the situation in Samarra, and on protecting the other holy sites in Iraq.

[Gholami] What is your general assessment of the latest incident? In addition,
what kind of changes the incident may bring about in the Iraqi security
situation?

[Qomi] What is absolutely clear is that in the recent months, the terrorist
elements have started to witness the consensus among the Iraqi nation and
Government, and they are sensing their own increasing isolation. For that
reason, they have resorted to such hysterical courses of action. Nonetheless, in
spite of all these factors, it is expected that these actions are not going to
have any impact on the resolve of the Iraqi Government to confront the elements
responsible for insecurity and terror. Although I personally believe that the
security of these sites must be ensured by the Iraqi forces themselves, the
recent crimes at least demonstrated that one must look only at the will and
resolve of the people of Iraq for ensuring the security of that country,
particularly in the holy towns and locations.

[Gholami] What do you think will be the repercussions of the latest incident on
the Iraqi security atmosphere both inside and outside that country?

[Qomi] Inside Iraq, all the people - including both the Shi'is and Sunnis - have
condemned the action. This is because as a rule, the objective of such
operations is to create religious seditions. In the new era, it seems that these
terrorist operations will lead to a fresh sense of unity and solidarity among
the Shi'i and Sunni populations of Iraq. The experience of the last four years
has clearly revealed that the people of Iraq are very vigilant, and they have
now fully grasped the fact that these plots are being hatched with the mere aim
and objective of creating divisions inside their nation. The masterminds and
perpetrators of such attacks merely demonstrate their intentions more clearly
with their wanton violation of the sanctity of the sacred shrines. In that
connection, they also prove that they are against both the Shi'is and Iraq as a
whole, and their only plan is to achieve their objectives through an ethnic
civil war. However, the Iraqi people have read their minds very well, and they
themselves have embarked on fighting against these plots and conspiracies. I
personally believe that it will not be too long before the perpetrators of these
incidents are going to feel totally disheartened and disappointed about their
campaign, after seeing the united ranks of the Shi'is and Sunnis in Iraq.

In the international dimension too, there is nowhere in the Islamic world at the
present which has not shown a reaction to that cowardly attack. The fact of the
matter is that the latest incident has the potential to create greater awareness
among the Islamic countries and Government vis-\à-vis their responsibilities
towards the people and Government of Iraq.

Source: Iran website, Tehran, in Persian 14 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            June 16, 2007, Saturday

ENGLISH GANG ATTACK PIPERS;
RACE-HATE TERROR FOR BAND OF KIDS

BYLINE: By Lachlan Mackinnon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 241 words


A CHILDREN'S pipe band had to be protected by police after anti-Scottish yobs
hurled abuse and water bombs at them.

The terrified kids, some as young as nine, came under attack as they played at a
gala day in an English town.

Last night, police said they were targeted by a gang of yobs because they were
Scots.

Inspector Dave Barr said: "We are investigating this as a race-hate crime

"These people have said they will never come back here and that is a shame."

The yobs hurled anti-Scottish insults, tossed water bombs and threw drinks over
the 15 children of the Annan Juvenile Pipes and Drums Band.

The band completed their parade but only after calling in police to protect
them.

Heather Richards, from Annan, Dumfriesshire, said: "The youngest member was a
girl of nine playing her bagpipes for the first time in public.

"But they maintained their dignity."

The dad of one of the pipers said his 10-year-old daughter was terrified.

Ian Mundell said: "Normally she would go to the funfair afterwards but this time
she didn't even stop for food. Everyone was desperate to get away.

"I think there would have been a lot of crying children by the end if they'd
been marching alone."

Wendy Campbell, the organiser of the gala in Aspatria, Cumbria, said: "I'm very
sorry to hear what happened.

"We do have marshals but maybe not enough. It's supposed to be a family fun day.

"This ignorant minority is putting the damper on it for everybody."

RECORD VIEW: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERRORISED: The children's pipe band bravely played on despite being
targeted by race-hate yobs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 17, 2007 Sunday

Afghan president condemns terrorist attack in Kabul

LENGTH: 233 words


Text of report in English by Afghan independent Pajhwok news agency website

Kabul, 17 June: President Hamed Karzai has condemned the terrorist attack on a
police bus that killed at least 22 people and injured dozens more on Sunday [17
June].

In a statement, the president expressed his grief and sorrow over the deaths of
police officers and civilians. He said the officers martyred in the blast were
imparting training to young policemen to strengthen security in the country.

"The enemies, by committing these inhuman acts, want to prevent Afghanistan from
strengthening of its national institutions and its national police and army,"
said the president.

The enemies of Afghanistan did not like the country to progress and were
targeting reconstruction projects which were smoothly progressing, said Karzai,
who referred to the work on Kabul-Bamian and Kandahar-Farah highways.

"Despite these terrorist attacks, Afghanistan will continue to move towards
peace and stability, and thousands of young Afghans will continue to join the
police and play their crucial role in defeating their enemies and strengthening
security in the country," hoped the president.

He extended his heartfelt sympathies and condolences to families of the victims
and prayed for the full and speeded recovery of those injured in the callous act
of violence.

Source: Pajhwok Afghan News website, Kabul, in English 1600 gmt 17 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 18, 2007 Monday

Turkey condemns Kabul terrorist attack

LENGTH: 246 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

["TURKEY CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN AFGHANISTAN" - AA headline]

ANKARA (A.A) -18.06.2007 -Turkey on Monday strongly condemned the terrorist
attack in Kabul, Afghanistan.

Releasing a statement Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs said, "Turkey strongly
condemns the loathsome terrorist attack that occurred in friendly Afghanistan on
June 17th in which 35-40 people lost their lives according to preliminary
information."

The statement said the terrorist attacks that were intensified in Afghanistan
recently, also targeting civilian people, aimed at disrupting security and
stability in the country. The statement also said the developments in
Afghanistan posed an additional threat to security and stability in the region.

"In all its international, regional and bilateral contacts, Turkey underscores
that terrorism could not have a justified reason, and should be condemned
whatever its reason and assertion are, and it should be considered a 'crime
against humanity'. Turkey also qualifies terrorism as a violation of right to
live," the statement said.

"Turkey, which maintains its contributions to ensure security and stability in
Afghanistan, is in solidarity with the friendly Afghan government and people,"
the statement noted.

"Turkey expresses condolences to friendly Afghan people and wishes speedy
recovery to those injured," the statement added.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1204 gmt 18 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 19, 2007 Tuesday

Soldier injured in "terrorist" attack in eastern Turkey

LENGTH: 154 words


Text of report by Turkish news agency Anatolia on 18 June

Tunceli: One non-commissioned officer has been injured in an attack launched
against a military vehicle in Tunceli.

According to information obtained by an Anatolia correspondent, a remote-control
mine placed by members of a terrorist organization on the Uzuntarla section of
the Tunceli-Erzincan road exploded when a military vehicle passed through the
section.

It is reported that the explosion was not effective because the mine exploded
soon after the vehicle passed through the section. It is also reported that a
non-commissioned officer was injured when terrorists opened fire at the vehicle
soon after the explosion.

It is reported that the injured officer is being treated at the Tunceli State
Hospital and that operations in the region, supported from the air, are
continuing without interruption.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in Turkish 1337 gmt 18 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday

Bavarian minister warns Germany in frontline of terror attack targets

LENGTH: 218 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp

["Beckstein Takes Taleban's Threats Seriously" - ddp headline]

Passau (ddp) -Germany is "in the frontline of the attack targets" of terrorists,
reckons Bavarian Interior Minister Guenther Beckstein (Christian Social Union).
This was proved by the Taleban's recent threats to carry out suicide bombings in
Germany too, Beckstein told Wednesday's [ 20 June] edition of Passauer Neue
Presse newspaper. "The Taleban and Al-Qa'idah must be seen as closely connected.
The Taleban's threats show that we too are in the frontline of the Islamist
terrorists' attack targets," he stated.

The threats must "in any event be taken very seriously," Beckstein said. There
was a "heightened abstract" danger: "the threat situation is current, even
despite the absence of pointers to specific attack plans." The Bavarian interior
minister rebuffed the idea of questioning the German Federal Armed Forces'
operation in Afghanistan on account of the Taleban's threats.

According to a report by US channel ABC, Afghanistan's radical-Islamic Taleban
has issued a video announcing suicide bombings in Germany, Great Britain, the
United States, and Canada. The video recording was reportedly produced in a
Taleban training camp on 9 June.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 0430 gmt 20 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday

Saudi minister praises security, religious role in foiling terror attacks

LENGTH: 587 words


Text of report by Saudi Al-Ikhbariyah TV on 20 June

During his meeting with a number of imams, speakers and preachers in the
kingdom, Interior Minister HRH Prince Nayif Bin-Abd-al-Aziz has revealed that
the pre-emptive blows by the security forces had succeeded in foiling 90 per
cent of the actions which those with misguided ideologies were planning to carry
out in the kingdom.

[Prince Nayif - recording] In the security sphere, I say with all satisfaction
and confidence that your brothers and sons -the security men -have carried out
their duty in defending Islam and the homeland with the dearest thing men have,
that is their lives. Many of them have been martyred and this is an honour to
them.

We need security ideology or ideological security and I say that we need this
more and more now. In fact, in reality, I want to say that more than 90 per cent
of the attacks planned against this country by those devious people have been
foiled by pre-emptive actions. [End of recording]

Prince Nayif pointed out that the actions of those with misguided ideology
served the interests of the enemies of the homeland and Islam. At the same time,
he stressed the close link between security and this country.

[Prince Nayif - recording] The actions we see today are for the benefit of the
enemies of Islam, in general, and the enemies of this country, in particular.
How were they recruited? How did they replace their ideas about their true Islam
and their love for their homeland with a misguided ideology which they called
Islam, although it is far removed from Islam?

The Ministry of Islamic Affairs [, Religious Endowments, Call and Guidance]
assumes a great responsibility which HE [Minister] Shaykh Salih [Bin-Abd-al-Aziz
Bin-Muhammad Bin-Ibrahim Al al-Shaykh] has referred to and we thank it for these
efforts which it is carrying out while representing the state in all matters.
Thus, the state fights with one hand and builds with the other. These small and
big matters, strong and weak, men and women should be given absolute security.
They should feel safe about themselves, primarily about their religion, their
honour, monies and ideology. Security is closely linked to this country. [End of
recording]

The interior minister stressed the ulemas' role in building the correct ideology
in confronting those holding misguided ideology in the context of the state's
concern to work on two parallel tracks. These are security and ideology.

[Prince Nayif -begin recording] The security men are carrying out operations to
amputate rotten parts in this body. However, who is fighting and confronting
this misguided ideology other than the ulemas and shaykhs, and you are among
them, particularly the preachers and mosques imams.

Brothers, I have learned from his excellency the minister of religious affairs
that there are 14,000 Friday mosques. Therefore, we have about 65,000 platforms
and sermons in a month. If these concentrate on explaining the harm caused by
those [deviant people] and warning people against joining, meeting, accepting or
cooperating with them, then numerous people would have found the right path and
every person in this homeland would have thanked you, foremost of whom are our
rulers. We shall also feel that we have done our duty on two main axes, which
are security work and the ideology. There is no doubt that ideological work is
more precise and more important, because the ideology covers a lot and spreads
widely. [End of recording]

Source: Al-Ikhbariyah TV, Riyadh, in Arabic 0800 gmt 20 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            June 20, 2007, Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

'Go on Chelsea, kill her, go on, do her';
Yobs film terror attack on girl, 12

BYLINE: BEN ROSSINGTON Crime Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 356 words


A 12-YEAR-OLD girl today told how teenagers filmed their attack on her on their
mobile phones.

The footage obtained by the ECHO shows Edina Rutherford cowering as she tries to
fend off the blows.

Teenagers, one holding a pit bull-type dog, are seen watching.

They are heard encouraging a pony-tailed older girl to do Edina serious harm.

The year eight pupil at Notre Dame Catholic College in Everton was out with
friends on Friday evening when they were approached by a gang of older girls.

An argument over something allegedly said on an internet site soon spiralled
into shocking violence.

During the 42-second clip, which is being passed around the phones of local
youngsters, Edina is seen on the floor in Stanley Park, Anfield, being dragged
by her hair while begging her attacker to stop.

But as the older girl stamps down on Edina others off camera are heard
screaming: "Go on Chelsea, kill her, go on, do her."

Edina managed to get to her feet but was soon thrown back down onto the concrete
path where she was subjected to more punches and kicks.

The attack stopped when a friend of the older girl dragged her away saying:
"Leave it, she's had enough."

Edina was back at school yesterday for her end-of-year exams despite suffering
bruising around her eye and face.

She said: "The argument had finished when one of the lads said 'I've not come
all this way for nothing. One of you's had better get fighting'.

"And so this girl came at me, dragged me to the floor and just did me on the
ground. I'm all right now but it scared me a lot." Edina's mother Liz, a
39-year-old school governor, said today: "It is just disgusting. I've been given
a copy of the video and it just sickens me.

"But we are determined to make sure whoever did this is prosecuted.

"Every kid I have spoken to is terrified to speak out. Some have misguided
loyalty that they will be 'grassing' but others are just scared it will happen
to them."

Police confirmed they are investigating the attack.

Anyone with information should contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

ben.rossington@liverpool.com

Help trap the culprits-see the shocking video report online at
LIVERPOOLECHO.CO.UK

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARED: Liz Rutherford with daughter Edina who was filmed being
attacked by other teenagers, and (above left) images taken from a mobile phone
of the assault

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 21, 2007 Thursday

Over 30 terrorist attacks prevented in southern Russia in 2007

LENGTH: 189 words


Text of report by Russian news agency RIA Novosti

Rostov-na-Donu, 21 June: From the beginning of this year [2007], 30 terrorist
acts have been prevented in the south of Russia, 148 members of illegal armed
formations have been eliminated and 39 rebels have been destroyed, Russian
Deputy Prosecutor-General Ivan Sydoruk said at a coordination meeting. However,
despite the positive results, the situation in the region remains complicated,
Sydoruk said.

"This year alone, 45 law enforcement officers were killed and 55 injured in
Ingushetia," Sydoruk said.

He gave examples of attempts made on Muslims in the republic.

"Today, the time has come to draw up specific proposals on how to counter
extremism," Sydoruk said.

According to Sydoruk, it is important to focus on preventive measures with
regard to crime.

"It is cheaper and easier to prevent crime," he said.

When talking about the work of the prosecutor's office staff, Sydoruk noted that
there were a lot of defects. "In particular, we are permitting a lot of
violations during investigations into criminal cases," Sydoruk said.

Source: RIA Novosti, Moscow, in Russian 0636 gmt 21 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Harlow, Epping & Sawbridgeworth Star

                                 June 21, 2007

Police powers widened after terror attacks

LENGTH: 385 words


ESSEX police officers have been given special stop-and-search powers following
the terrorist attacks in London and Glasgow.

County police chiefs confirmed on Monday the special provisions - invoked under
Section 44 of the Terrorism Act 2000 - are now available to officers operating
anywhere in the county.

The powers allow them to stop and search people even without the suspicion that
a crime has been committed.

Previously, the force only allowed its officers to invoke them while in and
around Stansted Airport. Under the Act, they should only be used in those areas
defined as likely targets for a terrorist attack.

But following last week's failed attacks, which saw a car bomb parked outside a
London nightclub and a 4x4 packed with gas cylinders driven into the front of
Glasgow Airport, the entirety of Essex is now deemed at risk.

Announcing the widening of the powers, Essex Police Assistant Chief Constable
Peter Lowton said officers could now search any individual or vehicle if they
believed doing so could help the fight against terrorism.

"The use of Section 44 powers is an essential tactic which helps us create an
environment hostile to terrorists and safe for our communities," he said.

"We are grateful to the public of Essex for their continued support and
assistance. As our eyes and ears, they have an essential role to play."

Harlow MP Bill Rammell welcomed the move, saying: "I think we're in a very
difficult situation. I think people rightly want to be reassured that every
measure is available and every step is taken by the police to try and ensure
further terrorist attacks do not take place."

But the change is unlikely to be welcomed by civil liberties groups. As recently
as last month the Government's independent reviewer of terrorism legislation,
Lord Carlile criticised "over-use" of the powers, which between September 2005
and October 2006 saw 22,672 people stopped nationally but only 27 people
subsequently arrested for terrorism-related offences.

Conservative Harlow Parliamen-tary candidate Robert Halfon warned any new police
powers should be temporary.

"We do face a threat from Islamic extremists and I welcome anything the police
can do to prevent terrorist attacks in Essex," he said. "However, as soon as the
terrorist threat subsides, these powers should be withdrawn."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HarlowStar


                    Copyright 2007 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Herts & Essex Observer

                                 June 21, 2007

Terror attack prompts Stansted traffic block

LENGTH: 90 words


THE forecourt at Stansted Airport has been closed to traffic as security is
heightened in response to Saturday's terrorist attack in Glasgow.

The decision to block off the drop-off area was taken within an hour of the
strike at Scotland's busiest airport when a flaming Jeep Cherokee was driven
into the terminal building.

A Stansted spokesman said that cars were being diverted to the 15-minute pick-up
area in the short-stay car park and this was operating "very well".

He added that flights were taking off as normal and there were no delays.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HertsandEssex


                    Copyright 2007 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Herts & Essex Observer

                                 June 21, 2007

Stansted still on terror alert following attacks

LENGTH: 345 words


THE heightened security measures adopted at Stansted Airport in the wake of the
botched terror attacks in Glasgow and London remained in place on Wednesday.

With the country still on a critical alert after Friday's and Saturday's
attempted bombings, the increased number of armed police drafted into Stansted
were staying put and the drop-off area outside the terminal building was still
closed to all vehicles except official airport buses.

WE'RE READY: Armed police at Stansted, above, and inset, an unattended bag is
searched in an incident which left the airport forecourt closed

The Government was set to consider reducing the terrorist threat from "critical"
to "severe" yesterday and a spokeswoman for Essex Police said a relaxation of
airport security would be contemplated when that happened.

The airport suffered further disruption on Monday evening when bomb disposal
experts were drafted in to investigate a suspect bag left unattended near the
terminal entrance just before 7pm.

An Essex Police spokeswoman said: "A man was arrested when he returned to the
bag and said it was his property.
"Police had some concerns over the contents of the bag so the man was detained
for questioning."

A cordon was placed around the bag and the forecourt was completely closed, but
police quickly concluded it was "not suspicious".

The airport was reported to be operating normally by 8.35pm.

Just before 9pm on Tuesday, Essex Police reported that the 45-year-old Polish
man who had claimed the bag had been released from custody with a caution for
possession of an unspecified offensive weapon.

With the forecourt closed to vehicles, the 15-minute pick-up area in the
airport's short stay car park has been turned over to dropping off passengers.

The normal 1 charge for using the 15-minute area has been waived for the
duration of the forecourt closure.

An airport spokeswoman said: "We have had normal operations since Saturday.
There's been an impact on flights between here and Glasgow with what happened on
Saturday, but those flights still went out to alternative airports."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HertsandEssex


                    Copyright 2007 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                              June 22, 2007 Friday

Tribute to terror attack victims

BYLINE:  Tom Mack

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 325 words


Christians, Muslims, Sikhs and police will mark the second anniversary of the
July 7 bombings with a football tournament.

In the past, the city's imams have taken on members of the police force and
Church of England clergy during inter-faith matches.

But next month's event aims to increase the diversity on the pitch.

The day will start with a tournament for youngsters from different communities
at Judgemeadow college, in Evington.

Then at 2pm, after a minute's silence to remember the victims of the bombings in
London in 2005, a team of imams from local mosques will take on a team including
police, council officers, a councillor and Sikh players.

The event, starting at 9.30am on Saturday, July 7, is being organised by the
Community Football Academy and the Leicestershire  Federation of Muslim
Organisations.

Suleman Nagdi, spokesman for the federation, said: "This football match and
tournament demonstrates our commitment towards each other and is a mark of
remembrance for the victims of the bombings.

"For a while, we have been thinking about a fitting way to remember the people
who died or were injured on July 7, 2005. This is a chance for young people and
faith leaders to stand together on this day.

"The terrorist attacks are one of the most thought-about attacks in peacetime
Britain and they hurt our community and shocked the nation."

Police from Spinney Hill  and other city stations are taking part. Station
commander Inspector Nick Glynn said: "The event helps reinforce the fact that
police are people just like anyone else.

"Youngsters will see the human face of the police and I've found that after
these events people do come up to me in the street, which is very positive."

Ahmed Maravia, co-ordinator of the Community Football Academy, said: "This will
bring young people together in a positive way, and shows that Leicester can lead
by example."

Anyone wishing to enter a team in the competition should e-mail before tomorrow
night.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                   UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is York

                              June 22, 2007 Friday

Tesco hammer attack terror

BYLINE: Gerran Grimshaw

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: York Press


STAFF have spoken of their terror after a man produced a hammer from his jacket
and attacked several pumps at the petrol station where they work.

He then smashed windows at the nearby Burger King outlet before escaping towards
the ring road and the A19.

A member of staff who witnessed the incident, who asked not to be named, said:
"We were just about to start work.

"We had checked in at the store and we were walking over to start work.

"A lad was already on the forecourt, looking shifty.

"He threw a bottle at the kiosk window, smashing the bottle but not the window.
Then he produced a hammer and went at the pumps, hitting them."

She said she and her colleagues did not approach the man because company policy
is not to put themselves in danger.

The staff member, who has worked at Tesco for 19 years and the petrol station
for 15 years, said: "I just thought Oh my God, what's going on, why's he doing
this?'

"The common sense thing was to stay away from him and call the police.

"We were all scared - it's not every day you come to work to see a man with a
hammer on your forecourt.

"I've not seen anything like this before - our customers are usually very well
behaved."

The incident happened at the filling station at Clifton Moor Tesco shortly after
5.30am on Saturday.

The man seriously damaged three of the 16 pumps. He damaged the electrics on a
further three, leaving them out of action on safety grounds.

The petrol station assistant said the man then ran over to Burger King, which
was closed for refurbishment, and started smashing windows, causing about £4,000
of damage.

She said police arrived "very quickly" and pursued the man, who managed to get
away.

A Tesco spokeswoman said CCTV footage of the incident had been handed over to
police for examination.

York Police spokesman Colin Ventriss said the man was white, in his early
twenties, wearing a white England shirt and blue tracksuit bottoms.

"Anyone who witnessed this incident, or saw a man matching the description in
the area at the time, should phone police on 0845 6060247 and ask for PC 1346
Charlotte Gregory," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cars queue for petrol at Tesco's Clifton Moor petrol station after two
bays, containing six petrol pumps, were attacked

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   York Press

                              June 22, 2007 Friday

Tesco hammer attack terror

BYLINE: Gerran Grimshaw

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words


STAFF have spoken of their terror after a man produced a hammer from his jacket
and attacked several pumps at the petrol station where they work.

He then smashed windows at the nearby Burger King outlet before escaping towards
the ring road and the A19.

A member of staff who witnessed the incident, who asked not to be named, said:
"We were just about to start work.

"We had checked in at the store and we were walking over to start work.

"A lad was already on the forecourt, looking shifty.

"He threw a bottle at the kiosk window, smashing the bottle but not the window.
Then he produced a hammer and went at the pumps, hitting them."

She said she and her colleagues did not approach the man because company policy
is not to put themselves in danger.

The staff member, who has worked at Tesco for 19 years and the petrol station
for 15 years, said: "I just thought Oh my God, what's going on, why's he doing
this?' "The common sense thing was to stay away from him and call the police.

"We were all scared - it's not every day you come to work to see a man with a
hammer on your forecourt.

"I've not seen anything like this before - our customers are usually very well
behaved."

The incident happened at the filling station at Clifton Moor Tesco shortly after
5.30am on Saturday.

The man seriously damaged three of the 16 pumps. He damaged the electrics on a
further three, leaving them out of action on safety grounds.

The petrol station assistant said the man then ran over to Burger King, which
was closed for refurbishment, and started smashing windows, causing about £4,000
of damage.

She said police arrived "very quickly" and pursued the man, who managed to get
away.

A Tesco spokeswoman said CCTV footage of the incident had been handed over to
police for examination.

York Police spokesman Colin Ventriss said the man was white, in his early
twenties, wearing a white England shirt and blue tracksuit bottoms.

"Anyone who witnessed this incident, or saw a man matching the description in
the area at the time, should phone police on 0845 6060247 and ask for PC 1346
Charlotte Gregory," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 23, 2007 Saturday

Security expert expects terrorist attack in Germany at any time

LENGTH: 198 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp on 23 June

Hanover: Terrorism expert Rolf Tophoven considers an attack in Germany by
Islamic extremists to be possible at any time. "It's the consensus of the German
security authorities that it's not a question of if but when that an attack will
be committed in Germany too," Tophoven told the newspaper Neue Presse (Saturday
[23 June] edition), which is published in Hanover. There is danger that fighters
trained in Afghanistan and Iraq are establishing cells in Europe, he stressed.
The Al-Qa'idah terrorist network is more dangerous today than before 11
September 2001 "because the organization has fragmented, it has a worldwide
network", Tophoven said.

There are also growing risks for the Bundeswehr in Afghanistan. "The more the
Bundeswehr becomes engaged, the greater the threat," he said. "To the Taleban
and the commandos allied with Al-Qa'idah we are a warring party," Tophoven
emphasized and added, "According to their philosophy, the Bundeswehr is an
occupier of an Islamic country and is therefore on the same level as the United
States and other allied forces in Afghanistan."

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 0332 gmt 23 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            June 23, 2007, Saturday
                              North Wales Edition

WALES: Mum's terror in campsite attack;
She was assaulted by boy, 15

BYLINE: ERYL CRUMP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 395 words


A WOMAN was left "terrified" by an assault at a North Wales campsite where she
was staying with her family.

The 32-year-old was grabbed by the hair and pulled off a footpath by her
attacker last August.

A court yesterday heard the boy responsible, who had committed a similar offence
two years earlier, had fled from his carers.

A 15-year-old boy admitted a charge of assault with intent to commit rape
earlier this month and was sentenced at Caernarf on Crown Court yesterday.

Mr Recorder Granville Perry, after considering probation reports and hearing he
was being already being held at a secure unit in his home city of Glasgow,
deferred sentence for six months.

He told the youth: "You have pleaded guilty to a very serious offence. She must
have been petrified by the attack.

"The reports suggest you pose a high risk of re-offending and this is described
as being unmanageable outside the context of your current placement.

"Possibly the public would be better protected by your rehabilitation, rather
than an indeterminate period in custody."

Gordon Hennell, prosecuting, said the incident took place at a campsite near
Llanberis in Snowdonia last August Bank Holiday weekend.

He said: "She was at the campsite with her husband and child, and at about 5am
on the Sunday morning she woke and went to the toilet block, which was some
distance from her tent.

"While she was there she was aware of someone else in the building, but when she
left there was no one there. Walking back towards the tent, she heard footsteps
behind her and saw a youth.

"He ran at her and grabbed her hair and pulled her off the footpath. For a short
time they went round and round in circles.

"She shouted and screamed and kicked out to free herself from him. She managed
to do so and made her way back to the family tent."

The woman told officers: "The incident seemed to last for ages but was probably
over in less than a minute.

"I didn't know if he intended to hurt me in a sexual way, rob me or just scare
me. I felt completely terrified."

Mr Hennell said the youth, who had committed a similar offence in 2004, was in
care and had been brought to North Wales for a short holiday.

He had been warned to stay in his tent overnight and when his carers became
aware an incident had occurred, they reported it to police.

The youth was arrested and made full admissions to officers.

erylcrump@dailypost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 26, 2007 Tuesday

Russian Foreign Ministry condemns recent terrorist attack in Iraq

LENGTH: 305 words


Text of report by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS

Moscow, 26 June: Russia condemns the terrorist attack in Baghdad in which
influential Sunni and Shi'a leaders were killed, the Russian Foreign Ministry's
official spokesman, Mikhail Kamynin, has said.

"Russia resolutely condemns all forms and methods of terror, however the
instigators and organizers try to justify these crimes. There is no doubt that
these crimes were committed by forces which are alien to the true interests of
the Iraqi people, irrespective of which ethnic or religious groups they belong
to," he said.

Kamynin went on to add that a particular threat was presented by "provocative
attempts to kill the most influential representatives of Iraqi society, since
they aimed to undermine efforts to achieve national reconciliation in Iraq,
which the people of the country need so badly".

"We express our sincere condolences to the families and friends of the victims,"
the Russian Foreign Ministry official spokesman said.

Moscow "hopes that the heads of the leading political and ethnoreligious
communities of Iraq will show solidarity in the face of the challenge from
terrorists". "The country's future will largely depend on their readiness to act
together to resolve the most acute problems facing the country," Kamynin said.

He added that against the backdrop of almost daily reports of high-profile
terrorist attacks in Baghdad and other Iraqi cities, "the blast in the Al-Mansur
hotel in Baghdad stood out". "This time the victims of the terrorists' attack
were influential leaders of Sunni and Shi'a communities from one of Iraq's most
troubled provinces, Al-Anbar, who had arrived in Baghdad to agree on cooperation
in the effort to restore normal life in that part of the country," Kamynin said.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0821 gmt 26 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS



              PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: NORTH WEST

                      June 27, 2007 Wednesday 6:53 PM BST

FAMILY TERRORISED BY ROAD-RAGE ATTACKERS

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 341 words


Three members of a Manchester family were terrorised in their own home following
a minor bump in traffic, a court has been told.

Dean Matley, 29, and Antony Ryan, 26, followed the driver back to his house in
Stretford and threw a concrete block through the front window which hit a
14-year-old boy in the leg, Manchester Crown Court heard.

They then kicked down the front door and hit the 30-year-old victim and his
girlfriend over the head with a metal baton. The raiders then struck the woman
again with the baton three times in her back before they said: ``Don't ring the
police or we'll come back. We know where you live.''

The family members, who do not wish to be named, were taken to Trafford General
Hospital for treatment. The man suffered serious brain injuries and several
skull fractures. He was later discharged but has been left with paralysis in his
left arm, memory loss and psychological trauma.

The court heard that the attack followed a road rage incident on January 7 this
year. The victim returned to his home in Bradshaw Lane and told his girlfriend
that he had been chased after he had bumped another car. He noticed the
occupants of the car were firing fireworks at his vehicle.

Ryan and Matley, both of no fixed address, then followed him to his house where
they carried out the attack.

The following morning both men were arrested after they were spotted driving
erratically by an off-duty officer. They reversed deliberately into a police car
which caused extensive damage before they were apprehended.

Ryan pleaded guilty to two counts of assault at an earlier hearing while Matley
was convicted of three counts of assault and dangerous driving following a
trial.

Detective Inspector Dave Warren from Trafford CID said: ``Matley and Ryan took
their anger out on the victim, his girlfriend and her son after what seems to
have been a minor bump on the road. They unnecessarily used excessive violence
in the attack on all three victims.''

Sentencing for both men will take place on July 19. The pair were remanded in
custody. end

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                    PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

                      June 27, 2007 Wednesday 6:53 PM BST

FAMILY TERRORISED BY ROAD-RAGE ATTACKERS

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 341 words


Three members of a Manchester family were terrorised in their own home following
a minor bump in traffic, a court has been told.

Dean Matley, 29, and Antony Ryan, 26, followed the driver back to his house in
Stretford and threw a concrete block through the front window which hit a
14-year-old boy in the leg, Manchester Crown Court heard.

They then kicked down the front door and hit the 30-year-old victim and his
girlfriend over the head with a metal baton. The raiders then struck the woman
again with the baton three times in her back before they said: ``Don't ring the
police or we'll come back. We know where you live.''

The family members, who do not wish to be named, were taken to Trafford General
Hospital for treatment. The man suffered serious brain injuries and several
skull fractures. He was later discharged but has been left with paralysis in his
left arm, memory loss and psychological trauma.

The court heard that the attack followed a road rage incident on January 7 this
year. The victim returned to his home in Bradshaw Lane and told his girlfriend
that he had been chased after he had bumped another car. He noticed the
occupants of the car were firing fireworks at his vehicle.

Ryan and Matley, both of no fixed address, then followed him to his house where
they carried out the attack.

The following morning both men were arrested after they were spotted driving
erratically by an off-duty officer. They reversed deliberately into a police car
which caused extensive damage before they were apprehended.

Ryan pleaded guilty to two counts of assault at an earlier hearing while Matley
was convicted of three counts of assault and dangerous driving following a
trial.

Detective Inspector Dave Warren from Trafford CID said: ``Matley and Ryan took
their anger out on the victim, his girlfriend and her son after what seems to
have been a minor bump on the road. They unnecessarily used excessive violence
in the attack on all three victims.''

Sentencing for both men will take place on July 19. The pair were remanded in
custody. end

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday

German authorities think Muslim converts, immigrants preparing terror attacks

LENGTH: 1188 words


Text of report by German news magazine Focus on 26 June

[Report by H. Gude, J. Hufelschulte, M. Jach, G. Schattauer, A. Spilcker, M.
Wisniewski: "'Destroy Their World!'"]

The two men were policemen. They told Katja N. last Wednesday [ 20 June] in
Germersheim, Rhineland-Palatinate, that her husband had been detained in
Pakistan. "We do not know why." Katja N., a mother of four, called the German
Embassy in Islamabad, but in vain. Officials there did not have any details,
either.

Mehmed D. from Ulm was left in a similarly helpless situation by the police a
week earlier. Their visit had been about the native Turk's son. In spring 2006,
Tolgar D. had left his parents for a language course in Egypt. "We have not
heard from him since," his father says. Eventually, his family received a sign
of life from the 29-year-old. Tolgar was detained in the Iranian-Pakistani
border region, the police told them, as a terror suspect.

Last week, reports about detentions and planned attacks shook Germany's summer
calm. The creeping fear of attacks has seized the country again: New York,
Madrid, London - and there are growing indications that the next slaughter might
take place on German soil.

Matching the seriousness of the situation, Undersecretary August Hanning asked
selected journalists to come to room 1024 of the Interior Ministry on Thursday.
"Centre Crisis Committee I" read the sign on the door. Hanning recalled "the
summer of 2001." Weeks ahead of 9/11, intelligence services in Europe and the
United States suspected that something was going to happen, but they did not
know when, where, or what. This time, the police have the personal details and
the itineraries of German suspects and know that their task is to attack the
United States, Canada, Great Britain, and Germany, the most important partners
in the Afghan coalition.

The order to attack was given on 9 June somewhere in the mountains of
Afghanistan or Pakistan: "Destroy their world in their home countries!" The
video-taped command was broadcast by the US television station ABC 10 days
later. The video shows Taleban commander Mansour Dadullah solemnly dispatching
masked guards to carry out suicide attacks in their target countries. Among them
are adolescents and men with German passports.

A flood of indications has alarmed counterterrorism authorities as seldom
before: a group of five militant extremists, for example, has been occupying
investigators for months. Apparently, the terror cell spied out US and British
institutions in the Rhine-Main area and in Baden-Wuerttemberg as potential
targets (Focus 19 and 20/2007). In telephone intercepts the terror cell,
consisting of two German converts and three native Turks with German passports,
vowed "to sacrifice themselves." Intelligence services say the group has filmed
farewell videos.

"The situation is serious," Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble (CDU [Christian
Democratic Union]) said on Friday, promoting his favourite demand: on-line
searches. The CDU politician has been trying for months to break the red
coalition partner's resistance to changing the law enabling PC spying.
"Monitoring communications is essential for life."

Terrorism has already reached German troops in Afghanistan. A month ago, a
suicide bomber in Konduz killed three Bundeswehr soldiers. On Sunday, 17 June,
an assassin blew up a bus full of Afghan police academy graduates, who had been
trained under German supervision. On 16 June, it is presumed that it was Taleban
fighters who attacked a German Embassy convoy near Kabul with a rocket launcher.
A jeep was burned out, but the passengers survived.

According to the security authorities, "around 10" violent extremists from
Germany have been in terrorist training camps in the Afghan-Pakistani border
region recently: young Germans, who for the most part have converted to Islam
and are gradually radicalizing.

Three of them have recently been detained by Pakistani police. Undersecretary
Hanning calls them "terror trainees." On 10 June, Pakistani authorities
apprehended two Germans and a Kirghiz at the Iranian border near the town of
Taftan. Pakistani investigators suspected that the detainees had been trained at
terror camps to be human bombs. One of them is Tolgar D., who has been
classified as an Islamist threat by the Office of Criminal Investigation of
Baden-Wuerttemberg. His biography leads us to the border area of Bavaria and
Baden-Wuerttemberg. The area around Neu-Ulm is considered a stronghold of Muslim
extremism, in particular the "Multiculture House [Multi-Kultur-Haus]"
association, which was banned at the end of 2005, and its centre in Neu-Ulm.

Preachers of hate had been openly calling for Holy War there and during raids
investigators had found instructions for the production of explosives. On CDs
and tapes agitators glorified the martyr's death of the suicide assassin: "To be
victorious not only means killing infidels, but also killing yourself in order
to beat off the infidels."

Reda Seyam's thoughts are also determined by slogans of the supposedly
suppressed Muslims' jihad. The German-Egyptian, who is living on welfare in
Berlin, was supposedly involved in the Bali attack that killed more than 200
people; he has denied his involvement so far. He makes no secret of his
admiration for Usamah Bin-Ladin. The terrorist chief is "a man defending Islam."
That is something to be "proud" of. Al-Qa'idah is "a group fighting for a good
cause - for Islam."

In his fight for the "good cause", during his time in Neu-Ulm, Reda Seyam
apparently also met the recently detained jihadist Tolgar D. "My son and Mr
Seyam were friends," Tolgar's father explained to Focus. He himself also had a
close relationship with Seyam, who is "a good and honest man." They had often
seen each other at the "Multiculture House." At this centre, which was being
monitored by the Office of the Protection of the Constitution, Tolgar D.
supposedly met another glamorous figure: Khalid Al-Masri, a German-Lebanese
abducted by the CIA.

Another thick file is the one of Aleem N. from Germersheim, who has also been
detained. On 18 June, Pakistani security forces detained this jewel trader at
Lahore airport. According to the Pakistani authorities, the owner of the
Himalaya Minerals company had been planning a terrorist attack on Germany. He is
assumed to have practiced with explosives at an Al-Qa'idah camp.

This radical Sunni has been in Germany for 20 years, living in Germersheim with
his wife and four children. The religious fanatic reportedly had temporary
access to the nuclear research facility in Karlsruhe. Through his work for an
engineer's office he gained access to the Institute for Transuranium Elements in
the sphere of the research reactor in Karlsruhe. Until a month ago, the
businessman headed the Islamic-Arabic association in Karlsruhe. In 2002, Aleem
N. was fined for threatening a policeman, who had presumably insulted the
prophet. His wife, however, characterizes him as a "loving husband" with
anything but attacks on his mind. "This is the worst rubbish I have ever heard,"
she said.

Source: Focus, Munich, in German 26 Jun 07 pp 35, 38

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            June 28, 2007, Thursday

TALONS OF TERROR;
JOGGER HURT AS MEAN BUZZARD ATTACKS HIM

BYLINE: By Bob Dow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 275 words


A JOGGER needed hospital treatment after he was attacked by a buzzard while
running on a country road.

Shocked dad-of-two Kevin Barclay had to flag down a passing car for help after
the bird of prey stuck its sharp talons into his head.

And the 37-year-old yesterday said he had no idea why the angry bird had swooped
on him.

The community psychiatric nurse spotted the buzzard sitting on a telephone pole
as he jogged seven miles from his home in Kintore, Aberdeenshire.

Kevin explained: "Even up there, it looked pretty substantial in size, although
I didn't expect it to swoop down onme like that.

"It missed me the first time but it swooped down again and it gotme."

Kevin added: "I was really very shocked and managed to brush it off with my
hand.

"When it flew off, it just perched on a branch and stared at me.

"I felt really quite exposed and vulnerable and thought it might attack again."

Kevin's 33-year-old wife, Emma, later took him to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary for
treatment to his head wounds.

Duncan Orr-Ewing, of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, yesterday
said it was very rare for buzzards to attack humans.

Mr Orr-Ewing said: "Those that do attack have usually been bred in captivity
before escaping."

It is the third time in two years that runners have been attacked by buzzards in
Aberdeenshire.

Helen Summers was jogging in the village of Chapel of Garioch, near Inverurie,
in June 2005 when a buzzard swooped down on her three times.

Just days later, her husband Leigh was attacked in the same spot.

The same year, a Yorkshire terrier was attacked in Aberdeen by a Harris hawk
brought in by the city council to scare off seagulls.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SURPRISED: Kevin in his blood-covered T-shirt NEWSLINE SCOTLAND

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 29, 2007 Friday

Al-Qa'idah terrorists ready to launch attacks in Morocco - paper

LENGTH: 621 words


Text of report by Khaled Attaoui headlined "Al-Qa'idah engaged in a race against
the clock with the Moroccan secret services. Reports from 'friendly' foreign
countries say that Morocco will be the target of fresh terrorist operations",
published by Moroccan  newspaper Assabah website on 28 June

The Moroccan secret services have mobilized their agents to decipher what they
call the "coded messages" sent recently by Al-Qa'idah second-in-command, Ayman
al-Zawahiri.

Sources close to this case say that the recent video cassette recording released
by Ayman al-Zawahiri has come at the same time as secret service reports about
al-Qa'idah being ready to carry our terrorist operations in Morocco.

Thus, the Moroccan security services have once again found themselves in a race
against the clock with the terrorist organization in question following secret
information received by the Intelligence organs about the intention of
Bin-Ladin's organization to launch fresh attacks in southern Europe and the
Maghreb countries.

These sources say that the Moroccan secret services recently received a warning
from Intelligence services of European countries described as "friendly" to the
effect that al-Qa'idah organization is now ready to use its branch, Al-Qa'idah
in the Islamic Maghreb Land organization, to further expand its terrorist
operations in Morocco, Spain and some Gulf countries, and not to restrict its
activities to the bloody confrontations with the Algerian army. The same sources
add that the secret reports in question have mentioned the broad lines of
al-Qa'idah preparations and some of the targeted sites.

The same sources also reveal that leaks about a recent meeting held in an
African country between terrorist groups and three leaders of Bin-Ladin's
organization indicate that Al-Qa'idah has now finished putting the last touches
to arrangements concerning the next stage of its action, and is about to give
the green light for the terrorist groups to launch terrorist operations.

According to the same reports, the meeting in question has called for the
intensification of the recruitment of terrorist volunteers and this explains the
arrest in Spain the day before yesterday Tuesday [26 June] of three al-Qa'idah
members, and also the arrest by the Mauritanian security services of five
foreigners who had direct links to Al-Qa'idah Organization in the Land of the
Islamic Maghreb.

The same sources do not rule out more dismantling operations of terrorist cells
following the telling blow dealt to a Spanish terror cell and the handing over
of detainees to the Moroccan police. These detainees are: Mohamed Lachgar, aged
23, Moulay Lahsene Drissi, aged 27, and Mohamed Agzin, aged 32. They were held
and handed over to Morocco immediately after it had become clear that they were
linked to the military wing of Al-Qa'idah Organization in the Land of the
Islamic Maghreb and were in charge of religious mobilization and the recruitment
of jihadists with the aim of sending them to training camps in the African
Sahara Sahel.

The sources also point out that the arrest of terrorists in Mauritania,
including Algerians, two Moroccans and a Mauritanian who has Saudi nationality,
shows that sleeping terror cells have responded to the call made at the
above-mentioned meeting of the leaders of Bin-Ladin's organization for stepping
up the recruitment of potential suicide-bombers and for finding financing
sources before infiltrating into Morocco in successive batches and from
different border points so as not to alert secret service. These batches would,
at a later stage, be joined in Morocco by elements who have received training by
Al-Qa'idah in Algeria.

Source: Assabah website, Casablanca, in Arabic 28 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Blackpool Gazette

                                 June 29, 2007

Bird attacks terrorise residents

LENGTH: 418 words


Swooping seagulls are making life a misery in a terrified Fleetwood
neighbourhood. The squawking gulls have been divebombing residents who have been
forced to dash to their homes or cars to avoid attacks. The ferocity of the bird
strikes has seen meter readers quake in fear and forced postal deliveries to be
cancelled.

"It's like Hitchcock's The Birds," said Marian Walker, of Pool Court, Larkholme.
"I can't take my dogs out. I have to put them in the car to go to the beach."
The seagulls are believed to have gone on the offensive as they are guarding
their young. Two nests have been spotted, behind chimneys of bungalows in Pool
Court and Northway, the centre of the area under the reign of terror. Part of
adjacent Silverdale Avenue is also affected. Mrs Walker added: "I heard from a
neighbour that the post had been cancelled. "My husband is waiting for an
appointment for a further MRI scan from Manchester Royal Infirmary. How will we
know when this letter is ready for collection? "We still have to leave our homes
on occasions and we are being attacked. The seagulls attack our dogs and cats.
We have even seen adult men prostrate on the ground because of being attacked by
seagulls. " Mrs Walker is angry Wyre Council can do nothing about the nuisance.
She said: "The birds are protected, the post office are protecting their staff
but who is protecting us?" Husband John Walker said: "Last week, a meter reader
came round. They attacked him and he was terrified. When young gulls are on the
ground you can't get out of the house." Silverdale Avenue resident James Bellamy
blamed some people who were feeding the gulls. He said: "I had my four-month-old
niece here and the gulls came close to pecking her face. I can't go in the
garden for breakfast without putting a canopy up." Pool Court resident Jackie
Salisbury added: "When they come swooping down they are like flying dogs." A
Royal Mail spokeswoman confirmed deliveries had been temporarily suspended, as a
postwoman had been attacked. She said: "We apologise to customers affected. We
will resume deliveries as soon as it is safe to do so. "In the meantime we are
asking customers to collect their mail from the delivery office or telephone the
office." Wyre Council said they had written to four people in the Larkholme area
asking them not to feed the gulls. Today's other top stories "Cannabis factory"
found in former store Bird attacks terrorise residents Teams join chase to sign
Williams Transfer update: Brandon, Hills and Nowland

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 29, 2007 Friday
                                  Eire Edition

ETA BOMBERS' COSTA ATTACK;
IRISH TOURISTS WARNED TERRORISTS TO BLITZ RESORTS

BYLINE: BY TOM WORDEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 365 words


IRISH holidaymakers were warned yesterday to be vigilant amid fears an ETA
terrorist cell is preparing to attack the Costa del Sol.

The three-man group is believed to be hiding out in the region which is visited
by thousands of Irish tourists every year.

Basque separatist group ETA announced an end to its 14-month ceasefire earlier
this month.

A senior counter-terrorism official told newspaper Diario de Malaga: "ETA has
used the ceasefire to move terrorists, explosives and vehicles all over Spain.

"We believe they could carry out a summer campaign against tourists similar to
those carried out in previous years."

Faustino Pretel, security commissioner for Malaga police, said: "Throughout the
summer the investigative efforts of all our teams will be bigger in terms of
human and material resources, as well as in the number of investigations."

On Tuesday three suspected ETA terrorists stole more than 40kg of materials used
to make explosives from a factory in France.

Plant employees were held at gunpoint by the robbers in Bischoffsein, near
Strasbourg.

ETA targets holiday resorts during the summer season and bombed hotels on the
Costa Blanca before calling a temporary truce in its war against the Spanish
state last March.

Its leaders recently posted a video on the internet which shows masked commandos
training with rifles and experts preparing bombs.

Earlier this year police smashed a plot to bring bloodshed to resorts on the
Spanish Costas.

Suspect Iker Aguirre Bernadal was arrested in January on an alleged terrorist
mission.

The terror group detonated bombs in suitcases to bring mayhem to Alicante and
Benidorm in July 2003.

Thirteen people were injured in the hotel blasts.

Every year ETA sends letters to tour operators and foreign embassies warning
tourists to stay away from Spain, claiming they will become "legitimate
targets".

Two people were killed when ETA bombed a car park at Madrid airport last
December, prompting the Spanish government into breaking off exploratory peace
talks.

The group has killed more than 800 people during its 40-year struggle for
independence for the Basque territory which straddles northern Spain and part of
southern France.

news@irishmirror.ie

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AFTERMATH: Benidorm hotel 2003

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                             June 29, 2007, Friday
                               News Extra Edition

Feared major terror attack foiled

BYLINE: David James South Wales Echo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 385 words


The threat of terror returned to Britain today after a car bomb was found in the
heart of London.

Bomb squad officers defused the "potentially viable" device after police
investigated reports of a suspicious vehicle in the early hours.

One police source said the bomb posed a real and substantial threat to the
surrounding area, just yards from Piccadilly Circus.

He said: "The indications that we have got so far are that it was certainly a
big device."

A witness reported seeing gas canisters being removed from the car, believed to
be a silver Mercedes-Benz, at around 4am.

A police cordon was thrown around Haymarket in the heart of the capital's West
End.

Dozens of forensic officers were today poring over the crime scene, which was
covered by a blue plastic police tent.

Scotland Yard said detectives from Counter Terrorism Command were investigating
the potential bomb plot.

A spokesman said: "Police were called to reports of a suspicious vehicle parked
in the Haymarket, shortly before 2am this morning.

"As a precautionary measure the immediate area was cordoned off while the
vehicle was examined by explosives officers.

"They discovered what appeared to be a potentially viable explosive device. This
was made safe.

"The Metropolitan Police Counter Terrorism Command has launched an
investigation."

Haymarket is in the heart of London's theatreland and close to the popular
shopping area of Regent Street.

A housekeeper at the Theatre Royal in Haymarket, who gave her name as Debbie,
said the suspect car had been covered with blue tarpaulin.

She said: "We can see a blue tent with the car inside and there are guys in
white suits going in and out."

One eyewitness said door staff at the nightclub Tiger, Tiger alerted police
after the car was driven into bins last night and the driver ran off.

The witness said the large silver saloon car was being driven "erratically"
before the minor crash. The driver was not stopped.

Intelligence sources in London said they were keeping an open mind on who was
responsible for the car bomb.

Defence Secretary Des Browne said today: "It does appear to be a very serious
incident.

"My first reaction to this is, thank God that we have police and explosives
experts who can make these devices safe, and the arrangements they appear to
have done, and that nobody has been injured."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 30, 2007 Saturday

Spanish daily praises British handling of attempted terror attack

LENGTH: 696 words


Text of unsigned editorial: "London thwarts another 7 July terror attack" report
by Spanish newspaper ABC website on 30 June


Tension is at the highest level in London in the face of the possibility of
another massive terrorist attack. A defused car bomb, several vehicles inspected
and streets cut off right in the centre of the city have caused a state of alert
in the most stylish and emblematic areas of the British capital. According to
Scotland Yard, if the bombs had gone off they there would have been a real
massacre close to the official residences of the queen and prime minister, as
well as parliament. Once again, the terrorists planned to spread death and
destruction in a large Western capital.

It was only a few days until the anniversary of the 7 July [2005] attacks, in
which 56 people died, including four suicide bombers, and another 700 people
were injured. It was only hours since Gordon Brown became prime minister and
since it was announced that the future of his predecessor, Tony Blair, would be
linked to the situation in the Middle East. These things coming together lead to
the conclusion that it was not a coincidence, but an attack which was scheduled
in the greatest detail. Islamic terror is facing up to the West, using
indiscriminate and massive violence to gain coverage for its fanatical message.
Six soldiers in the Lebanon have also lost their lives, very probably, at the
hands of Islamist terrorists. This "militant" Islam, to use the very precise
term used by the US commission investigating the 11 September attacks, considers
democracies to be its greatest enemy because it challenges the legitimacy of
popular sovereignty and individual liberty in the name of a radical and
intolerant mission. London is a very significant target, as in the past were
other great cities in Europe - among them Madrid - and the rest of the world.

The West has the right and duty to defend itself, with the conviction that truth
and justice are on the side of those who protect the life and liberty of the
citizen against fanatical attacks. It is a war that is not being won with words,
much less with low-level initiatives like the imaginary "Alliance of
civilizations" [initiative led by Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez
Zapatero]. Controlling the "preachers of hate", banning undesirable people from
coming to Spain and heightening public security are essential measures which
should be fully compatible with respect for the rule of law. This is what is
happening in the UK, the historic cradle of many liberties, but which is also
capable of acting decisively to defend democratic values. The British police's
efficiency in this case is worth highlighting, as well as the already
demonstrated civic maturity of a country which does not allow itself to be
intimidated. After the 7 July 2005 attacks, Tony Blair spoke of a change in the
times, as a warning to those who wanted to take advantage of "our good nature".

The social and psychological profile of the people who carried out that attack
was very significant and it would be very interesting to see if it was similar
to that of the terrorists who were on the point of causing another disaster
yesterday. They were people who were apparently well integrated, but who been
subject to radical propaganda from mosques, publications and other media used by
Islamic fundamentalism. Al-Qa'idah and its branches in Europe, as well as the
groups who associate themselves with its aims in the Middle East and the
Maghreb, are the greatest proof that liberty must be defended without any qualms
or weakness. Some leaders should take good note of the firmness of the UK
government, acting in full agreement with the opposition, and with the backing
of a country which believes in itself and in the justice of its cause.
Unfortunately, it will not be the last time that an open society is threatened
by indiscriminate terrorism, although on this occasion, congratulation is due as
the terrorists did not achieve their objective. For this reason the conviction
that it is worth defending democracy and liberty against a bloodthirsty enemy is
fundamental.

Source: ABC website, Madrid, in Spanish 30 Jun 07

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 30, 2007

Glasgow attacked in airport terror strike

LENGTH: 666 words



HIGHLIGHT: Two held after car rams terminal building Passengers jump on burning
man


Scotland is reeling from its first al-Qaida-inspired attack, after a car bomb
was rammed into Glasgow Airport.

Security sources believe that the attack, which happened at 3.15pm today, is
linked to the two attempts to devastate London's West End 36 hours earlier, also
using vehicles packed with petrol.

Gordon Brown tonight convened a meeting of the government's emergency Cobra
committee to discuss the latest incident and be given the first intelligence
reports. Airports around the world were put on alert for a further wave of
potential terrorist attacks.

In Glasgow a burning green Jeep Cherokee was driven at speed towards the front
of the terminal.

Robin Patterson, 42, of Rochester, Kent, described the moment he saw the car
burst into flames at the airport.

'It was just a small fire at first. Then there was an enormous explosion and it
really was a big explosion,' he said. 'The guy next to the car, his skin and
clothes just fell off him. He came running away from the car and he was like an
absolute lunatic. He was just literally running away from the police.'

Travellers described how they saw two Asian men, one of whom was on fire, coming
out of the car. One of them was seen pouring petrol around the car and on
himself before people at the airport jumped on him and he was led away.
Strathclyde Police confirmed that they had arrested two men, but gave no further
details.

Several witnesses gave dramatic accounts of the apparent attempt to storm the
departure lounge and harm holidaymakers. Richard Gray said: 'A green Jeep was in
the middle of the doorway burning. There was an Asian guy who was pulled out of
the car by two police officers, who he was trying to fight off. They got him on
the ground. The car didn't explode. There were a few pops and bangs, which
presumably was the petrol.'

Louise Robertson, 49, from Helensburgh, was checking in for her flight to
Mallorca with her husband and son.

She said: 'We were in check-in and were about to go up to the desk when we heard
people shouting that there was smoke. I knew instinctively that something wasn't
right and we just ran to the nearest exit as fast as we could.

'When we got out I looked back and I could see the Jeep was stuck at the door
and it was on fire.

'I then saw a man who was partly on fire running from the car and he was being
chased by police who eventually caught him and wrestled him to the ground.

'I have heard that the police are concerned there may be [explosive] devices in
the car park.'

One unnamed witness told the BBC: 'I heard the sound of a car's wheels spinning
and saw smoke coming out. I saw a Jeep Cherokee apparently as if it was trying
to get right through the doors into the terminal building. There were flames
coming out from underneath, then some men appeared from in among the flames. The
police ran over and the people started fighting with the police. I then heard
what sounded like an explosion.'

Two men, one of whom was said to be badly burned, were reportedly seen being led
away in handcuffs.

The airport was evacuated and all flights suspended following the incident.
Roads around the airport were closed.

A spokesman for the British Airports Authority said that the emergency services
were at the scene. He added: 'Our advice to passengers is to check with their
airline to establish if their flight will be operating.'

The Labour MP for Glasgow Central, Mohammad Sarwar, said: 'It must be very
horrifying and shocking for the people who were at the scene.

'This is a matter of serious concern to the people of Glasgow and of Scotland.

'My advice would be that we should all remain calm.

'Obviously the police investigation is at an early stage and we should not
speculate and jump to conclusions until all the facts are known to us.'

If the incident is confirmed to be a full terrorist attack linked to Islamic
groups, it will be the first such incident on Scottish soil.

A Home Office spokesman said the official security alert level remains at
'severe', as it has been for some time.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 30, 2007

Glasgow attacked as terror threat spreads

LENGTH: 1265 words



HIGHLIGHT: Police confirm al-Qaeda link to car bombs New fears over control
order chaos


Britain is braced tonight for a fresh wave of terrorist attacks after an
attempted car bombing of Glasgow airport confirmed the reality of a renewed UK
offensive by Islamic extremists.

Just four days into his premiership, Gordon Brown is facing the most concerted
threat to Britain since the London attacks of July 2005. Tonight he summoned
intelligence chiefs and ministers to a meeting of the Cobra emergency committee
in Whitehall to discuss the deteriorating security situation.

Moments before the meeting, police stopped cars entering Edinburgh and Newcastle
airports. An hour later, just after 7pm, Blackpool airport was sealed off by
armed police amid intelligence that a nationwide terror cell might be planning
similar car bomb attacks.

Earlier, there were extraordinary scenes at Scotland's busiest airport after a
Jeep Cherokee wreathed in flames crashed into the doors of the main terminal
building. Two Asian men who were in the vehicle, one badly burnt, were arrested.
One witness described one of them throwing petrol over himself and setting it
ablaze while the other was held by holidaymakers before being apprehended by
police.

The attack, bearing the hallmarks of an al-Qaeda plot, occurred at 3:11pm today,
36 hours after extremists attempted a double car bomb attack in the heart of
London's West End using two Mercedes packed with petrol, nails and 'patio gas'
canisters.

Security sources told The Observer that the two attacks in London and Glasgow
appeared to be connected, evidence that a new cell using new tactics has emerged
in Britain, but one which appears to have slipped completely under the radar of
the security services. No intelligence had been intercepted into any of the
three attempted car bombings.

Amid concern over further attacks - the classic modus operandi of al-Qaeda is a
sudden wave of strikes - police also said that they were stepping up the hunt
for five terror suspects who have evaded control orders and are on the run.

In a day of dramatic developments, intelligence sources confirmed the attack on
Glasgow airport appeared to be aimed at killing passengers setting off on the
first day of the Scottish school holidays. It was only foiled because the Jeep
hit protective bollards and became stuck in the terminal doors.

Airports around the world have now been put on heightened alert for a further
wave of attacks.

As with the failed London attack, the explosives and gas canisters which
appeared to be in the Jeep did not detonate, a stroke of fortune that may again
have saved the lives of hundreds of people, many embarking today for their
summer holidays.

Witnesses described chaotic scenes as the Jeep sped towards the terminal
entrance but was foiled by bollards and became wedged in the doorway.

Robin Patterson, 42, of Rochester, Kent, saw the car burst into flames. 'It was
just a small fire at first. Then there was an enormous explosion and it really
was a big explosion,' he said. 'The guy next to the car, his skin and clothes
just fell off him. He came running away from the car and he was like an absolute
lunatic. He was just literally running away from the police.'

Holidaymaker Richard Gray said: 'A green Jeep was in the middle of the doorway
burning. There was an Asian guy who was pulled out of the car by two police
officers, who he was trying to fight off. They got him on the ground. The car
didn't explode. There were a few bangs, which presumably was the petrol.'

Another witness said: 'I heard the sound of a car's wheels spinning and saw
smoke coming out. I saw a Jeep Cherokee apparently as if it was trying to get
right through the doors into the terminal building. There were flames coming out
from underneath, then some men appeared from in among the flames. The police ran
over and the people started fighting with the police. I then heard what sounded
like an explosion.'

Meanwhile in London, a massive investigation into what could have been Britain's
most deadly terror attack widened tonight. Police and intelligence sources told
The Observer that they were now investigating the existence of an Islamic terror
cell in the capital. One major branch of the inquiry is tracking down a number
of terror suspects on the run who have slipped their control orders, a
development that raises fresh questions over their effectiveness.

One man being sought is Lamine Adam, 26, who, in evidence heard during the
recent Crevice terror trial that saw five jailed for plotting fertiliser bomb
attacks in the UK, allegedly boasted of targeting nightclubs.

One of the Mercedes cars involved in the attack was left outside the busy Tiger
Tiger nightclub in Haymarket, in the centre of the West End. The other Mercedes
was found in a nearby street.

Other men urgently wanted by police are his brother Ibrahim, 20, and Cerie
Bullivant, 24, who have also evaded measures meant to keep them under house
arrest.

The government's independent reviewer of anti-terror legislation, Lord Carlile,
has said that there is 'solid evidence' that the trio had wanted to join
insurgents abroad and attack British troops serving in Iraq. Security sources
said it remains 'possible' that the men were involved in the attempted to bring
carnage to London. They have also conceded that others who may be involved may
already be known to them as terror suspects.

The Prime Minister chaired a meeting of the government's emergency Cobra
committee this evening to consider the official response to the failed car
bombings, the third such meeting in successive days.

After being briefed on the progress of the police investigation, the new Home
Secretary, Jacqui Smith, released a statement urging greater vigilance. It read:
'The police are clear that the most important contribution that the public can
make is to carry on reporting anything suspicious and to remain vigilant. I must
stress we must not let the threat of terror stop us getting on with our lives.'

The mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, reiterated that the capital faced 'a very
real threat' and called on Londoners to be 'vigilant'.

Reports today from the US suggested that police have obtained a 'crystal clear'
CCTV image of a suspect staggering away from a car after parking it outside
Tiger Tiger have been denied by police.

Forensic experts continued to comb the cars and the area where they were parked
for clues to the bombers along with the bombs themselves and detonation devices.
However, police were warning not to expect immediate results. 'This is an
extremely complex process,' said one.

Elsewhere, a jittery capital attempted to return to normality today. Hundreds of
extra police were drafted on to the streets to step up security and to reassure
the public.

The Gay Pride Festival, which saw hundreds of thousands of people making their
way from Baker Street to Trafalgar Square, was accompanied by 350 officers,
while extra police were drafted in for the Wimbledon tennis championships and
the Diana concert at Wembley. Police said that the security plan for these
events had already been tightened some months ago.

Among other terror suspects police want to track down are former tube worker and
26-year-old Londoner Zeeshan Siddiqui. Court evidence has heard how he trained
with a London suicide bomber in Pakistan.

Another individual police desperately want to track down, even if only to
eliminate him from their investigation, is Bestun Salim, who disappeared from
his Manchester home last year, and is alleged to have links to Ansar al-Islam, a
group linked to the terrorist network of the late Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, Iraq's
notorious insurgent leader who was killed last year.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 30, 2007

Terror threat 'critical' as Glasgow attacked

LENGTH: 1063 words



HIGHLIGHT: Airport strike linked to London car bombs UK-wide hunt for al-Qaeda
cell


Britain is braced tonight for a fresh wave of terrorist attacks as the national
threat level was raised to 'critical' following an attempted car bombing of
Glasgow airport.

Just four days into his premiership, Gordon Brown was dealing with the most
dangerous situation facing Britain since the attacks on London in July 2005.
Police and intelligence officers confirmed that there was a direct link between
the Scottish attack and the attempting car bombing of London on Friday -
confirming the reality of a renewed UK offensive by Islamic extremists.

Tonight the Prime Minister summoned intelligence chiefs and ministers to a
meeting of the Cobra emergency committee in Whitehall to discuss the
deteriorating security situation. It was agreed to raise the threat level to the
highest degree possible, a decision that confirmed another attack is expected
imminently.

In a televised address from Downing Street, a sombre-faced Brown urged people to
be 'vigilant' and support the police and security services. He said: 'I know
that the British people will stand together, united, resolute and strong.'

As night fell, armed police began stopping vehicles entering airports throughout
the UK after warnings were circulated that a nationwide terror cell is preparing
more attacks. Liverpool and Glasgow airports were closed down.

At 3.11pm, a Jeep Cherokee wreathed in flames crashed into the doors of the main
terminal building at Glasgow. Driven by two 'Asian-looking' men, it came to a
halt as they threw petrol over it and appeared to try to detonate the vehicle.
With the help of bystanders, the two men were overpowered and arrested. One is
fighting for his life tonight, after throwing petrol over himself and setting it
alight.

There was a further twist tonight as the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley,
where the man was being treated, was evacuated after a suspect device was found.
Strathclyde Police later said that the man had possibly been wearing a suicide
belt.

The Jeep attack, bearing the hallmarks, police said, of an al-Qaeda plot, came
36 hours after extremists attempted a double car bomb attack in the heart of
London's West End using two Mercedes packed with petrol, nails and 'patio gas'
canisters.

The attacks appeared to have slipped completely under the radar of the security
services. Amid concern over further attacks, police also said that they were
stepping up the hunt for five terror suspects who have evaded control orders.

In a day of dramatic developments, intelligence sources confirmed the attack on
Glasgow airport appeared to be aimed at killing passengers setting off at the
start of the Scottish school holidays.

The British attacks prompted the White House to tighten security at US airports.
As with the failed London attack, the explosives and gas canisters which
appeared to be in the Jeep did not detonate, a stroke of fortune that may again
have saved the lives of hundreds.

Witnesses described chaotic scenes as the Jeep sped towards the terminal
entrance. Robin Patterson, 42, of Rochester, Kent, saw the car burst into
flames. 'There was an enormous explosion and it really was a big explosion,' he
said. 'The guy next to the car, his skin and clothes just fell off him. He was
like an absolute lunatic.' Another described one of the men throwing punches at
police while screaming: 'Allah, Allah.'

The Prime Minister's new terrorism adviser, Lord Stevens, said tonight: 'Make no
mistake, this weekend's bomb attacks signal a major escalation in the war being
waged on us by Islamic terrorists. Now it is clear a loose but deadly network of
interlinked operational cells has developed.'

Meanwhile in London, a massive investigation into what could have been Britain's
most deadly terror attack widened tonight. Police and intelligence sources told
The Observer that they were now investigating the existence of an Islamic terror
cell in the capital. One major branch of the inquiry is tracking down a number
of terror suspects who have slipped their control orders, a development that
raises fresh questions over their effectiveness.

One man being sought is Lamine Adam, 26, who, in evidence at the recent Crevice
terror trial that saw five jailed for plotting fertiliser bomb attacks in the
UK, allegedly boasted of targeting nightclubs. One of the Mercedes cars involved
in the attack was left outside the busy Tiger Tiger nightclub in Haymarket, in
the centre of the West End. The other Mercedes was found in a nearby street.

Other men urgently wanted by police are his brother Ibrahim, 20, and Cerie
Bullivant, 24, who have also evaded control orders. The government's independent
reviewer of anti-terror legislation, Lord Carlile, has said that there is 'solid
evidence' that the trio had wanted to join insurgents abroad and attack British
troops serving in Iraq. Security sources said it remains 'possible' that the men
were involved in the attempt to bring carnage to London.

After being briefed on the progress of the police investigation, the new Home
Secretary, Jacqui Smith, released a statement urging greater vigilance. It read:
'The police are clear that the most important contribution that the public can
make is to carry on reporting anything suspicious and to remain vigilant. I must
stress we must not let the threat of terror stop us getting on with our lives.'

The mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, reiterated that the capital faced 'a very
real threat' and called on Londoners to be 'vigilant'. Hundreds of extra police
were drafted on to the streets to step up security and to reassure the public.

The Gay Pride Festival, which saw hundreds of thousands of people making their
way from Baker Street to Trafalgar Square, was accompanied by 350 officers,
while extra police were drafted in for the Wimbledon tennis championships and
the Diana concert at Wembley.

Among other terror suspects police want to track down are former tube worker and
26-year-old Londoner Zeeshan Siddiqui. Court evidence has heard how he trained
with a London suicide bomber in Pakistan.

Another individual police desperately want to track down, even if only to
eliminate him from their investigation, is Bestun Salim, who disappeared from
his Manchester home last year, and is alleged to have links to Ansar al-Islam, a
group linked to the terrorist network of the late Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, Iraq's
notorious insurgent leader who was killed last year.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                  July 1, 2007

Police expand terror attack inquiries

LENGTH: 758 words



HIGHLIGHT: A fifth individual was today arrested in connection with the
attempted car bombings in London and Glasgow as the investigation spread
nationwide.


A fifth individual was today arrested in connection with the attempted car
bombings in London and Glasgow as the investigation spread nationwide.

Houses were searched in Liverpool, Staffordshire and near Glasgow. The fifth
arrest, of a 26-year-old man, was made this morning in Liverpool.

It followed the overnight arrest of a man and woman on the M6 motorway in
Cheshire and the arrest of the two men who yesterday rammed a flaming Jeep
Cherokee at Glasgow airport

Peter Clarke, the head of the Scotland Yard counter-terrorism unit, said police
were making rapid progress in the hunt for suspects.

"We are learning a great deal about the people involved in the attacks here in
Glasgow and in the attempted attacks in central London. The links between them
are becoming ever clearer," he said today.

"I'm confident, absolutely confident, that in the coming days and weeks we will
be able to gain a thorough understanding of the methods used by the terrorists,
the way in which they planned their attacks and the network to which they
belong."

Assistant chief constable John Malcolm of Strathclyde police issued an appeal
for information about sightings of the green Jeep Cherokee - registration L808
RDT - over the last days and weeks.

He said investigators also wanted the public to provide videos or photographs of
the incident and its build-up.

The government yesterday raised the terror alert to its highest level, meaning
an attack is considered imminent.

The prime minister, Gordon Brown, warned that while Britain would not yield to
terrorism, it was subject to a "long-term and sustained" threat.

He told the BBC Sunday AM programme: "While I don't want to comment on the
police investigation that is on-going, it is clear that we are dealing in
general terms with people who are associated with al-Qaida.

"It wants to make its point, its propaganda effort, by inflicting maximum
damage, irrespective of religion, on civilian life."

At 3.11pm yesterday, the Jeep Cherokee, wreathed in flames, was crashed into the
doors of the main terminal building at Glasgow.

With the help of bystanders, the two men inside were overpowered and arrested.
One, thought to be the driver, threw petrol over himself and set it alight.

The man is still in a "critical" condition at Paisley's Royal Alexandra hospital
and under armed guard, police said today.

A controlled explosion was carried out at the hospital on a car, thought to be
connected to the yesterday's incident.

Police are linking the Glasgow attack to the discovery of two car bombs in
central London on Friday

The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, who will make a statement to parliament
tomorrow on the terror alert, said it was vital for the public to remain
vigilant and report suspicious activity to the police.

A number of houses near Glasgow airport, in the village of Houston, were
searched in connection with the attack.

Maya Logan, who also lives in the village, told the Press Association she had
seen a man washing a 4x4-style Jeep.

She said she had seen it parked outside the property in recent weeks. The
29-year-old student said: "I can't remember the colour or the make, but it was a
big 4x4 Jeep."

Another resident, Callum Graham, said his friend and seen two men of Asian
appearance going into the house where Ms Logan had seen the Jeep.

"As far as I know, people had no dealings with them," he said. "We think they
have only been there a few months."

Police officers have erected a tent outside the back of the house. Other
officers brought in other items from a van parked outside the front.

Addresses in Newcastle-under-Lyme and Liverpool are also under investigation.

Glasgow airport reopened this morning but passengers were warned to expect some
delays and cancellations.

Travellers are expected to face delays as security is stepped up in airports.
The British Transport Police said it was increasing patrols on the rail network
and stepping up random searches on vehicles approaching stations.

A spokeswoman said patrols had been increased at key mainline stations, stations
which interchange at airports and on some train services.

Mr Brown urged the public to co-operate with police and said there had already
been a "massive" public response on anti-terror hotlines. But he added: "It is
very important that people carry on living their lives as normal.

"I think it is very important that the British people send a message to the
terrorists that they will not be allowed to undermine our British way of life.
But it is also important that the public are vigilant, that we take proper
precautions."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                              July 1, 2007 Sunday

Glasgow terror attack: airports step up security

BYLINE: Telegraph newsdesk

SECTION: LANCASHIRE (LANCASHIRE)

LENGTH: 209 words


SECURITY has been stepped up at North West airports following the terrorist car
bomb attack in Glasgow.

Extra police, some armed, have been deployed to airports in Manchester,
Blackpool and Liverpool.

In addition, visitors are not allowed to drive up to the front of airports
buildings.

Instead they are being directed to car parks.

The measures were being introduced at airports across the country in response to
the attack on Glasgow Airport, police said.

A Lancashire police spokesman said: "Security at Blackpool Airport has been
increased in response to the incident at Glasgow International Airport.

"There is no information that would indicate that Blackpool Airport is a direct
target and these measures are precautionary.

"Extra police officers, some armed, are on patrol at the airport and members of
the public will not be able to drive up to the front of the building. They will
be directed to the car park."

A Manchester Airport spokesman said they had taken advice from the Home Office.
and parking restrictions were in place outside all terminal buildings.

He said: "We are advising all passengers to arrive at the airport at least 20
minutes earlier for their flight and to bear with us through these extra
security measures."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                  July 1, 2007

Terror threat 'critical' as Glasgow attacked: Airport strike linked to London
car bombs: UK-wide hunt for al-Qaeda cell

BYLINE: Mark Townsend, Jo Revill and Paul Kelbie

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words


BRITAIN WAS braced last night for a fresh wave of terrorist attacks as the
national threat level was raised to 'critical' following an attempted car
bombing of Glasgow airport.

Just four days into his premiership, Gordon Brown was dealing with the most
dangerous situation facing Britain since the attacks on London in July 2005.
Police and intelligence officers confirmed that there was a direct link between
the Scottish attack and the attempted car bombing of London on Friday -
confirming the reality of a renewed UK offensive by Islamist extremists.

Last night the Prime Minister summoned intelligence chiefs and ministers before
the Cobra emergency committee in Whitehall to discuss the deteriorating security
situation. It was agreed to raise the threat level to the highest degree
possible, a decision that confirmed another attack is expected imminently.

In a televised address from Downing Street, a sombre-faced Brown urged people to
be 'vigilant' and support the police and security services. He said: 'I know
that the British people will stand together, united, resolute and strong.'

As night fell, armed police began stopping vehicles entering airports throughout
the UK after warnings were circulated that a nationwide terror cell is preparing
more attacks. Liverpool John Lennon airport was closed at 8.30pm while police
investigated a suspect vehicle. Glasgow airport too remained closed.

At 3.11pm, a Jeep Cherokee wreathed in flames was crashed into the doors of the
main terminal building at Glasgow. Driven by two 'Asian-looking' men, it came to
a halt as they threw petrol over it and appeared to try to detonate the vehicle.
With the help of bystanders, the two men were overpowered and arrested. One was
fighting for his life last night, after throwing petrol over himself and setting
it alight.

There was a further twist last night as the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley,
where the man was being treated, was evacuated. Strathclyde Police later said
that the man had possibly been wearing a suicide vest.

William Rae, chief constable of Strathclyde Police, last night confirmed that
the attack on Glasgow airport was linked to the London attempt. 'There are
similarities between this incident and those in London. We are treating this as
a ter rorist incident.' The Jeep attack, bearing the hallmarks, police said, of
an al-Qaeda plot, came 36 hours after extremists attempted a double car bomb
attack in the heart of London's West End.

Two people were arrested in Cheshire late last night in connection with the
London and Glasgow failed terrorist attacks, which appear to have slipped
completely under the radar of the security services. The pair were arrested by
anti-terrorism officers from the Metropolitian and West Midlands Police.

Intelligence sources confirmed the attack on Glasgow airport appeared to be
aimed at killing passengers.

As with the failed London attack, the explosives and gas canisters which
appeared to be in the Jeep did not detonate, a stroke of fortune that may again
have saved the lives of hundreds.

Witnesses described chaotic scenes as the Jeep sped towards the terminal
entrance. Robin Patterson, 42, of Rochester, Kent, saw the car burst into
flames. 'There was an enormous explosion,' he said. 'The guy next to the car,
his skin and clothes just fell off him.' Another described one of the men
throwing punches at police while screaming: 'Allah, Allah'.

The Prime Minister's new terrorism adviser, Lord Stevens, said last night: 'Make
no mistake, this weekend's bomb attacks signal a major escalation by Islamic
terrorists.' Meanwhile in London, a massive investigation into what could have
been Britain's most deadly terror attack widened last night. Police and
intelligence sources told The Observer that they were now investigating the
existence of an Islamic terror cell in the capital. One major branch of the
inquiry is tracking down a number of terror suspects who have slipped their
control orders, a development that raises fresh questions over their
effectiveness.

One man being sought is Lamine Adam, 26, who, in evidence at the recent Crevice
terror trial that saw five jailed for plotting fertiliser bomb attacks in the
UK, allegedly boasted of targeting nightclubs. One of the Mercedes cars involved
in the attack was left outside the busy Tiger Tiger nightclub in Haymarket, in
the centre of the West End. The other Mercedes was found in a nearby street.

Other men urgently wanted by police are his brother Ibrahim, 20, and Cerie
Bullivant, 24, who have also evaded control orders. The government's independent
reviewer of anti-terror legislation, Lord Carlile, has said that there is 'solid
evidence' that the trio had wanted to join insurgents abroad and attack British
troops serving in Iraq. Security sources said it remains 'possible' that the men
were involved in the attempt to bring carnage to London.

After being briefed on the progress of the police investigation, the new Home
Secretary, Jacqui Smith, released a statement urging greater vigilance. It read:
'The police are clear that the most important contribution that the public can
make is to carry on reporting anything suspicious and to remain vigilant. I must
stress we must not let the threat of terror stop us getting on with our lives.'

The mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, reiterated that the capital faced 'a very
real threat' and called on Londoners to be 'vigilant'. Hundreds of extra police
were drafted on to the streets to step up security and to reassure the public.

The Gay Pride Festival, which saw hundreds of thousands of people making their
way from Baker Street to Trafalgar Square, was accompanied by 350 officers,
while extra police were drafted in for the Wimbledon tennis championships and
the Diana, Princess of Wales, concert at Wembley.

Among other terror suspects police want to track down are former tube worker and
26-year-old Londoner Zeeshan Siddiqui. A court has heard how he trained with a
London suicide bomber in Pakistan.

Another individual police want to track down, even if only to eliminate him from
their investigation, is Bestun Salim, who disappeared from his Manchester home
last year, and is alleged to have links to Ansar al-Islam, a group linked to the
terrorist network of the late Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, Iraq's notorious insurgent
leader who was killed last year.

How petrol bombs came to London, 2-3 Jason Burke, 3

Observer comment, 32

Hassan Butt, 31


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                        July 1, 2007 Sunday 6:47 PM BST

APPEAL OVER TERROR ATTACK CAR

BYLINE: Joe Quinn and Victoria Mitchell, Scottish Press Association

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 487 words


Police issued an appeal today for information about a Jeep used as a car bomb in
a terrorist attack on Glasgow Airport.

The green Cherokee had the registration L808 RDT, Strathclyde Police said.

Assistant chief constable John Malcolm said he wanted information about
sightings of the 4x4 over the last days and weeks.

Mr Malcolm was joined at a press conference in Glasgow by Scotland Yard's
anti-terror chief, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke,

He revealed that a critically-ill suspect under armed guard in hospital is
believed to have been the driver of the vehicle.

The second man in police custody was 27 years old.

The officer issued a public plea for the public to provide videos or photographs
of the incident and its build-up.

Mr Malcolm said ``Of the two men arrested yesterday afternoon, I can confirm one
man remains in a critical condition within the Royal Alexandra Hospital,
Paisley.

``He is under armed police guard and I believe he was the driver of the vehicle.

``The other man, 27 years old, remains in police custody.''

Mr Malcolm added: ``I am delighted to report we have had an excellent response
from the public with an average of 100 calls every hour.

``This reflects the outrage felt in our communities at this act and the calls we
are receiving are supportive of the police actions.

``I am satisfied this investigation is progressing dynamically at pace and I
have extensive resources dedicated to this inquiry.''

Mr Clarke urged the public to help with the investigation into the car bomb
plot.

He said: ``I am absolutely convinced we will need the support of the public in
bringing this investigation to a successful conclusion.

``In terms of the wider investigation, we are learning a great deal about the
people who were involved in the attack here in Glasgow and the attempted attacks
in central London.

``The links between the three attacks are becoming ever clearer.

``We are pursuing many lines of inquiry and I am confident, absolutely
confident, that in the coming days and weeks we will be able to gain a thorough
understanding of the methods used by the terrorists, of the way in which they
planned their attacks and of the network to which they belong.

``My job here in Glasgow is to ensure the investigations into the London attacks
and yesterday's attack at Glasgow Airport are totally co-ordinated.''

He said officers from the Metropolitan Police Counter Terrorism Unit were
working closely with officers from Strathclyde police.

Following the press conference, chief superintendent Caroline Scott, of
Strathclyde police, was asked if the police had any intelligence about the
attack in Glasgow.

She said: ``We had no intelligence that an incident would happen in Scotland.''

She also said it was not yet clear when the 27-year-old, who is being held in
police custody, would appear in court or if that court appearance would be in
Scotland.

She said: ``It will depend on how the inquiry goes.''

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                        July 1, 2007 Sunday 4:58 PM BST

TERROR ATTACK AIRPORT REOPENS

BYLINE: Katrine Bussey and Sam Reeves, Scottish Press Association.

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 710 words


Glasgow Airport's main terminal reopened to travellers today - almost 24 hours
after a terrorist attack.

The car bomb attack involved a 4x4 - apparently packed with gas canisters -
being rammed into the front of the main terminal building and set alight.

The airport was closed to all travellers in the aftermath of the incident, which
took place at about 3.15pm on Saturday.

Earlier today airport bosses began a phased opening of the airport, with
passengers initially checking in in the smaller T2 terminal.

Shortly after 3pm today the main terminal building was re-opened - despite the
car still being there.

The area around the vehicle was cordoned off as forensic tests were carried out.

And with most of the main forecourt still cordoned off, travellers were being
directed into the terminal building via a side entrance.

Donald Morrison, a spokesman for airport operators BAA, said: ``We have started
to allow passengers into the main terminal.''

He added: ``That's a big boost for us in terms of our operations, because we can
open more of the check-ins.

``The main check-in area is operational and we are working on bringing the whole
of the airport into operation as quickly as we can.

``Things are beginning to return to some semblance of normality and hopefully
tomorrow we will see the operation picking up and there will be fewer
cancellations.''

An estimated 47 flights are expected to leave the airport today, with between 15
and 20 cancellations and a further five flights diverted to Edinburgh, Prestwick
and Newcastle airports.

There was a heavy police presence at the airport, with hundreds of people
queuing outside the building this morning waiting to check-in.

Graeme and Helen Bradshaw, both 30, from East Kilbride, were picking up their
luggage which they had to leave on the flight when it was grounded.

At 3.15pm yesterday - the time the bomber struck - their flight to Bristol had
been taxi-ing to take off.

But the flight was grounded and they were stuck on the plane until midnight. The
couple said they were given little information from staff on the flight about
what was happening.

Mrs Bradshaw said: ``They told us as much as they knew, but that did not seem to
be a lot.''

They told how information began to filter in as passengers were sent text
messages and even picture messages about the bomb attack.

Mrs Bradshaw said: ``Graeme had a radio, so we were getting a lot of information
that way.

``The atmosphere was quite calm. No-one panicked, we expect these sorts of
things nowadays unfortunately. I don't think anyone was overly surprised.''

Passengers on the EasyJet flight were eventually taken by coach to Glasgow's
Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre. There, they were questioned by CID
officers, the couple said, before returning home at around 2.30am today.

They received a call around lunchtime from the airport, and came to collect
their luggage at 1pm.

Claire Baxter, 30, a barmaid from Kilmarnock, had just flown back from a holiday
in Gran Canaria.

The flight was due to arrive at 8.45am this morning, but did not get in until
11.05am.

Mrs Baxter said: ``They told us we were going to be diverted to Prestwick, then
when we landed, they told us we were at Glasgow Airport.

``It certainly looks much more hectic than when we flew out.

``The whole thing really surprised me. To even think it could happen in your own
country, you expect it in London, but it did surprise me here.''

Gordon Dewar, managing director of Glasgow Airport, praised staff and
passengers, saying: ``We have worked through the night to get Glasgow Airport
back up and running, and get passengers to their destinations as quickly and
safely as possible.

``With the support of police, our airline partners and BAA staff, we have been
able to reopen the main terminal building within 24 hours of yesterday's attack.

``I want to pay tribute to the tremendous courage and dedication shown by staff
across the airport, and to our passengers who have acted superbly throughout
this difficult situation.''

Glasgow Airport had been forecast to handle some 32,700 passengers today.

But with a large number of flights cancelled, travellers were advised not to
come to the airport unless they had received confirmation from their airline
that their flight was due to depart.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                        July 1, 2007 Sunday 12:08 PM BST

MUSLIMS `SEETHE' WITH ANGER OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Joe Quinn, Scottish Press Association

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 748 words


Scotland's Muslims were today said to be ``seething'' with anger over the
Glasgow airport attack.

Muslims were just as likely to be victims of terrorist attacks as anyone else,
said Osama Saeed, Scottish spokesman for the Muslim Association of Britain.

``Thank God no lives were lost, but this kind of attack is aiming for
indiscriminate slaughter,'' he said.

``I was at the airport with my two young children picking up relatives only a
few hours earlier.''

He went on: ``These terrorists do not care who they kill.

``We are seething with anger about this.

``As a community not only are we just as likely to be victims as anyone else,
but we are also looked to in order to provide direction and in some respects
take responsibility for this.

``We are sick of being defined as a community by terrorism and having to answer
for it.

``No cause, and certainly no Muslim cause, is advanced by these senseless
attacks - quite the opposite.''

Mr Saeed went on: ``There has not been a peep of extremism in Scotland to date.

``You hear about individuals and groups in London and elsewhere in England, but
there has been no presence of this here.''

The Muslim community must continue to make clear there was no ``theological''
justification for such acts, and to report any suspicious activity, he said.

``We urge full support for our security services, and also pay tribute to the
work of the emergency services.''

A similar message came from Labour MP Mohammad Sarwar, who condemned extremists
who ``brainwash'' impressionable young British-born Muslims.

Mohammad Sarwar said the Glasgow outrage had come as a major shock in a country
whose mosques preached a moderate message.

``This is a big surprise to all of us, because we were not expecting this type
of incident in Scotland,'' Mr Sarwar, MP for Glasgow Central, told BBC Radio
Scotland's Sunday Live.

``This is the first incident that has happened in Glasgow and everybody is
shocked and terrified.

``We all say this is a criminal and barbaric act and the people who are
responsible for this must be brought to justice.''

He said there had been no evidence that any of Scotland's imams or mosques were
fomenting hatred or extremism.

``The message is moderate and liberal, and nobody in Scotland is preaching
hatred against other communities,'' he said.

He acknowledged there could be young Muslim men with grievances but beyond the
mosques' sphere of influence.

``Yes, I understand there are people who are angry about foreign policy, I also
accept there are people marginalised because of racism and no job,'' he said.

``But no cause, no reason, can justify killing innocent men, women and children.

``This is very unfortunate, that these are young people who are bitter and
angry.

``The real culprits are those people who brainwash these young people, born in
this country, who were brought up in this country and who went to schools and
universities in this country.''

They were being brainwashed that Muslims were ``hated'' and were being killed in
Iraq and Palestine.

``My message to young people would be yes, you feel angry about foreign policy
and other issues - but you can show your frustration and anger through the
democratic process of this country,'' he said.

And Mr Sarwar said the victims of the ``fanatics'' performing outrages included
those who had demonstrated against the war with Iraq.

``These are the people who demonstrated on the streets of Glasgow and London,''
he said.

``They are not targeting only non-Muslims.

``Glasgow airport is used by a vast majority of Muslims and people of all
faiths.

``This attack was an attack on all of us, on our city and our communities.''

Campaigning organisation the British Muslim Initiative (BMI) issued a statement
condemning the incidents in London and Glasgow.

It said: ``Whoever was responsible for planting the devices clearly intended to
cause maximum damage and loss of innocent lives.

``We urge all British Muslims to fully cooperate with the authorities to
apprehend and bring to justice the perpetrators.''

The organisation's president Muhammad Sawalha added: ``We are utterly appalled
by this sinister plot and commend the professionalism of the security services
in aborting it.''

The BMI said it noted with concern that elements on the far right of the
political spectrum and Islamophobes were ``already seeking to exploit this
unfortunate crisis to advance their agenda''.

It said: ``We call on the Muslim community to remain vigilant and supportive of
the investigations until they are concluded.''

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sunday Herald

                                  July 1, 2007

We must be vigilant about the dangers of short-term solutions;
TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 726 words


FOR those who regarded terrorist attacks as something that happen in London, in
other places, but not in Scotland, the attack at Glasgow Airport is a rude
awakening that nowhere is safe from terrorists' extremism. With the government
last night raising Britain's official state of alert to its highest level,
critical, there is now an expectation that we can expect further attempts to
disrupt everyday life. The message is that we need to be vigilant, aware and
focused.

What we should not do, however, is jump to immediate conclusions that the
attempts to bomb central London and now Glasgow Airport were part of a wider al
Qaeda-Islamist attack on Britain. If there is a connection, the forensic
material taken from the two cars in London and the burnt-out Jeep Cherokee at
Glasgow Airport will prove that link. It may be that the attacks have a common
theme: we have a new prime minister and he is Scottish. The Queen was in
Scotland to open the Scottish parliament. And we are days away from the
anniversary of the July 7 bombings in London.

To the political conspiracy theorist that is all the evidence needed to mount an
attack on weakened laws which don't, they believe, allow the intelligence
services ample room to do their job. We hope this is not the reaction the
government has to these two outrages. The planned London attacks were stopped by
luck, not by intelligence. The attack at Glasgow Airport looked horrific, but it
also seemed shambolic and far from a sophisticated operation.

We know Gordon Brown's government intend to revisit the failed policy of being
able to hold suspects without charge for 90 days, not the 28 days which
parliament finally decided on.

We also know the new PM is in favour of the introduction of identity cards.

But how would the two outrages we have seen this week have been halted by either
holding suspects for longer or by them having identity cards? It would have made
little difference.

There is always a temptation when we are perceived as being under attack to seek
a greater degree of security by isolating strangers. But we have to wait till we
learn more of what went on in both the London car bombs and in the attack in
Glasgow before we reach for solutions that may ultimately prove ineffective, but
which come with a heavy price in terms of eroded civil liberties.

It may well be that the men in the Jeep Cherokee at Glasgow Airport were as
angry as they were ill-prepared. What would have happened if they had simply
walked through the terminal doors and thrown petrol bombs inside the main
building?

What security measures were in place to stop them entering the building?

These are questions that have to be answered if we believe our airports have
suddenly come under a new form of attack, be it from a solo operator or a group
of determined extremists. But perhaps the worst fear we can have is that there
is no protection from the crazed extremist who spontaneously decides to take
lives.

ITmay well be that the new Brown government is determined to show its resolve
and introduce new measures it believes will protect, even if that does mean
giving up further civil freedoms. We would urge caution on this. A change of
government is a critical period, with plenty of groups spotting an opportunity
to make their point.

But equally, a new government has to show calm and resolve, rather than simply
make a reflex reaction designed to please in the short term.

Brown, and his new home secretary Jacqui Smith, may be in for a rough ride over
the next couple of weeks and months. Britain, if it ever was, is not an isolated
country now. And just as Brown urged us yesterday to "stand together" and be
"vigilant", we trust his government will do the same and react not for the
moment, but for the longer term interest of all British citizens.

If, as Lord Stevens, Brown new security adviser, suggests, the two attacks are
part of a wider and intensified attack on Britain, there will be new pressures
on Brown to react and deliver new ways of combating a heightened threat. He
should not, however, be pressured to react without knowing the full background
of these two attacks.

This is new territory for Brown and, indeed, new territory for the SNP-led
government in Holyrood. We hope both of them think hard before they come up with
remedies that play to the crowd rather than to the long-term needs of Britain.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNHER


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              July 1, 2007 Sunday
                                  Eire Edition

THE BOMBER;
UK'S NEW TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 17 words


Burning Jeep driven into a packed airport

Hero families wrestle 2 bombers to the ground

FULL STORY: PAGES 4&5

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLAMES OF HATE: A burning bomber is hosed down by an off-duty cop
moments after the attack at Glasgow Airport yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                              July 1, 2007, Sunday

GET OUT OF HERE;
BOMBERS HIT SCOTLAND HOLIDAYMAKERS HURT AS THEY FLEE AIRPORT AFTER TERROR ATTACK
WITNESSES TELL OF HORROR AND PANIC AS DRIVER TARGETS TERMINAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 693 words


PASSENGERS fled in terror after the explosion rocked Glasgow Airport.

Horrified holidaymakers were seen running along the hard shoulder of the M8 in
the immediate aftermath of the car bomb blast.

Witnesses told how they heard screams of "Get out of here," inside the airport
terminal in the moments after the bang.

Several people reported seeing holidaymakers injured on the ground - some
seriously hurt.

Another witness said that after one bomber had set himself on fire his skin and
clothes began to peel away.

Taxi driver Scott Gleeson was in the rank outside. He said: "I was sitting
directly opposite.

"You can't come through the barrier unless you have a sensor in the car.

"So I thought it was strange when someone came through at about 30 mph.

"He cut out to the right side of the road to get a better angle then swung in
hard left.

"He just about got his nose through the door."

Beautician Jackie Kennedy saw police tackle the Jeep's driver, who had got out
of the car and set himself ablaze.

The 46-year-old, from Glasgow, said: "The driver was knocked to the ground by
the police officers and members of the public who tried to put out the flames.

"But he didn't want to be rescued and tried to push them off, punching one of
the police officers in the process.

"At this point he started laughing and didn't want them to put out the flames.

"Suddenly, the car started popping as if there was going to be an explosion but
the police managed to put the fire out before it could get worse.

"At this point we just ran off, because we were so terrified."

Grant Anderson, 15, of Milton of Campsie, near Glasgow, had just returned from a
holiday in Minorca with best pal Stuart Stark and Stuart's parents Marion and
James.

Kilsyth Academy pupil Grant said: "We had just come out of the terminal building
and were sheltering from the rain when I saw the Jeep crash into the terminal
building.

"I thought the guy had lost control of the car but he put it in reverse and
tried to move it after the crash.

"He was stuck on a road sign which he had run over and it had become trapped
under his car.

"He was definitely aiming for the door of the terminal building.

"I then saw him put the window down a little and petrol came out and he set
himself on fire in the jeep. The ground went on fire then the Jeep went on fire.

"The guy on fire got out the jeep was trying to run towards the terminal
building.

"Members of the public tried to stop him.

"There was one police officer there, but it was about five minutes till backup
arrived."

Fiona Tracey, who had been picking up her daughter, said: "There were people
injured, because I've seen them lying on the road.

"I heard a massive bang and then all the folk from departures were running
through arrivals."

Yvette Lawson, 26, from Hamilton, had just got to the airport and saw the whole
thing unfold from the gantry.

She said: "There is no doubt in my mind that this was a terrorist attack.

"The guy who drove the Jeep had no other intention but to kill himself and
anyone else in the jeep as well as anyone who happened to be in the airport
terminal."

Yvette, a recruitment consultant with B&Q was picking up family who were
arriving back from Alicante.

With her was her young son Cian, two. She added: "I was only a few yards from
where the attack happened because I was about to go and collect my family.

"I shudder to think what might have happened had the bombers struck any later
than they did."

Meanwhile, flights scheduled to leave the airport were grounded on the tarmac.

Passengers were told to remain on their planes until further notice.

Michelle Reid was stranded on a scheduled flight from Glasgow to Las Palmas on
Gran Canaria.

She said: "Nobody is telling us what is going on.

"Everyone is stranded and the flight attendants don't seem to know much more. We
have been sitting here for more than two hours but they have allowed us to use
our mobile phones."

Sunday Mail reporting team: Charles Lavery, Norman Silvester, Lynn McPherson,
Billy Paterson, Dave Taylor, Grace Macaskill and Steve Dinneen.

Pictures by Alasdair MacLeod, Tom Ross and Kenny Anderson

SUNDAY EMAIL

reporters@sundaymail.co.uk

SCOTLAND IN THE FRONT LINE - PAGES 6&7

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Devastation: The shattered, burned-out front of the airport's main
terminal building, which was ravaged by fire after a flaming Jeep driven by two
men at speed through the glass sliding doors
Rescue team: Fire crews race to the scene to tackle the blaze and assist in the
evacuation of terrified air passengers and staff
Sent packing: Scots' dreams of relaxing breaks in the sun are shattered as they
are told to go home
Chaos: Drivers on the busy M8 face huge queues as the motorway and roads
surrounding the airport are closed
Nightmare: Frightened holidaymakers flee the terminal in panic as they hear the
explosions from the Jeep
Confusion: Tearful passengers are gripped by fear as they are ordered to leave
the airport building

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 1, 2007 Sunday

Police examine gold mine of clues in failed car bombs LONDON Andrew Alderson
reports on the terrorists' bungled attack on the capital

BYLINE: Andrew Alderson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 570 words


TEAMS OF forensic scientists are poring over two "gold mines'' - the Mercedes
cars, filled with petrol, gas and nails - which failed to explode in central
London.

Last night, scores of specialists were taking the vehicles apart at secret
locations, confident they will provide crucial clues to the identity of the
terrorists. The police expect to identify DNA from the bombers as well as
securing evidence about where the bomb material came from.

The car bombs are of the kind used on a daily basis in Iraq but, unlike those
attacks, the militants operating in London were not prepared to sacrifice their
own lives for their cause.

It is the first time that so-called vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices
have been used in an attack in the UK since the IRA abandoned its terror
campaign.

But unlike the IRA, which always tested its devices before embarking on a
bombing mission, it appears that Friday's bombers were unable to try out theirs
since both failed to explode.

The decision not to use suicide bombers is also regarded as noteworthy because
it makes the planning of operations far more complex. It may also suggest a
shortage of volunteers prepared to kill themselves as part of al-Qaeda's pursuit
of global jihad.

As police continued to search for the bombers, some reports said the hunt was
centring on Birmingham, home to 140,000 Muslims.

The extent to which young Muslims are becoming radicalised, and the speed at
which it can happen, has caused alarm. MI5 is aware of 1,700 terrorist suspects
in Britain.

Fears of a car-bomb attack have been growing after two planned al-Qaeda-inspired
attacks were thwarted in 2004. One gang, assembling a fertiliser bomb, was
secretly recorded planning to target the Ministry of Sound nightclub in London.
Four months later, another gang - planning to use gas cylinder bombs - was
rounded up.

The latest plot also revives memories of Dhiren Barot, 36, an Indian-born
Londoner who, after his arrest, admitted writing a 39-page document called
"Rough Presentation for the Gas Limos Project''.

The document, found when Pakistani police seized a terrorist's laptop three
years ago, detailed plans for a gas attack on London. Barot was jailed for life
last November.

The two cars involved in Friday's failed attacks were left near the Tiger Tiger
nightclub, on Haymarket, and nearby on Cockspur Street.

Security sources have told The Sunday Telegraph that mobile phones found in the
cars were intended to be used to detonate the bombs. Each phone had been called
twice but technical failings meant the devices had not exploded.

"The cars have given us two marvellous pieces of evidence - they are gold
mines,'' said a police source. "But if they had gone off there would have been
carnage.'' Two ambulancemen who raised the alarm over the Haymarket bomb have
spoken of how they became suspicious of smoke streaming from the car and a smell
of gas.

The pair, aged 27 and 37, said the Mercedes was parked three feet from the kerb
outside Tiger Tiger when they pulled up to attend to a clubber hurt in a fall.

One said: "We noticed something we thought was odd and we acted on it. I'm just
glad we managed to do that before it was too late.''

An ambulance service chief praised the crew. He said: "We genuinely believe that
their vigilance and prompt action helped saved the lives of many people in
London.''

Additional reporting by Sean Rayment, Ben Leapman, Laura Donnelly and Richard
Gray

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 1, 2007 Sunday

TOUGH AT THE TOP Within days of taking power, the new Prime Minister is battling
terrorist attacks. Patrick Hennessy reports on Gordon Brown's baptism of fire

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: NEWS; News Review & Comment; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1948 words


Gordon Brown is a famously early riser, preferring to stir on weekdays to the
sound of Wake Up To Money on Radio Five Live, which goes out at what most of his
fellow Britons would consider to be the ungodly hour of 5.30am.

He is also discovering that the concept of a "rude awakening'' applies to prime
ministers more often than it does to chancellors. Downing Street has a system
for waking up the PM when there is something important they need to be told: a
duty clerk knocks on the door of the family quarters at 6am. This happened on
each of the first two full days of Mr Brown's premiership.

On Thursday, he was told that three British soldiers, one of whom he later found
was from his Dunfermline East constituency, had been killed by a bomb in Iraq.
On Friday morning, he was given news about a bomb closer to home - an unexploded
device had been found in London's Haymarket, which, had it gone off, could have
wreaked devastation. Later, a second bomb was discovered in a car in Park Lane.
Then, yesterday afternoon, yet another terror incident: a jeep was deliberately
driven into the terminal at Glasgow airport, where it burst into flames.

The discovery of the first bomb, an abandoned Mercedes packed with petrol, nails
and gas cylinders, threw the new Prime Minister's plans for his first weekend in
Number 10 into disarray. The second bomb, and the attack in Glasgow, have
ensured they stayed that way. Last night, instead of plotting policy
announcements for his first full week in the job, Mr Brown was chairing the
third meeting of Cobra - the government's crisis-response committee - in two
days. Welcome to the premiership, Mr Brown.

It was not supposed to be this way. A meticulous planner and strategist, Mr
Brown is addicted to the "grid'' system of plotting announcements and other
events, which has dominated Whitehall in the New Labour era. On Friday there was
meant to be a full Cabinet meeting, followed by Jack Straw, the Justice
Secretary, outlining the new administration's plans for constitutional reform,
including returning more powers to parliament and "the people''.

Number 10 was also expecting to announce the full line-up of the new Government,
including all the middle-ranking and junior ministerial appointments. The
attempted attacks by what were presumed to be al Qaeda terrorists put paid to
all that.

But, while his carefully laid plans have been disrupted, the terror crisis will
help answer a question that has troubled both friend and foe of Mr Brown: how he
would respond to the "events, dear boy, events'' as described in Harold
Macmillan's memorable phrase, that can put any prime minister on the road to
political ruin.

Tony Blair was always thought to be a master at responding to such crises, as
his reaction after 9/11, the 7/7 London bombings and the death of Diana,
Princess of Wales had shown. By contrast, Mr Brown was seen as someone who might
not find it nearly as easy to articulate the nation's feelings.

How he performs over the next few days will give an indication of how Mr Brown
will measure up against David Cameron, the Conservative leader. Recent polls,
including an ICM survey for The Sunday Telegraph, have shown that voters see the
new Prime Minister as a more capable and dependable figure than his Tory
opponent. This is Mr Brown's first big chance to turn a problem to his
advantage.

At 6am on Friday morning, after making contact with Jacqui Smith, the newly
appointed Home Secretary, Mr Brown convened a meeting of Cobra. Ms Smith, a
44-year-old former teacher from Redditch in the West Midlands whose previous
post was chief whip, chaired it but, crucially, the vast majority of those who
attended were officials and not ministers. Those close to Mr Brown have long
felt that under Mr Blair, far too many ministers packed into Cobra meetings,
afterwards using their attendance to enhance their own political profile. "There
was a tendency to grandstand,'' a supporter of Mr Brown said sardonically, this
weekend.

After the meeting, Ms Smith briefed the full Cabinet. In contrast to the mere
rubber-stamping forum that such gatherings became under Mr Blair, Friday's
Cabinet meeting lasted for a marathon 105 minutes, with most of those present
having their say, including, as a former home secretary, Mr Straw.

After it broke up, Ms Smith made a televised statement in which she warned of a
"serious and sustained threat'' and urged the public to "remain vigilant''. In
his own appearance in front of the television cameras, during a visit to a
London school, Mr Brown echoed the warning, referring to "a serious and
continuous threat'' and effectively putting the public on alert for the
possibility of similar devices over the next few days.

Again, there was a perceptible contrast to the Blair era, when some of those
close to Mr Brown felt that previous home secretaries had been too keen to "play
up'' the terrorist threat for political ends. Examples given included David
Blunkett, who was involved in the notorious decision to send armoured vehicles
to Heathrow Airport in response to an unspecified threat in 2003 (although he
later claimed that he had ordered police to withdraw them), and John Reid, who
had adopted what some ministers felt was an "alarmist'' stance after the
thwarting of the attempt to blow up transatlantic airliners last summer.

Number 10 insiders were making it clear this weekend that at no point was Mr
Reid consulted after the discovery of the Haymarket bomb, despite having stepped
down as home secretary only two days earlier. Neither was Charles Clarke, Mr
Reid's predecessor, who had been tipped, wrongly by some, as likely to make a
Cabinet comeback under Mr Brown.

Such was Mr Brown's confidence in Ms Smith on her first full day in the job that
she was allowed, during her televised statement, to make a significant
announcement, revealing the appointment of Sir Alan West, the former First Sea
Lord, to fill the key post of security minister in her department. The
recruitment of Sir Alan, a forthright figure who had recently complained that
the episode in which naval personnel were captured by Iran left a "slightly
tacky taste in one's mouth'', was a key development in Mr Brown's drive to bring
in figures from outside the Labour Party to his "government of all the
talents''.

It was also highly strategic, placing a respected "neutral'' figure in a
significant post whom the Tories, No 10 believed, would be unable to attack
politically and

who could work to achieve a "consensus'' with the Opposition on terror-related
issues. Indeed, within minutes of the announcement, David Davis, the shadow home
secretary, who has claimed a significant number of Labour ministerial "scalps'',
was hailing the former First Sea Lord's appointment as being likely to herald a
more "measured response to the security threats we face''.

Sir Alan will be joined by Lord Stevens, the former Metropolitan Police
Commissioner, who has also been nabbed by Mr Brown, albeit in an advisory role
on security matters, rather than the ministerial job he had originally been
lined up for. Lord Stevens has been advising the Tories on its policy of
creating a border police for Britain.

The troika of Mr Brown, Ms Smith and Sir Alan, it became clear, would be the
Government's new anti-terror "axis'', who would stage regular meetings to
discuss developments.

Mr Brown's senior staff had mostly left work on Friday night when the reports
came in that a second unexploded bomb had been found in another Mercedes, which
had been illegally parked near the first device in the West End, before being
towed to a car pound in Park Lane.

Yesterday's Cobra meetings, one held before the Glasgow attack and one after,
were chaired by Mr Brown. The aim, those close to the Prime Minister said, was
to give an impression of "quiet authority'' while making it clear that "the
police are in charge'' of operations without interference from politicians.

The discovery of a second bomb - and the attack in Glasgow - has dramatically
raised the stakes, as it appears that Britain may be facing a carefully staged
plot designed to cause mass murder and almost certainly deliberately timed to
mark the transition from Mr Blair's administration to Mr Brown's. It is, for
example, the first time Scotland, Mr Brown's home nation, has been targeted by
terrorists.

Nevertheless, allies said the Prime Minister, a dedicated centraliser in his 10
years at the Treasury, remained determined to show that he was not directing
events from Number 10 and was letting the Home Office run the show. A supporter
of the Prime Minister said: "It is very important to send out a message that we
trust people to get on with their jobs - Cabinet ministers, civil servants, the
police and the security services. They mustn't feel hemmed in by Number 10.''

After the incidents of the past two days, Mr Brown knows he faces an immediate
political challenge: how quickly and how hard to press for the introduction of
his planned new raft of anti-terror measures. These include a fresh attempt to
give police the right to quiz suspects for more than the current 28 days without
charge, possibly by moving the limit up to 90 days, allowing telephone and email
intercept material to be used in court in terror cases and allowing police to
question suspects further after charges have been brought.

By far the most contentious issue is the 90-days plan. The Tories have signalled
that they are willing to back moves to allow phone-tap evidence as a part of a
consensus, but they are not willing to compromise on lengthening the detention
period, protesting that such a move would be too big a blow against civil
liberties.

Furthermore, as Mr Brown is uncomfortably aware, the previous attempt to extend
the limit to

90 days saw Mr Blair suffer his first Commons defeat in 2005, when Left-wing
Labour MPs joined the Conservatives

and Liberal Democrats to torpedo the plans. After a parliamentary mauling for
the government, 28 days was agreed as a "compromise solution'' against the
wishes of the Cabinet and police chiefs.

Mr Brown did not face a challenger for the Labour Party leadership after
campaigns by Left-wingers John McDonnell and Michael Meacher foundered, but he
knows that his tough line on the detention of suspects remains extremely
unpopular with many Labour MPs and that a plan to reintroduce it would see him
face an extremely tough test within months of taking over. He would certainly
not wish his "honeymoon period'' to be scarred by defeat in the Commons,
particularly over an issue of such importance.

Sources close to the Prime Minister last night downplayed expectations of any
move in the direction of 90 days off the back of the latest incidents. They said
Mr Brown remained committed to the plan, but that it should be introduced
because it was the "right thing to do'' and not because it would be likely to
win more public support in the wake of the events of the past few days. However,
most Labour MPs still expect anti-terror legislation to feature strongly in the
first Queen's Speech under Mr Brown in November.

Such was the impact of the London bombs that Mr Brown was forced to postpone his
plans to unveil constitutional reforms, and, while the full list of ministerial
appointments will be published early this week, they will inevitably be
overshadowed by the Glasgow attack and the threat and public fear of further
terrorist activity.

The new premier has shown a steady touch in his first few days in office, and so
far appears to have coped well with a potentially disastrous situation. But he
has also been given a sharp lesson about the limits of his new job. A prime
minister cannot always expect to control the agenda.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wales on Sunday

                              July 1, 2007, Sunday
                                 North Edition

Bomb attack puts UK on terror alert

BYLINE: Catherine Evans and Matt Withers Wales on Sunday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 771 words


Wales was on terror alert last night following a car bomb attack on Glasgow
Airport.

All of Wales' police forces were put on high alert as the failed attack took the
threat outside of England and into the home nations for the first time.

A blazing Cherokee jeep apparently containing two Asian-looking men crashed into
the doors of the main terminal building in Scotland's largest city yesterday,
just two days after a failed bomb attack on London.

And Wales was warned not to be "complacent that attacks only happen in London"
as cops went on high alert.

A South Wales Police spokesman said: "The whole country is on high alert and we
are looking at increased security."

A spokesman for North Wales Police said: "Following the incident in London and
at Glasgow Airport we would obviously like the public to be vigilant and the
police are acting accordingly."

A Gwent Police spokesperson said: "As a result of recent events Gwent Police
have put some sensible and proportionate measures in place. Obviously we would
ask the public to remain vigilant and alert, but not alarmed, and to report any
suspicious activity to the police."

Welsh Secretary Peter Hain urged Wales to be extra vigilant in the coming days,
saying: "People in Wales should not be complacent that attacks only happen in
London, as has been shown by this latest incident at Glasgow airport.

"There is no need to panic, but people should be extra vigilant and report
anything they believe suspicious to police immediately. We are facing cowardly
individuals who try targeting innocent people when and where it's least
expected."

The alert brought traffic congestion to Cardiff Airport with traffic being
diverted away from the terminal. Peter Phillips, head of marketing, said: "The
situation is that, as in all other British airports, there is heightened
security on the approach roads to Cardiff International Airport.

"We've been told by the Department of Transport that cars should not be allowed
to pass in front of our terminals. This means some congestion has built up."

Cars were also being stopped from passing in front of Cardiff train station.

The incident in Glasgow happened at around 3.15pm yesterday. A man with his
clothes on fire got out of the vehicle and was restrained by passengers. Others
put out the flames with a fire extinguisher.

The airport was closed and passengers were cleared from the terminal building.
Nobody was seriously hurt, although one of the two men was last night in
hospital being treated for burns. Two men were arrested and one was being
questioned.

Taxi driver Ian Crosby said he was in no doubt that it was a terrorist attack.

"It looks to me like these people were intent on doing some serious damage," he
said. "There was smoke coming from inside of the back seats of a vehicle.
Immediately, I realised this was a terrorist attack. Somebody had planned this.
This was no accident."

Strathclyde Police confirmed the car was driven into the front of terminal one -
the main terminal building.

In a televised statement, new Prime Minister Gordon Brown last night urged the
British people to be "vigilant" and to support the police and security services
in their counter-terror measures.

Mr Brown, who chaired two meetings of the emergency contingencies committee
yesterday, said it was right to raise the alert to its highest level of
"critical".

"I want all British people to be vigilant and I want them to support the police
and all the authorities in the difficult decisions they have to make. I know the
British people will stand together, united, resolute and strong," he said.

The committee also discussed Friday's failed attack on London as reports from
the US suggested police had obtained a "crystal clear" CCTV image of a suspect
staggering away from a car after parking it outside a nightclub in the West End.
Horror caught on camcorder: Onlookers whipped out cameras, mobiles and
camcorders to record the unbelievable sight going on in front of them.

Bob Roberts from Kent (above) was due to fly to Stansted yesterday when he saw
the blazing Cherokee Jeep and captured the stunning images on his camcorder.

Hundreds of passengers watched in horror as flames leapt into the air and licked
the canopy of the terminal building at 3.11pm.

There was panic among onlookers as a man emerged from the car ablaze, only to
start tussling with police and airport officials.

"Smouldering" is how a woman described the man's appearance as he and another
man were led away by police in a scene reminiscent of downtown Baghdad.

Hundreds of holidaymakers passing through the airport were forced to abandon
their baggage and scurried out all exits.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Hunt on for sixth suspect in wake of terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 374 words


The hunt was on today for a sixth suspect wanted over the failed car bombings in
Glasgow and London.

Five people, up to three of whom are reported to be doctors, have been arrested
in connection with the terror plots.

And it was understood police were trying to track down another suspect.

The threat of terrorism returned to the UK when two Mercedes  packed with
petrol, gas canisters and nails were found in London on Friday.

And on Saturday a blazing Jeep Cherokee, also filled with gas canisters, was
rammed into the front of Glasgow Airport's main terminal.

Passengers battled with one of the men in the car, who was on fire, helping
police bring him under control.

Another man was also arrested at the airport.

The man believed to be driving the Jeep was being held in Paisley's Royal
Alexandra Hospital suffering from severe burns. He was in a critical condition.

The second man, who is 27, was taken to Govan police station.

One of these men, who were said to be Asian, was reported to be a doctor.

Police launched a string of operations across the country in the aftermath.

Officers pulled a car over on the M6 near Cheshire.

It was reported a 26-year-old Iranian doctor  and his 27-year-old wife were
arrested.

The pair were taken for questioning to a central London police station, believed
to be high-security Paddington Green.

A 26-year-old man, described by  neighbours as a medic, was arrested in
Liverpool. It was reported the man was zapped with a police Taser stun gun.

Officers also searched a rented house in Houston, Renfrewshire, which is
believed to have been the base of the men who attacked Glasgow Airport. The
quiet street of Neuk Crescent was closed off as police combed the area.

Less than a mile away, a car park containing a white Mercedes van was cordoned
off.

Army bomb disposal experts were also called to the hospital where one of the
suspects was being held and blew up a car, reported to be a white BMW belonging
to one of the men.

The UK terror alert was raised to "critical", the highest possible  - meaning an
attack on the country is believed to be imminent.

It was reported  US officials warned of a possible terror attack on Glasgow
Airport two weeks ago.

For the latest log on to www.thisisaberdeen.co.uk

cwalker@ajl.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Evening Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Poland well prepared for possible terrorist attack - premier

LENGTH: 80 words


Text of report in English by Polish news agency PAP

Przemysl, 2 July: Poland is well prepared for a possible terrorist attack, Prime
Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski said on Monday.

However, the PM stressed that terrorists are dangerous and all should remember
about this.

Meanwhile Interior Minister Janusz Kaczmarek rejected a press report alleging
the liquidation of an anti-terrorist section at one of ministry's departments.

Source: PAP news agency, Warsaw, in English 1546 gmt 2 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                              July 2, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

City road is closed after terror alert;
AIRPORT ATTACK: Security stepped up across the region

BYLINE: By Dayle Crutchlow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 509 words


POLICE sealed off a Coventry road in a security alert following the weekend's
terror attack in Glasgow.

Coventry Airport and Birmingham International Airport also stepped up security
as the government raised the national terror threat level to "critical" - its
highest level - following the attempted car bombings in London and the 4x4
attack at Glasgow Airport.

At Coventry Airport, the drop-off and pick-up zone in front of the terminal
building has been closed and passengers are being told to park in the car park.

Roads leading to the terminal building at Birmingham International have been
closed and traffic is being diverted to the short-stay car park.

Police have linked the attempt to ram a blazing Jeep Cherokee into Glasgow
Airport on Saturday to the discovery of two car bombs in London's West End on
Friday.

Two people were arrested - one of them is under armed guard in hospital.

At the weekend, police sealed off Coventry's Spon Street, home to several
nightclubs and bars at the Skydome complex.

Officers at the scene yesterday would only reveal that the road had been closed
off to vehicles for "security reasons" following the terror attack in Glasgow
and the thwarted car bombs in London.

Prime Minister Gordon Brown warned the terror threat to Britain was "long-term
and sustained".

On Saturday night, officers from the West Midlands Counter Terrorism Unit
supported officers from the Metropolitan Police Counter Terrorism Command in the
arrests of a 26-year-old man and a 27-year-old woman in Cheshire, in connection
with those attacks.

A fifth terror-related arrest was made in Liverpool after two homes were
searched in the Penny Lane area.

Police in Coventry warned there would be increased policing activity at
airports, stations and key locations as a result of the national threat level
being raised from severe to critical.

A police spokesman said: "We would ask for increased vigilance and awareness of
anything that may appear out of the ordinary.

"This is both prudent and necessary in light of the raised threat level.

"Our response is appropriate for a major city and is informed by the national
security level rather than any specific threat to the West Midlands.

"Public safety is our main concern.

"We encourage all members of the public to be vigilant in respect of any
suspicious vehicle or package or person.

"These are difficult to define and we advise people to rely on instinct about
whether something is suspicious."

In a statement Coventry Airport, said: "In light of the incident at Glasgow
Airport, passengers should be aware that they will no longer be able to drop off
or pick up in front of the terminal buildings.

"All passengers will be directed to park in the car park. Police presence has
been increased but all passenger operations are running normally."

Police yesterday searched a number of houses in the village of Houston, near
Glasgow Airport, in connection with the attack there.

A controlled explosion was later carried out on a car at the hospital where one
of the airport terror attack suspects was being treated.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DJ010707SPON1 NO GO AREA... Cars were stopped from driving in to Spon
Street yesterday, and (left) the devastation at Glasgow airport. Picture: Joe
Bailey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Doctors held over UK terror attack

BYLINE: GALEN ENGLISH

SECTION: IRE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 364 words


FIVE people, including two doctors, were in custody last night after the failed
car bombings in London and Glasgow as British prime minister Gordon Brown warned
of a 'long-term and sustained' terror threat.

A 27-year- old woman was arrested with a 26-year- old man in Cheshire and they
were being interviewed at a London police station, Scotland Yard said.

The development came as Britain remained on its highest state of alert,
'critical', meaning fresh attacks are expected 'imminently'.

Police have linked the attempt to ram a blazing Jeep Cherokee into Glasgow
Airport yesterday to the discovery of two car bombs in central London on Friday.

Two men inside the Jeep were arrested at the airport, though one is in a
critical condition in hospital.

Yesterday, it was confirmed that a fifth arrest had been made, this time in
Liverpool.

Scotland Yard said a 26-yearold man was held and two local properties searched.

There was further drama when a controlled explosion was carried out on a car at
the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley, where the airport attack suspect was
being treated. Later, Strathclyde Police said there was 'no indication at this
time' that the car contained explosives.

Mr Brown said Britain's message to the terrorists must be: 'We will not yield,
we will not be intimidated and we will not allow anyone to undermine our way of
life'.

He said it was 'clear' the attacks in London and Glasgow were perpetrated by
people associated with al-Qaeda.

Glasgow Airport reopened for flights almost 17 hours after the attack, shortly
before 8am. The rest of Britain's airports will stay open until further-notice
with a heightened police guard. Security at Dublin Airport is now to be
reviewed. With up to 80,000 people expected to pass through the airport every
day during the busy holiday period, security chiefs are determined to do
everything in their power to prevent a copycat incident here.

A spokesman for the Dublin Airport Authority said that as part of the airport's
constant security review, unusual incidents like the one at Glasgow were being
closely examined.

However, he added it was not airport policy to publicise any new security
measures.

Terror alert - pages 14-17

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                  July 2, 2007

Terror lair traced minutes before attack;
COPS KNEW 4X4 BOMBERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 70 words


POLICE were already hard on the heels of the Glasgow terrorists before the
bombers attacked the airport.

Itemerged today that detectives tried to contact a letting agency, believed to
have rented out a house to one of the suspects - just 10 minutes before the two
men drove the blazing vehicle into the front of the terminal building.

Officers moved in after tracking phone records linked to the foiled bombings in
London.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                  July 2, 2007

IN OUR OPINION;
Lessons must be learned from terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 211 words


THE terror attack on Glasgow Airport sent shockwaves across Scotland.

Thankfully, the attack, like the two car bombs in London, failed to cause the
carnage intended by the perpetrators.

And it is welcome news that the police appear to be make speedy progress in
locating those responsible.

The courage of the members of the public who reacted swiftly and decisively when
the flaming 4x4 careered into the terminal building undoubtedly saved lives.

When this immediate crisis is over, their courage deserves to be formally
acknowledged.

However, questions need to be asked as to how the Glasgow Airport attack came so
near to success.

Security chiefs need to look at what measures could have prevented such an
incident and see what lessons can be learned.

Terrorists regularly adapt and change their tactics, so too must those charged
with protecting the public.

In the meantime the public must understand and accept the current security
levels may lead to delays at airports and on trains.

That means planning journeys better, arriving early and being vigilant at all
times.

There is also a necesssity for all of us to work together to ensure there is no
place in our society for such evil to thrive.

Only by working together can this threat be successfully confronted and
defeated.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Kurdish terror group is linked to London attacks;
TERROR UK

BYLINE: ROBERT MENDICK

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 155 words


AN ISLAMIST terror group responsible for a series of bloody bombings in Iraq may
have links with the London attacks.

According to reports, British intelligence had warned the Government that
Iranian Kurds could be plotting a campaign of terror to coincide with the
handover of power from Tony Blair to Gordon Brown.

US sources today suggested radical Kurdish group Ansar al-Islam would have a
motive for an attack on Britain, having been driven out of its northern Iraqi
stronghold and into Iran after the overthrow of Saddam Hussein. Many of its
fighters have since returned to Iraq to carry out a series of suicide and car
bombings.

The group is also linked to Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the Jordanian-born head of al
Qaeda in Iraq who died in a US bombing raid a little over a year ago.

Ansar al-Islam has been blamed for a series of attacks across Baghdad, in which
hundreds of people have died in bombings, assassinations and executions.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                              July 2, 2007, Monday
                                   1 Edition

Two more held in Glasgow terror attack enquiry

BYLINE: Ian Swanson

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 957 words


POLICE were today holding another two men in connection with the terror attack
on Glasgow Airport.

Officers swooped on the pair, aged 28 and 25, following an operation in the
Paisley area last night.

The detentions of the men, who are not believed to be Scottish, comes as five
other suspects remain in custody following Saturday's attack and the failed car
bombings in London last week.

Leading the investigation, Assistant Chief Constable John Malcolm of Strathclyde
Police said today: "This continues to be a fast-moving investigation and I am
grateful to the public for their perseverance and support during these difficult
times."

The detentions came as it emerged that Scots police chiefs were set to be
granted special stop and search powers as forces across the country remain on
high-alert.

Extra police were on patrol in Edinburgh city centre and major venues, while
armed police are on duty at the Capital's airport with cars banned from entering
the forecourt.

And at Wimbledon, concrete blocks were put in place to prevent any car bomb
attacks on the tennis championships. It emerged today that the net was closing
in on the two men who drove the Jeep into the front of Glasgow airport as they
made their final preparations for the attack.

Detectives tried to contact the agency that let a property to one of the men in
the village of Houston, near Glasgow Airport, just ten minutes prior to the
attack - but they were already on their way.

The president of the Association of Chief Police Officers in Scotland, Chief
Constable Colin McKerracher, said an application for special powers, which would
allow police to stop and search any member of the public at random, had been
made to the Home Office on Saturday following the car bomb attempt.

Without the special powers, police can only stop and search individuals if they
have reasonable suspicion the person has committed or is about to commit an
offence. The enhanced powers form part of the 2000 Terrorism Act.

Mr McKerracher said: "We have applied for the authorisation to utilise
stop-and-search and that is across every community in Scotland.

"That will be done sensitively and in situations where officers on the ground
feel that is appropriate.

"Those powers were sought two days ago and that gives us an immediate 48 hours
authorisation and then they will be confirmed by the Home Secretary."

Speaking on behalf of Scotland's eight police forces, Mr McKerracher said: "It
is our intention, as people get back to work today and as community life returns
to normal, to maintain our high-visibility patrols and to make sure the people
of Scotland realise that we have their safety at heart."

Mr McKerracher, head of Grampian Police, said each force would use all the
resources available to combat the terror threat and reassure the public.

He confirmed that setting down by cars outside airport entrances will not be
permitted for the foreseeable future.

Security will also be enhanced at large public gatherings such as this weekend's
T in the Park music festival in Perthshire.

He said: "Any event where there are a lot of members of the public, we will
obviously up police presence there and just make sure that security is
enhanced."

He said there had been no increase in verbal or physical attacks on Scotland's
minority communities since the weekend.

He went on: "Across Scotland the picture is that there are one or two reports of
that sort of behaviour and that has been dealt with robustly.

"The level of that type of event is no greater than it is in a normal situation
so we are really pleased that the communities of Scotland have responded to
those requests for calm and for tolerance."

Mr McKerracher said the public response since the car attack had been
"terrific".

Speaking of the period after Saturday afternoon's incident, he said: "One or two
forces, their switchboards were continually being brought to a standstill
because of the number of calls coming through to us, so the public response has
been terrific."

Five people were arrested over the weekend, including the two men inside the
Jeep used in the attack Glasgow airport, although the driver suffered severe
burns after being engulfed in flames and is in critical condition in hospital.

At least one of the men is believed to be a doctor.

Later on Saturday, anti-terror officers arrested a 26-year-old man and a
27-year-old woman after cornering a car heading north on the M6 near Sandbach
services in Cheshire.

The man has been identified as Dr Mohammed Asha, 26, from Newcastle-under-Lyme.
The woman, who was dressed in traditional Muslim dress, is believed to be his
wife.

The fifth arrest came at Liverpool's Lime Street station, where a 26-year-old
man was detained by police overnight on Saturday.

It has been claimed there was a warning of a possible terrorist attack at
Glasgow airport in a US intelligence report two weeks ago. American TV network
ABC said federal air marshals were added to US flights to and from Glasgow
because of fears of a hijack.

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith said she was "not certain" about the report.

The UK remains on a "critical" state of terror alert - the highest possible -
after police linked the three failed bombings.

Ms Smith said the authorities would do their "utmost" to keep the public safe
and urged people to remain vigilant.

But she said the fact that the crude petrol and gas canister bombs failed to
cause carnage was thanks to more than just luck.

She said: "I don't think it is luck, I think it is members of the public keeping
an eye out, I think it is incredibly brave police officers and explosives
officers, I think it is intelligence that is looked at very carefully.

"All of these things not only have been very important this weekend but will
continue to be important."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Grantham Journal

                                  July 2, 2007

Police urge vigilance after terror attacks

LENGTH: 231  words


Monday, noon - Failed terror attacks in London and Glasgow at the weekend have
prompted police to urge members of the public to be extra vigilant. Asst chief
constable of Lincolnshire police Peter Davies said: "There is no indication that
there is a raised level of threat in Lincolnshire but in view of the incidents
in London and Glasgow and the raising of the national threat level, we are
urging people to be vigilant and report anything they think might be suspicious
to us."

The UK is on high alert after two car bombs failed to detonate in London in the
early hours of Friday and a Jeep packed with gas cylinders was rammed into
Glasgow Airport and burst into flames on Saturday afternoon. Mr Davies said:
"Lincolnshire police have responded to the incidents by checking possible
vulnerable premises. We have also, over the course of the weekend, delivered
useful information to licensed premises and particularly nightclubs." *A GNER
spokesman said although it was business as usual for services on the east coast
main line commuters and travellers should keep their eyes open for any
suspicious activity. He said: "Naturally we are advising all staff to be
vigilant and appealing to passengers to do likewise. Other than that we have
covert security measures in place which for obvious reasons I can't talk about."
CLICK HERE to email us your YOUR NEWS or your views on the news.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                  July 2, 2007

Blair attacks civil liberties groups over terrorism

LENGTH: 517 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tony Blair used his last broadcast interview as prime minister to
attack 'loopy-loo' civil liberties campaigners opposed to stricter
counter-terrorism measures and to warn that international terrorism will remain
a threat to British security for decades.


Tony Blair used his last broadcast interview as prime minister to attack
"loopy-loo" civil liberties campaigners opposed to stricter counter-terrorism
measures and to warn that international terrorism will remain a threat to
British security for decades.

Mr Blair was interviewed for a Channel 4 documentary on the eve of leaving
office, less than two days before last week's attempted terror attacks in
London.

Asked about the extent of the terror threat, Mr Blair told the programme's
presenter, the Observer columnist Will Hutton: "This is what my successor and
his successor will face and probably the successor after that too.

"We have significant groups of people who are here who are conspiring to commit
acts of terrorism."

Mr Blair dismissed as "grotesquely exaggerated" arguments that he had chipped
away at Britain's traditional liberties by introducing measures such as
memorandums of understanding to allow deportation of terror suspects to
countries thought to use torture.

"The idea that that's an assault on hundreds of years of British civil liberties
is completely absurd," he said. "Some of what is written on this is loopy-loo in
its extremism."

Within 48 hours of Mr Blair's making these comments, Gordon Brown was dealing
with two attempted car-bombings in London's West End. An attack on the passenger
terminal of Glasgow airport followed on Saturday.

One of Jacqui Smith's first duties as home secretary was to announce over the
weekend that Britain was in a state of "critical alert" against terror threats.

Mr Blair said of terror suspects: "You can't not surveil them, because - you bet
your last pound - if we end up not surveilling a group that maybe we should have
and they go and carry out a terrorist attack, no-one will be talking about civil
liberties, they'll be clattering down on the police, the security services, the
government [asking] 'Why didn't we act?'"

The ex-prime minister's remarks come in Channel 4's The Last Days of Tony Blair,
to be broadcast this evening, in which Mr Blair will defend his legacy on the
public services and Iraq, as well as discussing the role religion has played in
shaping his political beliefs.

He made clear that he expected Mr Brown to continue with his agenda of public
service reform, and heralded his legacy as embedding "a different approach to
politics", combining individual aspiration and social compassion.

Justifying his pursuit of choice in health and education, Mr Blair attacked the
"myth ... that the people who aren't middle class don't want to get to be
middle-class".

"Everyone wants to be middle-class. Of course they do," he said.

Looking back at his time in office, Mr Blair accepted that his policies had been
influenced by his strong Christian faith - something he has previously been
reluctant to discuss.

"If you have religious conviction - and obviously I do - it's really a bit daft
to say it has no influence on your politics, since it's obviously the foundation
of your belief system," he said.

"So of course these things have an influence, but it's probably better for
others to analyse what the true impact has been."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Comment & Debate: This gesture security is inevitable. But it has barely any
practical value: The flurry of precautions after terrorist attacks are almost
always charades. Real counter-measures all hinge on intelligence

BYLINE: Max Hastings

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1189 words


Pity anyone who must catch a plane or visit Wimbledon today, or indeed for many
days to come. Following Friday's London bombs and Saturday's attack at Glasgow
airport, security checks have intensified dramatically. Everybody engaged in
what is now a vast industry wants to be seen to be trying harder.

It is another matter, of course, whether all the conspicuous activity that
follows a terrorist incident adds a jot to public safety, to compensate for the
huge economic cost it imposes. Most security precautions represent a charade. It
is probably a politically necessary charade - we will explore that issue in a
moment. But we should be sceptical about its practical value.

Gesture security attained its nadir in February five years ago, with the
deployment of armoured vehicles at Heathrow. It was possible to accept that the
security service and police possessed plausible intelligence that terrorists
were preparing to attack an aircraft with a missile. It was impossible, however,
to believe light tanks could play a useful part in preventing such an action.
Aircraft landing or taking off are within comfortable range of a missile fired
from well outside any airport perimeter. Even if an obliging member of al-Qaida
knelt with his launcher beside a runway, it is unlikely he could best be
frustrated by a 30mm cannon fired from the turret of a Scorpion.

The Heathrow tank deployment was a political, not military, precaution. It was
designed to impress the public, rather than in the serious expectation of
stopping an atrocity. This was an extreme case of nonsense security, but there
are plenty of lesser ones every day in airport search queues.

A dilemma confronts the Home Office, intelligence services and police chiefs
every time a terrorist incident takes place. They know that, rationally, there
is little chance that imposing car checks at airports will accomplish anything
more than adding an hour or two's delay to every passenger's flight time. Yet
they are also acutely conscious that if they fail to be seen to raise their
game, and another would-be terrorist then crashes into a British airport
terminal, it would be a resignation issue.

The usual compromise is that extreme security checks are introduced for some
days following a major incident. Then, when the headlines cool and the economic
disruption becomes intolerable, security reverts to "normal". This does not
represent a logical approach, but it is hard to see any way around it in a
democracy vulnerable to media frenzies.

It is also hard for ministers and the police to pitch their public utterances. A
reasoned statement, following the weekend's events, might have gone something
like this: "After so much speculation about attacks on Britain by terrorists
wielding weapons of mass destruction and biological weapons, it is a relief to
see these attempts made with weapons as crude as cars filled with petrol and gas
cylinders. The group carrying out the attacks are grotesque amateurs. At worst,
their efforts might have inflicted the level of fatalities caused by a motorway
smash." In reality, of course, it would be unthinkable for anyone in authority
to say anything of the sort. Spokesmen must talk gravely about "a threat of
dreadful carnage", because anything less would sound flippant and irresponsible.

When a nation is in a state of declared war with a state enemy, the issues are
much simpler, and the public soon learns to understand them. When the Germans
began bombing British cities in 1940, anti-aircraft guns put up big barrages
whenever raiders were overhead. The belief that "we're hitting back" boosted
morale. It was soon discovered, however, that shell fragments from the guns were
inflicting almost as many casualties as German bombs, and that scarcely any
planes were being hit. Most batteries were moved to places where they were less
visible but might do some real good. Likewise, people stopped abandoning their
work whenever a raid was threatened and sought refuge in shelters only if
raiders were close overhead.

Yet conditions and expectations today, in times of peace, are very different.
Public safety is threatened only spasmodically, and in the most erratic and
unpredictable ways. What the army calls "point defence", meaning the protection
of specific buildings and sites against assault, is neither feasible nor
credible when the range of possible targets is almost unlimited, and the
economic life of the country must continue.

Most of us have become reconciled to the steel gates in Downing Street and
concrete barriers outside the Houses of Parliament. These are obviously
high-profile targets. There is a real prospect, rendered more vivid by the
people who crashed into Glasgow's terminal on Saturday, that terrorists could
try to use a vehicle as an assault weapon against Britain's most famous national
symbols.

Thereafter, however, common sense decrees that public buildings must take their
chances. It is not credible, for instance, to fortify all airport terminals. We
should recognise the searching of passengers for what it is, a necessary gesture
unlikely to stop a half-sophisticated terrorist from smuggling some instrument
of menace on to a flight.

All serious counter-measures hinge on intelligence: identifying potential
threats by surveillance and penetration. The security service deserves more
sympathy than it usually receives for its difficulties in achieving this. The
range of militant young Muslims now in Britain, both homegrown and imported, is
frighteningly large.

Since 9/11, MI5 has been deluged in money and has recruited thousands of new
officers, including a significant number of Muslims. But it takes years to train
such people and enable them to gain the experience to become Smileys. More than
that, they do not receive anything like the assistance from the British Muslim
community which they need effectively to contain the threat, never mind defeat
it.

It is difficult for intelligence officers to distinguish between militants who
merely talk big and those actually intending to commit acts of violence. An MI5
officer described to me a while ago the problems posed by suspects who behave
normally for months, even years, before suddenly embarking on an attack.
Surveillance requires a massive commitment of manpower. Every day, MI5 is
obliged to make life-and-death choices about who it will continue to monitor.
The quality of police assistance is patchy, to put it politely, and a source of
much dismay in intelligence circles.

Although I am as sceptical as many people about the loss of civil liberties in
the name of anti-terrorism, it seems essential at the very least to legitimise
interception evidence in court proceedings. This is a much more important tool
for protecting the public than checking cars approaching airports, and causes
far less inconvenience to the innocent.

In the days ahead, we shall see plenty more gesture security, because that is
politics in the wake of a terrorist incident. We should recognise it for what it
is, however, and not confuse it with measures that serve the real purpose of
protecting us from violent fanatics.

comment@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks: Explainer: Essential targets

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 265 words


Senior Yard officers say they believe there are around 250 British citizens who
are determined to mount terrorist attacks in this country. Many have undergone
some weapons and explosives training at al-Qaida camps along the
Pakistani-Afghan border, and have absorbed that organisation's doctrine that
several attacks should be launched simultaneously and claim as many lives as
possible.

As well as individuals known to the security services as "essential targets"
there are 700 people categorised as "desirable targets", who pose a lesser risk,
and some 1,000 people classed as "other targets", who have knowledge of
terrorist attacks. It is possible that many of those involved in the weekend's
attempted attacks are known to the police and MI5, but have not been arrested as
there was insufficient evidence.

The police and MI5 are unable to keep all of these targets under surveillance,
and there is always concern that some individuals assessed as desirable targets
may be planning the next attack. Two of the July 7 bombers, Mohammad Sidique
Khan and Shehzad Tanweer, slipped though MI5's net in this way.

"There are so many people plotting, prioritising is the only way," said a senior
counter-terrorist official. Security sources said they hoped the individuals
arrested would be identified on intelligence databases. This would mean the
investigation could progress much faster, the sources said.

Officials said it was too early to say what links the plotters had with al-Qaida
leaders. The way the attacks were planned and that they were not all suicide
bombers suggest links were tenuous.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks: Raids begin at dawn as details of plot unfold: Police say
fast-moving inquiry is revealing new information every hour

BYLINE: Ian Cobain, Severin Carrell and Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1109 words


The day began with three unmarked police cars sealing off the M6 motorway in
Cheshire and forcing a car carrying two terrorism suspects on to the hard
shoulder. Minutes later, more than 40 miles away in Liverpool, a car was stopped
in the Lime Street area and another man was arrested.

Before dawn police were raiding two houses in a quiet commuter village outside
Glasgow. More raids followed in north Staffordshire. And a few hours later the
army carried out a controlled explosion on a car parked outside a hospital in
Paisley, amid claims that at least one of the car bombing suspects was a doctor.

Despite the confusion of the fast-moving events, it was clear that a suspected
al-Qaida-inspired terrorist cell with links to the Midlands, Liverpool, Scotland
and the south-east of England was being rounded up in a bid to prevent any more
attempted car bomb attacks.

Five suspects were under arrest by the end of the day and police were searching
for several others, including at least one man in London. Detectives are thought
to have gathered a wealth of evidence, including CCTV images in London's West
End, DNA from two car bombs which failed to explode and documentation and
forensic traces in Renfrewshire. They also used CCTV and traffic cameras, and
automatic number plate recognition programmes, to track the would-be car bombers
along their routes to central London and Glasgow airport.

"The investigation into these events, these attacks, is extremely fast moving,"
said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke, head of Scotland Yard's
counter-terrorism command. "New information is coming to light hour by hour."

The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre, based at MI5's headquarters, raised the
terrorism threat level to critical - the highest possible - indicating that
further strikes may be imminent. And the government's crisis management
committee, Cobra, sat again for the fourth time in three days yesterday, chaired
by Jacqui Smith, who has undergone a baptism of fire since her appointment last
Thursday as the UK's first female home secretary.

The nature of the attempted attacks in the capital in the early hours of Friday
morning did not take senior Scotland Yard officers by surprise. One had spoken
privately of his conviction that the next attacks in the UK would be
"vehicle-borne bombs against iconic targets".

The two Mercedes loaded with gas cylinders, petrol cans and nails, parked yards
from the Eros statue at Piccadilly Circus and Nelson's column in Trafalgar
Square, appeared to be just that. One vehicle, parked outside a crowded
nightclub, was made safe after a passing ambulanceman spotted fumes inside,
while police were alerted to the second by a wheel-clamper who smelled gas while
towing it away.

Two suspects were arrested after a Jeep Cherokee rammed into the front of the
main terminal building at Glasgow airport on Saturday afternoon. It was the
first day of the Scottish school holidays and the building was crowded. As the
vehicle erupted in flames the driver clambered out, doused himself in petrol,
and set himself alight, witnesses said. "He had a big smirk on his face," said
one, Jackie Kennedy. The man was last night in a critical condition in hospital.

After firefighters doused the flames, police discovered that the vehicle was
loaded with propane gas cylinders and petrol, like the London car bombs.

Within hours of the Glasgow attack, police wearing suits intended to offer
protection against biological or chemical weapons were searching two houses in
the largely prosperous commuter village of Houston, Renfrewshire, four miles
west of the airport.

Neighbours described how one two-bedroom semi in Neuk Crescent was raided at
4.30am yesterday. Police erected a tent and plastic awning at the rear of the
building to shield officers as the searched the property, which backs on to a
conifer forest. Residents were told to stay indoors, and those living in the
adjoining property were evacuated.

The house had been rented last month by two Asian men in their late 20s or early
30s, who rarely spoke to neighbours.

The Guardian has learned that police were searching for one of the occupants of
the house on Saturday morning - before the airport attack - investigating a
possible connection with the previous day's attempted bombings in London. This
individual had told some people in the town that he was a doctor.

Parts of the Royal Alexandra hospital in Paisley, where the burned man from the
airport attack was being treated - were evacuated yesterday while the army
carried out a controlled explosion inside a car parked in the grounds. The
hospital was unable to admit emergency patients for a while, and ambulances were
diverted to other hospitals in the region.

A few hours before the Renfrewshire raids, police had arrested a 26-year-old man
and a woman aged 27 in a dramatic operation on the M6 in south Cheshire. A
witness, Peter Whitehead, told how three unmarked police cars brought the
traffic on the northbound carriageway to a halt. "In front of them were a couple
of other unmarked police cars and they forced a car on to the hard shoulder and
got the occupants out and arrested them."

The Guardian understands that the couple had been followed from Bir- mingham and
were thought to be en route to Scotland. Soon afterwards a second man was
arrested near Liverpool's Lime Street railway station and his car removed for
forensic examination.

Police also searched two addresses in the city, one in Toxteth and one near
Penny Lane in the Mossley Hill district. Two witnesses, Declan Murphy and
Melissa Heywood, described how officers took cover behind a jeep at the Mossley
Hill address and others aimed guns at the house while colleagues got in. Mr
Murphy said: "At first I thought it was something to do with drugs then the
Glasgow thing came to mind and we thought it must have been terrorism."

Yesterday afternoon police raided a property in Newcastle-under-Lyme, in
Staffordshire. Residents said the occupant was a doctor at a local hospital.

A neighbour, Daniel Robinson, told the Press Association: "It's a rented
property. The owners are away and the gentleman living there is a hospital
doctor. They have been here for just over nine months. I have only occasionally
met him. He seems a very pleasant man.He speaks good English."

Another resident, Richard Holland, told the news agency: "The man is a doctor at
the local hospital. We have been told that a vehicle pulled over by police up
north had something to do with the house.

"He kept to himself. He had a wife and a young child. He never really spoke. He
said 'Hiya' and nothing else."

Max Hastings, page 32>=

Leader comment, page 34>=

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks: Explainer: ANPR

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 261 words


Detectives used the latest automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) technology
to track the movement of the vehicles involved in the car bomb attempt on
London. It allowed them to follow the route taken into the capital. The system
scans car number plates and checks them against records from the Driver Vehicle
Licensing Agency, the Police National Computer and local intelligence computer
systems.

Systems can read number plates at around one per second on cars travelling up to
100mph. They can use closed-circuit television or road enforcement cameras.

The system in London is linked to the congestion charging regime in the capital.
The process allows the police to conduct real time computer checks within four
seconds, locating suspect, stolen and cloned vehicles. The various sightings of
a particular number plate can be plotted together to give officers an instant
picture of the journey the vehicle has taken.

ANPR was initially deployed in major terrorist investigations but has, at the
behest of groups such as the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo), become
a part of mainstream policing. The National ANPR Data Centre, run by Acpo with
funding from the Home Office, is centralising all ANPR data from the 43 forces
in England and Wales. Agreements would see material obtained from the Highways
Agency, supermarkets and petrol station owners incorporated into the network.

But the system, reliable for 95% of the time, raises concerns among civil
liberties campaigners who complain that the innocent movements of millions are
now routinely recorded.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks: Stricter controls

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 247 words


Heathrow

Terminal forecourts are closed to vehicles but the central bus station is open.
Taxis can use outer areas of forecourts. Car drivers are allowed to use all
short-stay car parks to pick up and drop off passengers. The airport's tube
stations and the Heathrow Express are operating as normal.

Gatwick

Forecourts at north and south terminals are closed. Passenger pick up and drop
off restricted to short-stay car parks, but buses are allowed to use terminal
forecourts. The Gatwick Express train service is operating as normal.

Glasgow (above)

Completely closed to cars, but taxis and buses are allowed to use a road close
to the main terminal.

Stansted

The forecourt outside the terminal is closed to all vehicles. Buses are being
directed to the outer forecourt and the bus station is still open. Drivers must
use the short-stay car park.

Manchester

Taxis and cars are barred from the forecourts.

Edinburgh

No private vehicles beyond the Hilton hotel car park and the short-stay car park
is closed. Drivers must drop off and pick up passengers at the park-and-ride
site by the A8. The outer forecourt is open to taxis and buses.

Bristol

Terminal forecourt closed to all traffic apart from an airport shuttle bus and
express coach service.

Newcastle

Police presence stepped up. Some officers are armed.

Belfast

Extra police patrolling the terminal.

Rail stations

Vehicle access to car parks and drop-off points is not restricted but police are
stepping up stop-and-search procedures on vehicles.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks: Travel: Summer of delays and disruption ahead as airports
tighten security: New measures in place to prevent copycat attacks Holidaymakers
forced to endure four-hour queues

BYLINE: Dan Milmo, Severin Carrell and Vikram Dodd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 625 words


Air passengers were warned to expect another summer of disruption yesterday as
police moved to prevent copycat attacks in the wake of the attempted suicide
bombing at Glasgow airport.

Terminal forecourts across the UK were sealed off from vehicles, causing lengthy
tailbacks and forcing drivers to pick up and drop off passengers at airport car
parks. Buses and taxis were allowed closer access at major flights hubs such as
Heathrow and Stansted as police targeted privately owned vehicles using
stop-and-search laws.

Glasgow was the worst affected, with the airport completely closed off to cars
after it reopened yesterday morning. About a third of all departing flights were
cancelled amid chaotic scenes at Scotland's busiest international airport.

Thousands of holidaymakers, many in T-shirts and summer clothing, queued for up
to four hours to enter the airport. Suitcases and bags were piled up along
pavements a mile from the terminal building while disconsolate passengers waited
for news of their flights. Having waited in sometimes torrential rain, some
passengers were told their flights had left before being shepherded through an
overspill carpark.

Jacqueline Robertson was among the thousands of holidaymakers who had booked
flights this weekend to coincide with the start of the Scottish schools' summer
holidays. Mrs Robertson and her family were booked on to a flight to Palma at
8pm on Saturday but were left stranded after EasyJet told them to come to
Glasgow airport, despite the terrorist attack.

Their experience had been "terrible," she said. "We couldn't get through to
EasyJet. It was constantly engaged, and then they just turned their phone off."

Liverpool John Lennon airport, which was closed on Saturday night while police
inspected a suspicious vehicle, was reopened yesterday morning. Apart from
Glasgow, all UK airports operated a normal schedule despite vehicle
restrictions.

The clampdown on forecourt access is expected to extend delays at major
airports. Stansted is expecting queueing times of more than an hour at passport
control this summer as the Home Office installs scanning machines at immigration
desks. Security guidelines imposed last year following the disruption of an
alleged liquid bomb plot have already added to the average queueing time at big
airports, with Heathrow criticised by business leaders in recent months.

Security experts said further operational changes were likely at airports
following the Glasgow attack. Norman Shanks, former head of security at BAA, the
UK's biggest airport owner, said security checkpoints should be set up on roads
leading to terminal forecourts. "It is a relatively straightforward risk to deal
with," he said.

Mr Shanks, who helped the government draw up anti-car bomb guidelines a decade
ago, added that road checkpoints could be automated, as with US toll roads, to
allow buses and taxis through with minimal checks. Airport owners were also
warned that until changes are made they remain vulnerable to a Glasgow-style
attack.

Alan Hatcher, principal of the International School for Security and Explosives
Education, said: "The majority of airports in the UK are at risk and open to a
similar form of attack . . . Concrete bollards placed about a metre apart would
stop virtually all vehicles from being used to attack an airport in this way."

Rail travel was affected too as armed police stepped up random searches at
station drop-off points.

British Transport police said: "We have no specific intelligence that stations
are under threat, but we are using visible deterrent and disruption tactics."
Patrols have been increased on the London underground network, but police are
focused on protecting transport infrastructure susceptible to another car bomb
attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks: Heroes: Lives spared by quick thinking, bravery and good fortune

BYLINE: Hugh Muir and Severin Carrell

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 412 words


As more details emerged about the attempts to bomb London and Glasgow, it became
clear that Britain has escaped mass casualties through quick thinking, heroism
and good fortune.

The ambulance crew

The car packed with explosives, gas and nails outside a club in central London
was spotted by a two-man ambulance crew. Early last Friday, they had been called
help a man who had fallen at the Tiger Tiger nightclub. "As we pulled up
outside, we came to a stop behind a Mercedes which was parked badly," one said
yesterday. "We can't have been inside for more than a few minutes and as soon as
we got outside we smelt gas again. We saw the jet of smoke was still there so we
got straight on the radio to our control room and asked them to call the police
and the fire brigade. I am just glad that we managed to do that before it was
too late."

The removal driver

The second vehicle packed with explosives was left just off Trafalgar Square.
Police suspect it may have been parked there to catch people as they were
leaving the scene from the first explosion. The car was towed for more than a
mile by NCP removal driver Antonio Norte, 39, because it was parked illegally.
Staff at the car pound saw smoke and called the police. "I can't sleep. I am
traumatised by it," Mr Norte told The Mail on Sunday. "As soon as I found out
what had been in that car, it shook me. I don't feel safe working in London any
more." His wife, Maria, said: "He's a hero to me. Think of all those people who
could have died if the car had been left where it was."

The have-a-go heroes

Stephen Clarkson confronted one of the two would-be bombers at Glasgow airport.
"The driver was lying on the ground and he was on fire," he said. "The jeep was
actually on fire as well, and there was smoke in the jeep."

"He got up and started fighting with the police and the airport officials, and I
managed to knock him to the ground and the police got on top of him and
restrained him. He was disorientated, otherwise I don't think I would have been
able to knock him down."

John Smeaton, a member of ground crew at Glasgow airport, also confronted one of
the men who was fighting with a policeman. "I decided, I've got to do something
here, and I came to help the policeman and I got a kick in. Other passengers
were getting kicks at him.

"The flames were going in two directions. It's like it's under pressure. You
know when you're younger, you put a can of Lynx (aftershave) in the fire, and
it's like a flame thrower."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks: Political reaction: Brown urges vigilance and wins praise for
not 'playing politics'

BYLINE: Tania Branigan, Political Correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 381 words


Britain must get used to constant vigilance, with car and airport security
checks and more police in public places in the face of a sustained terrorist
threat, Gordon Brown warned yesterday.

But the prime minister urged people to carry on living normally to send the
message: "We will not yield. We will not be intimidated. And we will not allow
anyone to undermine our British way of life."

Like the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, he struck a markedly different note from
that sounded by his predecessor when plots were discovered. It was not the time
to discuss changes to anti-terrorism laws, Mr Brown said.

Shami Chakrabarti, director of Liberty, praised him for "not play(ing) politics
with the terror threat".

Mr Brown told BBC1's Sunday AM programme: "The first duty of a government and
the first duty of a prime minister is to ensure the safety and the security of
the British people." He said the government was doing everything in its power,
but the threat was "not going to go away in the next few weeks or months". He
added: "We will have to be constantly vigilant. We will have to be alert at all
times."

Mr Brown told the programme: "I've got to appeal to members of the public to
understand that . . . security measures have to be increased . . . whether it's
checks as people go into the airports or whether it's more police patrols, or
whether it may be some barriers that people have got to come through.

"We have got to take extra measures in crowded places and you will see a greater
police presence and in some cases further measures to enhance the security
there. People may expect that there may be some checks of cars during the course
of the next few days. And I think they should be ready and hopefully cooperate
with the police."

The long-term fight against terrorism would be a battle of hearts and minds, he
said, and withdrawal from Iraq would not bring it to an end.

"Of course we want to see greater peace and security in Iraq and Afghanistan.
But I think anybody I talk to, a leader in any part of the world, knows we're in
the business of dealing with a long-term threat . . . one that is unrelated in
detail to one specific point of conflict in the world," he said.

Ms Smith will update MPs on the events in a statement to the Commons today.

Jackie Ashley, page 33>=

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks: Intelligence: Warnings received about Blair handover

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor and Clare Dyer

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 649 words


Warnings were issued three months ago about the threat of a terrorist campaign
to mark the end of Tony Blair's premiership, security sources have revealed. As
the threat level was raised to 'critical' on Saturday, it emerged that two
agencies - the Centre for the Protection of the National Infrastructure, which
reports to MI5, and the National Counter Terrorism Security office, which
reports to chief police officers - warned in April about the

possibility of a renewed campaign.

Nightclub owners were recently told they could be the targets of car bombs in a
precautionary exercise which saw them issued with pamphlets and given other
guidance. But sources yesterday denied claims by the US network ABC that
intelligence officials were warned a fortnight ago of an impending attack on
'airport infrastructure or aircraft' in Glasgow. A senior security source said
of the latest assessment: 'The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (Jtac) assessed
that

a group of individuals, it is not known how many, clearly had the capability and
the intent to carry out attacks on the UK. Therefore there was a strong
likelihood of further attacks.'

Jtac also warned that al-Qaida's 'Kurdish network in Iran (was) planning what we
believe may be a large-scale attack against a western target'.

It added: 'A member of this network is reportedly involved in an operation which
he believes requires al-Qaida core

authorisation. We assess that this operation is most likely to be a large-scale
mass casualty attack'.

Jtac's threat levels are based on current intelligence, recent events and what
is known of terrorist intentions and

capabilities. The term 'critical' denotes that an attack is 'expected
imminently'.

It is the result of an overall intelligence assessment, not specific
intelligence. Police have recently stepped up searches of vehicles, including
tankers, entering London. Whitehall officials, referring to communications
intercepts, said yesterday there had been 'quite loud chatter for months' of
plans to attack Britain. But they said there was nothing specific and such
reports and claims came

in every day.

The threat level was last assessed as critical in August last year after the
discovery of the alleged plot to blow up passenger airliners over the Atlantic.
It was reduce to severe shortly afterwards. Threat level warnings by Jtac - a
group including officers from MI5, MI6, GCHQ, and the police's National Counter
Terrorism Command - are based on intelligence-led assessments and involve
difficult judgments.

Just how difficult became clear when the level was reduced a month before the
July 7 London suicide bombings in 2005.

Some security and intelligence offi cials express concern about the threat level
system, which was made public last August after a number of leaks of Jtac
reports.

Though the levels were given new names and their definitions simplified, they
are open to misinterpretation, some officials believe.

Against the backdrop of the latest alert, five law lords will be asked this week
to decide whether the control order regime for suspected terrorists violates the
European convention on human rights. Control orders, with restrictions which
include 12-hour or 14-hour curfews, and bans on internet access and unauthorised
visitors, were introduced in the Prevention of Terrorism Act 2005 after the law
lords ruled indefinite detention without charge

for foreign terror suspects in Belmarsh prison breached their human rights.

In a five-day hearing starting on Thursday, lawyers for nine men placed on
control orders will argue that the system breaches their right to liberty under
article 5 of the European convention, and their right to a fair trial under
article 6.

The law lords will be asked to rule whether the system under which judges
confirm control orders after looking at intelligence material concealed from the
suspect is incompatible with the right to a fair trial.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks: Internet: The message boards of militant chatter

BYLINE: Helen Pidd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 263 words


Hours before police averted last week's attacks, an internet forum featured a
message telling Islamists to "Rejoice, by Allah, London shall be bombed".

Al-Hesbah is one of the most important online meeting places for al-Qaida
operatives and supporters, according to experts. They say the members-only
message board is used by Sunni militants to post messages and videos documenting
their fight against the west.

Yigal Carmon of the Middle East Media Research Institute (Memri), which reports
on Islamist activity, has described al-Hesbah as being one of the "five major
Islamist websites in the world".

At 8.09am on Thursday, 17 hours before the Haymarket bomb was found, a 300-word
posting by Abu Osama al-Hazeen appeared on al-Hesbah telling other users to
rejoice. The forum has previously featured tributes to jihadists as well as
hints on how to safely donate money to Islamist causes without detection.

Rita Katz, director of the Site institute which monitors international
terrorism, told the US House of Representatives in February that al-Hesbah was
used by terrorists. She said that earlier this year the forum announced that one
of its members had carried out a successful suicide attack in Iraq and that
another had been killed fighting US forces in Baghdad.

Memri reported last October that a posting on al-Hesbah called for protests
against the company Apple after it erected a glass cube, "clearly meant to
provoke Muslims", outside one of its outlets in New York. The post called the
cube "a blatant insult to Muslims" for its likeness to the Ka'aba, Islam's
holiest site.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks: At a glance

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 72 words


The police and the security services use the following terms to describe threat
levels:

Low Attack is unlikely

Moderate Attack is possible but unlikely

Substantial Attack is strong possibility

Severe Attack is highly likely

Critical Attack expected imminently

Protective security "response" levels are also graded:

Normal Routine protective security

Heightened Additional and sustainable security measures

Exceptional Maximum security protection

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Leading article: Terror attacks: The link with Iraq

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 652 words


When it argued for the invasion of Iraq, the British government placed the
national interest at the centre of its case. Not only would the invasion
contribute to international order, Tony Blair said, but it would cut off at its
roots the threat of terrorism in the UK. Many disputed the link between al-Qaida
and Saddam Hussein and pointed out that war and occupation might assist
extremist organisations recruiting British Muslims, giving terrorism a spurious
(but, to the wrong-headed, compelling) moral justification.

When, following the invasion, it was suggested that Britain had been made a more
obvious target for Islamist terrorism, Tony Blair accused those who made this
case of appeasement. He pointed out (rightly) that non-participants in the war
were also targets, and that 9/11 was one of several attacks al-Qaida staged
before Iraq. Those who warned that the war would antagonise Muslims were accused
of indulging - and even stoking up - disaffection.

The prophecy that occupying Iraq meant attacking al-Qaida has proved grimly
self-fulfilling. Osama bin Laden's network has become associated with resistance
to British and American involvement in Iraq - either directly, or by using the
fate of Iraqis as supposed proof of the west's malign intentions towards
Muslims. Can it be denied that the invasion encouraged a growth in al-Qaida's
threat and influence?

It is time for a new prime minister to revisit these arguments. The daily
carnage in Iraq is perhaps hard to acknowledge for members of the cabinet
involved in the chain of events that led finally to this hellish instability.
Each and every day ordinary Iraqis are victims of the sort of mayhem planned for
London and Glasgow last week. Most civilian deaths in Iraq and Afghanistan are
at the hands of non-western forces, yet it is still the west that gets the blame
- and, indeed, it has some responsibility for the context in which they happen.
That techniques from Iraq - petrol and gas canisters placed in cars - seem to
have been exported to the UK is more than symbolic. It is not proof of a direct
link with al-Qaida, nor should it absolve the would-be bombers from
condemnation. Yet it is wrong to claim there is no link to Iraq. Indeed, this
past weekend there appeared to be some striking, if grotesque, parallels.

Today, a refusal to acknowledge that the much more lethal carnage in Iraq is in
part a consequence of western actions is damaging the national interest. It
would be wrong to think that Britain either could or should sue for peace. At
its core, Islamist fundamentalism is irreconcilable with western values. It must
be confronted, as it was before Iraq. But in the ease with which extremists may
recruit disaffected European Muslims lies softer, human territory. It is here
that the government might increase domestic security by disproving the arguments
the extremists use and giving the lie to the false picture they paint of
Britain.

Gordon Brown's new government has to find a form of words that acknowledges
Britain's role in creating - unintentionally - the conditions for instability,
civil war and mayhem. It has to find not just the will to disengage over time
(such a will already exists) but the language to convince listeners that this is
now the government's settled purpose. Such an approach would not extirpate the
terrorist cause in Britain, but it would be a start in altering the conditions
in which terrorists recruit. It would also be morally and historically right.

After Suez, Britain's friends in the world held faith with a confidence that
decent parts of our public life never wavered in their opposition to the
ill-fated adventure, and represented another side of the British character. As a
new prime minister seeks to rebuild Britain's international reputation, an early
signal that this tendency is winning the argument, and shall prevail, would be
both right and in our national interest.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks - Salmond vows Scotland won't be beaten by terrorists after
attack

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 395 words


Scotland's first minister Alex Salmond yesterday insisted that the public would
not be beaten by terrorists as Glasgow airport reopened 24 hours after a car
bomb attack.

Mr Salmond, pictured, was at the scene of the attack, which police have linked
to the failed car bomb attempts in London earlier this week.

His visit came as officers from Strathclyde Police searched houses in the
Renfrewshire area - including one in the village of Houston.

During his visit to the airport the defiant first minister said: "My job is to
get Scotland back on its feet and make sure it doesn't affect in any way the
Scottish economy."

Mr Salmond said travellers affected by the incident had shown "great patience".

And he thanked the emergency services, saying: "It is a job well done and every
single person in Scotland should be thankful."

Mr Salmond said incidents such as yesterday's "had been planned for many times
over."

But he suggested nowhere was safe from the terrorist threat, saying: "Glasgow is
a major city and many major cities around the world have faced terrorist
outrages. We never expected we were immune to such things.

"In this world, it would be foolish indeed to believe ourselves immune, which is
why we prepared ourselves so well."

The potentially deadly nature of the Glasgow Airport car bomb attack became
clearer today as it emerged gas canisters were apparently packed into the car
that was rammed into the front of the terminal building and set alight.

Had they exploded that would almost certainly have caused massive casualties.

Earlier Scottish justice secretary Kenny MacAskill had revealed the perpetrators
of the car bomb attack on the airport were not Scots.

He told BBC Scotland television: "We have evidence to believe that these people
did not emanate from Scotland, apart from some evidence of them having resided
here for a period of time.

"They were not born and bred here and for any suggestion to be made that they
are home grown terrorists is not true."

Mr MacAskill was briefed by police on their operations, which included searching
a number of properties in Renfrewshire

In Houston, a village just a few miles from Glasgow Airport, Neuk Crescent was
cordoned off with police officers patrolling up and down.

One resident said he saw a person in a forensic-style suit going in and out of
the house at number 6 - which is believed to have been rented out.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks - Police raid home of hospital doctor

BYLINE: Tim Walsh PA

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 261 words


Anti-terror police swooped on what is thought to be the home of a hospital
doctor as part of the investigation into the failed car bombings in London and
Glasgow, it emerged last night.

A police cordon and tent were in place at the detached property in a suburban
cul-de-sac in north Staffordshire as residents spoke of their disbelief at
today's events.

The Metropolitan Police would neither confirm nor deny that the search was
linked to arrests of a man and woman on the M6 in Cheshire yesterday.

Officers arrived at the house in Sunningdale Grove, Chesterton, last night, said
residents.

The house, they said, was rented by a doctor thought to be married with one
young child.

Neighbour Daniel Robinson said: "We have had a police presence here since 9.30pm
(Saturday) night. The police have not told us anything.

"It's a rented property. The owners are away and the gentleman living there is a
hospital doctor. They have been here for just over nine months.

"I have only occasionally met him. He seems a very, very pleasant man indeed. He
speaks very good English."

He added: "It's fairly disturbing but at the same time I find it very hard to
believe, having met the gentleman, that he's involved in any way in terrorism."

Sunningdale Grove is a cul-de-sac of around 20 houses situated off the A34 on
the northern outskirts of Newcastle-under-Lyme.

"The man across the road is a doctor at the local hospital but we don't know
much more," resident Richard Holland said.

"We have been told that a vehicle pulled over by police up north had something
to do with the house."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks - Appeal issued for information on 4x4

BYLINE: Joe Quinn and Victoria Mitchell

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 162 words


Police issued an appeal yesteray for information about a Jeep used as a car bomb
in a terrorist attack on Glasgow Airport. The green Cherokee had the
registration L808 RDT, Strathclyde Police said.

Assistant chief constable John Malcolm said he wanted information about
sightings of the 4x4 over the last days and weeks.

Mr Malcolm was joined at a press conference in Glasgow by Scotland Yard's
anti-terror chief, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke.

He revealed that a critically-ill suspect under armed guard in hospital is
believed to have been the driver of the vehicle.

The second man in police custody was 27 years old.

The officer issued a public plea for the public to provide videos or photographs
of the incident and its build-up.

"Of the two men arrested, I can confirm one man remains in a critical condition
within the Royal Alexandra Hospital, Paisley," Mr Malcolm said.

"He is under armed police guard and I believe he was the driver of the vehicle,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks - Disruption caused as flights cancelled

BYLINE: Margaret Canning

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 449 words


Weekend visitors to Glasgow found their plans disrupted when flights to and from
the city were cancelled or delayed.

Glasgow is a popular destination for revellers and shoppers from Northern
Ireland, with flights to Glasgow International Airport departing around seven
times a day.

Airline Flybe operates two Saturday flights and three Sunday flights to Glasgow
out of George Best Belfast City Airport.

Saturday flights due to depart after the attack took place were cancelled
although by yesterday had returned to normal apart from a short delay on the
day's first flight.

An airport spokesman said security had been "stepped up in light of events in
Glasgow".

"Due to recent events across other parts of the UK, the PSNI, like other UK
police services, are monitoring the situation and taking appropriate steps to
ensure public safety and provide reassurance," a police spokesman said.

In Belfast International Airport, easyJet flights to and from Glasgow up until
around 4pm were cancelled yesterday, with one flight to and from Liverpool John
Lennon Airport in the morning also cancelled.

The airline operates three flights to Glasgow out of Belfast on Saturdays and
four on Sundays.

A spokesman for the airport said it was taking time for easyJet's fleet of
planes to get back on schedule, with the airline saying Saturday's attack had
caused "significant disruption".

But the airport spokesman said there was no sense of panic among passengers.

"People were turning up in good time, and that's something I would urge people
to do," he said.

"Make sure you speak to your airline as well to see if things are going
according to plan, especially during this summer period."

He said security had been increased, with police officers cooperating with the
airport's own private police force.

"Airport police are being more vigilant and remain so, with the situation being
constantly reviewed," he said.

The airport's own police force is one of few private forces in Northern Ireland
and Britain. Its officers are trained by the PSNI.

A flight to Glasgow from City of Derry Airport had landed well in advance of
Saturday's attack.

A spokeswoman said the airport had remained largely unaffected yesterday, apart
from a delay of the departure of its flight to Liverpool.

The spokeswoman said security had been increased in line with other airports.

Michelle McTernan from Belfast, who was spending a hen weekend in Glasgow with
13 others, was forced to travel to Stranraer in the hope of catching the
Stenaline ferry to Belfast after the cancellation of her 2pm flight to Belfast
International.

A train from Glasgow developed a fault half-way through the journey to Stranraer
and passengers were forced to take the bus.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks - 'Sustained threat' after foiled bombing: Brown - Public urged
to be vigilant

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 518 words


Five people were in custody last night after the failed car bombings in London
and Glasgow as Prime Minister Gordon Brown warned of a "long-term and sustained"
terror threat to Britain.

A 27-year-old woman was among those being questioned over the nationwide terror
alert.

She was arrested with a 26-year-old man on the M6 last night and they were being
interviewed at a central London police station, Scotland Yard said.

The development came as the country remained on its highest state of alert -
"critical" - meaning an attack is expected "imminently".

Police have linked an attempt to ram a blazing Jeep Cherokee into Glasgow
Airport on Saturday to the discovery of two car bombs in London's West End on
Friday.

Two men inside the jeep were arrested at the airport, though one of them
suffered severe burns after being engulfed in flames and is in a critical
condition in hospital.

Anti-terror officers from the Met and West Midlands Police later made the
arrests on the M6 near Sandbach in Cheshire.

Yesterday it was confirmed that a fifth arrest had been made, this time in
Liverpool.

Scotland Yard said a 26-year-old man was held and two properties in the area
searched. It was understood the arrest was made at the city's Lime Street
station.

There was further drama when a controlled explosion was carried out on a car at
the hospital where one of the airport terror attack suspects is being treated.

The car was believed to be connected to the attack, Strathclyde Police said.

Explosives experts went to the car park of the Royal Alexandra Hospital in
Paisley.

The force said there was "no indication at this time" that the car contained any
explosives.

But a spokesman added: "As a precautionary measure, a cordon has been put in
place to ensure public safety and a controlled explosion carried out."

Officers were carrying out searches in the village of Houston, near Glasgow
Airport, and Newcastle-under-Lyme, north Staffordshire.

The prime minister said Britain's message to the terrorists must be: "We will
not yield, we will not be intimidated and we will not allow anyone to undermine
our British way of life."

He said it was "clear" the attacks in London and Glasgow were perpetrated by
people who were associated with the global Islamist terror network al Qaida.

He urged the public to continue "living their lives as normal" and pledged:
"Everything is being done in our power ... to protect people's lives".

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith chaired a meeting of the emergency contingencies
committee Cobra.

She thanked police and emergency services for their "continued hard work" over
the last 24 hours and confirmed she would make a statement to MPs in the House
of Commons today.

Meanwhile, travellers started flying in and out of the airport again.

The first flights touched down almost 17 hours after the attack, shortly before
8am yesterday. There were a number of cancellations.

Seven hours later the main terminal building was re-opened.

Liverpool John Lennon Airport was closed overnight while police investigated a
suspicious vehicle.

It was taken away for examination and the airport was reopened at 4.40am.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks - Welsh Police Chief urges caution and calm

BYLINE: Rhiannon Beacham PA

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 391 words


A police boss yesterday laid out how his and other forces would be implementing
the enhanced security promised by Prime Minister Gordon Brown in the face of
terrorist threat.

Assistant Chief Constable Giles York, of South Wales Police, said increased
security would be seen in different places depending on the time of day.

"We are policing the right places at the right time and identifying the best
ways to do this," Mr York said.

"By that I mean different places are crowded at different times of the day and
we need to adjust our policing accordingly.

"During commuter times we will have increased visibility at railway stations,
bus stations and major commuter routes.

"During lunchtimes we will be policing shopping centres and other areas where
the public gather.

"In the evenings we will be having increased presence at nightclubs and other
entertainment centres.

"We don't have any specific key events in the south Wales area in the coming
week but key sites include Cardiff International Airport and our city centres."

Mr York said security had been heightened in South Wales - including at the
airport - since Friday morning, after the first car bomb was discovered in
London.

"We are working in very close partnership with the management of the airport who
are very supportive of police actions," he said.

"We are endeavouring to give as much normality to customers using the airport as
possible but we are ensuring the greatest safety for everybody.

"Increased security includes armed and unarmed patrols, and conducting vehicle
checks as they approach the airport."

"Our staff are being briefed specifically around identifying the difference
between suspicious vehicles and normal vehicles.

"One of the dangers of the current position is an assumption any illegally
parked vehicle poses a threat. Clearly that is not the case."

He said his officers were also working closely with the south Wales communities
in a bid to prevent any racist attacks against Muslims in response to the
incidents in London and Glasgow.

"The media are already speculating that this is Islamic extremism so we must
engage positively and support all out communities to ensure thorough
understanding and no ignorant backlash," he said.

"I speak personally to many members of the communities in south Wales and have
only been impressed by their enthusiasm to combat terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                        July 2, 2007 Monday 5:42 PM BST

PM UPDATES MPs ON TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Joe Quinn, Political Editor, Scottish Press Association

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 212 words


Prime Minister Gordon Brown today updated local MPs on the failed car bomb
attack at Glasgow Airport and its aftermath.

The meeting took place at No 10, and involved Scottish Secretary Des Browne and
local constituency MPs Douglas Alexander, Jim Sheridan, and John Robertson.

Transport Secretary Ruth Kelly and junior Scotland Office minister David Cairns
were also there.

The Scotland Office said later: ``The Prime Minister outlined the progress of
the inquiry into the attack in Glasgow and the failed car bombings in London.

``He reassured ministers and MPs that everything was being done to identify and
catch those involved in the terror attacks and to protect the public from any
further terrorist activity.''

Des Browne said ``everything possible'' was being done to bring those
responsible to justice and prevent future attacks.

``What is vital is that we all stand firm in the face of the terrorist threat
and protect our way of life which they seek to destroy,'' he said.

``Britain's counter-terrorism services are among the best in the world and
already a great deal has been achieved to identify and catch those responsible.

``It would be wrong, however, to give the terrorists behind these plots any
fragment of information which might help them evade British justice.''

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              July 2, 2007 Monday

Doctor quizzed over terror attacks

BYLINE:  Sentinel reporting team

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 218 words


Anti-terror police have been searching a house in North Staffordshire in
connection with a series of failed car bomb attacks in London and Glasgow.

They swooped on Sunningdale Grove, Chesterton, Newcastle, at around 9pm on
Saturday night.

At around the same time two people were arrested on the M6 at Sandbach in
connection with the terror alert.

The 26-year-old man and 27-year-old woman are among five people detained across
the UK. They were today being questioned at police stations in London.

Neighbours say the detached property in Chesterton is currently being rented to
Middle Eastern doctor Mohammed Asha and his family. He is believed to work at
the University Hospital of North Staffordshire.

The nationwide investigation was today continuing and Britain has been put on
its highest state of terror alert - with police patrols stepped up at airports
and train stations.

Senior Staffordshire Police officers have said there is no specific threat
against the county but it is not immune to terrorism.

Chief Superintendent Steve Loxley said: "Staffordshire is one of the safest
counties in the country. In spite of the current police activity, I do need to
stress that there is no specific threat to our county."

A spokesman at the University Hospital of North Staffordshire refused to comment
on the matter.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack attempts in Britain

LENGTH: 240 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

["TURKEY CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK ATTEMPTS IN BRITAIN" - AA headline]

ANKARA (A.A) -02.07.2007 -Turkey condemned on Monday terrorist attack attempts
in Britain in the strongest terms, and announced that it is in solidarity with
the British government and people.

Releasing a statement, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said, "the attempted
terrorist attack which failed after explosive mechanisms were defused in two
cars on June 29th, 2007 in London, and the terrorist attack conducted against
Glasgow Airport on June 30th, 2007 remind us once again that terrorism is the
most primordial international threat.

"Our country that has been fighting against PKK terrorism stresses in all its
international, regional and bilateral contacts that, regardless of its roots,
causes and alleged motives, terrorism cannot have any justification and should
be condemned unreservedly. Turkey describes terrorism as a violation of the most
fundamental human right, that is the right to live," it noted.

The Ministry added, "we believe that combating the scourge of terrorism which
threatens international peace and security entails a unified, determined and
coordinated response. We underline once again that Turkey is in solidarity with
the British government and the British people, and condemn these attempts in the
strongest terms."

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1704 gmt 2 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Arabic article ponders timing of failed terrorist attacks in UK

LENGTH: 784 words


Text of report by London-based newspaper Al-Hayat website on 2 July

[Article by Zuhayr Qusaybati "Forbidden Talk"]

The renewal of the terrorism season in the West by spreading fear in Britain and
its capital raises questions about the timing that cannot be disconnected from
[Prime Minister] Gordon Brown's occupation of climbing to the top of the
executive authority in 10 Downing Street. It is difficult to ignore the likely
damage that will be inflicted on the Arab and Muslim communities in the United
Kingdom. This renewal will revive the disgust and xenophobia against those
coming from the worlds of suppression to the West of freedoms.

This took place two years after the July bombings, and President Bush's
"mobilization" of the world and the allies to wage a global war suggesting in
advance that it may continue for a hundred years. If we calculate the human
losses of any crime committed by the cells described as branches of "Al-Qa'idah"
in the name of jihad and Muslims forcibly, we have a legitimate question about
the Muslims' ability to bear the forgery, deception, and the confiscation of the
religion. Is the alternative massive suicide?

A question rises about the immigration seasons when it was a dream for those who
were chased by suppression, deprived from the freedom of speech and then found
their salvation overseas, especially when the opposition movements were so weak.
When the opposition got momentum, it did not protect civil rights indeed, but
the violations increased and opinions and the freedom of speech were confiscated
in the name of the "cause". It was said that these oppositions are a thousand
times worse than many of the regimes in the region?

It is bad luck for the Arab man that no authority protected his right during the
fluctuations of the "cause" and its eras, and no honest opposition that was not
climbing the towers of political "programmes" and their struggles and thrones
which permit everything. It is old talk just like the "cause" itself which was
disintegrated to the extent we fear of the procreation of new "countries" in
which their maps are drawn according to the wishes of the conspirators in the
name of democracy and sects.

Old talk, between the regimes that missed the opportunity of rescuing themselves
from the "ailment" of the lust for power and the calamity of the stupidity and
after the opposition movements committed suicide on the remains of its
selfishness. These regimes are betting on the sword of terrorism and how many it
reaps of victims so this would make the Arab man thankful and submissive,
looking to these regimes as more merciful compared with the hell of crazy cells
mad for murder and bloodshed, even overseas.

Talking in the forbidden is not more permissible or "luxurious" to count how
many books were printed in the Arab world. Statistics are now only for dead
bodies. It's a luxury to search for a scientist in our world that dreams of
accomplishing anything related to the welfare of the human beings and revive our
stocks of reason and creation. It is the age of scientists of different kinds
who claim prophecy and fatal parenthood that drive nations by the lashes of
"martyrdom"!

It is prohibited to classify anyone of us according to the criteria of "wise
men". They sell us as insults to the United States and Israel, and buy our fates
with statements and blood.

Let us insult the United States. Tomorrow there will be other funerals. They
terrorize us in Iraq and destroy our conscience regarding Palestine. Tomorrow
Lebanon will be nominated to become on the list of nightmares. More insults and
the killing season are booming.

Between those who heap insults, bomb a funeral in Iraq and a truck in Britain, a
question is raised: for the interest of which cause? When killing booms east and
west, and the calls to restore reason become futile, what permissible talk is
left that does not lead to threats with lawful blood letting?

There is a "modern" copy of the religious courts. Most of those who feel despair
that the sword of those who cheat and who are misled will lose, are looking with
hope for any immigration oasis where the humanity of people is above all and
talk in the forbidden is not faced with slaughter and humiliation of the mind.

Tomorrow they may claim that the "liberation" of Iraq comes through London,
after some Palestinians claimed that they liberated Gaza from the brethren
"traitors". Is there any difference between an alleged enemy and a brother who
was a hero? What language does someone who bombs a funeral speak? What language
does someone who incites the West against us and destroys the interests of Arabs
and Muslims use for dialogue?

Source: Al-Hayat website, London, in Arabic 2 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Syria condemns Yemen attack, urges efforts against terrorism

LENGTH: 144 words


Text of report by Syrian News Agency SANA website

["Official Foreign Ministry Source Condemns Yesterday's Terrorist Attack in
Yemen, Which Killed a Number of Spanish Tourists and Yemeni Citizens" - SANA
headline]

Damascus, 3 Jul (SANA) - An official Foreign Ministry source has condemned the
terrorist act that took place yesterday evening and led to the killing of a
number of Spanish tourists and innocent citizens in fraternal Yemen.

The source expressed condolences for the families of the victims and the Spanish
Government and sympathy towards the Yemeni leadership in its campaign against
terror in Yemen.

The source said the crimes of international terrorism that target innocent
people all over the world require a common international effort to combat them
and cooperation to prevent their occurrence.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in Arabic 3 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                             July 3, 2007, Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

British Muslims unite to condemn terror attacks

BYLINE: Jonathan Walker Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 485 words


Mosques have united in Birmingham to condemn terrorism, city MP Khalid Mahmood
told the House of Commons.

Mr Mahmood, one of few Muslim MPs, said representatives of 250 mosques had
spoken out against the "absolutely barbaric attacks" when they met in Small
Heath over the weekend.

But one Staffordshire MP appeared to call on Muslims to make their opposition to
terrorism clearer.

Tony Wright (Lab Cannock Chase), said: "Surely we now have to ask the British
Muslim community to condemn this barbarism, without any equivocation, without
any caveats, without any ifs and buts, because they are our only real ally
against it."

It followed the revelation that the suspected ringleader of the al Qaida car
bombers was an NHS neurologist living in Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire.

The MPs spoke out after the Home Secretary, Redditch MP Jacqui Smith, gave a
statement to the Commons pledging: "We will not be intimidated by terror."

She said she was chairing a weekly "security board" bringing together security
staff, police and Government offices to co-ordinate anti-terrorism efforts.

Ms Smith also said there would be a new terrorism Bill later this year following
a full review of counter-terrorism legislation.

As Gordon Brown, the Prime Minister, sat beside her, Ms Smith told the Commons:
"My aim as Home Secretary is to allow the British public to live their lives as
they would wish, within the law.

"The fact that people have been prepared to go about their lives as normally as
possible this weekend sends the strongest message to those who wish to destroy
our way of life and our freedoms that we will not be intimidated by terror."

Responding, Mr Mahmood (Lab Perry Barr) said he had attended a summit of mosques
from across the country in Birmingham, along with Hazel Blears, the Local
Government Secretary.

He said: "There were over 250 mosques and 5,000 people, and all of them
unreservedly condemned this absolutely barbaric attack.

"That is the attitude of the overwhelming majority of the Muslim community."

Paul Farelly (Lab Newcastle-under-Lyme) said two people living in his
constituency had been arrested.

He said the Government response must be "firm but not alarmist, in the interests
of community cohesion in north Staffordshire and everywhere else in the UK."

Another Staffordshire MP, Bill Cash (Lab Stone) told Ms Smith she must put
public safety before the human rights of terrorist suspects.

Speaking for the Conservative Party, Mr Davis pledged to co-operate with the
Government in drawing up new antiterror laws, but warned that he could not back
measures which undermined traditional British liberties.

He said: "We should remember that the liberty of the subject is the defining
characteristic of the British way of life.

"So we should not give it up without very good cause indeed."

"Surely we now have to ask the British Muslim community to condemn this
barbarism Tony Wright

Comment, page 10

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A police officer keeps watch outside Waterloo train station in central
London, with an advertising board on a London bus in the background

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                             July 3, 2007, Tuesday

SHOPPERS FACED TELLY BLAST HOURS AFTER AIRPORT ATTACK;
TERROR TARGET SCOTLAND

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 233 words


BBC TV chiefs yesterday apologised for scaring shoppers with a staged explosion
hours after the Glasgow atrocity.

Shoppers thought they were under attack when a blast rocked Cardiff city centre
at 6pm on Sunday.

But it was only filming by the BBC for the Doctor Who spin-off series,
Torchwood. Police issued an alert two hours before the blast as a result of the
attacks in Glasgow and London.

And the Beeb gave notice on local radio and online just an hour before the blast
- too late for many of the shoppers.

Two blasts were planned two hours apart but it was cut it to one after the
alert. The explosion was staged in an old courtroom just yards from shops and
bars.

It sent a huge pall of smoke over the Welsh capital.

Pete Humphries,47,said "The BBC must be mad doing this now. It is incredibly
insensitive. My blood ran cold when I heard that bang."

Mum Amanda Thomas, 34, said: "I jumped out of my skin. I thought of terrorism
straight away."

Police sent officers to calm shoppers and the BBC had their own private security
teams on standby.

The filming was for the new Torchwood series, starring John Barrowman, due to be
screened later this year. A BBC production team member said: "The filming was
planned many weeks ago before the recent terrorist incidents.

"We had informed neighbouring businesses but could not tell everyone who might
be in the city centre.

"We apologise if anyone was frightened."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARE: Filming the Torchwood scenes

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                             July 3, 2007, Tuesday

TERRORIST ATTACK HIT OUR FREEDOM

BYLINE: Bob Shields

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 525 words


THE events of Saturday afternoon at Glasgow Airport have left us all in a state
of shock.

I was in my bespoke Ayr boozer at the time and when I switched the TV to live
updates from Glasgow, there was an uneasy silence as customers took in the harsh
reality of terrorism on their doorstep.

Up until that moment, I - and no doubt many other people - thought Scotland was
immune to this kind of outrage.

Yes, we've had a few diddies from the Scottish Liberation Army sending a couple
of letter bombs.

And during "The Troubles" its was perceived that the IRA and UDA left Scotland
alone thanks to long-standing historical and religious connections.

But Middle East-inspired car bombs, tube blasts and airport attacks happened to
other people. Well . . . not any more.

Gordon Brown - what a start to No.10 he's had - was correct in swiftly
announcing we would never bow to terrorism.

And Alex Salmond was right to praise our police and emergency services.

I agree that public safety must always be paramount. But at the same time, I
fear public freedoms are gradually being surrendered with every terrorist act.

Are we now so security conscious that the terrorist tail is starting to wag the
dog of a free society?

The fall-out of the weekend outrage will no doubt be some future restriction on
traffic movement and "dropping off" at airports. We are already being advised to
use public transport to get to our flights.

Who knows - maybe the future will be designated dropping points situated well
away from terminal buildings.

Yes, it's all in the worthy cause of public safety.

But it will still be a huge inconvenience to hundreds of thousands of
travellers. And what makes it worse, it will be ANOTHER inconvenience.

Not giving in to terrorism is fine with me. But surely there is a line to be
drawn between not giving in - and giving up liberties that are part of a free
society.

Sure, some will argue that dragging your kids and luggage a quarter of a mile to
check-in is no big hardship if it will save lives.

I just want to know if there is a limit to how much the public have to endure
before someone says, "Wait a minute, I'm fed up with a handful of terrorists
forcing these changes on how I live my life."

Already, we've had post 9/11 restrictions on travel visas to the United States.

When some idiot tried to hide a bomb in their shoe we suddenly had to start
taking our shoes off at checkpoints.

Then came another scare - and the rule about carrying liquids was introduced.

Now, thanks to another couple of misguided zealots, the public faces further
hassle over parking and dropping off.

Needless inconvenience? Or worthwhile life-saving hassle? That's for you to
decide.

All I know is that travelling isn't much fun anymore.

And what's coming next?

If terrorists leave a bomb at a Heathrow or Glasgow burger bar will they shut
airport restaurants down? Or will explosives left in a toilet lead to lavvy-free
airports?

Terrorism cannot be allowed to win. But how long must the honest, decent,
law-abiding public go on being the losers in this madness?

'Surely there must be a line between not giving in to zealots... and not giving
up liberties of our free society'

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT: Weekend attacks brought home the reality of terrorism PICTURE:
KIERAN DODDS/AFP/GETTY IMAGES
TOUGH START: Brown and Alex Salmond

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 3, 2007, Tuesday
                              North Wales Edition

BRITAIN: Eight held over car terror attacks;
Hospital doctor arrested by police

BYLINE: ED JAMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 529 words


AN eighth person was arrested last night in connection with car bomb attacks on
Glasgow Airport and London, Scotland Yard said.

Them man was arrested at an undisclosed location and was being held in custody.

Seven others, including one woman, have already been arrested as part of the
"fast-moving" inquiry.

Strathclyde police said last night that two men arrested at the scene of
Saturday's terror attack at Glasgow Airport are to be detained for another five
days.

One of the two men has been named as Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdullah, who had been
working at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley, near the targeted airport.

Two other men, aged 25 and 28, who were arrested on Sunday night, were detained
at the Royal Alexandra Hospital, Strathclyde police said. The force would not
say whether they are doctors.

Earlier yesterday, two controlled explosions were carried out on a vehicle in
the hospital car park.

In London, detectives have until Saturday to question three people being held at
Paddington Green police station.

One is Roamed Asha, 26, of Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire, who was arrested
in a police swoop on the M6 motorway.

Dr Asha, who trained in Jordan, is being held with his 27-year-old wife at the
high-security central London police station.

The third man was arrested in the Lime Street area of Liverpool on Saturday
evening.

The 26-year-old is a doctor from Bangalore in India who works at Halton Hospital
in Cheshire, according to the Muslim News.

Responding to the newspaper report last night, a spokeswoman for Halton Hospital
said: "As far as North Cheshire Hospitals NHS Trust is awarenoone from Halton
Hospital has been arrested in connection with the terror attacks."

Armed police are guarding the driver of the Jeep Cherokee which smashed into the
arrivals hall at Glasgow Airport.

He is being treated at the Royal Alexandra Hospital after he suffered
life-threatening burns.

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith told the Commons yesterday afternoon that 19
addresses have now been searched.

She said: "It is through our unity that the terrorists will eventually be
defeated.

"The fact that people have been prepared to go about their lives as normally as
possible this weekend sends the strongest message to those who wish to destroy
our way of life and our freedoms that we will not be intimidated by terror."

Assistant Chief Constable John Malcolm, of Strathclyde Police, urged people to
remain vigilant.

The UK remains on a "critical" state of terror alert - the highest possible -
meaning an attack is believed to be imminent.

Prime Minister Gordon Brown held talks with senior ministers yesterday and the
emergency Cobra committee met.

It emerged yesterday that the net was closing in on the twomen in the Jeep as
theymade their final preparations for the airport attack.

Just 10minutes prior to the attack detectives tried to contact the agency that
let a property to one of the men in the village of Houston, near Glasgow
Airport.

Peter Clarke, head of Scotland Yard's Counter Terrorism Command, has travelled
to Glasgow where he said the investigation was changing hourly.

He said the links between the three attempted car bombings were becoming ever
clearer.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A bomb disposal team at Royal Alexandra Hospital, Paisley, where one of
the men detained was taken for treatment after suffering serious burns in
Saturday's terrorist attack at Glasgow Airport Picture: ANDREW MILLIGAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                  July 3, 2007

Terror attack sparks call for holiday refund Firms urged to ensure travellers do
not lose cash

BYLINE: By MARIANNE TAYLOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 385 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hundreds of passengers were left stranded at Glasgow Airport
following the terror attempt


THE holiday industry is being urged to unite to ensure travellers affected by
the Glasgow airport terror attack are given full refunds.

Hundreds of dejected sunseekers found their holidays cancelled or changed at
short notice following the failed car bomb bid on Saturday.

Plans were thrown into disarray as flights were called off during the security
lock down and subsequent investigations.

Travel insurance policies don't offer compensation for cancellations or delays
caused by terrorist attacks, while tour operators and airlines often fail to pay
up and blame each other for the problems.

Glasgow holidaymakers Liz and Scott Hay were devastated to learn they'd missed
their flight to Turkey - and feared they wouldn't get a refund.

The couple paid more than GBP1400 for a two-week holiday in the resort of
Dalaman with son Kyle, 11, and 15-year-old daughter Sherree.

They claim they weren't informed that their flight, which was scheduled to take
off on Saturday night, had been switched from Glasgow to Prestwick.

Travel agent Barrhead Travel blamed tour operator Scot Travel, and vice versa,
with the Hays stuck in the middle.

However, at the last minute Barrhead Travel found the family a new holiday at
the same resort.

Relieved Scott, 35, from Shieldhall, said: "We just wanted the holiday we had
paid for, but were very nearly left with nothing."

Nationalist MSP Sandra White said many families were left out of pocket.

And she called on travel agents, insurers and airlines to work together and
ensure those who couldn't get away were fully compensated. She said: "Many
travel companies and airlines are quick to try the hard sell when it comes to
insurance, yet they seem far less interested when it comes to providing refunds
for families who have lost their holidays."

The Association of British Insurers said holiday insurance wasn't set up to give
refunds in the event of cancellations or delays.

A spokeswoman added: "It's up to airlines to rearrange flights or offer
refunds."

Meanwhile the Association of British Travel Agents urged anyone who had lost
their holiday to contact its helpline on 0207 637 2444, or log on to www. abta.
com for advice.

Flyglobespan, the Scots-based airline, said passengers whose flights from
Glasgow were cancelled on Saturday and Sunday had been offered the option of a
refund.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Doctor held in Australia linked to Jeep bomb attack;
TERROR ARRESTS

BYLINE: FRANK THORNE

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 536 words


THE hunt for the terror cell behind the London and Glasgow car bombs shifted to
Australia today where two doctors were being questioned about the failed
attacks.

Junior doctor Mohammed Haneef, 27, who had moved to Australia from Liverpool,
was arrested at Brisbane airport as he tried to leave the country.

Haneef had a one-way flight ticket to Pakistan when he was held, after a tip-off
from British police. He was expected to appear in a Brisbane court today.

One of his colleagues also from Liverpool was also being questioned in the joint
operation between federal counterterrorism officers and Queensland police.

Haneef was being sought after one of the mobile phones used in the failed
attacks in London was linked to Liverpool.

A 26-year-old doctor from Bangalore, who works at Halton hospital in Cheshire
and was arrested on Saturday evening, is understood to have said he was using
the mobile phone and internet account of a man who "has left the UK".

Haneef also became a key link in the investigation after it emerged the Jeep
used in the Glasgow airport attack had been parked in a street in the Toxteth
area of Liverpool for a month.

Following his arrest in Australia, police raided a number of addresses,
including one at the Gold Coast Hospital in Southport, Queensland, where Haneef
worked as a registrar. No explosives were found.

Haneef 's small Â£100-a-week apartment close to the hospital was also raided.

Forensic science officers later examined a nearby apartment where the second
doctor, a friend and colleague of Haneef, lived.

Haneef had trained in India and had worked in a Liverpool hospital before taking
up a job in Australia.

He found work at the Queensland hospital after reading an advertisement in the
British Journal of Medicine and began work at the Gold Coast Hospital on 4
September last year, rostered to general medicine and emergency. He is
understood to have been in Australia at the time of the attempted attacks.

Haneef 's apartment manager Steve Bosher said: "He was a quiet, polite young man
who kept himself to himself and always paid his rent on time.

"Dr Haneef was obviously Indian but he had a British accent. He was good looking
and quietly spoken. There was nothing suspicious about him. There were no
comings and goings in the middle of the night and absolutely nothing to indicate
he might be involved in some kind of plot to bomb London or Glasgow. I would
never have picked him as any kind of terrorist."

Queensland's premier Peter Beattie said the doctor was regarded by the hospital
as 'I would never have picked him as any kind of terrorist' a "model citizen''.
He said he could not reveal details about the second doctor.

Attorney-general Philip Ruddock said the terror alert for Australia had not been
increased from its level of medium.

He added: "While a terrorist attack could certainly be possible in Australia we
have no specific information about any such planned action here."

Federal police commissioner Mick Keelty said Haneef was not on any terrorist
watch list, and the information leading to his arrest came from police in the
UK.

Australia's prime minister John Howard appealed to all Australians to remain
calm, but alert, adding: "We should not be complacent."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fireball: the crashed Jeep at Glasgow airport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Police say we must stay vigilant in light of terror attack risk

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 384 words


Police in Devon have urged people to remain vigilant as a result of the the UK
terror alert.

The "critical" state of alert is likely to last a further week, a senior officer
with the Devon & Cornwall says.

Superintendent Tim Swarbrick  said although the region remained one of the
safest in the country, communities should remain focused on the terrorist threat
nationwide.

"The people of Devon and Cornwall will notice an increased level in high profile
police patrols at airports and railway stations and other areas within the
regional transport infrastructure," he said.

"Whilst there are no specific threats to our communities, it is incumbent upon
us all to be aware of recent events and raise our vigilance accordingly."

Supt Swarbrick has urged the public to report anybody acting suspiciously to the
police and report any packages or bags left unattended, especially in public
areas.

As reported in yesterday's Echo, armed police have been on duty at Exeter
International Airport since the terrorist strike in Glasgow. They will remain at
the airport in the run-up to the busy holiday season.

Supt Swarbrick said: "We are increasing the number of police at the airport to
reassure the travelling public.

"If necessary, we will call on extra resources to increase security."

At the same time the local force is in liaison with other police throughout the
country include the Met and Glasgow where the recent bomb attempts have been
thwarted.

Security has also been stepped up at Bristol International Airport, used by
thousands of travellers and holidaymakers from Devon.

The forecourt has been closed as a precaution after the attack at Glasgow, when
a vehicle was set on fire after it was driven into the main concourse.

Four specially equipped "bomb cars" with professionally-trained police officers,
could be used as quick response vehicles in the event of any terrorism threat.

Supt Swarbrick said the counter terrorism response vehicles  - marked police
cars - carry bomb detection equipment, including special mirrors to detect
devices under or inside vehicles.

Officers also wear special bomb-proof clothing and helmets as further
protection.

"We have been using this type of vehicle for the past three years as part of our
contingency plans, following the last wave of bomb threats," said Supt
Swarbrick.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Terror attacks: Family reaction: My son is not capable of such acts, says father

BYLINE: Ian Black

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 337 words


Relatives of Mohammed Jamil Abdel-Qader Asha, the Jordanian doctor arrested on
the M6 with his wife, were stunned by the news yesterday and insisted he was
non-political and interested in his medical career only.

Dr Asha was described by his brother, Abdel-Qader Asha, 22, as an outstanding
student who graduated from the Jordan University hospital in 2004 after
completing his secondary education at Jubilee college in Amman, an independent
coeducational boarding school "for students with high intellectual ability and
commitment to scholarship".

Dr Asha, his wife, Dana (also a Jordanian), and their son, Anas, three, had been
due to travel home to visit family next week and had booked tickets on Royal
Jordanian Airlines.

Abdel-Qader Asha told the Guardian: "We were all very surprised to hear this
news on TV this morning. Mohammed has only ever been interested in his studies .
. . And if he was going to do something like this he wouldn't take his wife and
baby with him."

Dr Asha is from a Palestinian family who left Hebron in the West Bank in 1948
and also lived in Saudi Arabia, where Dr Asha was born. Like others, they
returned to Jordan at the time of the Gulf war in 1991, when Palestinians were
identified as supporting Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Both his parents are
teachers. "My son is innocent," said his father, Jamil Asha, speaking in Jordan.
"He is not the type to get involved in political issues," he told the AFP news
agency. According to his brother and father, Dr Asha had never been a member of
any political or religious organisation. Abdullah Asha, another brother, told an
Arab journalist: "I believe this is a case of mistaken identity."

Last Thursday, Abdel-Qader Asha said Dr Asha rang the family in Amman. "He asked
everyone what present they wanted and what colour clothes and so on . . . We
don't understand how this could happen. Is it because he's a Muslim?"

Dr Asha's father called on Jordan's King Abdullah to intervene with the British
authorities, adding: "Not all Arabs are terrorists."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Terror attacks: Hospital staff stunned as doctors are questioned: Royal
Alexandra at centre of investigation into al-Qaida-inspired plot: Iraqi
colleague arrested, suspect receiving treatment and explosions in grounds

BYLINE: Severin Carrell, Karen McVeigh, Duncan Campbell, Helen Carter, Ian
Cobain, Richard Norton Taylor, Vikram Dodd, Ian Black

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 895 words


Some of the staff at the Royal Alexandra hospital in Paisley broke down in
tears, others reacted with stunned disbelief when they heard that one of their
own had been arrested in connection with the al-Qaida-inspired attempt to bomb
London and Glasgow.

A junior doctor, Bilal Abdulla, had worked at the hospital after graduating from
Baghdad University three years ago. His alleged accomplice still lay in the
hospital, seriously injured and receiving treatment from the staff who had
previously worked alongside the young Iraqi being questioned by police in
connection with the attacks.

As the investigation gathered pace and more details came to light during the day
it was hospital staff who found themselves at the centre of the ongoing
developments. They had heard of police raids at the doctors' accommodation block
near the entrance to the hospital early yesterday. Police would not confirm or
deny the reports.

Then in the afternoon, around 2.30pm, part of the grounds was sealed off by
police as a bomb disposal team, equipped with a remote-controlled robot, moved
into position. Just over an hour later, police officers took cover behind stone
walls as the blasts reverberated around the grounds. The revelation that a
doctor at the hospital is alleged to be one of the men arrested after driving a
blazing Jeep Cherokee into the front of the main terminal building at Glasgow
airport stunned medical staff and police.

Colleagues at the hospital are said to be deeply distressed by the revelation
that Dr Abdulla is among those arrested. It was also reported last night that
the junior doctor had been warned by a colleague that he was spending too much
time reading Islamic texts. One doctor who declined to be named said Dr Abdulla
had worked on a general ward, but was known for taking time off sick and had
been regarded as a "bit of a slacker".

Hamid Iftikhar, 28, who lives in the residential block at the hospital said:
"Police came round about 9pm last night asking for our details. I didn't know
Bilal. I think he was a junior doctor on the general medicine programme."

Last night Dr Abdulla was being questioned at a high-security police station in
Govan, Glasgow. But inside the hospitalthe second man in the Jeep attack
remained in a critical condition after dousing himself in petrol at the scene of
the attack and setting himself ablaze.

The Guardian was told yesterday that there was a heavy armed police presence
outside and around one of the hospital's operating theatres. One member of
staff, who would not be named, said he believed that they were operating on the
suspect inside. Some reports suggest the man has suffered 90% burns. The
hospital would not confirm whether the suspect was being treated.

Two of the other men under arrest have also been confirmed to be health
professionals, and there was speculation that two further suspects arrested in
Paisley on Sunday evening may also be doctors. "It's simply incredible," one
Scotland Yard source said yesterday.

Among those being questioned by detectives yesterday was a neurosurgeon,
Mohammed Asha, 26, who was arrested while driving along the M6 in Cheshire with
his wife and their son on Saturday night. He is thought to have been detained as
a result of evidence uncovered near the scene of one of the two Mercedes that
were packed with propane gas cylinders, cans of petrol and nails and abandoned
in central London on Thursday night.

Neither bomb detonated and the cars were said to have yielded a wealth of
evidence, including valuable information gathered from mobile phones left in the
vehicles as detonators.

A Jordanian citizen whose family are Palestinian refugees, Dr Asha has been
working in the Midlands for the past two years. Last night police were searching
two addresses where he had lived in Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire, and his
offices at the University Hospital of North Staffordshire.

Shocked

The son of the doctor's current landlord, Carl Plant, said: "He has been living
here for about six to 12 months. They rented it from my mother, who is in Dubai.
It shocked me, as I watched it on the news - the home where I had lived as a
child. It is not very nice to think that I had so many happy family memories
living there and now it is being ripped up."

Neighbour Molly Durham, 83, said that one of the occupants of the house was a
doctor, and that his wife was a part-time teacher. "She was very pleasant. She
seemed very shy, a bit sheepish, but was nice," she said.

Dr Asha's wife was being questioned at Paddington Green police station in London
last night. It was unclear who was caring for their son.

Dr Asha began practising in the UK in 2005 after qualifying in Jordan, according
to the General Medical Council. A spokeswoman said he held a limited
registration which enabled him to work in the NHS under supervision.

Before joining the University Hospital of North Staffordshire, where he is a
senior house officer, he was a junior doctor at the Royal Shrewsbury hospital
between August 2005 and 2006.

According to police sources, a 26-year-old man arrested in Liverpool city centre
late on Saturday is also a doctor or medical student who has been working or
studying at a hospital in Cheshire since arriving in the UK from India. His home
near Penny Lane in the Mossley Hill area and previous home in the Toxteth area
were still being searched by police yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Terror attacks: Medical reaction: 'We are a healing profession, we do not maim
or kill'

BYLINE: Sarah Boseley, Health editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 443 words


One of the most shocking details to emerge after the attempted bombings on
Friday and Saturday was that doctors were among those arrested on suspicion of
involvement.

"We are a healing profession," said Prasad Rao, chairman of the British
International Doctors Association. "It shocked me to hear that a doctor could
remotely be connected to the people who are trying to kill and maim people for
no reason. Whatever the doctor's race, colour or creed, it is a totally
appalling thing to do.

"A doctor's duty, even if he finds an injured terrorist, is to give medical
help. You never knowingly help or assist an individual to kill and maim others.
You take the Hippocratic oath and you do not discriminate on the basis of colour
or gender or religion."

But if the idea of the doctor as terrorist is not familiar to Britain, it is not
unknown elsewhere. Osama Bin Laden's lieutenant, the Egyptian Ayman al-Zawahiri,
was a doctor, for instance.

The far more familiar concept in the UK is the doctor as hero, working to save
lives, as doctors from the British Medical Association rushed to do when
terrorists blew up a bus outside their offices in Tavistock Square, central
London, on July 7.

Police believe that most of the doctors held in connection with the plot
qualified outside the UK. All doctors working in the UK have to be registered
with the General Medical Council, which will establish that their medical
qualification is valid and the equivalent of that offered in the UK. One of the
suspects, Dr Mohammed Asha, was registered with the GMC in 2005 with a medical
degree from Jordan.

Until April 2006, doctors taking training posts in the UK with a view to
obtaining a specialist qualification such as neurology or heart surgery did not
have to apply for a visa, although the hospital trusts offering a succession of
six-month contracts would check their identity, references and criminal record
in so far as possible. But last year the government changed the rules because of
the need, it said, to reduce the number of overseas doctors in the UK and to
give priority to those within the expanded EU.

Overseas doctors must now have a valid visa and will only get a training job if
an EU citizen cannot fill the post. The rule change has greatly angered them,
because it has meant that some doctors will not be able to complete their
specialist training here. There were thought to be 15,000 overseas doctors
training for a specialist qualification in the UK last April.

Indian doctors are here in the largest numbers, with 27,558 on the register.
There are 8,188 who qualified in South Africa, 6,634 in Pakistan, 1,985 in Iraq,
565 in Syria and 184 in Jordan.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Terror attacks: Profile: Peter Clarke: Tough task for chief with gentle touch

BYLINE: Rachel Williams

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 378 words


The sober, restrained tones of Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke's
statements have become a familiar sound since the head of Scotland Yard's
counter-terrorism command was thrust into the spotlight when suicide bombers
struck London on July 7 2005.

As the face of the police's battle against terrorism, the 51-year-old has a
critical and demanding task: securing fast results while acting as a figurehead
to reassure the public that panic is unnecessary and simultaneously rein-

force the message that, none the less, they should always be vigilant .

He also acts as the interface between the police and MI5, making sure
information fl ows efficiently, and oversees

communications with the UK's regional counter-terrorism units.

Moreover, he must strike the balance between keeping a voraciously hungry media
onside while refusing to divulge

sensitive information.

He travelled to Scotland after the Glasgow attack to appear with Strathclyde
Police's Assistant Chief Constable

John Malcolm, underlining his position as the man the public most expect to see
during an anti-terrorism investigation.

'Copper's copper'

Admired by colleagues as a 'copper's copper' who has not let his high-profile
job go to his head, Mr Clarke joined the

Metropolitan police in 1977 after studying law at Bristol. He rose through the
ranks to become an inspector in Totten-

ham, north London, spent three years as a detective in Hackney and later became
divisional commander in Brixton.

This is not his fi rst time in a job requiring a delicate touch: he was in
charge of the royalty and diplomatic protection department at the time of
Princess Diana's death.

After the Madrid bombings in 2004 he won praise from the Muslim Council of
Britain for encouraging the media not to

use the phrase 'Islamic terrorists', saying it was offensive and misleading .

Outside work Mr Clarke, who is married with three children, is a Chelsea fan and
keen cricketer who also enjoys rugby. He is known for being amiable with a dry
sense of humour.

Nevertheless he does not shy from talking tough. He has repeatedly said police
do not have sufficient resources to investigate all those under suspicion,
saying: 'Priorities have to be chosen.'

In April he lashed out at the leaking of sensitive information to the media .

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Terror attacks: Transport: Few delays for travellers despite tighter security
measures

BYLINE: Dan Milmo, Transport correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 509 words


Air passengers and commuters travelled under a state of high alert yesterday
amid an ongoing vehicle clampdown at airports and armed patrols at mainline
stations. Cars were banned from most airport terminals and police staged a show
of force on the rail network.

BAA, Britain's largest airport owner, urged passengers to take public transport
to airports whenever possible - advice that many appeared to heed as Heathrow
and other flight hubs reported no serious delays getting into terminals.

Police also used stop and search laws to comb through cars at airports and
stations. However, Heathrow and Gatwick airports lifted some vehicle access
restrictions which had been implemented across the UK as a precaution against
copycat attacks after Saturday's attempted suicide bombing at Glasgow airport.

Heathrow allowed limited car access to outer forecourts yesterday, but most
passengers were directed to short stay car parks converted into pick up and drop
off zones. Gatwick will be open to cars from today, but Stansted, Manchester,
Glasgow and Edinburgh airports are still directing drivers to car parks. BAA has
placed concrete barriers in front of all its terminals.

A Heathrow spokesman said: "We got through the busy morning period well.
Throughout the day there was limited road congestion and there were no serious
issues with security queues."

Analysts warned that airports face a bigger test in a fortnight's time, when the
summer holiday season begins. "Airlines will be watching nervously because these
are the money-making months," said John Strickland, an airline consultant.

Andy Trotter, deputy chief constable of the British Transport police, said the
day had run "smoothly", with roads closed off at some mainline stations.
Passengers were also subjected to random searches, while every Heathrow Express
service was checked by police before passengers were allowed to board.

"We have had our operations in various stations, putting in vehicle and personal
checks where appropriate. We want to reassure the public while creating a
hostile environment for potential terrorists," said Mr Trotter. The police
"visible deterrent and disruption" tactics included random vehicle searches at
car parks and pick-up points. Sniffer dogs and automatic number plate
recognition vans were also in use at major interchanges, such as London
Waterloo, Britain's busiest station.

A spokesman for Network Rail, which owns Britain's rail system and stations,
said it was "business as usual".

Transport for London also reported a normal day on Britain's busiest public
transport system. A TfL spokesman said police had put more officers on the tube
network, but there was no information of a specific threat against the
underground.

The government group that sets transport security guidelines, Transec, has
decided not to alter the framework for airport and station security but has
issued guidance to the aviation industry. Airports, rail stations and London
Underground remain at a "severe" alert level - the level they were at before
last week's terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Terror attacks: Parliament: Ministers step up Muslim hearts and minds campaign:
Home secretary vows not to push through new laws: Praise for Islamic groups who
condemned attacks

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 650 words


The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, relaunched the government's hearts and minds
campaign aimed at Britain's Muslims yesterday, promising she would not rush
through anti-terror legislation that might leave them feeling isolated in
response to the foiled bomb attacks in Glasgow and London.

But she and Lord Carlile, the independent reviewer of anti-terrorism
legislation, hinted that the 28-day limit on detention without charge would
either be extended or abolished by leaving the period of detention open ended.

Ms Smith said: "There may well be a case for looking very carefully at the
amount of time that we are able to detain people pre-charge in order to ensure
the very best opportunity to bring convictions."

Lord Carlile said yesterday he favoured an end to detention limits balanced by
stronger judicial oversight, a position rejected by David Davis, the shadow home
secretary.

In her first Commons statement as home secretary, Ms Smith said Britain would
not be intimidated by the terrorist strikes and welcomed "the strong measures of
condemnation we have heard throughout the weekend from community leaders across
the country".

She was praised by all sides for the calmness and confidence with which she had
reacted to the crisis since last Friday. She disclosed the police had stepped up
their use of stop and search powers, and sent fresh security advice to 850
sites, mainly sports and shopping centres. Security had also been increased
outside airports. But she refused to budge from the timetable of her immediate
predecessor, John Reid, for a new anti-terror bill in the autumn preceded by
consultation with other political parties, parliamentary select committees and
Muslim groups.

She rarely mentioned Muslims specifically in her statement, instead referring to
"communities" in what seems to be a deliberate change of language by ministers.
She also described the perpetrators of the violence as criminals and
acknowledged that Muslims may feel under pressure at this stage and would need
to be consulted on any new laws.

The prime minister's spokesman also said that Mr Brown would not use the phrase
"war on terror". In an interview at the weekend he had referred in general to
al-Qaida, but not to British Muslims. The language may reflect advice from the
new Research, Information and Communications Unit established at the Office of
Security and Counter-Terrorism.

Ms Smith paid tribute to the vigilance of those who helped avert explosions in
London and at Glasgow airport. She said: "It is through our unity that the
terrorists will eventually be defeated. The fact that people have been prepared
to go about their lives as normally as possible this weekend sends the strongest
message to those who wish to destroy our way of life and our freedoms that we
will not be intimidated by terror."

She heard calls from MPs to re-examine potential loopholes in security
arrangements. Eric Illsley, Labour MP for Barnsley, warned that large industrial
gas cylinders, possibly of the type used in the three failed car bombs, were
being sold illegally and anonymously on eBay and private auction. Mr Smith said
she would examine the issue carefully.

Frank Field, Labour MP for Birkenhead, urged her to look at the possibility of
travel restrictions on the movement of anyone that travelled to or from
Pakistan. John Redwood, Tory MP for Wokingham, warned the tightening of
restrictions at London airports meant the Tube was now more vulnerable to
terrorist attack since no body or bag searches were conducted. Other Tory MPs
warned absence of sufficient security apparatus at airports left long queues, a
classic terrorist target.

Mr Davis said his party would support extra spending on security in the current
comprehensive spending review. Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem home affairs spokesman
said ill-considered legislation could increase alienation among those
communities "we want on our side".

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Terror attacks: Community reaction: Relief, anxiety and outrage among locals

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell, Glasgow and Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 557 words


Outside the Central mosque in Glasgow yesterday, as people assembled on a wet,
grey day for prayers, there was an almost palpable sense of relief that the
suspects in the attack on Glasgow airport did not appear to have any links with
the local community. The police were keen to reassure them that those
apprehended were not "your young people".

But there remains a wider anxiety about the effect that the involvement of any
British Muslim would have on their community. Security sources have told the
Guardian that the network under investigation by anti-terrorist officers is
believed to have some British-born members.

A senior member of the Muslim Council of Britain said: "It is important not to
indulge in speculation, but clearly there would be great distress if that were
proven to be the case. These are simply appalling acts of criminality which the
com-munity would condemn and would want to expose." Feelings were just as strong
in Scotland. Inside the Islamic centre close to the mosque, Bashir Maan, the
organisation's president, agreed that the events of the past few days had caused
concern in the Muslim community, which numbers around 50,000 in Scotland.

"We were very tense because this is the first time ever that something like this
has happened," he said. "After July 7 there was a rise in racist abuse, but that
had gone down until this incident. It came as a devastating shock."

There was an attack on a mosque in Bathgate, Mr Maan said, which was the most
obvious sign of a backlash. "There will always be some bigots looking for an
excuse, even flimsy excuses."

He said he believed that the Muslim community in Scotland differed from those in
the Midlands, Yorkshire and the south of England, some of whose younger members
have been convicted of terrorists offences in recent trials. "It is a more
affluent and better educated community in Scotland. Also the Scots are a more
tolerant, friendly people."

Bashir Ahmad, a Scottish National party MSP, said that when the Scottish justice
minister, Kenny MacAskill, told a meeting on Sunday that the men arrested in
connection with the attack on Glasgow airport were not believed to be Scottish,
"you could hear the collective sighs of relief around the room that it was not
one of our own that had carried out this atrocious act".

"Since the attacks I have constantly been asked about the Muslim reaction," he
added. "The Muslim reaction is no different than the reaction of the non-Muslim
community. We are appalled, disgusted and sickened at Saturday's attack . . .
this was not simply an attack on Glasgow airport, but an attack on every person
in Scotland, including Muslims."

Abid Bashir, a young Glaswegian, said the attackers had no obvious allies,
adding: "No one wants this kind of thing to happen, no one from the community
approves of it." Osama Saeed, Scottish spokesman for the Muslim Association of
Britain, said the events had affected the local mindset. "No cause, and
certainly no Muslim cause, is advanced by these senseless attacks," he said.

The Glasgow Central MP Mohammad Sarwar said: "I am relieved those are not
Scottish people because we have a proud reputation that we have excellent race
relations among many communities in Scotland. We will not allow these criminals
. . . to damage our reputation. We should stand united. "

guardian.co.uk/religion>=

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Terror attacks: Profile: Peter Clarke: Tough task for the police chief with a
delicate touch

BYLINE: Rachel Williams

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 308 words


The sober, restrained tones of Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke's
statements have become a familiar sound since the head of Scotland Yard's
counter-terrorism command was thrust into the spotlight when suicide bombers
struck London on July 7 2005.

As the face of the police's battle against terrorism, the 51-year-old has a
critical and demanding task: securing fast results while acting as a figurehead
to reassure the public that panic is unnecessary and simultaneously reinforce
the message that, none the less, they should always be vigilant.

He also acts as the interface between the police and MI5, making sure infor
mation flows efficiently, and oversees communications with the UK's regional
counter-terrorism units.

Moreover, he must strike the balance between keeping a voraciously hungry media
onside while refusing to divulge sensitive information.

Admired by colleagues as a "copper's copper", Mr Clarke joined the Metropolitan
police in 1977 after studying law at Bristol. He rose through the ranks to
become an inspector in Tottenham, north London, spent three years as a detective
in Hackney and later became divisional commander in Brixton.

He was in charge of the royalty and diplomatic protection department at the time
of Princess Diana's death. After the Madrid bombings in 2004 he won praise from
the Muslim Council of Britain for encouraging the media not to use the phrase
"Islamic terrorists", saying it was offensive and misleading.

Mr Clarke, who is married with three children, is a Chelsea fan and keen
cricketer who also enjoys rugby. He is known for being amiable, with a dry sense
of humour. But he does not shy from talking tough. He has repeatedly said the
police do not have sufficient resources to investigate all those under
suspicion. In April he lashed out at the leaking of sensitive information to the
media.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Terror attacks: Prosecutions: Scottish police get new powers as 'turf war' looms

BYLINE: Severin Carrell, Scotland correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 266 words


Police in Scotland have been given extensive new powers of stop and search in
the wake of the attack on Glasgow airport, as a turf war over the fate of the
terror suspects threatened to sour relations between English and Scottish
ministers.

The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, granted the additional powers under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act, allowing all eight Scottish forces to stop any
person or vehicle, as police in Scotland made two further arrests and searched
more properties near the airport.

Legal sources said police and senior prosecutors in Scotland were coming under
intense pressure to hand over the three suspects arrested since Saturday's car
bomb attack to the Metropolitan police, rather than prosecute them in Scotland
under its separate legal system. Lawyers in Glasgow and Paisley said Scotland's
chief prosecutor, the lord advocate, Eilish Angiolini, and Scottish police
commanders were resisting the requests.

Observers believe the new Scottish nationalist administration will resist
attempts to stage a trial in London until any prosecutions in Scotland have been
completed. But a spokesman for Alex Salmond, the SNP first minister, refused to
be drawn on the dispute: "No one is going to touch these legal matters at a time
when police are still investigating the matter."

Even so, Mr Salmond, speaking on BBC Radio Scotland yesterday, distanced his
administration from calls for police to be given up to 90 days to question
terror suspects, compared to 28 days at present.

"We have not been persuaded about the necessity for that, as indeed other
parties haven't," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Terror attacks: Guardian Unlimited: UK terror attacks

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 35 words


* An interactive map and timeline of events

guardian.co.uk/interactive

* Comment from Jason Burke, Shami Chakrabati and others

guardian.co.uk/commentisfree

* All the latest developments as they happen

guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  July 3, 2007

Hospital at centre of terror attacks probe;
Common links to infirmary

BYLINE: CALUM MACDONALD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 755 words



HIGHLIGHT: INFIRMARY: Police block entrance

CONTROLLED BLAST: Equipment check

SUSPICIOUS CAR: On hospital grounds

NO ENTRY: Police cordoned off the entrances to the Royal Alexandra Hospital
while the building was being searched. Picture Jim Galloway

BLOCKED: Police at the scene in Sunningdale Grove, Newcastle-under-Lyme after a
terror raid.


NETWORK

A SCOTTISH hospital is now at the centre of the investigation into the attempted
terrorist attacks in London and Glasgow.

Previous investigations by the security services into suspected terrorist cells
have focused on mosques, universities and Islamic charitable organisations.
However, this time the common link appears to be a hospital.

For the second consecutive day yesterday the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley
was the subject of intense forensic examination.

As information began emerging yesterday about the men suspected of carrying out
the Glasgow Airport and London car bombs one detail stood out: around half of
the men are confirmed as doctors, and a further two had links to the Paisley
hospital.

One of the men alleged to be involved in the attack on Glasgow Airport was named
yesterday as Bilal Abdulla, an Iraqi who worked at the Royal Alexandra as a
locum doctor.

He was the passenger in the Jeep which was driven into the terminal building at
the airport, just two miles from the hospital. The Jeep managed to infiltrate
security by tailgating a taxi as it passed through the barrier.

According to the General Medical Council, Dr Abdulla graduated in Baghdad in
2004 and was working in a supervised NHS role.

It is thought Dr Abdulla was living in a house in Neuk Crescent, Houston,
Renfrewshire, which police officers raided early on Sunday.

A taxi driver told the BBC he recognised Dr Abdulla, who he claimed he had
driven to work from a house in Neuk Crescent to the hospital on a number of
occasions. He said: "He was just a regular man: we talked about hillwalking,
women, Rangers and Celtic, that kind of stuff."

Little else is known about Dr Abdulla, except that he first registered with the
General Medical Council in August 2005. He is being held in Govan Police Station
in Glasgow, but will be transferred to the high-security Paddington Green Police
Station in central London.

Even less is known at this stage about the driver of the Jeep, who suffered
90per cent burns during the airport attack and who is critically ill at the
Royal Alexandra, where he is being kept under armed police guard. In addition to
Dr Abdulla and the driver of the Jeep, a further two men, aged 25 and 28, were
detained from the staff quarters of the Royal Alexandra on Sunday night and are
now being held in Govan in connection with alleged offences under the Terrorism
Act.

Police would not comment on whether either of these two men, who are not
believed to be Scottish, were doctors at the hospital.

Nevertheless, the authorities did confirm yesterday that another of the
suspects, who was arrested along with his wife heading north on the M6 motorway
on Saturday, was also a doctor.

Dr Mohammed Asha, 26, who worked at North Staffordshire Hospital, in
Stoke-on-Trent, and lived in nearby Newcastle-underLyme.

Dr Asha, who is thought to be Palestinian, trained in Jordan and is being held
with his 27-year-old wife at Paddington Green.

It was reported last night that Dr Asha may at some point have worked from an
office within the accommodation block at the Royal Alexandra Hospital. That area
was cordoned off yesterday as bomb disposal officers carried out two controlled
detonations.

As well as Dr Asha and his wife, a third man is also being held at the The
26-year-old was arrested in the Lime Street area of Liverpool on Saturday
evening and is a doctor from Bangalore in India who works at Halton Hospital in
Cheshire, according to the Muslim News.

Latest developments

1 Glasgow International airport

June 30: Attack took place around 3.15pm

2 Neuk Cresent, Houston

July 1: Iraqi man, Bilal Abdulla suspected of Glasgow airport attack worked as a
doctor at Royal Alexandra and rented a house here. Another man also arrested.

3  Royal Alexandra Hospital, Paisley:

Huly 2: Two men aged 25 anbd 28 years believed to be junior doctors arrested.

4 M6 near Sandbach, Cheshire:

June 30: Jordanian Dr Mohammed Asha, 26, who worked as a junior doctor for North
Staffordshire Hospital, Stoke on Trent, was arrested along with his 27-year-old
wife.

5 Liverpool: July1: 26-year-old man arrested

6 Newcastle Under Lyme: July 1 and 2: Two homes were searched. Police closed off
Bradwell area not far from where Dr Asha lived.

was the subject of intense forensic examination.

As information began emerging yesterday about the men suspected of 5 Liverpool:
July 1: 26-year-old man arrested onedetail stood out: around half of the men are
confirmed as doctors, and a further two had links to the Paisley hospital.

One of the men alleged to be inv

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Key questions on the tactics of these terror attacks

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

LENGTH: 487 words


Why did the attacks fail?

Although the two London car bombs were rudimentary, depending on a lethal
mixture of petrol, gas canisters and nails, they could still have killed
hundreds. They were intended to be triggered by calls to mobile phones left in
the cars. Although the bombers rang the phones several times, the bombs failed
to go off. Did the calls fail to create the necessary detonation? The Glasgow
attack appears to have been a failed suicide bombing. The Jeep Cherokee that
smashed into the city's airport was set alight but the gas canisters inside
failed to ignite.

Why did the tactics differ in the two cities?

The failed London attacks were carefully planned. One theory is that the bomb in
Cockspur Street could have gone off after the Haymarket device, hitting people
fleeing the first explosion. The Glasgow attack seems more improvised. The
bombers could have hastily constructed a car bomb knowing the police net was
rapidly closing around them. They could also have decided to try to detonate the
bomb manually rather than by remote control following the London failures.

What were the links between the two?

The English and Scottish blasts were co-ordinated and probably timed to coincide
with the handover of power from Tony Blair to Gordon Brown. The plotters - all
thought to be foreign - appear to have been known to each other and-operating as
a cell. Police are establishing more and more links between them.

Were the alleged plotters previously known to police?

Detectives were last night questioning eight people in connection with the
attempted attacks. Most of them, including the doctors in custody, appear to
have been "clean skins" - unknown to police and not fitting the traditional
terrorist profile. There are suggestions that one of them had been questioned
but released during the investigation into Dhiren Barot, who was jailed this
year over a vehicle bomb plot including targets in London and the US.

What warnings had there been of planned attacks?

Although police were taken by surprise by the failed attacks, intelligence
chiefs had singled out the moment of the Blair-Brown handover as a prime target.
In April, the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre said it had no specific
intelligence about a planned atrocity, but warned about contacts between
al-Qa'ida operatives in Iran and British sympathisers. It concluded that an
attack could be in the offing, possibly timed to coincide with Mr Blair's
departure. Just hours before the London car bombs were left, a message appeared
on a Jihadi web-site, proclaiming: "Today I say: rejoice, by Allah, London shall
be bombed."

Were the attacks directed from abroad?

The evidence points in that direction and ministers have explicity blamed
"international terrorism". The suspects are all foreign and the failed attacks
bear the hallmarks of car bombs and suicide attacks that have become familiar in
parts of the Middle East, Iraq and Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Gordon Brown pledges to protect us from harm. But does he have a guilty
conscience?;
TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: DOMINIC LAWSON

LENGTH: 1159 words


What a marvellous stroke of luck for Gordon Brown that his first week in office
was marked by unsuccessful car bomb attacks in London and Glasgow. It's the sort
of thing an incoming Prime Minister could only dream about: no one was hurt or
injured, so there would be no great criticism of the security services. The
police can just get on with the job of detection, while Mr Brown can jut his
powerful jaw and make noble utterances about the great British character in
adversity.

In the days running up to Mr Brown's accession, the story was spun that there
would be no more spinning from 10 Downing Street. Who needs spin, when some of
the most incompetent would-be mass murderers ever to have been affiliated to
al-Qa'ida's cause are doing their inadvertent best to rally the British public
behind our new leader?

"PM defiant over al-Qa'ida threat" was the main headline on the BBC news website
throughout the weekend. On Monday, a headline in this newspaper declared "His
agenda has been torn apart, but the new PM is unshaken." Yes, it's true: the
announcement of Mr Brown's intention to abandon the remaining elements of the
Royal Prerogative - leaked to the press ahead of Parliament in the manner that
was supposed to have gone out with Blair - has had to wait a day or two. That is
a small price to pay - no price at all, in fact - for being able to say to
Andrew Marr on a Sunday morning: "We will not yield, we will not be intimidated.
It's very important that we, the British people, send a message to terrorists
that they will not be allowed to undermine our British way of life."

Some commentators have argued that Mr Brown's remarks were a splendid contrast
to the "showboating" style that Mr Blair would have employed in identical
circumstances. Yes, it's wonderful that we no longer have to put up with the
wobbly chin and the catch in the voice; but Mr Blair would have used almost
exactly the same words - with one exception. He would not have felt it necessary
to use the word "British" twice, entirely redundantly, in the same sentence; Mr
Brown, however, will never pass up an opportunity to parade his, and our,
Britishness - hardly surprising, since the greatest threat to his political
power is not Islamist extremism but Scottish separatism.

Mr Brown's words were noble in sentiment, of course, but sentiment is all it
amounts to. This was a classic illustration of the rule that all political
statements of which the opposite is unimaginable are essentially meaningless.
Try: "We will yield, we will be intimidated. We will allow this to undermine our
way of life."

The new Prime Minister also stated - and here he was saying something
significant - that the battle against Islamic extremism was similar to the fight
against Soviet Communism, and therefore required a similar approach. In one
sense he is absolutely right - in both cases there is a profound ideological
challenge to the Western notion of individual freedom. In another sense, I worry
that the analogy with the Cold War is dangerously misleading.

The Soviet Union really did have the capacity to destroy us, militarily. It had
occupied half of Europe, in effect imprisoning their populations in a military
garrison. The hugely spectacular annihilation of the World Trade Centre
convinced the US government that the fight against "terror" required a similar
military commitment on our part. The British government - and in this Mr Brown
does not seem to dissent from his predecessor - shared this view. That is why we
have thousands of troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, whose lives are in much more
immediate danger than those of their Cold War predecessors performing
interminable tank manoeuvres on the German plains.

The truth is, however, that we need to deal rhetorically with the sort of
Islamists who attempt to blow up West End night clubs as we dealt with the IRA:
above all, as criminals. First, that is what they are. Second, to behave
otherwise is to flatter them, to give them the status they crave. Tony Blair
seemed strangely desperate to emulate Margaret Thatcher's achievements as a war
leader - perhaps he was scarred by the hopeless experience of fighting a
by-election for Labour in the immediate aftermath of the Falklands war.

Yet one of Mrs Thatcher's greatest displays of resolve was her refusal to accede
to the IRA's demands that its men in the Maze prison be given political status.
At the time, it was thought that the deaths on the resultant hunger strike by
the likes of Bobby Sands were a great recruiting sergeant for the IRA. With the
indispensable benefit of hindsight, we can now see that Mrs Thatcher's victory
in that brutal stand-off was the moment when the more intelligent political
figures associated with the IRA began to accept that they would need to act
within the civil law to achieve their ultimate objectives.

In one sense, our military struggle in Afghanistan is intimately connected to
crime in Britain, but it seems, bizarrely in some respects, to be making matters
worse rather than better. I refer, of course, to opium. About 92 per cent of the
heroin arriving in this country now comes from Afghanistan - its highest ever
figure. Within that, the greatest increase in exports is from Helmand province -
where our boys are - which now exports more heroin than the rest of Afghanistan
put together. The Americans are gung-ho for destructive aerial spraying of the
poppy crop, but the British are concerned that this would alienate the
indigenous population still further. The Economist reported last week that US
officials are outraged that British troops at military checkpoints often turn a
blind eye when they find opium, apparently as a matter of policy.

So here we are: we take part in the occupation of Afghanistan, apparently to
safeguard the British people against the export of terror to our shores. Yet in
order not to alienate the Afghans still more by our military presence, we
encourage them in the export - heroin - which truly has the capacity to destroy
lives in this country, on a vast scale.

Thus it was that on his first day as Prime Minister, Gordon Brown presided over
the early release of 1,000 prisoners - many of them drug-dealers - purely in
order to make room for the next wave of heroin tradesmen. If you believe what
recent Home Secretaries have said in private, it was impossible to persuade
Gordon Brown to release the money necessary to build enough new prison places. I
couldn't help laughing when I heard Jack Straw on the radio furiously defending
the Government's decision to give each of the early-release prisoners £200 from
the taxpayer, on the grounds that not to do so would inevitably result in many
more robberies and burglaries.

Mr Brown has not so far been willing to comment, nobly or otherwise, on this
threat to our everyday lives - even though to the vast majority it is a more
immediate anxiety than being blown up by al-Qa'ida. Perhaps it's because he's
got a guilty conscience.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

You don't wash a car on a Saturday morning;
TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: MARY DEJEVSKY

LENGTH: 773 words


There was a time, before the programme became as contrived as it is now, when I
enjoyed watching Wife Swap. The appeal lay not just in the prurient glimpses
behind the net curtain of other people's lives, but in the subtle give-aways
about class, wealth and education that lurked in every clip.

There was a third attraction, too: the infinitely mysterious dynamic of other
people's marriages - and the thought of how many tiny details evolve into one
all-embracing normality. How could someone else, I liked to muse, figure out in
a week exactly how and when my husband liked his tea, how the heating should be
programmed, and the disconcerting reality that any ice-cream in the freezer will
be gone tomorrow unless you expressly forbid its consumption.

He would doubtless have a similar list of eclectic instructions about getting
along with me, which might include "don't talk to her before she's had her
coffee which, by the way, she likes just so". And "don't dare tear anything out
of the paper before she's read it". Our respective substitutes would have to
master hundreds of these minutiae before they could even approach doing a
reasonable job.

Perhaps we are both just flattering ourselves about our irreplaceability.
Somehow, though, I think there is more to the observation of mundane details.
Consider for a moment what some residents of Houston, a commuter village in
Renfrewshire, have said about their neighbours - two men believed to be among
those arrested in connection with the car bomb at Glasgow airport. One
observation, which might seem banal, is that one of the men was seen washing his
car - a large 4x4 - outside the house at 8am on a Saturday. You do not have to
live in suburbia very long to know that cars are washed in late morning or early
afternoon, not at a time that would be early even for breakfast at the weekend.
There's no reason why someone should not wash their car at that time - this is
not the United States, where a community by-law might well outlaw such
non-conformity - but it is just not what most people do. People notice, and
remember.

Another observation is that the two men seemed to drive a variety of cars. It is
not uncommon for suburban households to have two, or even three, cars. But if
they do, the cars will usually be parked on the driveway or outside, and each
will mostly be driven by one person. Cars tend not to be pooled, except in an
emergency. The notion that these neighbours had four or more different cars at
their disposal - cars that were not regularly parked outside their house - set
them apart. Again, it might have been remarked on at the time as curious rather
than malign, but it is something that people remembered.

A third detail is so typically neighbourly as to elicit a wry smile. On one
occasion, a car was left parked outside the men's house with its headlamps on.
Someone helpfully knocked on the door to let them know. Instead of being met
with heartfelt thanks, personal introductions and pleasantries about the price
of car batteries, the neighbour felt that his intervention was unwelcome. It was
not the expected response; it lingered in the memory.

Something similar could be said of the late-night visitors in expensive cars.
Junior hospital doctors working shifts might indeed leave and return at strange
times of the day or night. They might invite friends back with them. And there
have been occasions when, after misjudging the distance or getting caught in an
epic traffic jam, I have driven to a friend's house in the early hours.

But in places where few car doors are heard closing after 10pm during the
working week, such things are noticed. If they happen more than once or twice,
and if the cars are easily recog-nised, such minutiae are filed away in people's
memories.

It is only with the benefit of hindsight and a dramatic prompt, such as the
Glasgow bomb, that people unlock their memories and impose a bigger picture on
the fragments of their observations. Until then, in their very British
don't-like-to-pry way, they have contented themselves with thinking the
neighbours just a little odd. That is normal.

The risk now is that we will all be twitching at our curtains, mobiles pre-set
to dial 999 the instant the man next door decides, just for the heck of it, to
wash his car at 8am. That does not make him a criminal (unless a hosepipe ban is
in force) nor a terrorist in training. Keep your eyes open, by all means. But
think twice before shopping your neighbour. Distinguishing the normal from
abnormal is not as easy as it looks. One episode of Wife Swap will be enough to
establish how strangely other people live their lives.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                        July 3, 2007 Tuesday 8:06 AM BST

POLICE SEARCH CAR LINKED TO TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Lucinda Cameron and Beverley Rouse, PA

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 604 words


Controlled explosions were carried out today on a vehicle linked to the car bomb
attacks on Glasgow Airport and London.

The operation took place outside the Forth Street Mosque in Glasgow, which was
cordoned off by police.

Details of the car emerged during the investigations in the wake of the weekend
terrorist attack.

A number of controlled explosions were carried out by the bomb disposal squad on
the vehicle in the early hours of the morning.

It is understood the blasts were used to allow police to gain access to the car.

It was removed from the scene this morning and will undergo a forensic search.

The mosque is in the Pollokshields area of Glasgow's south side, which has a
large Asian population.

Superintendent Stewart Daniels, of Strathclyde Police, told BBC Radio Scotland:
``The car was found to be in the car park of a mosque.

``There's absolutely no specific information to indicate that this vehicle is a
threat, however we have been working very closely over the past few days with
the bomb squad.

``They are out at present, firstly just to ensure that the vehicle is not a
threat, and secondly to secure any forensic evidence that the vehicle may
contain.

``The mosque itself has no link to this incident.''

Mr Daniels said police obtained intelligence about the suspect car as part of
the wider investigation into the terror attacks.

He said: ``This is a very fast-moving operation. There are many, many strands of
inquiry and every strand of the investigation tends to lead to many more.

``A number of premises have been investigated and a number of cars.

``This vehicle was just one of those that came to light in the investigation and
we are now carrying out a full forensic investigation of it.''

Members of the Forth Street Mosque were at prayer when officers arrived on the
scene last night to investigate the car.

Police decided to wait until prayers were finished before investigating the car
as there was no immediate threat.

There had been no need to evacuate the surrounding area as the vehicle did not
pose a threat to the local community.

Mr Daniels said: ``Police always try to be very sensitive to the needs of the
community.

``When this vehicle came to light last night prayers were still ongoing but
there was no immediate threat so the prayers were allowed to continue.''

The Explosives Ordinance Disposal carried out a controlled explosion on the
vehicle at around 5am this morning and police will now examine the vehicle for
forensic evidence.

Mr Daniels added that there was no direct link between the vehicle and the
mosque.

He said: ``It is important to stress that there is nothing to link the mosque
with any aspect of this ongoing incident.

``However, we will be making inquiries to try and find out the recent history of
the car and try and find out why it ended up where we found it.

``We are anticipating further contact with the mosque and we are in regular
contact with them.''

Local Muslims were left shocked by the incident just yards from their homes.

Mohammed Shamin, 40, uses the mosque regularly.

He said: ``At 6.30am I went to the shops to buy a paper and saw lots of police
here.

``I go to the mosque myself and it is a big shock because we live right in the
heart of the local community. We are so worried by everything that is
happening.''

Nawaz Khan said: ``The mosque car park is open to anyone and could be used by
non-mosque users.''

He said: ``Anybody can park their car in the car park so it could belong to
anybody.

``I've been living here for the last 20 years and I've never seen anything like
this. It's terrible and we don't know what's going to happen next. It could be
anything.''

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Terror attacks won't beat us

SECTION: THE BIG ISSUE; DEAR SUN; LETTER

LENGTH: 469  words


LIFE in Scotland changed forever at the weekend when an attempted attack on
Glasgow Airport was foiled. For the first time, Scotland had become a target for
the terrorists. Readers denounced the violence, revealed their shock at the
attack and vowed not to be beaten.

£ 50 letter. THE attack on Glasgow Airport was appalling - the only good part
was that there was no loss of innocent lives.

The attack means the terrorists have widened their target area from London -
that means no one knows where the next atrocity will be.

But we must not let this threat affect how we go about our everyday lives.

If we are due to go on holiday, we must still go. If we want a night out, we
should still have one.

We must show these people that we can't be beaten and that, ultimately, their
terror tactics will fail.

ALAN McCAIN

Edinburgh

I WAS at the airport on Saturday and really feared there would be terrible loss
of life. But the police and airport staff were brilliant.

Fortunately my family arrived safely and I am glad there were no civilian
casualties. I was shocked that the terror campaign had come to Scotland but,
like London, we must show we can rise above it and carry on with our lives.

JAMES KENNEDY

Cumbernauld

IT is outrageous that terrorists could target innocent people at Glasgow
Airport.

Every effort must be made to crack down on the organisers of these attacks.

LINDA CARTER

Edinburgh

I'D like to say well done to the brave people who intercepted the two men who
tried to blow up and kill people at Glasgow Airport.

If it wasn't for their selfless behaviour many could have been killed or
injured.

NAME AND ADDRESS SUPPLIED

HOW close we came to one of the worst terrorist atrocities in modern times. God,
and luck, must both have played their hands on Black Saturday.

CONNIE BLYTH

Edinburgh

JUNE 30 will always be a very sad day in Scottish history - for the first time
in centuries Scotland has become a target for acts of terrorism.

During the IRA terror campaign Scotland was not considered a target. However,
Tony Blair and the Labour Party's support for the war in Iraq has made Scotland
a prime target.

It is only by good fortune that hundreds were not killed and maimed at Glasgow
Airport.

DONALD J. MORRISON

Portknockie, Banffshire

THE attack was awful, but we must not allow a sort of vigilante attitude to
creep in. Not all Muslims are to blame. Most live in peace in our country. We
must remember that.

DAVID BRYAN

Aberdeen

I WAS stunned as I watched the events of Saturday unfold. I was so glad no one
was killed. Scotland may now be in the firing line, but these terrorists will
find we can't be beaten.

STEVE REYNOLDS

Paisley

I CAN'T understand anyone hating strangers so much they could try to blow them
up, but I do know these people won't stop Scotland being the beautiful country
it has always been.

CARLA HARRIS

Aberdeen

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             July 3, 2007, Tuesday

Brown's leadership rating soars in poll after terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 670 words


* Results suggest Tories' 14-month lead is over

* Labour advance fuels talk of early election

Gordon Brown has got off to a flying start as Prime Minister with his poll
ratings as a leader and for strength soaring after his handling of the terrorist
attacks.

A new Populus poll for The Times confirms the strength of the "Brown bounce", in
contrast to a decline in David Cameron's leader rating.

Labour has gained four points to 37 per cent since early last month and the
Tories are down two points at 34 per cent. The Liberal Democrats are up one
point at 18 per cent and other parties down three points at 11 per cent. This is
in line with two other recent polls and suggests that the sustained Conservative
lead has ended after 14 months.

The Labour advance has fuelled talk of an early election, but Mr Brown has
dismissed such speculation. He wants to establish his new Government and is
likely to be cautious.

The danger for Mr Brown is that such a sharp rise in his and Labour's ratings
cannot be sustained. The key then will be whether Labour can still stay ahead of
the Tories. Although the questions were finalised before the terrorist attacks,
the interviews were conducted after the London car bombs and were halfway
through when the Glasgow attack occurred.

The number of voters regarding Mr Brown as strong has jumped by 14 points to 77
per cent over the past month. This compares with 43 per cent seeing Mr Cameron
as strong, up by six points since early June.

The proportion saying that Mr Brown has what it takes to be a good Prime
Minister has risen by 16 points to 57 per cent, compared with 37 per cent for Mr
Cameron (up four points). Only 31 per cent say that they would rather have Mr
Cameron as prime minister than Mr Brown, and 52 per cent disagree.

Mr Brown's rating on the Populus leader index has jumped sharply since early May
from 5.00 up to 5.49 (on a scale of 0 to 10). This is the second highest since
the index was created in February 2003, being exceeded only by Mr Blair's 5.75
in May 2003 immediately after the fall of Baghdad. Mr Brown gained entirely
among non-Labour voters because his rating among Labour supporters has slipped
slightly since May, from 6.96 to 6.88.

Mr Cameron's leader rating has declined for the third consecutive month, down
from 4.95 to a new low of 4.81. Among Tory voters his rating has picked up a
little since May, from 6.54 to 6.65.

The initial public response to the Brown Government is pretty positive, with 82
per cent being hopeful that Mr Brown's team "will really get to grips with the
most important issues facing Britain". There is, however, an even split (42 to
42 per cent) on whether Mr Brown has "succeeded in bringing freshness and a
sense of change and renewal to the Labour Government".

Mr Brown's decision to include outsiders as Lords ministers to show that he is
creating "a government of all the talents" is seen as improving the way Britain
is governed by 46 per cent, making it worse by 7 per cent, and no difference by
40 per cent.

A third (35 per cent) say that it will help to restore voters' confidence in
politics, 9 per cent damage it and 49 per cent make no difference.

Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,504 adults aged over 18 by telephone
between June 29 and July 1. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to be representative of all adults. Populus is a
member of the British Polling Council. For more details go to
populuslimited.com.

Leaders head to head

Brown versus Cameron

percentage saying phrase is true of (change since early last month in brackets)

Brown Cameron

Strong 77 (plus 14) 43 (plus 6)

Has what it takes to be a good prime minister 57 (plus 16) 37 (plus 4)

Sticks to what he believes and doesn't give in to pressure 66 (plus 9) 39 (plus
4)

Leader index on a 0 to 10 scale

Jan 06 May 06 Jul 06 Sept 06 Jan 07 May 07 Jul 07

Cameron 5.28 5.11 4.98 5.20 5.11 4.95 4.81

Blair 5.33 4.72 4.21 4.63 4.69 5.22

Brown 5.00 5.49

Source: Populus for The Times, based on interviews June 29 to July 1

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                   UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is York

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday

Police patrols stepped up after terror attacks

BYLINE: Helen Gabriel

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 323 words

DATELINE: York Press


POLICE in York are continuing to step up security after a series of terrorist
attacks.

Extra officers patrolled the streets of the city yesterday as police urged
people to be vigilant.

A North Yorkshire Police spokesman said: "Following the suspected terrorist
incidents in London and Glasgow, every police force in the country has been put
on a heightened security alert due to the potential for further attacks.

"In line with the national police response, North Yorkshire Police has stepped
up high-visibility patrols throughout the county, particularly in places that
could be vulnerable such busy shopping areas, public transport links and popular
night spots.

"The increased policing activity is to ensure that the public are kept safe and
that they feel safe - these are our utmost priorities.

"However, we want to reassure people that no specific terrorist threat has been
made to North Yorkshire or the City of York, although we are urging people to be
extra vigilant at this time."

The Press told yesterday how armed police had been patrolling the streets of
York amid heightened national security.

Officers armed with MP5 guns were brought in from Thirsk and were out in force
in several areas of the city - including York Minster.

The move came after two car bombs were discovered in the West End of London on
Friday and a jeep containing gas cylinders was driven into Glasgow Airport.

The spokesman added: "If you see any suspicious behaviour or activity, do not
hesitate to dial 999 to alert North Yorkshire Police.

"Information and observations can also be passed to the Anti-Terrorist Hotline
0800 789321.

"It is vital that all of our communities pull together to help defeat
terrorism."

* A York bank was evacuated - after a forgetful customer left a bag of shopping
behind. Staff at Lloyds TSB in Parliament called the police and evacuated the
branch shortly after 3.20pm yesterday when they found the "suspect" package.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PC Kelly McTighe, left, and PCSO Nikki Smith by York Minster

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             July 3, 2007, Tuesday
                                 WMail Edition

Anti-terror net was closing justbefore attack on airport

BYLINE: Ceri Williams Western Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1026 words


Three more held by police investigating bomb attacks

THREE more people were being questioned last night by detectives investigating
car bomb attacks on Glasgow Airport and London.

Two men, aged 28 and 25, were arrested after "intensive police operations" in
Paisley, Strathclyde Police said. Another man was arrested at an undisclosed
location, Scotland Yard said.

It emerged yesterday that the net was closing in on the two men in the Jeep as
they made their final preparations for the airport attack.

The arrests bring to eight the total number of people held over the weekend
attacks that brought terror back to Britain.

Meanwhile detectives in London have been given until Saturday to question three
people being held at Paddington Green police station.

At least two of those being held by counter-terrorist police are working as
doctors in the UK, police sources said.

Bilal Abdulla was named tonight as one of two men who drove a flaming Jeep
loaded with gas canisters into the arrivals hall at Glasgow Airport.

The Iraqi doctor was working at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley, near
Glasgow Airport, which was at the centre of a massive police search last night.

A second doctor being held is Mohammed Asha, 26, of Newcastle-under-Lyme,
Staffordshire, who was arrested in a dramatic police swoop on the M6 motorway.
Dr Asha, who trained in Jordan, is being held with his 27-year-old wife at
Paddington Green police station.

The third man at the high-security central London police station was arrested in
the Lime Street area of Liverpool on Saturday evening.

The 26-year-old is a doctor from Bangalore in India who works at Halton Hospital
in Cheshire, according to the Muslim News.

A colleague told the newspaper the doctor may have been detained because he was
using the mobile phone and internet account of another man who has left the UK.

At the Royal Alexandra Hospital yesterday a controlled explosion was detonated
by bomb squad officers. The small blast took place in the area of doctors'
quarters close to the main hospital building yesterday.

Armed police are guarding the driver of the Jeep Cherokee at the hospital after
he suffered life- threatening burns in the attack.

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith told the Commons yesterday hat 19 addresses have now
been searched as part of the fast-moving inquiry. She said, "It is through our
unity that the terrorists will eventually be defeated.

"The fact that people have been prepared to go about their lives as normally as
possible this weekend sends the strongest message to those who wish to destroy
our way of life and our freedoms that we will not be intimidated by terror."

Assistant Chief Constable John Malcolm of Strathclyde Police urged people to
remain vigilant.

He said, "This continues to be a fast-moving investigation and I am grateful to
the public for their perseverance and support during these difficult times."

The UK remains on a "critical" state of terror alert - the highest possible -
meaning an attack is believed to be imminent.

Prime Minister Gordon Brown held talks with senior ministers yesterday and the
emergency Cobra committee met.

It emerged yesterday that just 10 minutes prior to the attack on Glasgow airport
detectives tried to contact the agency that let a property to one of the men in
the village of Houston, near Glasgow Airport.

Letting agent Daniel Gardiner revealed officers traced his company after
tracking phone records linked to the foiled London car bomb attacks. Mr Gardiner
said, "The police wanted to know why we had dialled a certain phone number. They
had the phone records from the situation down in London.

"We had made a phone call in regard to the tenant at that house. We could find
no record of contacting that number but the police had got detailed phone
analysis."

His comments add weight to the theory that mobile phones left in the London car
bombs have been used to trace other potential members of the terrorist cell.

The mobile phones may also have been intended to act as detonators for the two
crude devices.

The police investigation into the terrorist attacks has progressed at remarkable
speed since the early hours of Friday morning. A Mercedes containing petrol, gas
cylinders and nails was found outside a nightclub in London's Haymarket -
another was discovered in a nearby street.

Officers gleaned crucial clues from the vehicles themselves, CCTV footage and
congestion charge cameras that record vehicle movements in the city.

Peter Clarke, head of Scotland Yard's Counter Terrorism Command, has travelled
to Glasgow where he said the investigation is changing hourly.

He said the links between the three attempted car bombings were becoming ever
clearer in the extremely fast-moving inquiry.

Police have also carried out searches at North Staffordshire Hospital, in
Stoke-on-Trent, where Dr Asha worked.

Searches were also undertaken in Newcastle-under- Lyme, north Staffordshire, two
addresses in Liverpool and the village of Houston, near Glasgow Airport.

Meanwhile it emerged last night that US law enforcement officials received
intelligence reports two weeks ago which warned of a possible terror attack in
Glasgow against "airport infrastructure or aircraft", according to reports.

An unnamed senior official told ABC News in the US that the intelligence led to
the assignment of federal air marshals to flights into and out of both Glasgow
and Prague in the Czech Republic.

US Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff declined to comment on the
report, but told ABC News that "everything that we get is shared virtually
instantaneously with our counterparts in Britain and vice versa."

But Strathclyde Police chief constable Willie Rae said during a press conference
after the incident on Saturday, "There was no prior intelligence to suggest that
Scotland was going to be the target of a terror attack."

A spokesman for the Scottish Executive maintained that position last night.

Last night police closed parts of Stansted airport for 90 minutes while bomb
disposers checked a suspect bag left near the main entrance which they found not
to be dangerous. One man was arrested and was being held - but not on suspicion
of terror offences.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            July 4, 2007, Wednesday

REVENGE FEAR AFTER SHOP IS ATTACKED;
TERROR TARGET SCOTLAND

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 222 words


THUGS drove a car into an Asian newsagent's and torched it in what is feared to
have been a revenge attack for the Glasgow airport plot.

The shop was reduced to a burnt-out shell by the blaze early yesterday.

Shafiq Ahmed has owned the business for almost 10 years and had no previous
problems.

The father-of-four said: "It is frightening.

"We received a phone call from one of our neighbours, telling us that a car had
crashed into our shop. The car was embedded right in the shop and went up in
flames.

"I don't know if this was a revenge attack. It is a very awkward question and I
don't want to answer that."

Shafiq was born in Pakistan but has lived in Scotland nearly all his life. He
said: "It is a great community and I am a part of it. I don't why anyone would
do this."

Margaret Watson, 66, who lives opposite the shop in the Riddrie area of Glasgow,
said: "Shafiq is well known and well liked.

"It is frightening that someone could do something like this. It is such a shame
because this was an innocent man's livelihood."

Tarpaulin covered the crime scene yesterday as police stood guard. It is
understood the Nissan car involved had been stolen.

A police spokesman said there had been a lot of vandalism and break-ins in the
area.

He added: "There is no evidence to suggest that the attack is linked to the
events at Glasgow Airport."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday

Terror attacks: The conspiracy: Mastermind based abroad suspected of guiding
plot: Two men held at Glasgow believed to be behind failed London car bombs

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell and Severin Carrell and Helen Carter and Barbara McMahon
and Karen McVeigh and Hugh Muir and Richard Norton-Taylor and Alexandra Topping
and Alan Travis

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 822 words


The plot to mount car bomb attacks in Britain was hatched outside the UK, with
the doctors allegedly involved linked to a ringleader or mastermind abroad,
counter-terrorism officials believe. One theory is that the alleged plot was
orchestrated by one or two jihadists who infiltrated the NHS and indoctrinated
others.

It emerged last night that investigators suspect that the two men caught at
Glasgow airport trying to ram a Jeep into the terminal building were also behind
the failed attempt to detonate two car bombs in central London last Friday.

Sources also suggested that all known members of the cell had been accounted
for. "There is not a huge manhunt," one well-placed official said. Though the
terrorist threat level remains at "critical" there were indications that it
would soon be downgraded to "severe", meaning an attack is highly likely but not
imminent.

All eight people arrested have links with the NHS - seven are doctors or medical
students and one worked as a laboratory technician. All entered the UK legally.

Intelligence sources last night declined to say where the "guiding hand" or
mastermind behind the plot was based. It is likely, given the dates on which
some of the suspects entered Britain, that the plot was hatched a year ago, or
even earlier.

Though MI5 insists none of the suspects arrested in connection with the plot
were under surveillance, the mobile phones detectives recovered from the
would-be car bombs contained details that matched material on the security
service database. Counter-terrorism officials say data from the phones and email
traffic was checked on the database used by MI5, MI6 and GCHQ, the government's
eavesdropping centre. Connections were found linking that information and
communications abroad, which enabled the police and security services to speed
up their investigations in Britain.

"This linkage allowed the police to move quickly," said a source. The foreign
intercepts included talk of jihad, an official added. Counter-terrorism
officials say the links between members of the British-based cell were via the
foreign intercepts. It is believed, for example, that Mohamed Haneef, the doctor
arrested at Brisbane airport, had long conversations with one of the suspects
arrested in Britain.

Security and intelligence sources said yesterday that no link had yet been made
between the failed bomb attacks and al-Qaida. However, they say al-Qaida's
tactics are more flexible than they were at the time of the 9/11 attacks and
that their sympathisers are increasingly left to decide for themselves the means
of attack.

Anti-terrorist officials suggested yes terday that the use of car bombs was a
response to warnings to farmers and suppliers fertiliser - the favoured
ingredient of previous terror plots - to report suspicious demands for large
quantities of the product. The bombers turned to the more easily obtainable fuel
and propane gas. The fact that the attacks were bungled suggests the
perpetrators did not have the same expertise as British bombers, many of whom
were trained in Pakistan.

Separate sources say the attack on Glasgow's airport terminal was intended as a
suicide car bombing. It was the first time such an attack had been attempted in
Britain. One source said the attack happened as the terrorists felt the police
were closing in on them: "They felt the police were on to them; it was a bit of
a panic attack."

It emerged yesterday that all three suspects arrested in Scotland after the
Glasgow attack, including the alleged passenger of the Jeep Cherokee used in the
attack, a hospital doctor called Bilal Abdulla, were secretly transferred to
Paddington Green high security police station in London on Monday night.

The driver of the car, Lebanese doctor Khalid Ahmed, is in a critical condition
at the Royal Alexandra hospital in Paisley with severe burns. The decision to
transfer the other suspects, two men thought to be Saudi trainee doctors working
at the hospital in Paisley, was taken on Monday afternoon by the head of the
Scottish prosecution service, Eilish Angiolini, QC.

One of the men arrested in Scotland told police he had left a hired car in the
car park at Forth Road mosque. Early yesterday morning police bomb disposal
experts carried out a series of controlled explosions on the silver Vauxhall
Vectra. It was then taken away for forensic examination.

In a separate development, two Asian men were being questioned by detectives in
Lancashire last night after they were arrested on a Blackburn industrial estate
following a reported delivery of around 10 large gas canisters.

Passengers at Heathrow were delayed for up to five hours yesterday after an
alert caused by a suspect package, which proved to be a false alarm.

Simon Jenkins, page 29 >=

guardian.co.uk/terrorism

Reporting team

Duncan Campbell, Severin Carrell, Helen Carter, Barbara McMahon, Karen McVeigh,
Hugh Muir, Richard Norton-Taylor, Alexandra Topping and Alan Travis

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday

Terror attacks: NHS vetting: Hospitals rule out extra checks on foreign recruits

BYLINE: Sarah Boseley, Health editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 531 words


No extra vetting of overseas doctors and medical students was being contemplated
yesterday by hospitals or the Department of Health in spite of reports linking
the recent terrorist car bomb attacks to health service staff.

The Department of Health insisted vetting was the business of the employers,
namely the hospitals offering short-term contracts to overseas doctors. The
employers said the checks already in place are extensive.

The vetting, however, focuses on medical qualifications, identity and the
applicant's criminal record. There is little scope for picking up
radicalisation, militancy or revolutionary tendencies.

The NHS Employers said in a statement that hospital management teams "carry out
rigorous checks before they appoint any member of staff, including verifica tion
of identity, qualifications, registration and eligibility to work in the UK. The
nature of their work means that staff are dealing with people who are vulnerable
and we need to be confident that patients are safe".

But there was clear unease at the idea of singling out the overseas doctors for
new scrutiny. There are more than 80,000 in Britain.

"While doing all they can to prevent unsuitable people taking up employment in
the NHS, employers also have a duty to look after the rights of their staff and
this includes not discriminating against employees in any way on the grounds of
their religion or belief," said the statement.

The General Medical Council registers every doctor who comes to work in the UK
after establishing that their qualifications are equivalent to a British medical
degree. The GMC will be the employers' first port of call. Other checks include
establishing the identity of the applicant, usually by seeing a passport, and
taking up references from their place of training and work abroad.

Since April last year, junior doctors from overseas have had to obtain a visa to
work in a training job in the UK - a requirement brought in to reduce numbers
and give priority to applicants from Europe, which has caused serious bad
feeling among overseas doctors.

They can also apply, in competition with doctors in the UK and Europe, for
places under the Highly Skilled Migrant Programme.

Criminal record checks are mandatory. "It is good practice for an employer to
carry out a CRB check even if an applicant claims never to have lived in the UK
and a police check in that person's country of origin," said NHS Employers. "We
would expect an employer to ask a doctor who is being appointed from overseas to
bring their own evidence of police clearance in their home country."

But the NHS is a huge organisation and some people within it are very mobile,
notably locum doctors, who take temporary jobs filling in for staff on leave.
There have been cases of histories of bad practice by locum doctors not being
passed on to a new employer.

Junior hospital doctors are also constantly on the move, taking a succession of
six-month contracts in jobs offering experience and training at different
hospitals in order eventually to try to gain a specialist position.

NHS Employers advises that hospital trusts should repeat their criminal bureau
checks on all junior doctors every three years.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday

Terror attacks: Family say arrested couple were not extremists: The Jordanian
connection

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 335 words


As the questioning of Mohammed Asha and his wife, Marwa, continued yesterday,
their arrests on the M6 motorway in Cheshire on Saturday prompted incredulity
among those who knew them 2,000 miles away in Jordan.

Her family denied she had links to terrorism. "Marwa is a very educated person
and she read many British novels to know England better, a country she liked so
much," her father, Yunis Da'na said.

He said events of the past two days had caused pain and confusion. All attempts
to contact his daughter - a laboratory assistant - since her arrest had failed.
"I'm so worried about Marwa, Mohammed and my grandson, Anas," he told the
Associated Press.

The Jordanian authorities also voiced surprise about the arrest of Dr Asha, 26.
They said he had no intelligence record or previous criminal background in
Jordan.

Dr Asha's brother Ahmed also sought to defend his 26-year-old sibling, saying he
"is not a Muslim extremist, and he's not a fanatic". Family pictures show that
Dr Asha has grown a fuller beard during his time working in the UK.

However, Azmi Mahafzah, Dr Asha's instructor at the University of Jordan medical
school, said he knew him throughout his studies and during his training from
1998 to 2004 and never gained the impression that he was particularly religious.
"He has no prejudices. He is not a fanatic type of person," he said. "I wouldn't
believe that he would risk a very bright future in medicine for going into such
things." Aseel al-Omari, another colleague of Dr Asha's in Amman, said she had
known him for a decade and that they both attended a school for gifted students.
She said the school, founded 14 years ago by Jordan's Queen Noor to promote
religious tolerance, was mixed - a rarity in Jordan's conservative Muslim
society.

"All I can say about his personality over this time is that he was an ambitious
medical student looking for success in his career," she said. "He had liberal
thinking. . . . He was a good Muslim but never a terrorist or involved in such
activities."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday

Terror attacks: The Australian connection: Suspect arrested at Brisbane airport
used to be doctor at NHS hospital in Liverpool

BYLINE: Barbara McMahon, Brisbane and Maseeh Rahman, Delhi and Helen Carter and
Duncan Campbell

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 719 words


A former NHS doctor was being questioned in Brisbane last night as the car-bomb
terrorist investigation was extended to Australia.

Mohamed Haneef, a 27-year-old Indian-born doctor who had worked at Halton
hospital in Liverpool until 2005, was detained at Brisbane airport late on
Monday night as he was about to board a flight to India and was held in custody
overnight. He had bought a one-way ticket to New Delhi via Malaysia.

He worked at the same hospital as Sabeel Ahmed, one of the suspects who was
arrested in Liverpool at the weekend in connection with the car bomb plot.
Reports in Australia suggest authorities there were alerted about Dr Haneef by
UK sources after he was linked to a mobile phone connected to one of the
suspects.

Australian police commissioner Mick Keelty said: "We are alleging that Dr Haneef
was connected to a terrorist group."

In India, his family were adamant that he would not have been involved in any
plot. "My son cannot be involved in the terror plot," his mother told an Indian
news television channel. "He is an extremely God-fearing boy."

His sister added: "He looked after me after our father's death. He was too happy
a person to be involved in such a thing."

Australian police have now searched Dr Haneef's apartment and removed a
computer.

His workplace area at the Gold Coast hospital in Southport was also inspected by
detectives as colleagues expressed their surprise at his detention. Speaking
outside the apartment block where Dr Haneef rented his one-bedroom flat, his
landlord, Steve Bosher, said the doctor had been living there with his wife but
she had returned to India earlier this year. It is understood she gave birth to
a child about 10 days ago.

"I never saw him with anyone, he was very quiet," said Mr Bosher.

According to the Queensland Medical Practitioners register, Dr Haneef graduated
from the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences in India in 2002 and started
work at the Gold Coast hospital on September 4 last year as a junior doctor.

He was appointed after responding to a recruitment advertisement in the British
Medical Journal and was being sponsored by the Queensland Medical Authority.

He has been working under Australia's 457 visa programme which allows migrant
workers to come to the country for temporary employment when vacancies cannot be
filled locally.

A second foreign-born doctor, who also arrived in Australia from Liverpool and
was not named, was released last night. Mr Keelty said: "He is free to go. There
is nothing there to charge that person."

Andrew Schwartz, president of the Australian Doctors Trained Overseas
Association, said it was perfectly normal for foreign-born doctors to be
recruited to work in Australia, saying that of the country's 50,000 doctors,
20,000 were foreign-born. "The public health system would absolutely collapse
without them," he said.

A spokeswoman for Halton hospital in Runcorn, Cheshire, confirmed that two of
the doctors who were arrested during the anti-terror raids in Liverpool and
Australia had both worked there.

"I can confirm that Mohamed Haneef, who was arrested in Brisbane, worked at
Halton hospital," said the spokeswoman. "He was a locum registrar there until
2005. The suspect who was arrested in Liverpool worked across Warrington
hospital and Halton hospitals." The second arrested man has not yet been named.

In Bangalore, where his family now lives, Dr Haneef was described as "quiet by
nature but academically brilliant".

A neighbour, Shameer Ahmed, told the Times of India that, as a child, he
attended a state Urdu-speaking school in Mudigere, a small town around 190 miles
west of Bangalore in the Chikmagalur district of the southern state of
Karnataka.

His father, Abdul Sami Khalil, who was a teacher, died in a road accident eight
years ago, and the family then moved to Bangalore. After studying in high school
at Mudigere, Dr Haneef took his pre-university certification course at SDM
College at Ujire in the neighbouring Dakshina Kannada district.

He did his medical training at Dr BR Ambedkar Medical College which is
affiliated to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, graduating in 2002.
According to the university registrar yesterday, he was a very impressive
student in his early years studying medicine but his results were less
impressive in his later years.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday

Terror attacks: Anti terror measures: Alternative to control orders may top new
agenda

BYLINE: Alan Travis, Home affairs editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 316 words


Detailed proposals of new anti-terror measures are to be published within the
next three weeks and could include an alternative to the controversial control
orders used to restrict the movements of terrrorist suspects.

Counter-terrorism minister Tony McNulty indicated yesterday that Home Office
officials are taking a imore rigorous looki at whether it is possible within the
law to deal with terror suspects against whom there is not enough evidence to
bring a criminal prosecution.

The government is to launch a legal appeal in the House of Lords tomorrow to
save the existing system of control orders following a series of high court
rulings that its more stringent conditions, including 18-hour curfews, amount to
a deprivation of liberty under human rights law.

The anti-terror consultation paper, to be published before parliament's summer
recess, was planned ahead of last week- end's attempted bombings.

Gordon Brown and the new home secretary, Jacqui Smith, who have been praised by
civil liberty groups for resisting ia kneejerk rush to the statute booki hope
the consultation paper, followed by draft clauses to be scrutinised by MPs and
peers before the legislation is published,

will build a cross-party consensus. Most of the measures are expected to prove
uncontroversial. They include:

i the introduction of post-charge questioning in terrorist cases, with the rider
that a refusal to answer questions could be used to infer guilt at a later stage

i enhanced sentences for those convicted of ordinary criminal offences but which
are connected to terrorism

i monitoring conditions after release from prison of convicted terrorists
similar to those facing sex off enders

i new data-sharing powers among the police and intelligence agencies, including
a statutory basis for the police counterterrorist DNA database

i privy council review of the use of intercept and phonetap evidence in court.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday

Terror attacks: Community reaction: Muslims must help police more, leaders urge:
Terrorists are enemies of us all, says MCB chief Comments signal policy of
closer cooperation

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 256 words


Britain's most influential Muslim umbrella group yesterday signalled a
significant shift in policy as it urged its communities to play a key and
potentially decisive role in the fight against terrorism.

Declaring that icondemnation is not enoughi, leaders of the Muslim Council of
Britain, which has 400 affiliate organisations, voiced its most robust message
yet and appealed to all Muslims to work hand in hand with the police. The
message carries dangers for the MCB which has been criticised by radical
activists for being too close to government and the establishment.

But Dr Muhammad Abdul Bari, the MCB's secretary general, said the current crisis
meant that issues of conflict between the government, police and Muslim
communities who have clashed in the past over antiterrorist incidents and
foreign policy needed to be put to one side.

iWhen the house is on fire, the concern must be not to blame each other but to
put the fire out. Our country is under threat level critical.i He added: iThose
who seek to deliberately kill or maim innocent people are the enemies of us all.
There is no cause whatsoever that could possibly justify such barbarity.i

He said the police and security services ideserve the fullest support and co
operation from each and every sector of our society, including all Muslimsi.

The MCB has called a meeting in London on Saturday of key imams and activists
from all over the country to discuss what Muslim communities can do to confront
the threat and to discuss whether more should have been done in the past.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday

Terror attacks: Air travel: EU plans tougher security checks on all entrants

BYLINE: Dan Milmo, Ian Traynor Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 504 words


Millions of air passengers could be tracked across Europe under security
proposals unveiled in Brussels yesterday.

Passport numbers and credit card details of people flying into EU states would
be stored on individual government databases, which could then share the
information. Databases containing information on people travelling between EU
states is also under consideration, meaning French authorities could demand
details of inbound British passengers.

Franco Frattini, the European justice commissioner, said the EU needed to find a
ibetter way to discourage and to detect terroristsi after last week's attempted
bombings. iI suggest that all member states should equip themselves with a PNR
(passenger name record) system and share information with others when relevant,i
said Mr Frattini.

The system would mirror the arrangement between the US and the EU, where details
of passengers on all flights to America must be sent to the Department for
Homeland Security before take-off.

Under a new data-sharing pact agreed last week, the number of pieces of
information wired to US authorities has been reduced from 34 to 19, but still
includes credit card

information.

Mr Frattini said he wanted to make the system binding for all EU countries: iThe
best approach would be for each member state to have a national passenger name
records system.i He added that any country that refused to adopt the system
icould become the front door for dangerous peoplei.

However, the proposals, which will be implemented this year as a iframework
decisioni, can be rebuffed by any of the EU's 27 states. Mr Frattini added that
a database of information on intra-EU passengers could not be excluded, but was
less likely than a data sweep on all air travellers coming into the EU. The
plans could lead to the construction of significant banks of passenger
information: UK airports process more than 200 million passengers a year.

iAre we less likely to be the goal of facts of terror than our American friends?
Everything seems to demonstrate the contrary,i said Mr Frattini. iThe facts of
this weekend are not yet known, but most terrorist plots involve home-grown
radicalised youngsters travelling to and from other parts of the world while
going through the radicalisation process.i

Human rights groups have expressed concern at the amount of information being
handed over by EU states to the US. Under the terms of the new agreement,
sensitive data that reveals a passenger's ethnic, religious or sexual
orientation will be deleted unless it can be accessed in order to prevent lives
being iimperilledior iseriously impaired.i

Other elements of Mr Frattini's icounter-terror packagei included criminalising
DIY bomb-making manuals on the internet, a Europe-wide police alert system on
lost or stolen explosives and proposals on bio-terrorism.

Meanwhile, the US Department of Homeland Security said that by the end of next
year it wanted all foreign nationals leaving the US to be fingerprinted,
including the 4 million annual British visitors.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

The evidence indicates that political Islam hates our way of life, not our
foreign policy;
TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: JOAN SMITH

LENGTH: 1153 words


If you want to see the dozens of small ways a Labour government is better than A
few years ago, the news that the UK was facing an imminent attack from Islamist
terrorists bent on taking hundreds of lives would have put the entire country on
edge. People would have changed their habits, avoiding public transport and
walking to work, while the presence of armed police at British airports would
have increased the general sense of jitters. As recently as two years ago, after
the 7/7 bombings, I had friends who avoided crowded places, worked from home and
spent a fortune on minicabs so they did not have to use the London underground.

Since the end of last week, when two car bombs were discovered and defused in
Central London, life in the capital has continued pretty much as usual. At
midnight on Friday, I travelled across London on a Piccadilly line train and was
struck by the fact that it was as crowded as ever, in spite of the failed
attempt to bomb a nightclub in the West End less than 24 hours earlier; rumours
of a second failed attack were already circulating, but none of the revellers
returning home seemed too worried. The next day a Gay Pride march went ahead in
London, despite the fact that Islamic extremists loathe homosexual people as
much as they do "slags" who go to nightclubs.

An obvious explanation for this stoical response is that both the London attacks
were thwarted, which means that we were not confronted (as we were in 2005) with
horrific images of injured civilians and tangled wreckage. All that changed with
the terrorist attack on Glasgow airport, the third on the British mainland in 36
hours, when TV channels and newspapers carried dramatic pictures of a blazing
Jeep and holidaymakers running for cover. Earlier this week, newspapers
published photographs of a badly-burned man being arrested and taken to
hospital, where he was said to be suffering 90 per cent burns; even though he
was a suspect, the images were a dreadful reminder of the horrors terrorism can
inflict. The swift response of the police, who have made arrests up and down the
country, has not reduced the official threat level from "critical" and it is not
clear yet how many suspects are still at large.

Of course we have been here before, those of us old enough to remember the IRA's
terror campaigns in Northern Ireland and the mainland in the last century. I
have a clear recollection of the night of the Birmingham bombings in 1974, when
Irish terrorists planted devices in two crowded pubs in the city centre, killing
21 people and injuring 182; in a campaign that went on until the 1990s, pubs,
law courts and barracks were targeted by Provisonal IRA cells operating in
English towns and cities. In West London, rival factions of the IRA spent more
than half a century trying unsuccessfully to destroy Hammersmith bridge since
1939, their most recent attempt taking place only seven years ago.

But there are significant differences between Republican terrorism and its
Islamist counterpart, one of them being that while Irish bomb-makers sometimes
blew themselves up by mistake, they were not nihilistic enough to resort to
suicidebombing. Their practice of phoning warnings ahead of attacks has even led
some commentators to write nostalgically about the IRA, as though the scenes of
carnage in The Mulberry Bush and The Tavern in the Town 33 years ago never
happened. I don't feel comfortable with that kind of revisionism; I'm not sure
there is a meaningful distinction between the IRA's ambition to recreate the
conditions of wartorn Belfast in mainland city centres and last weekend's
attempt to make parts of London and Glasgow resemble Baghdad.

The problem for terrorists of whatever origin is that human beings are much more
resilient than most of us realise. Immediately after the hugely spectacular
attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York, there was a widespread feeling
that nothing would ever be the same again. As the awesome scale of the
destruction became apparent, it was hard for a time to think about anything
else; I recall a poet of my acquaintance remarking on the impossibility of
writing about such events, as though to do so would be a desecration of the
dead. Six years on, there have been documentaries and movies about 9/11 -
notably United 93, which recreated the flight of the plane which crashed near
Philadelphia after passengers took on the hi-jack-ers - and novels such as Don
De Lillo's Falling Man.

The need to make sense of horrific events is a profoundly human impulse, an
essential part of finding a way to live beyond them. And that is what people do
after the initial shock of a terrorist attack, when the national conversation
about the plight of the victims and the risk of further bombings begins to
subside. In 2001, Islamist attacks were still a novelty in the US and the UK
though not in France, which was one of the first European countries to recognise
the threat posed by political Islam. Now we are growing used not just to the
existence of an Islamist terror network in Britain, consisting both of young men
who were born here and others from Pakistan and the Middle East, but of the
inchoate rage which fuels it.

In that sense, the events of recent days may well prove to be a turning point.
Opposition to the war in Iraq has led many people in this country to sympathise
with the grievances of radicalised Muslims, even after the 7/7 bombings, but it
is hard to see that situation continuing much longer; it now looks as though al
Qaeda sym-pathisers have begun recruiting doctors, who are trained to heal the
sick, to kill and maim young people in nightclubs and families setting off on
holiday. It is becoming harder to resist the evidence that political Islam hates
not just British foreign policy but our way of life, which is why it targets
places where people gather to enjoy themselves, women have the freedom to dance
and drink, and gay couples might stroll past after a night out. The Islamists
did it in Bali five years ago, bombing clubs full of European and Australian
tourists, and they almost succeeded in doing it in London last week.

Ten years ago, Tony Blair came to power with a belief that his government would
be able to cut a political deal with Republicans and Loyalists in Northern
Ireland; protracted negotiations resulted in the Good Friday agreement, and the
laying down of guns and bombs. That option does not exist with Islamic
extremists, who want not just the withdrawl of British troops from Iraq but a
whole raft of things - segregation of the sexes, sharia law, an end to secular
culture - which we cannot negotiate away in the name of security. In recent
days, watching people go about their business good-naturedly in London despite
the threat of terrorist attacks, I have a sense that the public understands
this. We have to stand up for our values, and that means that this time we are
in for the long haul.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Give us the freedom to disagree with you;
TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: ISMAIL PATEL

LENGTH: 759 words


It is a miracle that the terrorist attempts to create carnage in London and
Glasgow mercifully did not materialise. The welltrained emergency services'
swift and efficient responses created a calm which helped many of us stay
focused throughout this crisis. Our new Prime Minister and other politicians
have pitched measured responses, which are essential in maintaining public
composure.

This response plays a vital role in undermining and defeating the true goals of
the terrorists, which are, in fact, to sow seeds of doubt and division in our
society; and augment differences between British Muslims and the rest of
society. The carnage that could have occurred was only a secondary aim, and this
must be clearly understood. The real and overwhelming intent of all such attacks
is to fuel non-Muslims' hatred for Muslims, which they can then capitalise on to
create wider swamps for terrorist recruitment.

Thus, after a period of nervousness after the initial terrorist alerts, we
welcomed the Prime Minister's call to win over the hearts and minds of those who
may be inclined towards this path of perdition. It appeared that, far from the
Blair doctrine, we were not as a community being blamed and asked to defend
ourselves from events to which we are in no way connected.

Vanished are the days of charged press conferences with perceived fear of new
legislations, especially when they were laced with loaded terms like "rules of
the game". Although this change of approach by Mr Brown has made many Muslims
feel less threatened, there are still many proclaimed experts clogging the media
channels, generalising the faith of Islam and equating it with terrorism.

It falls equally upon the Government and Muslims in our country to work in
tandem. To truly tackle the terrorists, Mr Brown must steer a change from the
political approach of the Blair years during which the Government by and large
engaged only with those Muslims who have acquiesced to the former's political
stance.

He must also address the question of how to make disaffected would-be terrorists
refocus their energies, realign their loyalties and connect with British society
once again. Further, not to fuel the divide of us and them by equating it with
an attack on our way of life, but look scrupulously at the motives.

One point that Mr Brown cannot overlook is that in a globalised village, it is
of vital importance for us, as a nation, to acknowledge that our actions
thousands of miles away will sooner or later revisit us at home. It is telling
that those arrested on suspicion of these attacks were mostly non-British and
therefore their motives must relate to international issues.

To achieve this, it is time to realise that erroneously labelled radical
Muslims, who have vehemently opposed government policies, in particular its
foreign policies, may provide a better vehicle to reach the disenfranchised. I
am not speaking of Omar Bakri and the few others of his ilk, who have promoted
illegal and often unIslamic ideologies. I am speaking of the many law-abiding
Muslims who are using democratic and peaceful means to voice their moral
objections. These are the very same people whom the Blair government isolated
and castigated, as they were diametrically opposed to many of the Blair home and
foreign policies.

While Muslims must spend more efforts in nurturing and guiding their youth in
utilising peaceful and democratic means to achieve change, the Government must
also listen and foster change. They must show that peaceful means such as
demonstrations, petition and lobbying pays dividends. This education process is
needed for only a tiny fraction of young Muslims, but it is this very tiny
fraction that is spreading the terror of the last few days. For the Muslim
community, this is perhaps the greatest jihad.

Under Tony Blair, the Muslim community found itself walking a tightrope. If they
accused government policies of being responsible for radicalising some Muslims,
they were labelled extremist and margin-alised. And if they curried favour with
the establishment, the youth deserted them.

A change is urgently needed where Muslims can, without fear of isolation, debate
and disagree with the establishment, and thereby truly assist in rooting out
terrorists if they are able. To begin with, the mosques, which have become
political graves, need once again to be centres of debate and a trove of answers
for the youth. Further, sustainable community-based projects with local Muslims
and a just ethical foreign policy are the best weapons against this scourge.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Lancashire Evening Post

                                  July 4, 2007

Terror attack plan

LENGTH: 63 words


Experts are to teach Lancashire businesses how to protect their customers and
staff against a terrorist attack.

The event will be held at the Lancaster House Hotel on July 11.

Coun Eileen Blamire, above, of Lancaster Council, said: "The recent attacks in
London and Glasgow reinforce the need to take what steps we can to prepare for
an incident."

Call Vicky Lofthouse on 01524 381331.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday
                                  Eire Edition

THE D.I.Y BOMBERS;
TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY MIRROR REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 433 words


LETHAL gas canisters packed in the London and Glasgow car bombs were bought from
a DIY store, it is believed.

Last night it was also revealed that some of the eight medic suspects under
arrest were already known to security services. At least one was on a list for
special MI5 surveillance.

Two further suspects, Asian men in their 30s and 40s, were arrested at an
industrial estate yesterday after the delivery of 10 gas cylinders. Calor
propane in the bomb plot was bought from a branch of B&Q at Paisley, near
Glasgow, for pounds 45 each, the Mirror understands.

They were then packed with petrol and nails into two Mercedes parked in the West
End on Friday and a Jeep Cherokee which was crashed into Glasgow airport on
Saturday.

The store, B&Q, requires the name of the person hiring a cylinder. It is not
known if the bombers gave real or fake identities. B&Q refused to discuss
details, only saying: "We have strict procedures."

Calor Gas officials will review security at their Warwick HQ tomorrow. At
present, new customers must supply their name, address and other personal
details. Copies of the info is kept by Calor.

The two latest suspects were held at Blackburn, Lancs, after five propane
canisters were delivered to a unit.

A witness said: "Two Asian men arrived to collect them, then an unmarked police
car turned up."

Another five canisters were delivered later. Last night the area was cordoned
off for a search. A Volvo S40 was removed.

The swoop came as the driver of the Glasgow car bomb was named as Khalid Ahmed,
27. He is critically ill with 90 per cent burns. Although he has received skin
grafts it is thought it is unlikely he will survive.

In Australia former British health service doctor MohammedHaneef, 27, was held
after trying to board a one-way flight from Brisbane to Mumbai.

Oncologist Haneef was working at Gold Coast Hospital, in Southport, Queensland.
He is believed to have been traced by mobile phone and internet traffic.

He was said to be a "model citizen". A colleague said: "He was in a hurry to get
home."Apolice source said: "We believe he is involved in the conspiracy and want
to talk to him as soon as possible."

Haneef had worked at Halton Hospital, Runcorn, Cheshire, with a 26-year-old
doctor held on Saturday in Liverpool. Both grew up in Bangalore.

Another colleague Dr Mohammed Ali, also from India, is being questioned by
Australian police. But he has not been arrested.

Also held are Jeep passenger Bilal Abdullah, 27, neurologist Mohammed Asha, 26,
and his lab technician wife Marwah, 27, and two trainee doctors from the Royal
Alexandra Hospital, in Paisley.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SOAKED: Security alert passengers at Heathrow; HELD: Abdullah; HELD:
Haneef

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday
                                  Eire Edition

ANGER OF THE ASHAS;
EXCLUSIVE TERROR ATTACKS THEY BLAMED US FOR LOSS OF HOMELAND

BYLINE: STEPHEN MOYES IN AMMAN, JORDAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 586 words


A COUPLE suspected of masterminding the terror bombers were filled with hate
against the West over Palestine.

Dr Mohammed Asha and his wife Marwah argued over the "injustice" of the Middle
East conflict, said relatives.

The couple, from Palestinian families, blamed Britain and America for backing
Israel's occupation of their homeland.

Neurologist Dr Asha, 26, and his 27-year-old laboratory technician wife were
arrested on Saturday in a police swoop on the M6 in Cheshire. Their 18-monthold
son was in the car.

They are held at Paddington Green high-security police station in London.
Detectives have been given until Saturday to question them.

At their home in Amman, Jordan, Mrs Asha's father Yunis Dana and mother Islah
looked at photos of the smiling couple with their newborn son.

They showed Dr Asha cradling the baby and his wife pressing her cheek against
the boy's face.

Mr Dana, 55, wept as he said the family were startled at how she has grown
increasingly "angry" since moving to Britain in 2005 - and fear she could have
become a religious fanatic.

He said: "My Marwah only has memories of Palestine but we were not always a
political family. But of course we are affected by what is happening - it is
inhuman.

We are human beings - of course she's going to be angry."

Mr Dana added: "She told me she quite liked England and they had plans to stay.

"Surely her arrest is all some sort of mistake. This is all a disaster and has
hit me like an earthquake."

Islah, speaking in a whisper, said: "We can't understand what is happening. We
are stunned. They are not the type who would be interested in political Islam."

But a relative, who would not be named, said: "Marwah was increasingly scathing
of UK foreign policy and said it was at the heart of the problems surrounding
the Arab-Israeli conflict.

"She grew animated discussing it and began using inflammatory words such as
'injustice'.

"Marwah would say that because of what has happened in Palestine we should be
angry.

"She would row with her husband and the West's politics would seem to energise
them.

"I thought it strange because she never used to involve herself with politics."
Another relative said: "The change in Marwah stems from when she met Mohammed at
school in Amman. It was a meeting of minds.

"Since they fell in love she gained in confidence and coming out of her shell.

She is no longer a quiet, homely type."

A friend said: "I saw Mohammed in 2006.

He seemed really influenced by Islamist ideologies in Britain. He even looked
different, with a long beard."

Dr Asha's father Jamil Asha fiercely defended his son and insisted he was not a
member of any extremist organisation.

At his home in Amman he said: "He is a doctor who loves to heal people, not kill
them. He has healing hands, not killing hands. He was a Muslim but not strict.

"My heart tells me my son was not involved in this. They have the wrong man. He
never spoke of politics to me.

"Mohammed loves Britain. After the bombs on the Underground he was angry. He
said all Muslims suffer as a result of those who carried out the attacks."

Dr Asha had claimed his wife was racially abused because she wore the veil.

Simon Plant, their landlord in Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffs, said: "He asked me
if she would get into any trouble going down to the shops wearing a veil.

"He said she was racially abused while they lived in Shrewsbury and he was wary
of what would happen to her in this area.

"I told them it was all right around here and they wouldn't have any trouble."

stephen.moyes@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCK: Dad Yunis; FAMILY Asha, wife Marwah and their son who is now 18
months; SMILES: Mum Marwah beams with joy as she presses her cheek against her
son's face; PROUD DAD: Asha with his son in a baby sling

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                   UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is York

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday

MP's NHS fears following terror attacks

BYLINE: Lucy Stephens

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 440 words

DATELINE: York Press


A NORTH Yorkshire MP has called for tighter security checks on foreign doctors
in the wake of this weekend's bomb attacks.

It has emerged that some of those arrested for the attacks were doctors working
in British NHS hospitals.

Now Anne McIntosh, Tory member for the Vale of York, has called for proper
checks on medical professionals coming to work in the NHS from oversees.

She said she had written to the General Medical Council about the issue - saying
news that some of those arrested were doctors working in local hospitals was not
"reassuring to the British public".

While she had no problem with professional doctors being recruited abroad to
help staff the NHS, proper security checks were vital.

She said: "They are coming here because we need more staff, but now we find that
they are not exactly fulfilling the Hippocratic Oath.

"We are highly dependent (in the NHS) on a number of skilled professionals
coming from overseas.

"We know that there are a certain number of professionals who are exploiting the
network to gain access (to the UK).

"All I'm asking for is that there are proper security checks before they come
here."

Miss McIntosh said better procedures would have meant North Yorkshire doctor
Richard Neale - who was struck off for botching operations at Northallerton's
Friarage Hospital - would never have been able to practise.

Mike Proctor, deputy chief executive of York Hospital, said: "We do CRB
(Criminal Records Bureau) checks on every new employee.

"We are doing nothing beyond that at the moment but of course we will follow any
national advice on what we might do.

"Abroad, they don't always have the same level of records as we do - that's a
weakness of the organisation."

A spokesman for North Yorkshire and York Primary Care Trust (PCT) said staff had
been warned to be vigilant.

How are foreign doctors checked?

OVERSEES doctors who want to work in the UK have to be checked by the Home
Office, the General Medical Council (GMC) and individual hospitals or PCTs.

This includes Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) and identity checks.

But, in many cases, the system relies on information provided by authorities in
unstable and war-torn countries.

Much of the responsibility for screening doctors falls to individual hospitals -
and CRB checks only cover the UK, although there are plans to link up records in
Britain and Australia.

Oversees doctors are expected to provide proof of police clearance in their home
country.

A spokeswoman for NHS Employers said: "We would expect an employer to ask a
doctor who is being appointed from overseas to bring evidence of police
clearance in their home country."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

How have you been affected by the terror attacks?

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 346 words


The tragedy of terrorism has touched me and I've started feeling unsafe because
it's so close to home.

It's the first time I've felt threatened.

Omar Lamorde, 27, environment student,

city centre

I'm concerned for my safety when travelling on trains and  planes.

I'm much more vigilant now and feel like I constantly need to watch what's going
on.

David Clerihew, 53, employability project manager,

Woodside

I don't often travel abroad but I definitely won't be travelling for a long
time. I'm trying to get on with things but I'm more aware of the threat these
attacks and the political situation have caused.

Arlene Stewart, 38, shop assistant,Northfield

Aberdeen isn't prepared and that's a scary thought. I think there could as
easily be a terrorist target in Aberdeen, at the airport or the oil works as
anywhere else.

Bill Stewart, 75,retired labourer,city centre

I'm not going to let the attacks affect me. I am obviously scared that there
could be an attack on Aberdeen but I need to keep on living. If I let it worry
me I wouldn't go to work in the morning.

Fiona Watson, 30,bus driver, Cove

I'm flying soon and am scared for my safety. I work near the airport and if
there was an attack then I'd be in trouble.

Chris Zdunski, 25,hotel bartender,city centre

I can't let it affect me as I feel if I did I would be giving the terrorists
exactly what they want. There could be attacks in Aberdeen, but I'm not going to
let it rule my life.

Margaret Robertson,58, housewife, Woodside

I'm more careful now. For years I've picked my neighbour up at the airport
regularly, but now I'm scared to go alone and get my brother to join me.

Marianne Raper, 42,laundry assistant, Middlefield

It's not affecting me at the moment but I know it will in the near future. My
sister has just moved down to Glasgow and I'm concerned about her safety.

Ian Furneaux, 40,civil servant,Torry

I get the train into work every day from Dyce. There is heightened security at
the train station. It's intimidating as the thought that the station might by
hit by terrorists  has crossed my mind.

Pez Mavov, 28,shop manager,Dyce

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Evening Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

Soldier, Municipal Guard killed in "terrorist attack" in eastern Algeria

LENGTH: 326 words


Text of report by K. Ouahab headlined: "Terrorist attack in Skikda: One soldier
and one Municipal Guard killed" - first paragraph is El Watan introduction,
published by Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 5 July

One soldier and one Municipal Guard from the Siouane detachment in the
municipality of Zitouna 15 or so kilometres to the west of Collo [500 km east of
Algiers] were killed yesterday in a terrorist attack.

Another soldier was seriously wounded and taken to the Didouche Mourad military
hospital in Constantine Province [400 km east of Algiers]. According to sources
close to the security agencies, the attack occurred at 0500 hours and an intense
skirmish ensued before the terrorist groups disappeared at about 0600 hours,
taking the two victims' Kalashnikovs.

According to the same source, the terrorists, whose number was reportedly
significant, about 15, broke up into two groups. The first attacked an
observation post and the second was supposed to obstruct any assistance that
might come from the detachment located fewer than 500 meters from the forward
post. Our sources reported that this latter group used heavy weapons, revealing
that RPG mortars and Molotov cocktails had been used. Still according to our
sources, one Municipal Guard who was at the forward post was successful in
mortally wounding one of the bloodthirsty men, who was recovered by his
henchmen.

The security forces immediately kicked off a search operation in pursuit of the
attackers who, according to eyewitnesses, reportedly headed towards the
Hbaiyeche region, a region that leads to the borders linking the provinces of
Skikda and Jijel.

Nonetheless, during the morning yesterday, soldiers took care to foil the
subterfuge that the terrorists often use to cause the toll from their attacks to
rise by already defusing two of the four bombs that had been planted. As of
press time, the search was still ongoing.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 5 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

Czech Muslims condemn terrorist attacks in Britain

LENGTH: 251 words


Text of report in English by Czech news agency CTK

Prague, 5 July: The Centre of Muslim Communities in the Czech Republic today
condemned the terrorist attacks in Britain and declared that Czech Muslims want
to be involved in the fight against terrorism, it ensues from their text
released to CTK by Prague Muslims' representative Vladimir Sanka.

Czech Muslims have opposed the escalation of tension and the incitement of
hatred against Muslims regardless of their morals, real faith and loyalty to the
country where they are living.

According to the statement, Czech Muslims would welcome possible cooperation
with the state authorities that would help them jointly face various emergency
situations.

"We highly appreciate the constructive approach of the British government to the
British citizens of Islamic conviction and its effort to show to the whole world
that a religious group cannot be found collectively guilty of individuals'
acts," says the statement of Czech Muslims.

Sanka said the British government can understand it very well that British
Muslims are strong opponents to all activities that try to justify terrorist and
criminal acts by Islam.

Sanka added that terrorists' activities stir up "xenophobia towards all peaceful
European Muslims and the subsequent isolation of the Muslim community in
Europe."

"Those who consciously seek to kill or wound innocent people are enemies to us
all," Czech Muslims stressed in their statement.

Source: CTK news agency, Prague, in English 1320 gmt 5 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

I was warned about terror attacks;
Ex-city churchman - now working in Iraq - was told: 'Those who cure you will
kill you'

BYLINE: By Dayle Crutchlow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 399 words


A FORMER Coventry church leader working in Iraq has revealed that an al-Qaeda
leader warned him of last week's terror attacks in London and Glasgow, saying:
"Those who cure you will kill you".

The words, spoken to Canon Andrew White, the former international director of
peace and reconciliation at Coventry Cathedral, appear to predict the attacks
which have resulted in the arrest of eight people connected to the medical
profession.

The men, arrested after a flaming jeep was driven into the terminal building at
Glasgow Airport on Saturday and two car bombs were left in London's West End on
Friday, continue to be held by counter terrorism police.

Canon White passed the warning on to a senior official at the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office in April, but not the specific words.

The priest, who runs Baghdad's only Anglican parish, met the al-Qaeda leader, a
man in his 40s, on the fringes of a meeting about religious reconciliation in
the Jordanian capital of Amman.

The man had travelled to the meeting from Syria.

Canon White said: "He talked to me about how they were going to destroy British
and Americans.

"He told me that the plans were already made and they would soon be destroying
the British.

"He said the people who cure you would kill you."

Canon White added: "I met the devil that day."

The man said the British would be targeted first and that both Britain and
America were targets because of their actions in Iraq.

Canon White, a father of two, is a Middle East expert and one-time
troubleshooter for the retired Archbishop of Canterbury, George Carey.

The 42-year-old, who has multiple sclerosis, was a finalist in the "braveheart"
category of the Coventry Telegraph's Pride of Coventry and Warwickshire Awards
in 2003.

The nomination was for his work in Africa and Israel, coming under fire as he
told warring factions of the way bombed Coventry had reached out to old enemies
after the Second World War.

The international peacemaker left his job at Coventry Cathedral in 2005.

Last week's attacks have led to a security alert across the country.

In Coventry, city centre police have had leave cancelled and are carrying out
high profile patrols.

There is a greater police presence at the railway station and Spon Street - a
hotspot for pubs and clubs - and Coventry Airport terminal have been closed to
general traffic.

Police chiefs have stressed there is no specific threat to the city.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHILLING WORDS... Canon Andrew White and (below) the wreckage of the
blazing jeep at Glasgow Airport.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Chilling words warned me of terror attacks, says cleric

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 193 words


A FORMER Coventry church leader working in Iraq has revealed that an al-Qaeda
leader warned him of last week's terror attacks in London and Glasgow, saying:
"Those who cure you will kill you".

The words, spoken to Canon Andrew White, the former international director of
peace and reconciliation at Coventry Cathedral, appear to predict the attacks
which have resulted in the arrest of eight people connected to the medical
profession.

The men, arrested after a flaming jeep was driven into the terminal building at
Glasgow Airport on Saturday and two car bombs were left in London's West End on
Friday, continue to be held by police.

Father-of-two Canon White passed the warning on to a senior official at the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office in April, but not the specific words. The
42-year-old, who runs Baghdad's only Anglican parish, met the al-Qaeda leader, a
man in his 40s, on the fringes of a meeting about religious reconciliation in
the Jordanian capital, Amman.

The man had travelled to the meeting from Syria. Canon White said: "He talked to
me about how they were going to destroy British and Americans.

"He said the people who cure you would kill you."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MET AL-QAEDA LEADER... Canon Andrew White.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Essex Chronicle

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

Terror attacks timeline

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 157 words


Friday June 29: Two cars failed to explode after being discovered in central
London. They contained petrol, gas cylinders and nails. Saturday June 30: A
burning car containing gas cylinders was driven into the main terminal building
at Glasgow Airport.

Two men were arrested at the scene. Later that day a man and woman were arrested
on the M6 in Cheshire. Sunday July 1: Arrests and searches were made in various
locations across Glasgow, Liverpool and Newcastle-under-Lyme.

A controlled explosion took place on a suspect vehicle in Paisley, Glasgow.
Monday July 2: Man detained at Brisbane Airport in connection with the foiled
attacks.

Controlled explosions carried out at Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley,
Glasgow. Tuesday July 3: Three controlled explosions outside Forth Street Mosque
in Glasgow.

Another controlled explosion in Hammersmith, west London. Police investigated
three fire extinguishers left outside an underground station.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 Essex Chronicle
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

Al Qaeda trio used Net to incite terror attacks

BYLINE: PAUL CHESTON

SECTION: C; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 465 words


THREE cyber-terrorists linked to al Qaeda were jailed for up to 10 years today
for using the internet to incite Muslims to wage holy war against the West.

Younis Tsouli, 23, Waseem Mughal, 24, and Tariq Al-Daour, 21, are the first to
be prosecuted solely for the distribution of jihadi material on the internet.

In what the judge described as cyber-jihad, they helped set up websites and chat
forums to promote martyrdom and extremist Muslim propaganda.

Referring to the 7/ 7 London bombings in which 52 innocent people died one of
the posts said: From the moment the infidels cry, I laugh.

During the investigation of the cell police also discovered a potential plan by
45 Muslim doctors for car bomb and rocket grenade attacks in America.

Mr Justice Openshaw sentenced Tsouli of Shepherds Bush who used the name
Terrorist007 to 10 years for inciting an act of terrorism and recommended his
deportation at the end of his sentence.

British-born Mughal, of Chatham, Kent, was jailed for seven and a half years and
Al-Daour, of Bays-water, for six and a half years at Woolwich Crown Court. All
three were given concurrent prison terms of three-and-a-half years for
conspiracy in a Â£1.8 million fraud which provided the means without which the
websites could not have been created.

The judge highlighted the gangs skills to reach out to other Muslims who were
susceptible to this kind of ideology, in order to persuade them as a matter of
religious duty to take action to join the jihad and kill disbelievers wherever
they may be found.

He added: It would seem that internet websites have become an effective means of
communicating such ideas. The judge accepted that Tsouli came no closer to a
bomb or act of terrorism than a computer keyboard, yet he ran an internet site
which regularly featured beheadings for four months in the summer and early
autumn of 2005.

He said the sentence was intended to punish those who play any part in
publication of this material on the internet and discourage others from doing
so.

Tsouli had been given indefinite leave to remain in the UK two months before his
arrest. He will be sent back to his birthplace of Morocco.

The court heard Al-Daour, who was born in the United Arab Emirates, did not know
Tsouli and had never met him but had boasted online about running a publishing
enterprise known as Tibyan.

The judge said the Metropolitan police had searched a gigantic amount of
material computers, CDs and memory sticks to bring the three men to justice.

Details of the discussions about attacking the US were found at Tsoulis home.
One message read: We are 45 doctors and we are determined to undertake jihad and
take the battel inside america.

The first target was said to be the USS John F Kennedy, which is based at
Mayport naval base in Jacksonville, Florida.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

45 doctors plotted terror attack on US naval base

BYLINE: JUSTIN DAVENPORT

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 534 words


A PLOT to carry out car bomb attacks in the United States involving "45 doctors"
has been uncovered by Scotland Yard.

Police found details of the plan to use car bombs and rocket grenades to attack
a naval base on an internet site run by a cyber-terrorist gang of three.

The group led by an IT expert using the online name Irhaby007, Arabic for
Terrorist007 set up websites from their bedrooms in London and Kent to spread
extremist Islamic propaganda.

The details of the terror discussions were found at the Shepherd's Bush home of
the gang's 23-year-old leader Younis Tsouli.

One message read: "We are 45 doctors and we are determined to undertake jihad
and take the battle inside America." The note talked of targeting a naval base,
believed to be in Florida, and blowing up petrol tanks with rocket-propelled
grenades.

The three men, who have pleaded guilty to inciting terrorist murder and
conspiracy to defraud, are to be sentenced today at Woolwich crown court.

The court heard how Tsouli and his friends Waseem Mughal, 24, and Tariq
Al-Daour, 21, had direct links to al Qaeda in Iraq led by Abu Musab al- Zarqawi.
The trial, which is taking place at the high security court, is the first
prosecution involving the online distribution of radical material.

The US car bomb plan, which emerged during the two-month trial, has similarities
to the failed attacks in London and Glasgow but investigators say they have
found no link between the two groups. As the national terror threat level was
reduced from critical to severe, details were uncovered today of the links
between last week's bombing suspects.

Kafeel Ahmed, 27, who drove the Jeep into Glasgow airport, is the brother of
Sabeel Ahmed, 26, the doctor arrested in Liverpool.

They are cousins of Mohammed Haneef, 27, the Indian doctor arrested in
Australia. The three are believed to have studied together in Bangalore.

Kafeel Ahmed, who is still in hospital with 90 per cent burns, studied
technology in Cambridge and police suspect he may have been the bomb maker.

It is there in 2005 that he is believed to have met the alleged mastermind of
the plot, Jordanian Dr Mohammed Asha.

Ahmed's accomplice in the Glasgow attack, Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdullah, 27, was
also in the city at that time.

The three internet bombers being sentenced today appeared to be leading normal
lives, studying and living with their parents.

The court hear Tsouli had come to the UK with his family from Morocco in 2001.
His father worked for the Moroccan tourist board. He was given indefinite leave
to stay in August 2005 two months before his arrest.

Mughal, a British citizen, had a degree in biochemistry from Leicester
University and was studying for a masters.

Al-Daour, born in the United Arab Emirates to Palestinian parents, was granted
British citizenship in May 2005.

The three only came to attention in October 2005 when detectives followed a
trail from two terrorists arrested in Bosnia. They were found to be in
possession of a vast collection of extremist material on their laptops.

In one message Tsouli wrote the day before the 7 July bombings, he said: "The
only thing that would stop me from joining the brothers in Iraq is to attack the
bastards here in London."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Denial of the link with Iraq is delusional and dangerous: The
insistence that terror attacks have nothing to do with Britain's actions in the
Muslim world only makes them harder to stop

BYLINE: Seumas Milne

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1101 words


Two years on from the suicide bombings that devastated London's streets and tube
system, official Britain is still in the deepest denial about why this country
is a target for al-Qaida- style terror attacks. In the wake of the abortive
atrocities in London and Glasgow, there has been no shortage of lurid media
coverage of the "doctors' plot" that came so close to carnage, nor of bombastic
calls for the nation to stand firm against terrorists. The Sun was yesterday
handing out free union jacks to "fly in the face of terror", while its
heavyweight counterparts have been demanding ever greater efforts by an
increasingly intimidated Muslim community to demonstrate its loyalty.
Mercifully, the tone adopted by Gordon Brown has been less strident than his
predecessor's - he has avoided the rhetoric of the war on terror and the
shopping lists of new coercive powers favoured by Tony Blair in the aftermath of
the July 2005 attacks and last year's alleged transatlantic airline plot.

But when it comes to the substance, there has been little change. The failed
bombings were, Brown insisted, an attack on "our British way of life" and the
"values that we represent", "unrelated" to the wars in Iraq or Afghanistan or
any other conflict. He compared the fight against the bombers' ideology with the
struggle against communism and called for a similar "propaganda effort" to win
"hearts and minds". In the days since, this "it's nothing to do with the war"
refrain has since been taken up with gusto by large parts of the media. The
pro-war Times and Telegraph have led the field, with neoconservative
commentators and politicians hammering home the Blair-Bush message that terror
is simply the product of an evil ideology. Anyone who dissents or suggests a
connection with Britain's violent role in the Muslim world is portrayed as
somehow soft on terrorism - as the Liberal Democrats' Nick Clegg found when he
tentatively referred to Muslim grievances in the House of Commons earlier this
week.

In an echo of Gordon Brown's cold war propaganda theme, defectors from radical
Islamist groups have been playing a prominent role in this campaign. Rarely a TV
debate goes by without Ed Husain, one-time member of Hizb ut-Tahrir and now a
British neocon pinup boy, or Hassan Butt, formerly of the banned al-Muhajiroun
group, insisting that this is all about people with identity crises who are
"hell-bent on destroying the west", denouncing Ken Livingstone for engaging in
dialogue with Islamists, or calling for a harsher crackdown on their former
fellow enthusiasts for the restoration of the caliphate. They are championed by
politicians like the Tory Michael Gove and New Labour's Denis MacShane, who this
week argued that all Islamists, from the liberal Muslim academic Tariq Ramadan
to al-Qaida terrorists, had to be confronted without exception. It's become
eerily reminiscent of the McCarthyite era when communist renegades would be
wheeled out to give Americans a state-orchestrated glimpse of the enemy's dark
heart.

Of course, it's perfectly true that al-Qaida and its "takfiri" fellow travellers
have an extreme, violently sectarian and socially conservative ideology. But it
is simply delusional - and flies in the face of logic and history - to fail to
recognise the central link between the terror threat and Britain's post-9/11
actions in the Muslim world.

First, there were no al-Qaida-inspired attacks in Britain before the invasions
of Afghanistan and Iraq. There were against the US - starting with the World
Trade Centre in 1993 - triggered by the aftermath of the Gulf war, as well as
jihadist campaigns in Kashmir, Chechnya and Bosnia. But Britain was not a target
until it attacked the Muslim world. If the bombers' real focus was, say,
sexually liberal western lifestyles, they would presumably be attacking cities
like Amsterdam and Stockholm.

Second, it is only necessary to listen to what the bombers say themselves. Just
as Bin Laden has repeatedly spelled out that his campaign is about western
occupation of Muslim lands and support for pro-western autocracies, so the
"martyrdom videos" made by the London bombers of 2005 made clear that they
regarded their attacks as revenge for British support for Israel and the
occupations of Afghanistan and Iraq: "Until you stop the bombing, gassing,
imprisonment and torture of my people we will not stop this fight," Mohammed
Sidique Khan declared. The government was repeatedly warned before the Iraq war
that it would bring terror to Britain, and a string of government, intelligence
and other reports have since underlined the connection - also accepted by a
large majority in opinion polls.

In the case of these latest bungled bombings, in which two Iraqis, a Palestinian
and at least two other Arabs are said to have been involved, it's not hard to
guess what might lie behind them. And while politicians who have supported wars
that have cost hundreds of thousands of lives might want to cast a veil over the
link, it makes no sense for the rest of us.

T he neocon attempt to lump together all Islamists - a political trend that
stretches from Turkey's ruling Justice and Development party to al-Qaida - as
beyond the political pale will meanwhile only make it harder to overcome the
terror threat and isolate those who believe it is justifiable to kill civilians
in retaliation for the Iraqi and Afghan bloodbaths. It is a folly that
exasperates senior figures in the police, including special branch, whose job is
to counter terror groups in the Muslim community. Just as mainstream Islamists
in the Palestinian territories such as Hamas have helped prevent the
encroachment of takfiri jihadists, so non-violent Islamists in the west can
offer an alternative political channel to those who might otherwise be drawn to
al-Qaida-inspired terror. "This approach has played into the hands of al-Qaida,"
one high level special branch officer argues. "Islamists have the best antidotes
to al-Qaida propaganda."

Given Britain's role in the Muslim world, the surprise must be that there
haven't been more attacks. They have, after all, yet to reach anything like the
level of the campaign waged by the IRA. But that such attacks continue is a
central part of Blair's legacy - and the responsibility of a political class
that failed to hold to account those who launched an illegal war of aggression
with the most devastating human and political consequences. Until the Brown
government makes serious moves to end Britain's role in the occupations of Iraq
and Afghanistan, the likelihood must be that the threat will grow.

s.milne@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

National: Terror attacks spark NHS review pledge

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 103 words


Gordon Brown has ordered an urgent review of NHS recruitment after the arrest of
several doctors this week in connection with an alleged terror plot. At his
first prime minister's questions yesterday, Mr Brown also pledged to expand an
international "watch list" of potential terrorists and background checks carried
out on skilled migrant workers coming to Britain. Nearly 90,000 doctors in the
UK qualified overseas, and most now secure jobs by obtaining work permits. Mr
Brown said the government would also look at new agreements with other countries
to step up cooperation and allow Britain to deport suspects.

5 >=

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

Terror attacks: Glasgow attack: Family of suspect say he was influenced by Iraqi
cleric

BYLINE: Alexandra Topping and Ian Cobain

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 732 words


One of the suspected al-Qaida supporters who attacked Glasgow airport had
allegedly fallen under the influence of an Iraqi cleric who lavished praise upon
suicide bombers, his family said yesterday.

Bilal Talal Abdulla, an Iraqi doctor working at a hospital near the airport, met
Sheikh Ahmad al-Qubeisi at a mosque in Baghdad and would later describe him as
"my best friend".

An uncle of Dr Abdulla, who has lived in the UK for almost 20 years, said: "When
Ahmad came on television he would say that he knew him. He called him his best
friend. I think he brainwashed him." He said Dr Abdulla was related to Qubeisi
through marriage.

Qubeisi, who has a regular TV show on Dubai television, spoke of suicide bombing
in 2004, telling viewers: "Those who commit martyrdom operations are, by Allah,
the greatest martyrs in Islamic history".

Dr Abdulla was also deeply angered by the war in Iraq, the family said, and he
had been delighted to be able to flee the country. "Of course he was angry. He
was so glad to leave all these troubles. He was so happy to come here. He was so
anxious to leave Baghdad, and here he was moving towards a goal."

Dr Abdulla, 27, had been born in Aylesbury while his father, also a doctor, was
training in the UK. Although raised in Baghdad, he was entitled to a British
passport and visited Britain frequently in recent years, staying in Cambridge
while he improved his English before finding work at Queen Alexandra hospital in
Paisley last summer. He was last seen in Cambridge last month.

The uncle added: "The type of friends he associated with, I would not want. They
were very religious, too religious. He met them in the mosque." Together, he
said, they would make occasional trips to the Lake District; where alleged
Islamist militants are said to have conducted secret training exercises.

Police searched a number of properties in Cambridge yesterday, including a house
owned by the Abu Bakr Siqqid mosque, the city's only mosque, where Dr Abdulla
stayed seven years ago. They also interviewed a number of his friends and
relatives.

Hicham Kwieder, secretary of the Cambridge Muslim Welfare Society, said: "I
often spoke to him after Friday prayers. He seemed to me to be a genuine man. We
are cooperating with the police to try to establish how educated people may have
turned to violence, what their motive might be."

The network of close family connections, workplace relationships and chance
encounters that allegedly led young health professionals from at least four
countries to join forces to plan a series of car bombings has been carefully
picked apart by counter- terrorism detectives and MI5 officers.

Dr Abdulla is thought to have met another of those under arrest, Mohammed Asha,
a Jordanian doctor, when he was studying at Addenbrooke's hospital in Cambridge.
After completing his medical studies in Baghdad, Dr Abdulla moved to Paisley
while Dr Asha moved first to Shrewsbury - where he and his Jordanian wife,
Marwa, 27, a laboratory technician, worked in a local hospital - and then to
Staffordshire. At Paisley, Dr Abdulla worked alongside two other young doctors,
thought to be Saudis, who were arrested on Sunday night and whose names have yet
to emerge.

He also worked alongside a young doctor with the surname Ahmed. On Saturday,
this man doused himself in petrol and set himself ablaze after ramming a Jeep,
laden with gas cylinders and petrol canisters, into Glasgow airport's main
terminal. Dr Abdulla, who was in the passenger seat, was arrested at the scene.

There are unconfirmed reports that Ahmed is a friend or relation of Sabeel
Ahmed, 26, an Indian doctor working at Halton General hospital in Runcorn,
Cheshire. His Jeep Cherokee was parked for several weeks in Wordsworth Street in
the Toxteth area of Liverpool, close to Sabeel Ahmed's former home.

Sabeel Ahmed attended a college affiliated to the Rajiv Gandhi University of
Health Sciences in Bangalore, as did Mohamed Haneef, 27. They shared a flat in
Toxteth while working together at Halton General before Dr Haneef moved to
Australia. They are also related: Dr Haneef's mother is understood to be Sabeel
Ahmed's cousin.

Dr Asha and his wife were later arrested on the M6 in Cheshire. Sabeel Ahmed was
picked up in Liverpool. The following night, the two doctors were arrested at a
halls of residence at the Royal Alexandra. Early on Monday Dr Haneef was picked
up in Brisbane.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

Terror attacks: Threat level lowered as inquiry examines foreign connections:
Police focus on suspects' possible links with al-Qaida in Iraq

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor and Ian Cobain

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 769 words


The UK's terrorist threat level was downgraded last night as the inquiry into
the attempted London car bombings and the Glasgow airport attack switched from
Britain to overseas.

The decision to lower the level from the highest grade, "critical", to "severe"
was announced by Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, after a meeting of the
cabinet's Cobra emergency committee.

She said: "There is no intelligence to suggest that an attack is expected
imminently. However, the reduction of the threat level does not mean the overall
threat has gone away - there remains a serious and real threat against the
United Kingdom and I would again ask that the public remain vigilant."

The move, based on an assessment by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC),
made up of intelligence and secu rity officials, is a signal that police now
believe they have arrested all the suspects in the bomb plot.

Ministers said last night it was likely that some of those responsible for the
latest terror attempts were radicalised inside Britain, rather than abroad.
Because the attempts were relatively amateur, it was more likely that one or two
militants had come to Britain intent on committing acts of terror and recruited
accomplices once they were here.

A possible Iraq connection is a key line of inquiry, sources close to the
investigation made clear. Bilal Talal Abdulla, one of the suspects who was
arrested at the scene of the Glasgow attack, is an Iraqi doctor.

Mowaffaq al-Rubaie, the Iraqi government's national security adviser, said this
week that al-Qaida cells in Iraq were taking over responsibility for attacks in
Europe from cells in Afghanistan. Individuals claiming to speak for al-Qaida in
Iraq have claimed to be planning UK attacks.

However, UK counter-terrorist officials also said they were exploring the
connections the failed bombers had with a "variety of countries".

The officials declined to elaborate, though India and Australia were clearly
among the countries under investigation. Mohamed Haneef, an Indian-born doctor,
who had worked at Halton hospital in Liverpool where another suspect worked, was
arrested on Tuesday in Brisbane before getting on a flight to Delhi.

It emerged yesterday that some of the potential bombers had previously come to
the attention of the security and intelligence agencies as being in contact with
foreign suspects who had been heard discussing jihad and using extremist
language in communications intercepted abroad.

Security sources said the arrested suspects had never been on MI5's list of more
than 1,600 individuals suspected of being actively engaged in promoting attacks
here or abroad. Instead, their names appeared on a bigger database of
individuals who had come to the attention of all the security and intelligence
agencies, MI6 and GCHQ, as well as MI5. They were on that list, intelligence
sources made clear yesterday, because of their foreign connections discovered by
communications intercepted abroad.

Detectives were yesterday attempting to build up a detailed picture of their
contacts with both British Islamists and jihadis overseas.

Dr Abdulla's alleged involvement in the attempted bombings raises the
possibility that al-Qaida in Iraq, the terrorist organisation headed by Abu
Musab al-Zarqawi until his death in a US air strike 12 months ago, may have been
behind the plot. Close relatives of the doctor said he seemed to have fallen
under the spell of an Iraqi cleric, Sheikh Ahmad al-Qubeisi, whom he met at a
mosque in Baghdad.

An intelligence report prepared this year by JTAC, which is based at MI5's
headquarters, highlighted concerns that Osama bin Laden's main emissary to
al-Qaida in Iraq was anxious to attack the UK around the time that Tony Blair
stood down and Gordon Brown took over.

The report warned that this emissary, Abd al-Hadi, wished to target airports,
the London Underground network, energy network or water supplies. "We assess
that this operation is most likely to be large-scale, mass casualty attack," it
said.

It later emerged that Hadi had been captured and was being held at a secret CIA
prison when the report was prepared, raising the possibility that it was based
on information extracted by his interrorgators during his torture.

Another al-Qaida cell of British-born terrorists directed by Hadi was rounded up
in 2004. Five members of the group were jailed for life at the Old Bailey in
April after the jury heard how they had planned to target the Ministry of Sound
nightclub in London or the Bluewater shopping centre in Kent with a half-tonne
fertiliser bomb.

Islamist website guilty pleas, page 10>=

Seumas Milne, page 29>=

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

Terror attacks: Vetting: Brown orders review of recruitment checks on NHS
overseas staff

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 611 words


An urgent review of recruitment checks on overseas staff working in the NHS is
to be launched by the new counter-terrorism minister Admiral Sir Alan West,
Gordon Brown announced yesterday, in the wake of the revelations that all eight
suspects in the London and Glasgow terror bombings worked in the health service.

News of the review, unveiled at Mr Brown's first prime minister's questions,
caught the Home Office and the Department of Health off guard, suggesting it was
a last-minute decision.

Nearly 90,000 doctors in the UK qualified overseas, and, after changes last
year, most are now securing jobs by obtaining work permits. As many as 28,000
Indian doctors are registered as fit to practise in Britain by the main
regulatory overseer, the General Medical Council.

Mr Brown also announced he would tighten background checks on workers coming
into the country under the highly skilled migrant workers programme. He said:
"When people sponsor them, we will ask them to give our background checks."

Ministers say they will flag up potential terror suspects using profiling based
on information gathered in recent investigations. They say it is now possible to
build up a picture, using certain attributes, to identify those who are
potential threats.

The prime minister's spokesman later said the government would also run checks
on the migrant's sponsors, whether they are organisations or individuals. In
most cases in the NHS, the sponsor is a hospital so it is not clear what purpose
a check on them might serve.

In the third and final plank of Mr Brown's immediate action plan, he said he
would expand the terrorist watch list, so that coordination of information is
spread from beyond the EU to countries in the Middle East. The EU this week
called for better EU-wide cooperation through an airline passenger data
recording system.

Mr Brown insisted his government would not introduce panic measures. "It is
vitally important that the message is sent out to the rest of the world that we
will stand strong, steadfast and united in the face of terror," he said.

Health professionals were sceptical that Sir Alan is going to be able to find
any loophole in the law, or obvious remedies. Vetting is currently undertaken by
employers, in most cases hospitals.

It is possible Sir Alan will examine whether the intelligence services could be
given access to details of doctors seeking employment. Few or no questions are
asked on the political leanings of potential medical recruits.

Overseas doctors from outside the EU working in a training grade (foundation
programme, senior house officer, special ist registrar or GP registrar) are
covered by the "permit-free" postgraduate training rules, and do not need a work
permit. Other jobs (for example, consultant, staff grade, associate specialist
and salaried GP) need a work permit, which must be obtained by the employer.
Since 2004 the doctor must submit an application for limited leave to remain
after an employer has successfully applied for a work permit.

The NHS has been scaling back its use of overseas medical staff, largely as more
UK and EU doctors have become available.

At prime minister's question time yesterday Tory leader David Cameron asked Mr
Brown to explain why the government had not acted on Tony Blair's promise in
2005 to ban the extremist group, Hizb ut-Tahrir because of anti-semitic
statements. Mr Brown appeared underbriefed, saying he had only been in office
for five days; he had to be bailed out by the former home secretary, John Reid,
who told MPs the Home Office had conducted two reviews into the organisation,
but decided there was insufficient evidence to proscribe it.

Sketch, page 6>=

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  July 5, 2007

NHS overseas recruiting review after terror attacks

BYLINE: CALUM MACDONALD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 329 words


ANurgent review of how NHS doctors are recruited from overseas in the wake of
the terrorist attacks on Glasgow and London was announced by Prime Minister
Gordon Brown yesterday.

The move came as the national terror threat level was reduced from critical to
severe for the first time since the attempted car bomb attacks on London and
Glasgow Airport. Speaking during his first session of Prime Minister's Questions
in the Commons, Mr Brown said the government will also expand the worldwide
"watch list" of potential terrorists to help warn other countries.

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith, who announced the reduction in the terror threat
level in a statement, said there was "no intelligence" to suggest another
terrorist attack was imminent.

After a series of arrests in the UK and Australia in recent days, it appeared
yesterday that the phase to round up the suspects in the fast-moving inquiry was
drawing to a close .

Six people continued to be questioned last night at the high security Paddington
Green police station in London following the Glasgow attack on Saturday and the
two failed car bombs found in the west end of London.

One man, named as Khalid Ahmed, remains critically ill with severe burns at the
Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley, where it is believed he worked as a doctor.

Among those being questioned in London is Sabeel Ahmed who was arrested in the
Lime Street area of Liverpool on Saturday.

Dr Ahmed studied at the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, in
Bangalore, the home city of Dr Mohammed Haneef, 27, who was detained and is now
being questioned in Brisbane, Australia. The majority of those held are linked
to the NHS as doctors or trainee doctors while the only woman arrested is a
trained laboratory technician.

Canon Andrew White, a British cleric working in Baghdad, claimed an alleged al
Qaeda leader in Iraq warned him of the attacks.MrWhite said the man claimed
"those who cure you will kill you", an apparent reference to the NHS link.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

Scenario asking for terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 199 words


I watched the reports on the thwarted attempted car bomb incidents in central
London.

The first was detected, apparently, by a nearby ambulance crew who noticed smoke
inside the vehicle.

The second was foiled because the car had been parked in a very inappropriate
manner. If I had prepared a car bomb I would have done my utmost to prevent
drawing attention to it by allowing an escape of smoke and definitely not by
parking the car in a manner which would cause concern.

Doubtless the new Home Secretary Ms Jacqui Smith has garnered a few "Brownie"
points.

However, two or three days before, both Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, in the
space of 90 minutes, travelled the return journey between Downing Street and
Buckingham Palace with a cavalcade of cars and motorcycle outriders.

The four journeys along this short route passed a continuous line of parked
cars, any of which could have contained a remotely controlled car bomb. Why was
this route not cleared of traffic  - it is for royalty - and who would have been
held responsible if a disaster had happened? After all, everyone knew for weeks
beforehand the date of the handover. It was a scenario begging for a terrorist
attack!

J B Hill, Birstall.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday
                                 1 Star Edition

THE BOMBMAKER;
EXCLUSIVE POLICE BELIEVE BURNS SUSPECT DESIGNED THE DEVICES IN ALL THREE TERROR
ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY JON CLEMENTS, JAKE MORRIS AND AIDAN MCGURRAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 418 words


THE man fighting for life after the Glasgow Airport terror attack is the maker
of all three car bombs, police believe.

Kafeel Ahmed drove a burning Jeep Cherokee into the airport and is in hospital
with 90 per cent burns.

As well as the Glasgow device, police think the doctor of technology designed
the two failed London bombs, including the mobile phone detonators that did not
work.

It was also revealed last night that Kafeel is the brother of Sabeel Ahmed, 26,
the Indian doctor arrested in Liverpool.

And as the national terror threat level was reduced from critical to severe
yesterday, more light was thrown on the shadowy links between the medic
suspects.

Four of the doctors who allegedly plotted and carried out the attacks -
including the Ahmeds - met in Cambridge in the summer of 2005, suggesting the
terror cell may have been formed then. Dr Mohammed Asha, held on the M6, worked
at Addenbrooke's Hospital when Dr Bilal Abdullah - a passenger in the Jeep -
lived in the city.

Asha, 26, spent two months at the hospital, which trains medical students, after
arriving from Jordan.

Abdullah, 27, had just returned from Baghdad after qualifying there.

Kafeel Ahmed, who was studying in the city, introduced his brother to Asha and
Abdullah.

Police have raided a Cambridge house where Abdullah lived. Hicham Kwieder,
secretary of Cambridge Muslim Welfare Society, remembered Abdullah when he lived
in the city.

He said: "Abdullah was Iraqi and spoke to me about Baghdad, his home city, and
the problems he and his relatives faced as Sunnis. He was unhappy about the
situation and felt his people were being dominated by the Shias."

It has also emerged the Ahmeds are related to Dr Mohammed Haneef, seized in
Australia on his way to his native India.

He has a 10-day-old daughter he has not yet seen. His wife Firdous Arshiya, 24,
who lives in his hometown Bangalore, claimed he was innocent and had been
arrested "just because he is a Muslim".

She added: "He was meant to be coming for a happy occasion, the birth of his
child. Now we are in hell."

Scotland Yard detectives will quiz Haneef today. He and Sabeel Ahmed worked
together at Halton Hospital in Runcorn, Cheshire, and studied at Rajiv Gandhi
University of Health Sciences in Karnataka, India.

Kafeel studied for a PhD at Anglia Polytechnic University's Design and
Technology department.

Police have been unable to question him because of his injuries.

DID you meet or know the suspects in Cambridge? Call our newsdesk on 020 7293
3831.

j.clements@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KAFEEL AHMED: PhD Student at Anglia Polytechnic University in Cambridge
during 2005; DR MOHAMMED ASHA: Worked at Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge,
2005; DR BILAL ABDULLAH: Living in Cambridge in 2005, where he studied medicine;
DR SABEEL AHMED: Brother of Kafeel, met Abdullah in 2005 in the city; CHATS: Mr
Kwieder

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday
                                 2 Star Edition

THE BOMBMAKER;
EXCLUSIVE POLICE BELIEVE BURNS SUSPECT DESIGNED THE DEVICES IN ALL THREE TERROR
ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY JON CLEMENTS, JAKE MORRIS AND AIDAN MCGURRAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 403 words


THE man fighting for life after the Glasgow Airport terror attack is the maker
of all three car bombs, police believe.

Kafeel Ahmed drove a burning Jeep Cherokee into the airport and is in hospital
with 90 per cent burns.

As well as the Glasgow device, police suspect the doctor of technology designed
the two failed London car bombs, including the mobile phone detonators which did
not work.

It was also revealed last night that Kafeel is the brother of Sabeel Ahmed, 26,
the Indian doctor arrested in Liverpool.

And as the national terror threat level was reduced from critical to severe
yesterday, more light was thrown on the shadowy links between the medic
suspects.

Four of the doctors who allegedly plotted and carried out the attacks -
including Kafeel and Sabeel Ahmed - met in Cambridge in the summer of 2005,
suggesting the terror cell may have been formed then.

Dr Mohammed Asha, who was arrested on the M6, worked at Addenbrooke's Hospital
when Dr Bilal Abdullah - a passenger in the Jeep - also lived in the city.

Asha, 26, spent two months at the hospital, which trains medical students, after
arriving from Jordan.

Abdullah, 27, had just returned from Baghdad after qualifying as a doctor there.

Kafeel Ahmed, who was studying in the city, introduced his brother to both Asha
and Abdullah.

Police have raided a house in Cambridge where Abdullah lived.

Hicham Kwieder, secretary of Cambridge Muslim Welfare Society, remembered
Abdullah when he lived in the city.

He said: "Abdullah was an Iraqi and spoke to me about Baghdad, his home city,
and the problems he and his relatives faced as Sunnis.

"He was very unhappy about the situation and felt his people were being
dominated by the Shias."

It also emerged yesterday that the Ahmeds are related to Dr Mohammed Haneef, who
was arrested in Australia.

Scotland Yard detectives will question Haneef today. He and Sabeel Ahmed worked
together at Halton Hospital in Runcorn, Cheshire, and studied at Rajiv Gandhi
University of Health Sciences in Karnataka, India.

Kafeel studied for a PhD at Anglia Polytechnic University in the Department of
Design and Technology. He wrote papers about micro-fluid and listed skills
including aerodynamic design, computer aided modelling and fluid interaction on
his CV.

Police have been unable to question him because of his injuries.

DID you meet or know the suspects in Cambridge? Call our newsdesk on 0207 293
3831.

j.clements@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KAFEEL AHMED: PhD Student at Anglia Polytechnic University in Cambridge
during 2005; DR MOHAMMED ASHA: Worked at Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge,
2005; DR BILAL ABDULLAH: Living in Cambridge in 2005, where he studied medicine;
DR SABEEL AHMED: Brother of Kafeel, met Abdullah in 2005 in the city; CHATS: Mr
Kwieder

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 6, 2007 Friday

German poll shows nearly 80 per cent afraid of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 115 words


Excerpt from report by German news agency ddp on 6 July

Berlin: After the failed attacks in Great Britain, the Germans' fear of
terrorist attacks has reached a new record level. According to a poll by the
Forsa opinion research institute on behalf of the n-tv news TV station, 79  per
cent of the German citizens fear attacks in Germany. This is a new record level,
the TV station reported on Friday [6 July]. Twenty-one per cent of the 1,000
respondents do not see any danger. After the attacks on the World Trade Centre
in New York in September 2001, 77  per cent of the Germans feared terrorist
attacks in Germany. [Passage omitted]

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1031 gmt 6 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                              July 6, 2007 Friday

Muslims Hit Out At Terror Attacks

BYLINE: Peter Young

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 282 words


TYNESIDE Muslims have condemned the terrorist attacks in Glasgow and London amid
growing concerns about an undercurrent of "Islamophobia''.

Labour councillor Dipu Ahad warned that the terrorists are fuelling prejudice
against law-abiding Muslims and are providing ammunition for far-right
extremists.

Muslims and people of other religions, including Hindus and Sikhs, already face
insulting remarks linking them to the Taliban or Al Qaeda and Coun Ahad  said
the events of last weekend have triggered unrest amongst the local community.

Coun Ahad, who represents Elswick, in Newcastle, said: "I have been bombarded
with calls from leaders of the Muslim community stating their disgust regarding
the failed attacks in Glasgow and London.

"For many years the Muslim community have contributed to society positively.
Since the September 11 and the 7/7 attacks the Muslim community feel alienated.

"Every time an incident occurs, it only alienates the Muslim community more.
These terrorists are not benefiting the Muslim community but destroying it.

"I myself have face Islamophobic remarks on a regular basis and it's not a nice
feeling, being alienated for something that you condemn. These attacks only give
ammunition to the far-right to fulfil their agenda.

"However, we are very fortunate that the police are working with prominent
leaders of the community to help support the community in tackling Islamophobia
and empower the community.''

Coun Ahad, who was born in Newcastle's West End where there is a large
concentration of ethnic minority families, said he's never come across anyone
who has expressed support for terrorism.

"I have never heard anyone say that. It's wrong, it's against Islam.''

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: grout p10

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              July 6, 2007 Friday

Britain - Communists attack terror attempt

LENGTH: 295 words


Britain's communists condemned the recent attempts to strike at civilian targets
in London and Scotland at a meeting of the party's political committee on
Wednesday.

It stressed that such attacks must be seen as the consequence of the Bush-Blair
"war on terror" and not a justification for its intensification.

That war was launched for imperialist purposes, involved illegal occupations of
other countries and today threatens still wider conflict within the Middle East,
said international secretary John Foster.

Mr Foster called on the British government to signal its determination to break
with the "irresponsible and dangerous" policies of the Bush administration by
immediately withdrawing troops from Afghanistan and Iraq, demanding a just
settlement in Palestine and pledging that Britain will never again be used as a
US forwarding post for military aid to Israel, as occurred during its recent
attack on Lebanon.

The release of kidnapped BBC reporter Alan Johnston was welcomed as offering
important opportunities for dialogue with all sections of the Palestinian
community.

The committee congratulated the Scottish Parliament on its 71-to-16 vote against
the renewal of Britain's nuclear arsenal.

"This offers a critical lead to MPs in Westminster," said Mr Foster.

"By cancelling Trident, Britain would provide a world lead on non-proliferation
and help halt the current slide towards a new nuclear arms race."

The committee stressed the importance of labour movement mobilisation against
the EU reform treaty and the "essential" need for a referendum.

"This treaty is a thinly disguised retread of the discredited 2004 EU
constitution. For the first time, it gives the EU a separate legal status and
makes EU law superior to the law of member states," said Mr Foster.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland

                                 July 06, 2007

TERROR ATTACKS FALL-OUT: Flying in the face of terrorism

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 413  words


Agents praise determination of resilient Scots to keep travelling, while one
shop reports on a near-miss and cruise operators stand by for a surge in
business. Martin Ferguson reports

Britons are flying in the face of terror despite increased national security
after the botched attacks in London and Glasgow.

Agents and operators have expressed relief that business has remained steady
following the incidents.

Some even claim bookings soared after the weekend, suggesting the recent deluge
of rain across the UK is outweighing the terror threat in terms of impact on
demand.

Instances of cancellations directly related to the failed bombings were
isolated.

Elite Travel Group chairman Neil Basnett said he feared the worst when he saw
television images of the blazing jeep crashed into Glasgow airport.

"I thought `this is all we need after a slow start to the summer'," he said.

"But it could have been far worse, and we were lucky there were no casualties."

Basnett said one customer cancelled a flight-only booking fearing there could be
further attacks.

But online agency Travel Republic claimed business was booming.

It reported a 5% increase in bookings from Friday to Tuesday, over the same five
days the previous week, and said Saturday's sales were 22% up on the previous
week.

Managing director Paul Furner said: "The past seven days have been the strongest
ever. It proves the travelling public is tremendously resilient.

"They accept tight security at airports and refuse to let the terrorist threat
get in the way of their long-awaited summer holidays."

But Ian Dickson Travel in Edinburgh did not find business quite so buoyant.

Business travel manager Jon Grosse admitted to receiving some cancellations
after the Glasgow attack, revealing: "Call-offs came mainly from people flying
to London.

"More worryingly, however, two groups of Chinese tourists who were booked for
late summer are reconsidering the trip in light of the alerts. That could be
almost 2% of our annual turnover."

The Scottish public was singled out by one industry leader for special praise.

Cosmos Holidays sales director Andy Washington said: "It was first day of the
Scottish school holidays. Having never been directly hit by terror before, it
could have been tough to recover.

"The Scots demonstrated fantastic composure; to be up and running less than 24
hours later was incredible.

"For us, it was the best weekend I can recall in terms of bookings."

SPAA hails first meeting with MSP officials, page 21

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                      Copyright 2007 CMP Information Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland

                                 July 06, 2007

TERROR ATTACKS FALL-OUT: Near miss for Barrhead at Glasgow

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 213  words


The flaming Jeep Cherokee which rammed into Glasgow airport on Saturday in a
failed suicide bombing missed Barrhead Travel's agency by just five metres and
agents had a narrow escape.

Branch manager Carla Parker recounted: "Some customers had just walked out when
we heard a repeated banging noise of the jeep ramming against the back wall of
the shop.

"It wasn't until we made it to the street that we realised how close it was.

"What could have happened doesn't bear thinking about," she added.

Having suffered extensive water damage from fire hoses, agency staff staged a
massive clean-up operation, enabling them to reopen just 48 hours after the
attack.

Managing director Sharon Munro praised the Scottish public for their resolve.

"Terrorists may think they are creating a climate of fear, but on Sunday our
shops recorded very healthy business," she said.

"The patience shown by our clients and the many hundreds who endured long queues
outside the airport has been inspirational."

Staff at King World Travel gave up their weekends to cover the phones as worried
customers sought information on delays.

Managing director Tom King said: "There were issues for those who missed budget
flights as part of dynamically packaged deals, but everyone was sorted by close
of play on Sunday."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                      Copyright 2007 CMP Information Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland

                                 July 06, 2007

TERROR ATTACKS FALL-OUT: TERROR TIMELINE

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 207  words


Friday: Two cars loaded with petrol, nails and gas cylinders are discovered in
London's West End.

Saturday: A jeep packed with gas cylinders crashes into the doors of Glasgow
airport's main terminal and bursts into flames at 3.15pm. Police confirm the
incident is linked to the failed London car bombs. National security level
raised to "critical". Drop-off and pick-up in front of UK airports severely
restricted.

Sunday 1 July: Glasgow airport resumes normal service within 24 hours of the
attack. Restrictions remain in place at airports across the country. Gatwick
reports serious congestion as police search vehicles. Police carry out a
controlled explosion on a car at the Royal Alexandra hospital in Paisley.

Monday: Stansted closes for more than two hours after a suspicious package
sparks a security alert.

Tuesday: A controlled explosion is carried out on a car at a mosque in Glasgow
and on a suspect package in Hammersmith. The departure lounge at Heathrow's
Terminal 4 is partially evacuated after a suspect bag triggers a security alert.
108 flights are cancelled.

Wednesday: National security level downgraded from "critical" to "severe". MI5
and the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre say an attack is no longer thought to be
imminent.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                      Copyright 2007 CMP Information Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland

                                 July 06, 2007

TERROR ATTACKS FALL-OUT: Cruise hopes to cash in

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 149  words


Customers will turn to ex-UK cruises if the terror attacks continue, Fred Olsen
general sales manager Lol Nichols has predicted.

He said the weekend's events had not affected enquiries but forecast that ex-UK
cruises would gain more prominence in agencies if further attacks led to a
heightened fear of flying.

"As there is no flying involved, cruises could definitely attract more
customers," he said.

Alison Westall, Cumbria Cruises general manager, said sales for 2008 sailings
had increased immediately after the attack.

"Booking patterns since the event have been up on last year," she said.

But the failed suicide bombing had the opposite effect on late cruise bookings
for this summer.

Creative Cruises sales director Jason Peters said calls from Teletext adverts
"nose-dived" immediately after the incident in Glasgow.

"People are looking at the situation and holding back from booking," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                      Copyright 2007 CMP Information Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Gwent

                              July 6, 2007 Friday

Security review after terror attacks

BYLINE: Andy Woolfoot

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 383 words

DATELINE: Wilts And Gloucestershire Standard


THE attempted terror attacks in London and Glasgow this week have prompted a
security review by Royal International Air Tattoo organisers.

The airbase at RAF Fairford is continously monitored by armed guards and
security chiefs are confident  their measures will ensure a safe weekend for
visitors.

A spokesman said: "We would like to reassure visitors that even before the
events in London and Glasgow a robust security policy was in place for this
year's Air Tattoo.

"The security arrangements are under continuous review in the light of changing
circumstances and we are confident this policy and resulting measures will
minimise any risk to those who are planning to attend."

However the Air Tattoo has this week come under fire from eco-activists.

Stroud District Green Party this week slammed the annual event for the thousands
of tonnes of CO2 emmissions that will be created by the hundreds of aircraft on
display over the weekend.

Martin Whiteside, the party's Parliamentary candidate for Stroud and a district
councillor, said: "The Fairford Air Tattoo will result in many thousands of
tonnes of emissions from the planes, plus a significant contribution from all
the unnecessary road traffic that the event generates.

"This single event will cancel out the valiant attempts that many tens of
thousands of people have made across the country to reduce their emissions."

Mr Whiteside also questioned the morality of celebrating the might of military
machines used to drop bombs on Iraq.

He added: "There is no doubt that for many people there is a real thrill to see
aircraft fly at such high speeds, but I would urge people to think twice about
viewing these killing machines while so many still suffer their effects."

Air Tattoo spokesman Richard Arquati said: "What Mr Whiteside fails to
appreciate, or accept, is that the Air Tattoo features many military aircraft
that are involved in delivering humanitarian aid, providing maritime search and
rescue support as well as bringing relief to thousands of people who are victims
of natural disasters.

"We respect the right of Mr Whiteside to voice his opinion. We just hope that
every time he does, he remembers that his freedom to do so was hard won by
thousands upon thousands of brave British men and women who sacrificed their
lives."

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 7, 2007 Saturday

The textbook terrorists The roots of last week's attempted terrorist attacks in
Britain lie not in poverty but in the thwarted aspirations of middle-class
Muslims. Andrew Pierce reports

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: FEATURES; News Review on Saturday; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1470 words


One of the most shocking revelations in the aftermath of the July 7 attack,
whose second anniversary falls today, was that the four suicide bombers were
born and bred in Britain. Two years on from the worst terrorist attack on
British soil, and the nation is again trying to come to terms with another
savage bomb plot.

This time the alleged jihadists, all but one of whom were born outside the
United Kingdom, are suspected to have concealed their cruel intentions behind
the reassuring white coats of doctors' uniforms.

The two doctors Bilal Abdulla, 27, and Kafeel Ahmed, 27, who allegedly were in
the Jeep Cherokee loaded with a deadly cocktail of incendiary material into the
frontage of Glasgow Airport, would make a classic textbook study for
psychological profilers. They were trained in Baghdad where medicine is one of
the most sought-after professions of the wealthy middle classes. The police are
questioning five other suspects, three of whom we know are also doctors
including Kafeel's brother, Sabeel, Mohammed Haneef, 27, from India, and
Mohammed Asha, 26, described as a "brilliant'' Jordanian brain surgeon.
Yesterday, the police seized computers and other material from two hospitals in
Australia as part of the investigation into the attempted car bombings. Four
"migrant'' doctors, who had previously worked in the NHS according to Australian
police, have been questioned. On Monday, an Indian doctor, Mohammed Haneef, a
cousin of the two men in the Jeep, was arrested as he was about to leave the
country on a one-way ticket to Pakistan.

The profilers have plenty to keep them busy. The Glasgow suspects are the
reverse of the widely held perception that suicide bombers are disaffected,
radicalised young men, susceptible to brainwashing about the glories of
martyrdom in the madrasses of Pakistan and Indonesia, and exploited by the
al-Qa'eda high command. How much easier it would have been to comprehend if they
had been poorly educated young men plucked from the back streets of Islamabad by
the mullahs of hate to wage jihad. Instead, we have to ask why intelligent
educated men would hate us so much that they would try to turn an airport
departure lounge into an inferno and to incinerate hundreds in the London
nightclub Tiger Tiger.

"The one overwhelming thing was that [these attacks] defied all of our
assumptions,'' Peter Neumann, the director of the Centre for Defence Studies at
King's College, London, told Time magazine this week.

But the backgrounds of the alleged terrorists come as no surprise to Ed Husain,
a former member of the extremist Hizb ut-Tahir organisation which supports the
killing of British soldiers in Iraq. It is now commonplace for the membership of
jihad networks to be drawn from the professional or would-be professional
classes. Mohammad Sidique Khan, the leader of the 7/7 bombers, was university
educated. So was Omar Sheikh who masterminded the filmed beheading of Daniel
Pearl, the American journalist who was captured in Iraq. Omar Khyam, a cell
ringleader who was convicted this year of a 2004 plot to blow up a London
nightclub and shopping mall with fertiliser bombs, was a computer sciences
student. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who planned 9/11 and other attacks had a degree
in mechanical engineering from North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State
University. Osama bin Laden was an engineer.

"Al-Qa'eda is filled with people who are graduates from medical and engineering
colleges,'' Husain says. "They regard scripture like a textbook, manual or
medical handbook. In their minds, there is no room for any humanity based nuance
or even alternative arguments. They have the arrogance of their advanced
education, consider themselves to be above the rest, and to be absolutely
right.''

In France, too, the authorities have uncovered terrorist cells where the
privileged upbringing of the young men gave no clue to their deadly intentions.
"In Montpellier, we arrested three university students who had formed a cell
after radicalisation from web sources but who previously were not interested in
religion at all,'' says an intelligence source. "This happens anywhere people
are seduced by radical discourse. We have to avoid falling back on stereotypes
because they cause you to miss things.''

Many of these young men have travelled far from home to study, which makes them
particularly vulnerable to the influence of fundamentalist groups who actively
seek to lure them in, and to the jihadist chat rooms on the net. Marc Sageman, a
former CIA agent and author of Understanding Terror Networks, says: "They are
much more vulnerable as they are away from their families and they are
deliberately targeted for this reason.''

Ed Husain rejects the idea that the planned bombings were an attack on the
Western way of life. "These bombers also hate Muslims. They have abandoned
mainstream Islam and have no qualms about killing Muslims, whether they are in
Iraq, or at a British airport, or nightclub. They see the rest of the world as
being the domain of the infidel. They are intent on cleansing the entire world
and putting in its place their own puritanical creed.'' More alarmingly, he
adds: ''You are wrong if you think that they are from a small minority. They are
a vocal minority with significant numbers.''

The rise of the radical professional classes is attracting the attention of
academics from organisations such as the London and Washington-based Centre for
Islamic Pluralism. Its directors, Stephen Schwartz and Irfan Al-Alawi, write
that the West has misunderstood the threat of radical Islam: "...it is less a
product of misery and the sense of extreme oppression than of the thwarted
aspirations of the Muslim middle-classes''.

While Western doctors are baffled that their Muslim counterparts are suspected
to have abandoned the desire to preserve life and engage in an attempt at
mass-murder, Schwartz and Al-Alawi point to the belief that Islam and science
are inextricably linked and that "a fundamentalist view of religion will lead to
a revival of Muslim science, such as existed in the Islamic golden age...''.

All the suspects under arrest are adherents of the Wahhabi doctrine which dates
back to 18th-century Arabia. Bilal Abdulla, 27, is a devotee of the extreme form
of the Wahhabi teaching, which advocates "hate and hostility to infidels and
polytheists''.

Some Middle East commentators have argued that the would-be bombers were
motivated by the civilian killings in Afghanistan and Iraq. But one suspect is
said to regard the Taliban, who routinely butchered their own people for the
crime of adultery, homosexuality or for a woman showing too much flesh, as the
leaders of the definitive moral society. And Mr Husain, whose book, The
Islamist, exposed the workings of Hizb ut-Tahir, is contemptuous of the idea
that the latest plots were inspired by the West's intervention in Iraq and
Afghanistan.

"This is just an excuse. They reject Western culture full stop, not just 'slags
in night clubs'. They would have supported the bombing of Muslims attending the
cinema in Cairo in the 1950s. They do not want Muslims to enjoy social freedoms.
If it was not Iraq they would cite Chechnya. Or Palestine. These are angry men.
Accommodation is not an option. It has to be containment or annihilation.''

So what was their motivation? After 9/11 we were told that the suicide bombers
believed that their "sacrifice'' would see them into paradise where they would
be rewarded by the services of 72 young virgins. Prof Anthony Glees, the
director of the Centre for Intelligence Studies at Brunel University, dismisses
this as a factor in the latest attempted suicide bombing: "They will have
believed that their deaths as martyrs would be the tipping point for the victory
of the many. They would have been convinced that their deaths would have
encouraged other young men and women to come forward. That is the whole point of
being a martyr. I fear that if they had succeeded they might not have been
wrong.''

Marc Sageman agrees, describing suicide bombers as the "rock stars'' of the
militant Islamic community. "They think they will be revered as heroes after
they have died - and they will be. They will be glorified on thousands of
jihadist websites. They are willing to die and to kill to lead the vanguard for
the creation of a universal Muslim community.''

After a week of headlines dominated by the terror threat, moderate Muslims
fought back yesterday with full-page advertisements in national newspapers
making clear that the intended attacks were "not in our name''.

However, Professor Glees estimates that there are up to 200,000 potential
martyrs, at universities at home and abroad, who are susceptible to recruitment.
"There are huge reservoirs to draw on,'' he warns - a potentially terrifying
fact that the police and intelligence agencies must now ponder.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                             July 7, 2007, Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Terror attack suspect has expertise in making bombs

BYLINE: Gareth Edwards

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 538 words


THE terror suspect critically ill in a hospital burns unit is an engineer with
the skills to make the explosives used in the Glasgow and London attacks.

It has emerged that Kafeel Ahmed, who allegedly drove the Jeep into a Glasgow
Airport terminal last Saturday, is a doctor of engineering, not medicine.

Police believe he may have made the two bombs found in vehicles in London, as
well as the one in the foiled Glasgow attack.

Ahmed, 28, who was previously thought to be called Khalid, has a masters degree
in aeronautical engineering and a doctorate in computational fluid dynamics, a
highly specialised subject in which computers are used to simulate the flow of
fluids and gases.

The bombs from London and Glasgow consisted of gas cylinders, petrol and a
detonating system using mobile phones.

Ahmed was today reported to have left Bangalore, India, in May, telling his
family that he was going to Britain to work on "a large-scale confidential
project" about global warming.

The Times of India said he told family members: "It involves a lot of
travelling. The project has to be started in the United Kingdom. Various people
from various countries are involved in this."

It was also reported today that Dr Ahmed phoned his family in India last
Saturday, the day after the foiled bombings in London.

He is reported to have told them: "My earlier presentation failed . . . please
pray for me."

The other suspect from Glasgow Airport, Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdullah, 27, was due
to appear before Westminster magistrates in London today, charged with
conspiracy to cause explosions.

The Crown Prosecution Service said Abdullah was being charged under the 1883
Explosive Substances Act.

The 27-year-old, who was working as a doctor at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in
Paisley, is the first person charged over the attacks and faces a maximum life
sentence.

He was transferred from Scotland to London's Paddington Green police station for
questioning this week.

Police are holding five other people in the UK and one in Australia as part of
the inquiry.

In the wake of the attacks, the Muslim Council of Britain was today set to lay
out ways in which it believes the threat of terrorism can be fought. Around 200
people, including Imams, community activists and police, are expected to attend
the gathering at the Regent's Park mosque, north London.

In addition, around 4000 people were expected to take part in an anti-terror
rally in Glasgow's George Square today.

The five other people held in the UK include two trainee doctors, aged 25 and
28, who were arrested at the Royal Alexandra Hospital.

The others detained are Dr Mohammed Asha, 26, of Newcastle-under-Lyme,
Staffordshire, and his wife, Marwa Asha, who were arrested in Cheshire last
Saturday, and a 26-year-old doctor from Bangalore, India, who worked at Halton
Hospital in Runcorn, Cheshire, and was arrested in Liverpool.

One other doctor was arrested in Australia - Dr Mohammed Haneef, 27, who once
worked at the Halton Hospital in Runcorn.

* Edinburgh Airport has now re-opened its forecourt for the first time since
Saturday's attack at Glasgow Airport.

As was the case before the incident, cars and other private vehicles can now
access the outer forecourt area to drop off passengers.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 7, 2007 Saturday
                                 Fourth Edition

Police identify bomb-maker as Iraqi becomes first man to be charged over terror
attacks

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta and Kathy Marks in Sydney

LENGTH: 689 words


Bilal Abdulla, arrested at the scene of last week's attack on Glasgow airport,
has been charged with conspiracy to cause explosions.

Scotland Yard confirmed the charge had been brought last night after being
advised to proceed by the Crown Prosecution Service. Mr Abdulla, 27, an Iraqi
doctor, will appear at City of London magistrates' court this morning. Seven
other suspects remain in custody pending decisions on charges.

As the Met continues its investigation, it was revealed last night that up to
eight officers and civilian staff suspected of sympa-thising with al-Qa'ida were
working in the police force.

The list of suspected Islamist militants, obtained by the Daily Mail, was drawn
up by M15 after the July 2005 attacks in London. The security service was said
to have vetted staff and checked information held on numerous databases to find
people who had attended radical Islamist schools, those who had associations
with militant preachers or who had visited pro-Jihad websites.

Yesterday it was also revealed that Kafeel Ahmed, who was badly burnt in the
Glasgow attack before being arrested, is believed to have been the bomb-maker in
the NHS-based terror plot. Mr Ahmed, whose brother Sabeel is also under arrest,
has a doctorate in engineering, and has studied at Cambridge and Belfast. The
Independent has learnt that both men lived in Iran and Saudi Arabia before
arriving in Britain.

New amateur footage emerged last night, shown on the BBC, of the arrest of
Kafeel Ahmed and of Mr Abdulla after they crashed a Jeep Cherokee into the
terminal of Glasgow airport last Saturday.

Shortly before that attack and the two earlier attempted car bombings in London,
Kafeel Ahmed told his parents in Bangalore, India, that: "I am involved in a
large-scale, confidential project. It is about global warming. It involves a lot
of travelling.

"The project has to be started in the United Kingdom," he said. "Various people
from various countries are involved in this ??? During the project work in the
UK, I will not be available by any means, phone or internet, for a week. So,
please don't worry."

He is said to have made another call to his mother, Zakia, who is a doctor, and
to his sister, Sadia, a student of medicine, on 30 June, the day of the Glasgow
attack, and about 36 hours after the failed London bombings. He said to them
that a previous "presentation" he had made "had not been accepted". He asked
them to pray for him and added: "I had told you earlier that, some time in the
future, I will be inaccessible for a week. The time has come now."

Kafeel Ahmed's alleged central role emerged as police in Australia interviewed
five more Indian Muslim doctors and seized mobile telephones and computers. This
followed the arrest of Dr Mohammed Haneef, a friend and former colleague of
Sabeel Ahmed, as he was about to board a flight in Brisbane. Australian police
said all the doctors questioned had worked in the NHS and were known to Dr
Haneef.

The Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, said he had spo-ken to his Australian
counterpart, John Howard, about what was "an international conspiracy".

The police searches in Australia concentrated on the Royal Perth Hospital and a
hospital in the outback gold-mining town of Kalgoorlie, both in Western
Australia. The head of the Australian Federal Police, Mick Keelty, said: "There
are a number of people now being interviewed. It doesn't mean they are all
suspects, but it is a complex investigation, and the links to the UK are
becoming more concrete."

It also emerged yesterday that Kafeel, who in early reports was named as Khalid,
and Sabeel Ahmed had applied, unsuccessfully, to work in Australia. And another
of the alleged plotters, the Palestinian doctor Mohammed Asha, under arrest with
his wife Marwa, had contacted an agency to look for work in the US.

Kafeel and Sabeel Ahmed are said to have tried to persuade their local mosque in
Bangalore to adopt a more hard line, Saudi-inspired version of Islam. A cleric,
Mullah Samiullah, told The Independent how worshippers, fed up with the
brothers' harangues, threatened to break their arms and legs and warned them to
stay away.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                             July 7, 2007 Saturday

Queen's link to terror attack

BYLINE: Alana Fearon

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 322 words


One of the men who allegedly drove a 4x4 with a bomb into Glasgow airport was a
"multi-culturalism activist" when he was studying in Belfast.

Kafeel Ahmed, who was critically injured during the dramatic bomb attempt last
Saturday, left Queen's University in 2003 after studying for a master of
philosophy in aeronautical engineering.

Jamal Iweida, former president of the Belfast Islamic Society, said Ahmed spent
his time in Belfast organising interfaith and multi-cultural activities and
attended the Islamic Centre regularly.

He said: "We are all completely shocked by reports about Kafeel. He was an
articulate boy, very intelligent and always very friendly. He never seemed
radical and I was never suspicious of his beliefs.

"The man I knew a few years ago could not have done this, but he has been away
from Belfast since 2003. I haven't spoken to him since."

Ahmed, a mechanical engineering graduate from India, is reported to have
suffered burns to 90 per cent of his body when he drove a Jeep Cherokee into a
door at the check-in area of the Scottish airport.

It is believed that Ahmed, who is "an exception in a family of doctors" applied
to do a PhD at Queen's University in 2001 but his application was unsuccessful
and he left Belfast in 2003 after completing a two-year masters.

He went on to complete a PhD in computational fluid dynamics at Anglia
Polytechnic University.

His name appears on the Queen's website as an executive member of the Islamic
Student Society in 2003/2004.

A spokeswoman from the university refused to confirm that Ahmed had studied at
Queen's.

Anglia University said it was aware of speculation about possible links between
the attack and one of its research students.

Meanwhile, one man was charged last night in connection with the attempted
bombings on Glasgow airport and in London.

Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdullah is accused of conspiracy to cause explosions and
will to appear before magistrates today.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             July 7, 2007 Saturday

Shot boy's terror at park air rifle attack

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 374 words


A Teenager says he is lucky to be alive after being shot with an airgun.

Mitchell Hill, 14, needed surgery to remove a pellet from his right arm.

He was told by doctors that if the pellet had struck him on the  temple or in
the eye it could have killed him.

He said: "It could have been a lot worse really. It is scary thinking about
that."

Mitchell was walking a dog with a friend through Sycamore Park, St Ann's, when
he was hit.

He said: "We were  walking along when I heard this noise. It sounded like a
crack of wood.

"I then felt a burning feeling in my arm. It was like I had been stung by a bee.
When I looked I had a big hole in my arm.

"I didn't really get the chance to see who had done it because I started to run
off."

Mitchell, of Massey Gardens, St Ann's, went to his grandmother's house nearby
after the shooting at about 8.30pm on June 29.

He was then taken to the Queen's Medical Centre for treatment.

The Elliott Durham School pupil  is still off school and will be not be allowed
to play sports until he is fully recovered.

He said he was too afraid to go back to the park where he was shot.

"I used to go there a lot but not anymore," he said.

"I also went to the sports centre there every Monday but I'm not going back
there either.

"It's still really painful and bleeds sometimes as well. The bruising is still
there. It keeps changing colour."

Mitchell's mum, Donna McGinty, 34, said it was a totally unprovoked attack.

She said: "He is such a good lad who does really well at school.

"I just can't understand why people do things like this. I can't think of the
words to describe how I feel about them.

"It has changed him because he has been very quiet. He has only been out the
house with me since it happened.

"When he does eventually go out I will be very worried, but I can't just keep
him indoors."

Donna said she hoped someone could help police catch the culprit.

She said: "I am just relieved he is still here, because they told me at hospital
it could have been much worse.

"I just hope they can get these people because next time someone could be
killed."

A police  spokesman  said the incident was being investigated and anyone with
information  should call 0115 967 0999, extension  6764.

marcus.boocock@nottinghameveningpost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             July 7, 2007, Saturday
                                 WMail Edition

Doctor charged over terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 376 words


Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdullah last night became the first person to be charged
over the London and Glasgow car bomb attacks.

Abdullah, who was arrested after a flaming Jeep was driven into the doors of the
arrivals hall of Glasgow Airport on Saturday, was due to appear before
magistrates in Westminster, central London, today.

He was charged last night with conspiring to cause explosions, Scotland Yard
said.

Abdullah, 27, was working as a doctor at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in
Paisley, Scotland, before his arrest. He was transferred to London's Paddington
Green police station for questioning before being charged last night on advice
from the Crown Prosecution Service.

Two trainee doctors, aged 25 and 28, arrested at the same hospital, are among a
total of seven people to have been arrested in the UK over the plot.

One other doctor was arrested in Australia and several others have been
questioned there but are not under arrest.

Of those held in the UK, a second man arrested at Glasgow Airport was last night
still being treated for burns.

Dr Mohammed Asha, 26, of Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire, was arrested with
his wife, Marwa Asha, on the M6 motorway near Sandbach in Cheshire last
Saturday.

Also last Saturday, a 26-year-old doctor from Bangalore, India, who worked at
Halton Hospital in Runcorn, Cheshire, was arrested in the Lime Street area of
Liverpool.

An eighth person was arrested in Australia - Dr Mohammed Haneef, 27, who once
worked at the Halton Hospital in Runcorn.

Several other doctors of Indian origin with experience working in the UK have
also been quizzed in Australia.

The CPS said Abdullah was being charged under the 1883 Explosive Substances Act.
The charge, which covers a period from January 1 to July 1 this year, alleges
that he "unlawfully and maliciously conspired with others to cause explosions of
a nature likely to endanger life or cause serious injury to property in the
United Kingdom".

It carries a maximum sentence of life.

Susan Hemming, head of the CPS Counter Terrorism Division, said, "I have now
made the decision that there is sufficient evidence and authorised the charging
of Bilal Abdullah with conspiracy to cause explosions following incidents in
London and Glasgow on 29 June 2007 and 30 June 2007."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday

Pakistani public fears Red Mosque crisis will lead to terror attacks - paper

LENGTH: 337 words


Text of report by Aamir Yasin headlined "Operation sets off waves of fear"
published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 7 July

Islamabad: Residents of Rawalpindi [in Punjab province] and Islamabad fear
terrorist attacks in the wake of gun battles between mullahs [Islamic clerics]
and law enforcers at Lal Masjid [Red Mosque, Islamabad].

Friday [6 July] prayers were offered at mosques amid rumours of suicide attacks.
People are even reluctant to go to markets, as weekly bazaars on Friday looked
deserted. In the past, the two cities were peaceful, but now extremism is the
order of the day.

Muhammad Saleh, of Rawalpindi, said he was not going to the market and other
such places to avoid any untoward incident. He said it was condemnable that
innocent people were dying in the battle between seminarians and government
agencies.

Muhammad Zaman said it was not jihad, but a drama being played by the government
and Lal Masjid mullahs only to prove to the Western world that the government
was doing a lot in the war on terror.

Amin Ahmed, a trader in Raja Bazaar [Rawalpindi neighbourhood], said the unrest
had affected business. "We fear terrorist attacks all the time while sitting in
our shops," he said.

Muhammad Abbas, a government official living in Islamabad, said the government
should register seminaries and discourage jihadist groups.

Sahil Hussain, a student, said price hikes, unemployment, the loss of
government's writ and continued dictatorship in the country were the reasons for
the situation going from bad to worse.

Shumaila Ahmed, another student, said people could be out in the streets late at
night and girls could move freely in markets a few years ago, but the situation
had now worsened because [of] Lal Masjid vigilantes patrolling the city.

Mamraiz Khan of Islamabad said the country became home to militants after
becoming a frontline state in the war on terror, adding that the government was
responsible for protecting its citizens.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 07 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The News of the World (England)

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday

Hero John Smeaton became the face of defiance after the terror attacks

BYLINE: Euan McColm

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 46  words


HERO John Smeaton became the face of defiance after the terror attacks.

He and others who risked their lives are to be thanked by First Minister Alex
Salmond.

The FM said he was looking forward to meeting Smeaton.

He added: "And one thing's for sure - I wouldnae cross the bloke."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sunday Herald

                                  July 8, 2007

Revealed: 'bomb factory' in rented village house;
Terror attacks: court hears evidence against passenger in blazing Jeep

BYLINE: By John Bynorth Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 694 words



HIGHLIGHT: Muslims gathered in Glasgow's George Square and London's Regent's
Park yesterday to demonstrate their opposition to terrorism in the wake of the
recent bomb incidents Photographs: Ian MacNicol/ Getty/AFP


CRUCIAL forensic evidence has linked an Iraqi-born doctor to the terror attacks
on Glasgow Airport and London, the Sunday Herald can reveal.

Dr Bilal Abdullah, 27, was arrested after the blazing Jeep Cherokee, in which he
was a passenger, crashed into the entrance of the airport on June 30.

Abdullah yesterday appeared in court in London charged with conspiring to cause
explosions in Glasgow and London. The Sunday Herald has learned details of the
evidence linking Abdullah, a locum at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley,
to both plots.

It is alleged that a "bomb factory" was run from the semi-detached house
Abdullah rented in Neuk Crescent in Houston, Renfrewshire, just five miles from
the airport.

Police claim that they had difficulty searching the property because of the
number of wires and other bomb making equipment in the property that he rented
two months before the attack.

Abdullah's blood and fingerprints were allegedly found on the Mercedes parked
outside the Tiger Tiger nightclub in Haymarket, Central London, the day before
the Glasgow attack.

The allegations against Abdullah include :

That his fingerprints were found in the Mercedes car packed with fuel, gas
cylinders and nails outside the London nightclub Tiger Tiger.

That his DNA was found in blood on the dashboard of the vehicle.

That a key to one of the Mercedes cars was found at the house in Houston.

That Abdullah also admitted to police he lived in the house, which was leased on
April 28, but refused to say who lived with him.

That he confirmed in police interviews that he was in the Jeep used in the
Glasgow attack, but refused to answer any questions in police interviews about
the London plot.

The allegations emerged during evidence outlined at City of Westminster
Magistrates Court where Abdullah made an appearance after being charged with the
offences on Friday night.

Kafeel Ahmed, 27, the Jeep driver, remains critically ill with 90-per cent burns
in Glasgow Royal Infirmary after the vehicle, laden with gas cylinders, was
driven into its main doors.

Abdullah was charged on Friday after being transferred from Scotland to the high
security Paddington Green police station in west London last week.

The Aylesbury-born doctor, who was raised in Baghdad, is the first of the eight
suspects to be charged over the incidents that left the country on a "critical"
state of terror alert.

He was brought to the court at 9.30am in a blue police van accompanied by two
unmarked police cars. Roads around the building were also sealed off and armed
police guarded streets. He was transferred from Scotland early last week after
the Lord Advocate Elish Anglioni signed an agreement for the case to be tried as
a single trial in England.

Abdullah had initially failed to stand up when the District Judge Anthony Evans
entered the room, but stood to hear the case outlined against him. He spoke only
to give his name and to confirm his date of birth before the clerk told him:
"The charge against you is that between January 1 and July 1 this year, within
the jurisdiction of the Central Criminal Court, you unlawfully and maliciously
conspired with others to cause explosions of a nature likely to endanger life or
cause serious injury to property in the United Kingdom." Karen Jones,
prosecuting, told the court that on June 29 two "vehicle-borne improvised
devices" were found in London, but had not been detonated.

She added that the following day a vehicle was driven at Terminal One of Glasgow
Airport with a bomb on board that didn't detonate and that the devices were made
from gas, petrol and nails.

No application for bail was made and he will be held in a high security prison
until his next hearing at the Old Bailey on July 27, where a series of other
high profile terror trials have recently taken place.

After telling the court more details about the case, District Judge Evans
remanded Abdullah into custody. He said: "The case will be sent to the Central
Criminal Court for trial. You will first appear there on July 27 at 10am. You
will remain in custody until that date." Six other people are being held in
Britain after the attacks. Another man is being held in Australia.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNHER


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sunday Herald

                                  July 8, 2007

Terrorist attack coverage boosts sales of Scottish Sundays;
NEWSPAPERS: CIRCULATION

BYLINE: By Steven Vass

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 500 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sunday Mail editor Allan Rennie says his paper benefited from
exclusive photographs of the attack


THE terrorist attack at Glasgow airport last weekend saw big sales lifts for the
Scottish Sunday papers - scotching the notion that news no longer sells
newspapers.

On a week when Sunday papers traditionally see their sales falling off due to
the start of the school holidays, the Sunday Herald, Sunday Mail and Scotland on
Sunday all saw strongerthan-expected figures.

These figures contrasted with the socalled tartan editions of UK national
Sundays like the Sunday Times, Mail on Sunday and News of the World, which all
rose more modestly.

This will be seen by some observers as a sign that Scottish readers turn to
indigenous papers when a major Scottish news story breaks.

According to trade estimates, the Sunday Herald increased sales by more than
5000 copies compared to the previous week. It sold in excess of 58,000, an
increase of 9-per cent; Scotland on Sunday put on 4000 copies, or 6-per cent, to
sell 66,600; and the Sunday Mail put on 24,000 copies in a 5-per cent rise to
lift its sale to 483,000.

Sunday Mail editor Allan Rennie put his paper's performance down to its
exclusive front cover photograph of a policeman hosing down one of the two men
who drove a Jeep into the airport's terminal. He said: "It's one of those iconic
pictures that will still be used in 10 or 20 years. It sums up everything: the
courage of the policeman and the madness of the suicide bombers, and it quite
clearly shows that it happened at an airport."

Rennie said that the picture had since been sold around the world, but that the
paper had only charged GBP250 per use, a fraction of its worth, since it had not
wanted to capitalise on terrorism.

The Sunday Mail reader who took the picture with his mobile phone was given a
"reasonable sum" for his trouble.

Rennie added that the Sunday Mail also benefited from another exclusive picture
of the second bomber being arrested and the fact that the paper was first to
reach the streets, at eight in the evening.

Richard Walker, editor of the Sunday Herald, said his paper's Terror Strikes
Home front page and 11-page special will see it buck the market's decline and
grow sales year-on-year this month.

With big real-time stories rare on Saturdays, the spike also occurred in spite
of the fact that details of the attack were immediately put up on the Sunday
Herald website, which saw a 40-per cent rise in unique users.

Walker said: "Events like that are a test of a newspaper's ability to react, and
everybody in the paper rose to that challenge superbly." The Scottish edition of
the Sunday Times, which carried just two pages of coverage, saw only a marginal
rise to about 68,500 copies, while the News of the World was up 3-per cent, or
8000 copies, to around 300,000. The Mail on Sunday - which carried a free DVD -
gave the fullest coverage of any of the UK papers.

Its circulation rose by about 17,000, or 15-per cent, to 118,000 - around what
it sells in a week where it gives away a DVD. This may suggest that the paper
saw little lift from its news coverage.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNHER


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Doctor in court over bombs;
Iraqi man is charged with conspiring to cause explosions as police hold five
other terrorism suspects after attacks

BYLINE: By Simon Baker and Tom Martin

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 826  words


AN IRAQI doctor yesterday became the first person to appear in court over the
failed car bomb attacks in Glasgow and London.

Bilal Abdullah was remanded when he appeared at City of Westminster Magistrates'
Court, in central London.

The 27-year-old, who was arrested after a flaming Jeep was driven into Glasgow
Airport last week, is accused of conspiring to cause explosions.

The charge carries a maximum life sentence.

Police are holding six other people in the UK and one in Australia as part of a
global inquiry into the incidents.

Abdullah, who wore a white sweatshirt and was flanked by two plain-clothed
security officers, spoke only to give his name and to confirm his date of birth.

The court clerk told him: "The charge against you is that between January 1 and
July 1 this year within the jurisdiction of the Central Criminal Court, you
unlawfully and maliciously conspired with others to cause explosions of a nature
likely to endanger life or cause serious injury to property in the United
Kingdom."

Abdullah stood in the dock while the charge was read out to him but had earlier
failed to stand when District Judge Anthony Evans entered the room.

Karen Jones, prosecuting, told the court the charge was related to suspected
bomb attacks in London and Glasgow on June 29 and June 30. There was no
application for bail and Abdullah was remanded in custody to appear at the Old
Bailey on July 27.

Ms Jones told the court that on June 29 two "vehicle-borne improvised devices"
were found in London but had not been detonated. She added that on June 30 a
vehicle was driven at the terminal of Glasgow Airport with a bomb on board that
did detonate.

She said the devices were made from gas, petrol and nails.

After telling the court more details about the case District Judge Anthony Evans
remanded Abdullah into custody.

He said: "This case will be sent to the Central Criminal Court for trial. You
will first appear there on July 27 at 10am. You will remain in custody until
that date."

Abdullah qualified in Baghdad in 2004 and first registered as a doctor in the UK
in 2006. He was given limited registration by the General Medical Council from
August 5, 2006, to August 11, 2007.

Limited registration is awarded to recent medical graduates and it allowed him
to work in Britain for a year, but in accordance with standard procedure, he
could not move jobs during that time and had to be supervised.

Abdullah was born in Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, where his father, also a
doctor, worked. After moving to Iraq, he studied at al-Mansour high school, in
Baghdad, and later at Baghdad College.

Six other people are being held in the UK after the attacks in the two cities.
Five can be held for a further week, it was announced last night Two are trainee
doctors, aged 25 and 28, who were arrested at the Royal Alexandra Hospital,
Paisley.

One man, Kafeel Ahmed, 27, from Bangalore, India, is still in a critical
condition in a specialist burns unit at Glasgow Royal Infirmary after suffering
90 per cent burns in the incident. His father, Maqbool, told a newspaper in
India yesterday: "My son Kafeel is lying in a UK hospital with 90 per cent burn
injuries.

"When we saw the footage of a person being carried to the hospital following the
blast . . .

we identified that he was our son." The others being detained include Dr
Mohammed Asha, 26, of Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire, who was arrested with
his wife, Marwa Asha, on the M6 in Cheshire.

Asha is of Palestinian descent but grew up in Jordan. His father Jamil has
insisted his son "never showed any signs of growing militancy" during his
three-year stay in Britain and called his arrest a "mistake".

He said they "were in phone contact every week" and that his son had been due to
visit on July 12 with his wife and their son.

Dr Azmi Mahafzah, who taught Asha at the University of Jordan's medical school
for six years, said he was a brilliant student, and added: "I can't even
remotely imagine him being involved in extremist activities or terrorism."

The same day Dr Sabeel Ahmed, 26, who worked at Halton Hospital, in Runcorn,
Cheshire, was arrested in the Lyme Street area of Liverpool.

He is the brother of Kafeel Ahmed.

One other doctor was arrested in Australia - Dr Mohammed Haneef, 27, who once
worked at the Halton Hospital in Runcorn.

Several other doctors of Indian origin with experience working in the UK have
also been questioned in Australia.

Although the UK has lowered its terror threat level from "critical" to "severe",
police remain on high alert.

First Minister Alex Salmond yesterday revealed police have recovered a "gold
mine" of forensic evidence as part of their inquiry. He said: "I think the speed
and success of this inquiry in terms of detention and arrests has been
extraordinary and that's due to the excellence of our police service."

And although the suspects have been handed to the UK authorities, Mr Salmond
said, if "anything changes", they could face proceedings in Scotland.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT: Tight security was evident at the City of Westminster
Magistrates Court and, above, artist impression of Abdullah
DESTRUCTION: The Jeep Cherokee ablaze at Glasgow Airport last weekend and
Abdullah being taken away by police

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Put to the test . . . but defiant;
LEADER - Terror attacks showed Scotland at its best . . .prepared to face up to
challenges of any size

BYLINE: By Alex Salmond

SECTION: LEADER; 26

LENGTH: 725  words


LAST WEEK, our country was tested - and we were not found wanting. The attack on
Glasgow Airport tells you a lot about the type of people who would carry out
such an act. It tells you about the lengths to which they are willing to go to
threaten our way of life.

However, what is far more telling has been the response to this outrage from the
people of Scotland.

Our response told the world that Scotland will not flinch. The immediate
response from our emergency services and passers-by - seen by millions around
the world on television - was not to flee from the scene. It was to run towards
a blazing vehicle and whatever else awaited them, so that they could, in the
words of one, "sort it out".

Our police service has been tested this week. They have responded with an
excellent evidence-led investigation that has shown both dynamism, sensitivity
and rapid results.

Our transport infrastructure has been tested, yet our largest international
airport was back up and running less than 24 hours after coming under attack.

People have been able to go about their business and to go on holiday for which
they have worked hard all year.

Public confidence has been tested. And with a mix of courage, inspiration,
stoicism and no little good humour, we have got back on our feet.

Next month, I will be hosting a special reception for all those who played such
a heroic role last weekend in Glasgow. We must take time to recognise all those
individuals and organisations who have performed such remarkable feats in the
past seven days.

We almost expect our emergency services to react in the manner they did. It is
in line with the highest traditions of these services over the years, but it is
still humbling. But for many members of the public to have behaved in the manner
they did is truly remarkable, and I look forward to thanking them all
personally.

New governments north and south of the Border have been tested, but we have
shown through excellent co-operation and co-ordination that we can work together
effectively for the people of our countries.

OUR minority ethnic communities have also been tested. Scots Asians are part of
the Scottish tartan, woven into the fabric of our society. So it is no surprise
that they have been quick to condemn, in the strongest terms, those responsible
for these terrorist acts and to voice support for police efforts to bring them
to justice.

I heard that for myself when I visited the Glasgow central mosque last Sunday -
and I know that message was repeated on the other side of the country by Justice
Secretary Kenny MacAskill on Friday when he visited the central mosque in
Edinburgh.

Of course, there are still challenges to come. We must continue to promote
social cohesion. There have been just a few disgraceful racist incidents
following last Saturday's outrage. Those responsible will be subject to the full
force of the law.

We will not tolerate this in our Scotland.

Significantly, a number of these incidents have come to police attention thanks
to the intervention of other members of the public in support of their fellow
citizens from the ethnic minority communities.

I have been keen to highlight at every opportunity this week that the suspects
in this attack had no connection to the Scottish Asian community. The response
from our Asian community has been exemplary, and the police will continue to
work closely with them in ensuring that good relations are maintained.

It has also been important to build on the efforts of those responsible for the
phenomenal initial response, and make clear that Scotland is back to normal.

There are no immediate signs that last week has had a significant impact on
tourism and our economy.

HOWEVER, we are not complacent and we will be looking to use the summer of
international events - T In The Park, the Open Golf Championship, the Edinburgh
Festival - to send a clear message around the world that Scotland is open for
business.

What happened at Glasgow Airport is something we all wish had never happened,
but it told us a lot. It told other people a lot too about a small nation with a
big heart.

It told us that we were ready to respond to such an attack; that we would and
could face up to such a challenge.

It also told the world that Scotland will stand firm and stay calm in the face
of terror. As a result, this weekend as a country we stand that bit taller.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRAISE: Alex Salmond pays tribute to all those who showed courage and
resolve

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Finger of blame for Lockerbie pointed atAmerican citizen;
Appeal papers of jailed al-Megrahi reveal terror group was hired for revenge
attack

BYLINE: By Derek Lambie

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 766  words


AN AMERICAN citizen living close to the White House has emerged as the real
Lockerbie bomber, the Sunday Express can reveal.

In a sensational twist, Abu Elias, currently living near Washington DC, will be
named with others believed to be in the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine - General Command (PFLP-GC) as part of a terror cell behind the Pan Am
disaster.

Lawyers claim the radical Palestinian organisation was hired for $10million to
avenge the shooting down of an Iranian airliner by the US five months earlier.

Two weeks ago Libyan Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi, 55, was given the right
to appeal his conviction.

Elias - who has a new identity the Sunday Express cannot divulge - is the nephew
of the terror group's leader, Ahmed Jibril, the man believed to be the
mastermind of the bombing.

The Sunday Express understands new documents - likely to form the basis for
al-Megrahi's appeal - show the American was described as "the primary target"
early in the investigation.

They also state he conspired with Mohammed Abu Talb, an Egyptian named by
Dumfries and Galloway Police as the initial chief suspect.

Lockerbie relatives last night said they are more convinced than ever that the
PFLP-GC are the perpetrators of the atrocity. Dr Jim Swire, who lost daughter
Flora in the disaster, said:

"My view has always been that Abu Talb was involved but that he was not the
actual bomber. This development is encouraging and opens new avenues."

Pan Am Flight 103 was just 38 minutes into its journey from London to New York
when it was blown up.

Investigators concluded a Semtex bomb was in a cassette player rigged with a
Swiss electronic timing device.

Al-Megrahi was convicted in 2002 following a GBP 75million trial at a Scottish
Court, at Camp Zeist in the Netherlands, although his co-accused Al-Amin Khalifa
Fahima was cleared.

But the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission (SCCRC) has identified six
grounds where it believes a miscarriage of justice may have occurred, with its
main focus on the evidence from Tony Gauci, who said al-Megrahi had come into
his shop in Malta and bought clothes found at the scene of the disaster.

With the decision, the finger of blame is once again being pointed at the
PFLP-GC.

Jibril was suspected of organising the bombing on behalf of Iran as revenge on
the US for shooting down Iran Air 655 over the Persian Gulf in 1988.

Evidence submitted to the SCCRC named Jibril, now 79, as the mastermind, with
his nephew working with Abu Talb, a member of a splinter group and later jailed
for life in Sweden for a bomb attack that left one person dead.

The defence case included a US Defence Intelligence Agency cable from September
24, 1989, which states:

"The bombing of the Pan Am flight was conceived, authorised and financed by
Ali-Akbar (Mohtashemi-Pur), the former Iranian Minister of Interior.

"The operation was contracted to Ahmad Jabril (sic). . . for $1million. The
remainder was to be paid after successful completion of the mission."

Documents viewed by the Sunday Express allege the plot began when a man named
Mobdi Goben supplied material for the bomb to Hafez Dalkamoni, the leader of the
PFLPGC's European cell. He was then introduced to the alleged bomb maker Marwan
Khreesat, by Elias, who has both Syrian and American passports.

Very little is known about Elias, but the defence insists he was paid in
travellers' cheques by terror leader Dalkamoni in Cyprus, before he took
delivery of the bomb in Frankfurt.

Elias was identified as the key suspect although it was never explored in court,
even after documents about his role suddenly emerged during the trial.

The Goben Memorandum, said to have been written by a dying member of the
PFLP-GC, was handed to the Lord Advocate detailing the group's activities and a
confession about Elias.

Elias was concerning the FBI before the bombing and was quizzed about cheques
deposited in his bank. In August 1988 he met with agents, who knew he was
Jibril's nephew.

While the SCCRC said there is dubiety over whether Gauci had correctly
identified al-Megrahi, documents show the shopkeeper had no such problems
identifying Abu Talb.

Despite the evidence, the investigation took an unexpected twist and the Syrian
terror group's suspected role in the disaster was dropped.

Meanwhile, it emerged Talb could be brought to trial in Scotland because he does
not have lifetime immunity from prosecution as had been believed.

During al-Megrahi's trial there was a widespread belief he had been given Crown
protection for giving evidence.

However, the Crown Office yesterday confirmed he does not have immunity.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAGEDY: The wreckage of the flight deck of Pan Am Flight 103 and,
inset, al-Megrahi

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday

'The people who cure you will kill you': how jihad returned to Britain
Highly-educated Muslim doctors, living in the UK and working in its hospitals,
are being investigated over the failed terror attacks in London and Glasgow.
Were they the work of al-Qaeda or bungling amateurs? Olga Craig investigates

BYLINE: Olga Craig

SECTION: NEWS; News Review; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1848 words


REPORTING TEAM: RICHARD GRAY, SEAN RAYMENT, ANDREW ALDERSON, JASPER COPPING,
ADAM LUSHER AND

CHARLES LEVINSON IN AMMAN.

The instant Police Constable Stewart Ferguson saw the Jeep Cherokee erupt in
flames, moments after it had rammed into Glasgow airport's main terminal, he
reacted as he had been trained to do. As his colleague Sergeant Torquil Campbell
traded punches with one of the vehicle's occupants, Ferguson, though technically
off-duty, raced inside the terminal, grabbed a fire extinguisher and began
spraying the second man who, tumbling from the Jeep, had doused himself in
petrol and set himself ablaze. In that split second Ferguson realised this was
not, as he had thought, road rage, but a terrorist attack.

"I did know he was one of the bad guys, but that didn't change my opinion of
what had to be done,'' he said later. "It never entered my consciousness to walk
away from him. I would have been failing in my duty. One of the prime duties of
a police officer is to preserve life and it doesn't matter whose.''

These are the honourable words of a heroic man who, though in horrific danger
and facing what appeared to be a fanatic intent on death and destruction, knew
his immediate duty was to extinguish the flames that scorched 90 per cent of the
man's body: to save the man's life.

The instincts of the alleged occupants of the Jeep were supposedly the opposite:
that is, to take lives. Dr Bilal Abdulla, 27, British-born and who had worked at
the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley for almost a year, was, as the son of a
doctor, in some ways born to heal. Somehow, though, he appears to have forsaken
that path and to have turned on the country of his birth. His new allegiance, it
is believed, was to a bloody jihad against the West.

The news that, of the eight suspects arrested in connection with the police
investigations into the attacks in London and Glasgow, most were doctors or
medical students has shocked the public and, in particular, Britain's Muslim
community. While medicine and engineering - the latter the discipline in which
the Jeep's second alleged occupant, Kafeel Ahmed, holds a doctorate - have long
been the two most prestigious professions for Muslims, it has become clear that
they are also the favoured occupations for many Islamic extremists: Osama bin
Laden, the leader of al-Qaeda, trained in engineering and Ayman al-Zawahiri, his
deputy, qualified as a doctor.

Both professions have now been exposed as fertile breeding grounds for
terrorism. One theory after recent events is that al-Zawahiri developed a plan
for seeking out young recruits among those who might be seen as highly educated
and "Westernised''. The fact that most speak fluent English and practice
professions that make emigration to the West easier, would have been an added
attraction. In 2004, when there was a nationwide recruitment crisis in the NHS,
al-Qaeda exploited the situation by slipping some extremists into Britain.

In the past week the secret intelligence-gathering agencies, MI5, MI6 and GCHQ,
have tried to discover if others among the alleged terrorist cell were sent to
Britain as a ready-formed al-Qaeda unit or if the majority were radicalised and
trained in England.

Some sources within the agencies believe that while the attacks were carried out
by jihadists, their links with al-Qaeda are likely to have been tenuous. "Many
terrorists in the UK describe themselves as members of al-Qaeda,'' one said.
"But they are simply aligned to the organisation's declared aim of waging holy
jihad against the West.''

As evidence, he points out that al-Qaeda's worst terrorist attack, on the World
Trade Centre in New York on September 11, 2001, was achieved by meticulous
planning. And the al-Qaeda terrorists who carried out the Madrid train bombings
in 2004, in which 191 died, spent months planning and acquiring the 200 kg of
commercial explosives used. None of the three recent attacks fits that profile.
Not only did the devices fail in the London bombs, but even if the detonators
had worked, the fuel-air bomb the terrorists had tried to create was quite
likely to fail because the mix of gas, petrol and oxygen has to be relatively
precise to create a devastating fireball.

It is also believed that, apart from one cursory reconnaissance trip to Glasgow
airport by taxi 2½ weeks before June 30, the two alleged bombers, Abdulla and
Ahmed, seem to have done little planning. And, crucially, security forces
believe that al-Qaeda would never have wasted so valuable an asset as a cell
with near perfect cover as NHS employees on such a poorly executed operation.

Irrespective of how closely they were linked to al-Qaeda, it is clear the
alleged bombers were fanatical jihadists. The son of a surgeon, Abdulla was
brought up in Iraq, though born in Aylesbury. Even as a little boy he was
fervent about his religion and developed a distaste for the West. By the time he
graduated from medical school in Baghdad in 2004 that distaste had deepened. He
saw the British and US armies as forces of occupation. One of his tutors, Prof
Ahmed Ali, of the University of Baghdad's College of Medicine, describes him as
one of the most radicalised students he encountered, who would tell his
colleagues: "We should not learn medicine. We should learn how to fight the
occupation.''

Prof Ali said Abdulla became consumed by fanaticism. "He didn't care about his
studies. He only cared about the resistance,'' he said. "We sent for his father
many times to tell him about the bad behaviour of his son. Once he verbally
attacked the US Army when they came inside the college. Bilal [Abdulla] stood up
and said: 'You are a kafir [unbeliever] and all of you should die'.''

His friends from those days tell how he became increasingly anti-Western and
disappeared in 2002, possibly to Pakistan, on a trip that changed him
profoundly. On his return, "he surrounded himself with a group of radicals and
extremists,'' says one friend.

It was two years later, in 2004, that Abdulla turned up in Scotland, working at
the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley. He moved to Addenbrooke's Hospital in
Cambridge for several training stints and it was there that he met and
befriended Kafeel Ahmed, whose brother, Sabeel, is also a doctor. The brothers
were Indian Muslims from Bangalore, and before long Abdulla and Kafeel Ahmed,
who was studying at the Anglia Polytechnic University in the city, were close
friends. According to Shiraz Maher, a former member of the militant Islamist
group Hizb ut-Tahrir, Abdulla was part of the organisation, although it has
subsequently denied that he or any of the other suspects is a member. Maher
recalls how he, Abdulla and others would meet at the Islamic Academy in the
city's Gilbert Road. "Bilal talked about the validity of jihad, about expelling
American and British troops,'' he says. "He described jihad as the highest
pinnacle of Islam. He worked to the same endgame that we were all working to. He
would laugh when we talked about a particular bomb attack in Iraq. We all
rejoiced then. And yet even I didn't think that he would take action himself.''

Abdulla, he recalls, believed in an Islamic state and sharia law, and wanted to
expand it across the world.

Also known to have been in Cambridge was Mohammed Asha, a year younger than
Abdulla, and who was developing into a brilliant brain surgeon. He was arrested
with his wife Marwah, a laboratory technician, on the M6 in Cheshire just hours
after the Jeep attack in Glasgow. Though currently living in
Newcastle-under-Lyme, he was in Cambridge two years ago for training stints at
Addenbrooke's Hospital.

Yet another doctor who was arrested, Mohammed Haneef - picked up by police as he
was preparing to fly out of Brisbane airport on a one-way ticket to his native
India - is believed to be a cousin of the Ahmed brothers and worked for a spell
with Sabeel at Warrington and Halton Hospital in Cheshire. His departure had
been hasty: when Australian police raided his flat after his arrest they found
his washing still drying on the balcony and unwashed dishes piled in the sink.
This weekend Australian police are trawling files on Haneef's laptop computer,
though it is still unclear what, if any, connection he had with the alleged
London and Glasgow bombers. His family insists his trip was planned as his wife
had given birth just days before.

The planning of the attacks is still being pieced together but what is certainly
beyond dispute is that, in recent times, Abdulla seemed to lose all interest in
his work. He spent more and more time delving into Muslim websites while at work
- so much so that one woman colleague reported him to the hospital authorities.
A source at the hospital said: "One of the female doctors had found him looking
at Arabic websites and she filed a complaint. She was in tears when the police
arrested him as she felt she should have done more.''

In the past week the families of several of the suspects have rejected all
claims that they could be involved in terrorism and have staunchly stood by
them. Jamil Asha says his son Mohammed was interested only in his studies.
"Since he was a child, he only had one aim. He wanted to achieve great things in
his studies, excellence in his work, nothing else.''

There is widespread belief among those investigating the attacks that many
associated with Islamic extremism knew a big attack was imminent. Just hours
before the two failed bombings the al-Hesbah chat forum, a Sunni website used
frequently by al-Qaeda and the Taliban to disseminate propaganda, was signalling
an attack on London. One unidentified contributor said: "Today, I say, rejoice.
By Allah, London shall be bombed.''

Another clue was given to Canon Andrew White, an Anglican priest in Baghdad. He
was told by an al-Qaeda spokesman that an attack was likely. "He told me that
plans were already made and they would soon be destroying the British,'' Mr
White said. "He said: 'the people who cure you will kill you'.'' Mr White passed
on the warning to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in mid-April.

This weekend police and MI5 are sifting through the growing pile of evidence
they hope will allow them to bring to justice the operatives and perhaps the
mastermind behind the attacks. Meanwhile Kafeel Ahmed, who suffered 90 per cent
burns when he set himself alight, remains in intensive care in Glasgow Royal
Infirmary, where his condition is said to be critical.

Just hours before he allegedly drove the Jeep into Glasgow airport he told his
family that he was finishing a "global warming'' project. In a telephone call he
told his Indian mother and sister in Bangalore that an earlier "presentation''
had failed. It was, detectives believe, a coded reference to the attempt to
detonate two car bombs in central London the day before.

As one member of his family told an Indian newspaper, what he may have intended
should be his last words to them were: "I am involved in a large-scale
confidential project. It is about global warming. I cannot reveal the details.
It involves a lot of travelling. The project has to be started in the UK.''

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                              July 9, 2007 Monday

Police probing airport CCTV cameras after terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 472 words


Police have launched a probe into whether airport security cameras were tampered
with ahead of the recent terror attacks.

A number of cameras at the Dyce airport are believed to have been moved just
three days before the failed car bomb attacks in London.

And the  incident came four days ahead of the failed car bomb attack at Glasgow
Airport.

Taxi drivers and airport staff have been quizzed over the possibility security
cameras on the city's Argyll Road were moved.

Grampian Police control room inspector Ian Swan today said: "We are
investigating the possibility that security cameras on Argyll Road at Aberdeen
Airport were tampered with between 8am and 12.30pm on June 26.

"The position of the cameras is such that a ladder or vehicle would be required
to access them.

"There is nothing to suggest the incident is related to the recent events in
London and Glasgow but we need to keep an open mind."

He confirmed the possibility of a link between the three incidents could not be
ruled out and said this would be part of the ongoing investigation.

Police understand there are four of this type of camera which monitor traffic
going into the airport.

However, they are not thought to be monitored at all times and it was thought
the incident was not detected until after the failed attacks further south.

An airport spokesman said: "The airport is aware of a police investigation into
a traffic monitoring system. We cannot say any more as the police are
investigating it."

Today it was not known if any specific footage was being investigated.

Some cameras on Argyll Road were covered with plastic bags in the days following
the failed attacks.

Grampian Police said that there was no armed police presence at Aberdeen Airport
when Glasgow Airport was attacked, but that a firearms unit was deployed to the
terminal as soon as they heard about the incident in Glasgow.

A civilian hero who helped tackle the Glasgow Airport terror suspects yesterday
said he hoped his actions would show that Britons won't stand for such acts.
John Smeaton became a cult hero in the aftermath of the drama last Saturday
after a string of TV interviews saw him describe the incident in forthright
terms.

He was among several members of the public who intervened to help police during
the incident.

And 31-year-old John, from Erskine, Renfrewshire, said yesterday that the public
were ready to stand up to such attacks.

He said: "I hope my actions and the actions of everyone else that day show that
Britain will not stand for it.

"And if any more extremists are still wanting to rise up and start trouble, know
this: We'll rise right back up against you.

"New York, Madrid, London, Paisley . . . we're all in this together and make no
mistake, none of us will hold back from putting the boot in."

"Britain defends border check procedures", Page 8

fmcwhirter@ajl.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Evening Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 9, 2007 Monday

21/7 BOMBING GANG GUILTY;
Bigger plot than the 7/ 7 terror attack ; Lives. saved by bad maths of
ringleader

SECTION: C; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 62 words


FOUR terrorists who tried to bring carnage to London two weeks after 7/ 7 were
found guilty today. Their bombs failed because of simple maths errors.

Bombers: Yassin Omar and Ramzi Mohammed both attempted to destroy Tube ; Chief
plotter: Muktar Said Ibrahim surrenders to armed police at a North Kensington
flat. He tried to blow up a bus in Shoreditch

FULL REPORT: Pages 8& 9

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bombers: Yassin Omar and Ramzi Mohammed both attempted to destroy Tube
; Chief plotter: Muktar Said Ibrahim surrenders to armed police at a North
Kensington flat. He tried to blow up a bus in Shoreditch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 9, 2007 Monday

21/7 BOMBERS: THREE GUILTY;
Bigger plot than the 7/7 terror attack Lives saved by bad maths of ringleader

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 24 words


THREE terrorists who tried to bring carnage to London two weeks after 7/7 were
found guilty today. Their bombs failed because of simple maths errors.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chief plotter: Muktar Said Ibrahim surrenders to armed police at a
North Kensington flat. He tried to blow up a bus in Shoreditch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 9, 2007 Monday

21/ 7 BOMBERS: THREE GUILTY;
Bigger plot than the 7/ 7 terror attack ; Lives. saved by bad maths of
ringleader

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 63 words


THREE terrorists who tried to bring carnage to London two weeks after 7/ 7 were
found guilty today. Their bombs failed because of simple maths errors.

Bombers: Ramzi Mohammed and Yassin Omar both attempted to destroy Tube trains
Chief plotter: Muktar Said Ibrahim surrenders to armed police at a North
Kensington flat. He tried to blow up a bus in Shoreditch

FULL REPORT: Pages 8& 9

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chief plotter: Muktar Said Ibrahim surrenders to armed police at a
North Kensington flat. He tried to blow up a bus in Shoreditch ; Bombers: both
attempted to destroy Tube trains

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 9, 2007 Monday

21/7 BOMBING GANG GUILTY;
Bigger plot than the 7/7 terror attack Lives saved by bad maths of ringleader

SECTION: C; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 24 words


FOUR terrorists who tried to bring carnage to London two weeks after 7/7 were
found guilty today. Their bombs failed because of simple maths errors..

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bombers: Yassin Omar and Ramzi Mohammed both attempted to destroy Tube
trains

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                              July 9, 2007 Monday

Terrorist attacks 'not in our name'

BYLINE:  Nadeem Hanif

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 330 words


Angry Muslims today condemned terrorists for using their faith as a
justification to kill.

On the weekend of the second anniversary of the July 7 bombings, Leicester's
Muslims said Islam could not be used as an excuse for terrorist attacks.

Faith leaders also condemned those responsible for the recent terror attempts in
London and Glasgow.

Abdulkarim Gheewala, the mosque president and chairman of the Federation of
Muslim Organisations, said: "All of us are deeply disturbed and condemn such
actions unreservedly.

"Actions of those few misguided individuals have nothing to do with the
teachings of Islam.

"Those actions are directly opposite to what we learn and what we teach and what
we promote in our madrasseh and mosques.

"We remain totally opposed to such evil actions.

"Not in our name and not in the name of our religion."

More than 200 worshippers heard the message during Friday prayers at Keythorpe
Street Mosque, Spinney Hills.

Speaking outside the mosque afterwards, worshippers told the Mercury they were
angry at how the religion was being portrayed.

One teenager, who did not want to be named, said: "People are getting very angry
about what is happening.

"The people who do these attacks don't represent me or my religion. We just want
to get on with our lives."

Waheed Nadgi, 21, of Highfields, has just joined his older brother and
brother-in-law in  Leicestershire Police.

Waheed said: "I felt it was my duty to uphold the law and feel very honoured to
have been given the chance to serve my country.

"I would encourage people of all faiths to join the police or a public service."

Chris Eyre, assistant chief constable of Leicestershire Police, said the acts of
a minority should not be used to reflect on a whole community or faith.

He called on the Muslim community to work with the police to tackle the threat
of terrorism.

He said: "The relationship between the police and the Muslim community in
Leicestershire is strong because of the hard work done over many years."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           BBC Monitoring World Media
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 10, 2007 Tuesday

Geo TV debates London, Glasgow terror attacks

LENGTH: 1219 words


"Viewpoint from London"

Anchor: Aamir Ghauri

Topic: London and Glasgow terror attacks, religious extremism in the UK.

Studio guest panel: Labour Peer Lord Nazir Ahmed, Editor Daily Jang London
Zahoor Niazi, representative of the Sufi Muslim Council of Britain Haris Rafiq,
representative of Muslim Public Affairs Committee Raza Nadeem.

Impact on UK Muslims

Lord Ahmed [in Urdu] says terrorism is not a new phenomenon and UK has been
experiencing it for 30 years but involvement of Muslims in 9/11 and 7/7 attacks
brought the focus on Muslims. Says he is completely against terrorism.

Says Glasgow attacker insulted Islam by setting himself on fire and screaming
Allah-O-Akber (God is great) as police detained him.

Says Muslim community has only option which is to "isolate" such people and
cooperate with the police to have such people arrested.

MP Muhammad Sarwar for Glasgow Central on phone [in Urdu] says people in
Scotland surprised and shocked over attacks. Says UK Muslims usually get
scrutinized after such attacks but he is grateful that attackers turned out to
be non-British which diminished tension levels.

Says few hate incidents occurred. He is happy that Muslim clerics in Scotland do
not preach hatred. Says Muslim youths "under siege" as they are interrogated at
UK airports.

Muslims in state of denial

Lord Ahmed says many in Muslim community are in denial and blame CIA and other
agencies for the attacks and they believe that Muslims cannot be involved in
these terror attacks.

MP Muhammad Sarwar agrees that Muslim community is in denial over Muslim
involvement in attacks.

Haris Rafiq [in English] says Muslims in state of denial. Says: "I would hate to
be in a situation when one day Middle England wakes up and decides, 'we don't
like Muslims'. If that happens we are in trouble."

Says some people are misinterpreting Quran and hadith (tradition of the Prophet)
and telling people that not only is it good to do these criminal acts but it is
recommended.

An article in Daily Mail

Zahoor Niazi [in Urdu] says there might be elements within society who are
trying to defame Muslims by carrying out such attack. Says attacks have actually
harmed Muslims. Gives example of an article published in the Daily Mail by
"so-called" Muslim Hasan Butt who said he used to be part of the most dangerous
terror network in Britain and he blamed "Islamic theology" for terrorism.

Raza Nadeem [in English] says he is shocked by Hasan Butt's comments in the
Daily Mail as Islam preaches to save lives and stand up against injustice. Says
black sheep in many communities. Anchor interrupts.

Anchor Ghauri says doctors are meant to save lives and the recent attacks have
made people lose trust in doctors.

Haris Rafiq [in English] adds that he has come across Hasan Butt a few times,
used to be a "nasty piece of work".

UK foreign policy

Lord Ahmed says terrorists use several excuses to justify the attacks including
UK's foreign policy i.e. the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, but he supports a
democratic approach in dealing with these issues.

Raza Nadeem [in English]: "But the fact of the matter is that British foreign
policy is affecting everyone everywhere. I mean whether they be young people,
students or professionals. Anchor, Rafiq interrupt.

Haris Rafiq [in English]: [laughs]"With respect, Raza, foreign policy I disagree
with. I disagreed with the war in Iraq. I disagreed with many other things that
the foreign policy of the government has done but I am not going blowing myself
up."

Anchor Ghouri asks Raza Nadeem why such attacks weren't being carried out in
Germany or in France and why the focus on US and UK.

Raza Nadeem [in English]: "The security forces themselves have said that when
they both were planning on going to war to Iraq, that there will be a
correlation between the foreign policy that we take and terrorism. Now the fact
is that these young people are affected by foreign policy and it's a simple
concept of the ballot or the bullet. Now the young Muslims are never taught how
to make a change peacefully and democratically so the only other option they
have is the bullet. Now because our mosque leaders never ever teach them that
they can make a change peacefully, they'll go for the other option they have."

Anchor Ghauri says behaviour of US soldiers in Iraq and statements that their
civilization is under threat and images on the internet of war in Afghanistan
cause confusion in assessing if the terror attacks are a result of foreign
policy.

Zahoor Niazi says he has information that several videos available in UK showing
atrocities of US soldiers in Iraq. Says such videos cause hatred. Notes Islam
gives a pluralist society where non-Muslims have more rights than Muslims.

Anchor Ghauri points out that people are seen bringing flags to 10 Downing
Street saying they want Caliphate enforced; media gives them excessive coverage.

Haris Rafiq [in English] says UK Muslim groups need to unite and sit together to
end confusion which helps extremists. Emphasizes winning hearts and minds.

Anchor Ghauri notes that recent attacks carried by non-British Muslims. Adds: "I
don't want to say it because it might glorify them but they have again
checkmated the agencies."

Callers:-

- Sheeda Malik from Woking says lack of leadership and tolerance in Muslim
community. Wants more leaders like Lord Ahmed.

- Salman from London says Muslim community lacks education.

Haris Rafiq [in English] points out that London and Glasgow attackers were
doctors. Says education needed in religious theology and ideology. Notes he only
learnt correct pronunciation of the Koran and the performance of salat (prayers)
as a child at a UK mosque. Adds lots of Muslim leaders "suffering from
hypocrisy".

- Rana Jamshed from Swansea says lack of leadership in UK Muslims. Notes media
hype over London and Glasgow attacks where no-one died but thousands of Muslims
being killed in other countries goes unnoticed. Says a "simple man like himself"
can get angry at this and end up doing anything.

- Shahzad Akhtar from London doesn't consider people who can read manuals for
bomb making uneducated. Says all terrorists turn out to be linked to madrasahs
[seminaries] and syllabus taught in madrasahs is theology based. That theology,
he adds, is used for brainwashing, blackmailing and deceiving youths. [Lord
Ahmed interrupts abruptly and talks loudly over caller]

Lord Ahmed says doctors who carried out London and Glasgow attacks aren't linked
to any madrasah. Adds that 7/7 bombers were British and did not have any contact
with madrasahs. Says, in English, caller "totally wrong".

Adds, in Urdu [appears to be very excited]: "None of the 7/7 bombers went to
madrasahs. If anyone has been to a madrasah, it is me! These people have never
gone to a madrasah. All the doctors were taught at medical colleges. Madrasahs
have nothing to do with this."

Anchor Ghauri asks who is to be blamed if mosques and madrasahs are not
responsible.

RazaNadeem [in English] says groups like Al-Muhajirun recruit on the basis of
foreign policy.

Anchor Ghauri notes that the doctors were from abroad.

- Dr Salman from Birmingham says tolerance needed. Says Hasan Butt's article in
the Daily Mail should be replied to in a scholarly fashion. Says points raised
by Butt are valid and should not be ignored.

Source: GEO TV, Dubai, in Urdu 1702 gmt 3 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 10, 2007 Tuesday

Writer urges action against terrorism "inciters" after failed UK attacks

LENGTH: 719 words


Text of report by London-based newspaper Al-Sharq al-Awsat website on 6 July

[Article by Tariq al-Humayd: "The Flaw Is Greater"]

Are there professions that are suitable for terrorism and others that are not?
Of course not. No wonder, then, that the persons arrested in connection with the
recent bombing attempts in Britain are doctors or medical students.

Ayman al-Zawahiri was a surgeon, and before him, Usamah Bin-Ladin comes from a
class, which one cannot imagine would turn out a terrorist. There are terrorists
in the world of aviation and among students and professionals. There are also
terrorists in the press, the sector of education, and even the security sector.
In addition, there are terrorists from respectable families. Over and above,
there are women [terrorists]. The fundamentalists ask for imposing restrictions
on women and confining them [to their homes] and do not accept speaking about
women's rights. Yet, they have involved women in suicide operations.

The flaw is greater than we imagine. It is more complicated than just linking it
to a single profession or nationality. Terrorism, or Al-Qa'idah, is an ideology,
just like a virus, which turns the individual - as soon as it controls him -
into a tool in the hand of the real perpetrators. This is the bottom line.
Behind every suicide operation, and behind every act of recruitment [of
terrorists], there is a satanic fatwa [religious ruling] and a deviant mufti,
who has prepared the youth for carrying out acts of terrorism, leaving the final
act to the field commanders. Regrettably, the world is always preoccupied with
the youth who carry out operations, while it ignores those who mislead them.

Unless we direct our attention to the inciters and those who provide
justifications [for acts of terrorism], we will continue to suffer from this
situation for a long time. It is essential to wage a serious ideological battle,
since those youth have been brainwashed in the name of religion, and they should
be confronted with religion in order to protect our Islamic religion.

However, this does not mean the emergence of beneficiaries, who ask for giving
them immunity in order to confront those youth, ask for imposing restrictions on
societies, and interfere in the policies of the country on the pretext of not
provoking the terrorists. We need honest, sincere religious scholars, and not
traders in crises. We need an honest ideological review. We need to defuse
takfir [holding other Muslims to be infidels], stop the prohibition [of things
sanctioned by Islam], and keep the fundamentalists out of the path of
development. We need an ideological battle that prevents sending our youth to
die unjustly. We need people to teach those youth that any person, who learns
and builds, is making a greater effort than someone who decides to kill himself.
We need an ideological surgical intervention, with a high degree of sensitivity,
to be launched from within our religion and by our religious scholars. This
intervention requires us to renounce extremists and restrict the views of the
advocates of death.

The freedom of expression, which is praised in the Islamic world, does not in
the least resemble the real freedom of expression. Freedom means restraint, and
not chaos. We should not deceive ourselves by justifying terrorism as the
outcome of occupation and unresolved issues. We are not the only people on earth
who have just causes and who suffer from injustice. We also have our own
mistakes and fatal, disgusting problems. So should we disavow our Arab nation,
based on the proof of what happened between the Palestinians? We should
consolidate rationalism, since we need construction, and not destruction.

Britain, in particular, should really reconsider those who live on its territory
and who sanction killing and destruction in other countries, since not all those
who fled to London believe in freedom, the right to disagree, and respect for
others, but they use this as a justification to secure a safe place for
themselves. The mosque imams, whose goal is to harm Islam, in London should be
held accountable. The same applies to the poisoned media and the infected
websites, which exist in large numbers in London. The people in charge of these
websites are known.

Source: Al-Sharq al-Awsat website, London, in Arabic 6 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 10, 2007 Tuesday

Georgia condemns South Ossetian leader's "open threat of terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 368 words


Text of report by Georgian news agency Kavkas-Press

Tbilisi, 10 July: The Georgian side has expressed its extreme concern over
statements made by the leader of the de facto Tskhinvali [South Ossetia] regime,
Eduard Kokoyty. Kavkas-Press has received a statement issued by the Office of
the Georgian State Minister for Conflict Settlement [Merab Antadze] regarding
the aggressive statements made by Kokoyty on 2 July this year.

The statement says that while the Georgian side's efforts, together with those
of the international community, are aimed at reducing the tension surrounding
the region and finding ways to peacefully resolve the conflict, Eduard Kokoyty
is continuing to plan military actions, which, as he says in his statement "will
not be limited to the conflict zone and will extend beyond the borders of the
region and beyond Georgia".

"This is an open threat of terrorist aggression and attack aimed at civilians in
Georgia, and not only in Georgia. The Georgian side has on numerous occasions
pointed out the real threat posed by the acts of provocation carried out by the
Tskhinvali regime of late and their goal to thwart the peace process and renew
armed confrontation in the region.

"The Kokoyty regime is not capable of acting in a constructive and peaceful
manner in order to create basic living conditions for the local population. He
uses the only means at his disposal to achieve his political goals and to save
himself - aggression and terrorism," the statement reads.

"Therefore the Georgian side once again urges its fellow citizens in Tskhinvali
not to buy in to Eduard Kokoyty's pseudo-patriotic appeals.

"For its part, the Georgian side does not intend to succumb to such provocation,
nor will it stand for the emergence of a hotbed of terrorism on its own
territory, particularly given that Georgia, together with its partners, is
taking active part in the global war on terror.

"The Georgian side calls on the OSCE and the international community to give a
harsh assessment of the Tskhinvali regime's terror threats and to use all means
at their disposal in order to avert such a development of events," the statement
reads.

Source: Kavkas-Press, Tbilisi, in Georgian 1217 gmt 10 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 10, 2007, Tuesday
                             Staffordshire Edition

'I thought it was a terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Tony Deeley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 299 words


EYE witnesses today relived the horror of the bus crash at Walsall - with one
thinking it was under a terrorist attack.

Taxi driver Munir Khan had pulled up in a waiting bay near the bus station just
seconds before the drama unfolded.

He said: "I heard some loud bangs and thought there was a terrorist attack. It
was like bombs going off. It was frightening.

"I got out of the taxi and ran back towards the town and then when I turned and
looked back there was no smoke.

"I saw that a bus had crashed into other vehicles, including another bus, and
there was a man lying on the floor who appeared to have two broken legs.

"There were a couple of women helping him, massaging his chest.

"When I went back up the road there were two ladies lying in the bus station
near the zebra crossing. I think the bus had run over them."

An office clerk at Bristol Finance, which is opposite the crash scene, gave her
name as Becky.

She said: "I saw the bus come shooting out of the station, turning left instead
of right.

Then I heard a bang and some screams.

"The next second there were people running here, there and everywhere. Then
there were drivers and inspectors here along with ambulance teams.

"There was a lady lying injured in the road. The people from the ambulance
helicopter were trying to talk her round."

Office manager, Mel Bates, said people were panicking at the scene. They were
screaming because the bus had apparently already hit two people in the bus
station. That's what made us look up."

"We thought the bus was going to go straight into the fruit shop but the driver
managed to turn it. It hit a barrier and carried on down the road where it hit a
white van and a blue one and went into the side of a double decker bus.

"Everybody was screaming and did not know what to do. It was quite scary."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             July 10, 2007 Tuesday

Britain - Four men convicted of July terror attack plots

LENGTH: 93 words


A jury at Woolwich Crown Court found four men guilty of plotting to carry out
suicide bombings on London's transport network on July 21, 2005 on Monday.

Muktar Said Ibrahim, Yassin Omar, Ramzi Mohammed and Hussain Osman were
convicted of conspiracy to murder.

The jury will continue to consider verdicts on Tuesday for two others, who deny
charges against them.

The cell tried to bomb the Tube and a bus, two weeks after the 7/7 attacks. The
suspects had claimed the bombs were fakes and that their actions had been
intended as a protest against the war in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                    PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

                       July 10, 2007 Tuesday 5:53 PM BST

TROOP USE `COULD LEAD TO TERROR ATTACK'

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 266 words


The use of a North East airport by British troops could put it at increased risk
from a terrorist attack, an MP has warned.

Labour's Ashok Kumar, for Middlesbrough South and Cleveland East, said the
proximity of Durham Tees Valley Airport to Catterick Garrison - Britain's
largest Army base - might ``enhance the airport's appeal as a target''.

He said it is used by one million passengers each year but also for military
charter flights for soldiers departing to and arriving from Middle East
operations.

This was ``hardly a military secret'' as the sight of troops in uniform
``marching through the departure lounge is a regular feature witnessed by many
travellers''.

Speaking in a Westminster Hall debate, Mr Kumar questioned whether security at
the airport could be tightened.

He said: ``There is a question as to whether the security level at the airport
is sufficient for military use.

``It is a particularly pertinent question, given that its military use might
enhance the airport's appeal as a target for terrorist attack.''

Mr Kumar asked whether the Defence Ministry could make military flights outside
``normal operational hours'' so security could be tightened when the public were
not there.

He also suggested nearby RAF bases at Leeming and Church Fenton could be used
for troop flights.

Transport minister Jim Fitzpatrick said: ``I am confident that the Ministry of
Defence will have discussed these items with its management and that they can
use the airport as they currently do. I shall pass your comments on to the MoD
and try to ensure that you receive a response on this issue.'' end

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            July 11, 2007 Wednesday

Glasgow terror attack suspect 'unlikely to live'

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 365 words


The terror suspect severely burned in the car bomb attack on Glasgow Airport is
unlikely to survive, a doctor who has treated him said yesterday.

"The prognosis is not good and he is not likely to survive," a member of the
medical team who treated him at the Royal Alexandra Hospital near Glasgow said.

The medic, who spoke on condition of anonymity, added: "He has third-degree
burns over most of his torso and limbs.

"It is beyond repair and, because he has lost so much skin, he is now vulnerable
to infection and won't be able to fight it."

The patient, Kafeel Ahmed, 27, is under police guard, having been arrested after
a flaming Jeep was driven at Glasgow Airport on June 30.

Ahmed was taken initially to the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley, not far
from the airport, suffering from 90% burns.

Health officials said on Friday he had been transferred to a specialist unit at
Glasgow Royal Infirmary.

The medical team member who described his condition would not confirm if police
had questioned him.

A spokeswoman for the NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde refused to comment on
whether the suspect's condition had changed.

A spokeswoman for Scotland Yard also declined to comment on Ahmed's condition.

Bilal Abdullah, 27, a doctor born in Britain and raised in Iraq, is the only
suspect to have been charged in connection with the suspected car bomb plots in
London and Glasgow.

He was remanded in custody when he appeared at City of Westminster Magistrates
Court in London on Saturday.

He who was arrested after the Glasgow Airport incident and is accused of
conspiring to cause explosions.

Five other suspects are still being questioned by police.

Meanwhile, MPs yesterday approved the extension for a further year of 28-day
detention without charge for terror suspects.

They also agreed to add the names of two more radical Islamist organisations to
the list of terror groups banned in the UK. But the controversial Hizb-ut-Tahrir
group   was not among those proscribed.

MPs approved without a vote the banning of Jamatul Mujahedin Bangladesh  -  a
Taliban-inspired terrorist group  -  and Tehreek-e-Nafaz-e-Shariat-e-Mohammadi
-  a militant group seeking the imposition of Sharia law in Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 11, 2007 Wednesday

Spain warns tourists in Morocco of possible terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 627 words


Excerpt from report by Spanish newspaper ABC website on 10 July

[Report by Luis de la Vega: "Spain Advises Tourists to 'Avoid Crowded Places' in
Morocco"]

What lies behind the "maximum alert" issued by the Moroccan authorities last
Friday [ 6 July] over the risk of terrorist attacks? Why has Rabat has not
issued any further clarification? Is the announcement linked to the recent visit
of US President Bush's envoys to talk about terrorism? Or to the abortive
attacks in Britain? Or to the Moroccans arrested in Spain? Is it merely a
security precaution in case something similar to the attack in Yemen happens?

Nothing seems to have changed in the lives of Moroccans or the thousands of
foreigners who use the summer to travel through the kingdom. However, it is
surprising that the Moroccan Interior Ministry has raised the alert level to
maximum and mobilized all its security forces without giving any further
details.

Extreme Precautions

A substantial proportion of tourists are Spanish or will enter the Alawi kingdom
from Spain. However, according to ABC's sources, Spanish diplomats think that
Rabat is just covering itself just in case something happens similar to the
abortive attacks in Britain or the Yemen attack, in which seven Spanish tourists
died on 2 July.

Spain indicates its worries about Morocco on the Foreign Ministry's website
(MAE.es). The day after the Yemen attack and three days before the "maximum
alert" was issued by Rabat, travel advisories to Morocco were updated.

A Foreign Ministry "important note" on the website advises people travelling to
Morocco thus: "Following the latest events in Morocco, we strongly advise people
to take extreme precautions and avoid crowded places." These warnings do not
appear on the website's section on Tunisia, the other Maghreban country to have
many Western tourists, despite terrorist cells linked to Al-Qa'idah being
detected in recent months.

Many Spaniards have telephoned the Foreign Ministry about the advisories. Some
diplomatic sources, which still insist on the lack of "specific information"
about any imminent attack, are worried about an attack on ships crossing the
Straits of Gibraltar. "They know that there are people willing to attack them,
but I do not think that there is anything more specific," says a Spanish member
of an antiterrorist unit with connections to the Moroccan security forces. "If
they really had anything, I imagine that they would have consulted France in the
first place and then ourselves."

It cannot be ruled out, Spanish official sources stated, that Morocco is trying
to warn the terrorists that it is ready to face them, particularly with just two
months before the general election, which will take place on 7 September.
[passage omitted]

Moroccan Interior Minister Chakib Benmussa yesterday met EU states' ambassadors,
a meeting that should have taken place before the latest events, Foreign
Ministry sources pointed out.

According to Spanish Vice-President Maria Teresa Fernandez de la Vega, Benamussa
will be one of the members of a senior Moroccan Government delegation that will
be meeting its Spanish counterparts in Madrid today. Two of Moroccan King
Mohammed VI's strong men in the government will travel with the interior
minister: Deputy Interior Minister Fuad Ali Himma and Deputy Foreign Minister
Tieb Fassi Fihri.

Spanish Vice-President De la Vega will be accompanied by Foreign Minister Miguel
Angel Moratinos, Interior Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, and Labour Minister
Jesus Caldera. They will be discussing immigration, border controls, and police
and judicial cooperation.

A few hours after Moroccan Government raised the alert, US presidential adviser
Frances Townsend arrived in Rabat.

Source: ABC website, Madrid, in Spanish 10 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 11, 2007 Wednesday

Thai capital on alert for possible terror attacks

LENGTH: 145 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 11 July

[Report by Bangkokpost.com from the "Breaking News" page: "Security in Bangkok
tightened after warnings"]

(BangkokPost.com) -Security in Bangkok has been tightened following warnings by
the First Army Region that suspected insurgents may stage major attacks in the
capital, Bangkok governor Apirak Kosayodhin said Wednesday.

Mr Apirak said he has alerted all 50 district chiefs in Bangkok about the issue
and urged them to closely monitor any suspicious movement in their areas.

He added that security check-points have been increased in crowded locations
including shopping malls, skytrain and subway stations.

He also urged people in Bangkok to inform authorities of unusual movements and
told them not to panic as situation is under control.

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 11 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            July 11, 2007, Wednesday
                             Staffordshire Edition

Al Qaida vow over Rushdie;
BOMBS WARNING: Terrorists threaten to repeat UK attacks

BYLINE: Gary Marks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 278 words


OSAMA Bin Laden's number two today warned that al Qaida will attack Britain
again in retaliation for awarding a knighthood to author Salman Rushdie.

Ayman al-Zawahri, the terrorist network's deputy chief, accused the UK yesterday
of defying the Muslim world by granting the honour.

Addressing the new Prime Minister, he said Britain's strategy in the Middle East
had "brought tragedy and defeat upon you, not only in Afghanistan and Iraq but
also in the centre of London".

He added: "And if you did not understand, listen, we are ready to repeat it for
you."

A Downing Street spokesman, while not responding directly to al-Zawahri's
remarks, said: "As the Prime Minister has said, we will not allow terrorists to
undermine the British way of life.

"The British people will remain united, resolute and strong."

The Foreign Office said it would maintain efforts to thwart terrorists.

"We will continue to tackle the threat from international terrorism as a
priority to prevent the risk of attacks on British interests at home and
overseas, including from al Qaida," a spokesman said.

On the knighthood of Rushdie, author of The Satanic Verses, the Foreign Office
reiterated that it was awarded purely in recognition of his literary
achievements.

"The Government have already made clear that Rushdie's honour was not intended
as an insult to Islam or the prophet Mohammed," the spokesman said. "It was a
reflection of his contribution to literature throughout a long and distinguished
career."

The al Qaida comments emerged in a new audiotape obtained by a US-based
monitoring group. In it, al Zawahri said a "very precise response" was being
prepared in retaliation.

OUR SAY: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 11, 2007

Driver held over terror attack is 'unlikely ' to surv ve burns;
Kafeel Ahmed 'beyond repair', says doctor

BYLINE: DAMIEN HENDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 569 words



HIGHLIGHT: CRITICAL: Kafeel Ahmed, left, suffered third-degree burns after the
Jeep crashed into the terminal. Pictures: AP/PA

SABEEL AHMED: Being held in Liverpool after his arrest.


THE driver detained during the attempted terrorist bombing at Glasgow Airport is
unlikely to survive the severe burns he sustained in the incident, a doctorwho
treated him said yesterday.

Kafeel Ahmed, 27, who was wrestled to the ground by police after setting himself
on fire in the June 30 attack, is still officially in a "critical condition" at
Royal Alexandra Hospital, Paisley.

However, one of the medical team who has treated him said yesterday his
condition was "beyond repair". Speaking anonymously to a reporter from the AP
news agency, the doctor said: "The prognosis is not good and he is not likely to
survive. He has third-degree burns over most of his torso and limbs. It is
beyond repair and because he has lost so much skin, he is now vulnerable to
infection and won't be able to fight it."

The would-be suicide bomber allegedly crashed a Jeep Cherokee into the airport,
a day after police found two unexploded car bombs in central London. It emerged
yesterday that the Indian terrorist suspect worked as an aeronautical engineer
at a company contracted by some of the world's biggest airlines, including
Boeing and Airbus, potentially giving him access to sensitive information.

Mr Ahmed worked in Bangalore as an engineer for Infotech Enterprises, a large
outsourcing firm, from December 2005 to August 2006, said a company spokesman.
He was arrested along with his brother, Sabeel Ahmed, 26, who is being held in
Liverpool, and six other suspects detained in the terror plot. A third Indian
man, Mohammed Haneef, is being held in Australia.

Australian police widened their part of the terrorist investigation to India
yesterday, confirming they had sent an officer to Mr Haneef's family home in
Bangalore.

The 27-year-old Indian was arrested on July 2 as he tried to leave the eastern
Australian city of Brisbane for India on a one-way ticket. Federal police have
been given extended time to detain the suspect for questioning without pressing
charges, but yesterday admitted they may have to apply for a further extension,
given the complexity of the case and the man-hours involved in assessing the
evidence.

MrHaneef's detention sparked criticism that Australia's new counter-terror laws
have left him in indefinite legal limbo, and his lawyer said he would challenge
it.

Meanwhile, in India, an imam told yesterday how the Ahmed brothers turned away
from mainstream Islam and became more radicalised.

Mohammed Hassaan said the two boys had turned from being young professionals and
observant Muslims who attended his Bangalore mosque after they moved to Britain.
When they returned to India, they attended a more radical mosque, cutting
themselves off from their more moderate Muslim upbringing, the imam of the
Khudadaad Mosque said.

The brothers had chosen "a different mosque . . . a different school of thought,
" he added.

Mr Hassaan said the Ahmed brothers' father had spoken to him sadly of his sons'
turn towards a more militant form of Islam. "Who can say how or why they
changed, but they were different, " he said.

The news of the detentions has been a rude jolt in the Ahmeds' quiet Bangalore
neighbourhood. Photographers and television crews have been parked in front of
their home around the clock.

"The media has hounded and harassed this family, " said BTVenkatesh, a human
rights lawyer helping the Ahmed family. "They are simple and religious people
and they have no idea what is going on."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 12, 2007 Thursday

Algerian gendarme killed, one wounded in terrorist attack - paper

LENGTH: 263 words


Text of report by Samir Leslous headlined: "Two bombs exploded yesterday at the
edge of the seaside city: One gendarme killed and another wounded in an Attack
in Tigzirt" - first paragraph is Liberte introduction, published by Algerian
newspaper Liberte website on 12 July

Fewer than 24 hours after the bomb attack that was perpetrated at the entrance
to the wholesale market of the city of Tadmait in the west of Tizi Ouzou
Province [100 km east of Algiers], though without causing materiel and human
damages, now another attack was perpetrated yesterday in the northern part of
the province, claiming at least two victims among gendarmes.

Indeed, according to reliable sources, one gendarme was killed and another
wounded in the explosion of two bombs at about 1530 hours on the eastern edge of
the resort town of Tigzirt, on National Highway [RN] 24, in Tizi Ouzou Province.

According to our sources, the two bombs, which exploded in a quasi-simultaneous
manner, had been set off remotely with the help of a cell phone as the gendarmes
were going to lift the road block that had been set up since the morning in that
spot.

Our source also indicated that the four-wheel-drive vehicle belonging to the
gendarmerie was seriously damaged.

It should be noted that the killed gendarme succumbed to his wounds at the time
of his transfer to Tizi Ouzou's Nedir-Mohamed University Hospital Centre [CHU].
A wave of panic immediately seized residents of the community and summer
vacationers who feared that the summer season might be spoiled.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 12 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Latin America - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 12, 2007 Thursday

Mexico terror attack on pipelines shuts down companies; cuts off gas

LENGTH: 904 words


Text of report by Mexican newspaper El Financiero website on 11 July

[Report by correspondents, the editorial staff: "Multi-Million Losses in Four
Cities"]

*Pemex cuts off the natural gas supply owing to pipeline explosions.

*Honda and Nissan suspend activities.

*Thousands of employees adversely affected.

Companies in cities such as Queretaro, Guadalajara, Aguascalientes, and Leon
found their operations disrupted by the cutoff of their natural gas supply: a
result of the explosions and fires in Mexican Petroleum [Pemex] pipelines in
Queretaro yesterday.

The Honda and Nissan automotive plants, and those of Mabe, Invista, Vitro,
Cardanes, Tremec, and Construlita, among others, were some of those damaged.

The Nissan automobile and light truck plant, located in Aguascalientes, stopped
its production starting at 0400 hours yesterday morning (the explosion occurred
at 0100 hours), and no date has been set for resuming it. Every day, 1,300
vehicles fail to be produced. The plant employs 6,000 workers, and had resumed
its activities after an obligatory four-day work stoppage due to Thursday's
damage to Pemex pipelines in Guanajuato.

In Guanajuato itself, Mexico Natural Gas reported yesterday that it had again
suspended its supply to the over 1,000 industrial clients it has in the state
and in Aguascalientes, because of the explosion in Queretaro. The residential
supply did not undergo "any disruption."

Initially, Mexico Natural Gas had commented that industries in San Luis Potosi
also had been left without their supply, but hours later it confirmed that Pemex
guaranteed the natural gas supply to the Potosi industrial and residential
sectors.

Natural Gas announced: "About 0115 hours (on Tuesday morning)., the Mexico
Natural Gas Distribution Control Centre reported a loss of pressure in the Pemex
input pipeline to the company's distribution systems in Bajio. This situation
was confirmed by personnel from the parastate company, who found themselves
obliged to cut off the natural gas supply to the region again."

On Monday, Guanajuato state authorities had said that the natural gas service
was about to be restored 100 per cent, after having remained cut off for over 72
hours by the five explosions of 5 July in the Pemex gas pipeline extending from
Valtierrilla to Guadalajara.

Natural Gas declared: "So far, there has been no disruption in the residential
supply, but, because of the risky situation (in Queretaro), the process of
reconnecting to the households in Celaya and Salamanca is being suspended."

In Queretaro, the lack of the natural gas supply that began early Tuesday
morning, due to the explosion, represents a loss of $1,000 per hour for each of
the 150 companies operating with this supply. Pedro Ruiz Velasco, chairman of
the National Chamber of the Processing Industry (Canacintra), indicated that, of
the 300 companies affiliated with this organization, approximately 150 were
disrupted by the lack of power, because they are operating at half their
capacity. Nearly 5,000 employees of those companies have been adversely
affected, and consequently an effort will be made to use them for giving
maintenance to the equipment, by sweeping, painting, or assembling.

He pointed out that prominent among the companies with the heaviest impact from
the lack of the natural gas supply are Mabe, in its refrigerators area; Invista,
in resins; and Vitro, in glass; as well as Cardenas, Tremec, and Construlita.

He added: "When calculating the losses caused by the idleness of the workers who
use gas or need to bake parts in furnaces, we could be talking about $1,000 per
hour in each company."

Ruiz Velasco expressed confidence that the authorities are investigating these
incidents to the utmost extent.

Ana Laura Luglow, manager of Tractebel Digagro, claimed that, because of the
lack of their natural gas supply, 58,000 clients have been harmed in the
residential, commercial, and industrial areas of the municipalities of
Queretaro, Corregidora, El Marques, Colon, and Pedro Escobedo.

Meanwhile, Pemex reported that it has begun the duct repair processes, and hence
it is expected that the gas supply will begin to be restored gradually.

In Aguascalientes, the explosions in Queretaro forced 55 companies employing
approximately 18,000 workers to bring their operations to a halt, totally or
partially, according to reports from the CTM [Confederation of Mexican
Workers]-affiliated Aguascalientes Workers Federation.

Bimbo

Bimbo will suffer damage in the Jalisco and Irapuato plants because of the
reduction in the natural gas supply, and consequently its plant located in
Mexico City will have to reinforce its production with 24-hour work-days.

Gerarado Cortes, leader of the Bimbo bakers' union, reported that, in general,
the installed capacity of the rest of the plants will be used to its maximum
volume.

He commented that the Bimbo plants are operating from Monday to Thursday at 50
per cent of their installed capacity, and will raise it to 100 per cent over the
weekend. But he noted that, after the incidents that occurred in Queretaro, for
which the People's Revolutionary Army (EPR) took credit, it will be necessary to
operate seven days a week, at maximum capacity.

Gasoline

The gasoline supply will be provided by the Miguel Hidalgo de Tula refinery. The
production of lubricants has been interrupted at the Salamanca refinery.

Source: El Financiero website, Mexico City, in Spanish 11 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Falkirk Herald

                                 July 12, 2007

Terrorist attack still 'highly likely'

LENGTH: 470  words


THE THREAT of yet another terrorist attack is still "highly likely" and
communities must stay on their guard, a senior Central Scotland Police officer
warned this week.

Deputy Chief Constable Colin Mather is urging locals to remain vigilant after
the recent terrorist attempts on Glasgow Airport and London's West End two weeks
ago.

Speaking after the national alert status was lowered from 'Critical' to
'Severe', DCC Mather said officers had been holding meetings with community
leaders in Falkirk and across the Forth Valley to brief them on the security
situation.

And he also made it clear that any racist or religious attack on a community or
individuals in the area would not be tolerated.

He said: "'Severe' means that an attack in UK terms is highly likely and I would
urge all members of the public in Central Scotland to remain vigilant at this
time.

"What has been apparent is the strength of feeling across these communities
denouncing the actions of those involved in the incidents in Glasgow and London.

"Officers have visited mosques in Stirling, Falkirk and Alloa over the past few
days to offer reassurance where it is required and it is clear from these visits
that the Muslim community in Central Scotland condemns such acts of criminality
and wants to see justice brought to bear on those responsible.

"I would continue to stress that acts of criminality against any community as a
whole or any individual will not be tolerated and a robust approach will be
taken against anyone caught committing such offences.

"Thankfully the wider community of Central Scotland has reacted with maturity
and understanding."

Mukami McCrum, chief executive of Central Scotland Racial Equality Council and
member of the Racist Attacks and Harassment Multi Agency Strategy partnership,
echoed the views of the Deputy Chief Constable.

She said: "Central Scotland Racial Equality Council and our RAHMAS partners are
united in helping anyone who is a target of such intolerance and ignorance and
fully supports all efforts to bring those responsible for such incidents to
justice.

"I therefore encourage anyone who may be affected by any racist or religious
attack or harassment or any hate incident to report the matter in the knowledge
that all reports will be treated seriously and sensitively."

A spokesperson for the Central Scotland Police Lay Advisors for Minority Ethnic
Affairs Group said the group was saddened by the recent events, but was
"confident of the strength and resolution of the community to overcome the
difficult circumstances".

The spokesperson added: "Crimes of terrorism can only be prevented by all of us
working together, supporting the police and other public services and by
remaining calm but vigilant."

To report any incidents, contact Central Scotland Police on (01786) 456000.

d.punshon@falkirkherald.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 12, 2007 Thursday

National: Eurofighters on 24-hour alert against terror attack from sky

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 309 words


Eurofighters, designed in the cold war to engage in dogfights with Soviet jets,
are being deployed to intercept a perceived new threat - a passenger airliner
hijacked by terrorists - the RAF said yesterday.

Pilots based at Coningsby in Lincolnshire will be ready to scramble around the
clock as the 1,500mph Eurofighter Typhoons become the quick-reaction alert force
for southern Britain. The fighters could intercept an aircraft approaching
London in about six minutes.

Any decision to shoot down a passenger aircraft would be taken "at the highest
level", an RAF spokesman said. The chain of command in such an emergency would
always be ultimately political, not military. If the prime minister were out of
contact, other ministers would be deputed to authorise the decision. In the past
they have included the home secretary and the transport secretary.

In the event of a hijacked aircraft approaching the capital or a potential
target such as a nuclear power station, the joint military-civilian air traffic
control centre at West Drayton would be alerted by the pilot's cockpit "hijack"
button, which has a direct link to the centre. The West Drayton centre's
responsibility extends as far as Newcastle, where air traffic control at
Prestwick, near Glasgow, takes over.

Air Chief Marshal Sir Glenn Torpy, chief of the air staff, said in an interview
last December that since the September 11 2001 attacks on New York and
Washington there had been at least one incident a month when an RAF Tornado on
quick reaction alert intervened.

These were triggered by aircrew failing to warn air traffic control of their
flight paths, or accidentally deviating from their flight plans.

Ageing Tornado jets based at RAF Leuchars in Scotland will still form the quick
response unit for northern Britain until they are replaced by Eurofighters.

guardian.co.uk/military >=

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 12, 2007

Terror attacks hit Glasgow passenger numbers

BYLINE: STEWART PATERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 375 words


THE terror attack at Glasgow airport contributed to a drop in passenger numbers
last month, it was revealed yesterday.

With around 20,000 journeys cancelled at the airport on the day of the attempted
bombing on June 30, Glasgow's passenger traffic dropping by 2.4per cent compared
with last June, to 869,930.

However, the city's airport was still the busiest in the country, handling 8.9
million passengers in the year to June - a growth of just 0.5per cent with
competition in its main source of business, holiday destinations and charters.

The gap between Scotland's busiest airports narrowed, with Edinburgh continuing
to grow faster than Glasgow.

The difference in passenger numbers is now 100,000 with Scotland's three main
airports handling almost 21 million passengers between them in the past 12
months.

While numbers continued togrow, changes in how people book holidays has led to a
decline in the tour operator charter flight market.

A spokesman for BAA Scotland said: "There are reasons for the lower growth at
Glasgow. The terrorist attacks on the last day of June did reduce numbers but
what's affecting the growth pattern is a decline in the charter market.

"A drop in domestic traffic, with Glasgow down 0.6per cent, is also a factor.
This is partly down to improvements in other forms of transport, like rail, and
new technology - such as video-conferencing - as well as more direct routes to
international destinations removing the need to fly via London."

Edinburgh airport grew faster, with an increase of 2.6per cent to 8.8 million
passengers in the past year. In the summer Glasgow's holiday traffic usually
sees it remain ahead of Edinburgh but in the last year the difference is
smaller.

Meanwhile, advertised air fares will have to include all payable charges known
to the airline under plans approved by Euro MPs yesterday.

If backed by EU governments, the move would mean an end to promotions for
giveaway prices which turn out to be dwarfed by routine airport taxes and
charges when the real cost of the trip is calculated. Lithuanian Liberal
Democrat MEP Arunas Degutis, author of a report on airline liberalisation which
was adopted yesterday, commented: "Air passengers have a right to full
information of the price they finally pay".

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                    PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

                      July 12, 2007 Thursday 10:38 AM BST

TERROR ATTACKS `DAMAGE ISLAM'S IMAGE'

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 296 words


The failed London and Glasgow car bombings have given religion a bad name,
according to a new opinion poll.

They have especially damaged the image of Islam, according to 71% of those
polled, but a majority - 54% - also thought they had damaged the reputation of
religion in general.

Theos, the public theology think tank, questioned 1,001 people for the survey.

Young people were the most likely to think of Islam as a violent religion with
28% of 18-24 year olds believing it is fundamentally a religion of war which
sits uneasily with modern Western culture.

The same belief was held by 17% of the population overall and only 13% of over
65 year olds.

Less than half (48%) of 18-24 year olds saw it as a religion of peace, compared
with 60% or over for every other age group.

Despite the Glasgow Airport bombing, Scots were the most positive towards Islam.
Only 7% regarded it as warlike, while 69% did not.

Overall, while 17% of people said recent events had damaged their view about
religion's role in Britain, 45% said they were unchanged in their belief that
religion is a force for good in Britain.

The 60% backing for Islam as a peaceful religion reflects the view that many
feel ``fanatics have interpreted it in a violent way'', said Director of Theos
Paul Woolley.

He said: ``The swift condemnation of the attacks and the active stance taken by
Muslim leaders against extremism has clearly helped to build confidence and
national solidarity.

``The trend that will alarm the Government and community groups most is that
young people, who are generally more positive about spirituality, are so much
more negative about Islam than the population as a whole. We need to build
opportunities for mutual understanding and co-operation and avoid simplistic and
knee-jerk reactions.'' end

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2007 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Bath Chronicle

                              July 13, 2007 Friday

Terror attack hero's bravery medal

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 277 words


A Tube passenger who went to the aid of fellow commuters during the July 7
terror attacks has been awarded the Australian Bravery Medal.

Wing Commander Craig Staniforth, 43, from Chippenham, was on his way to a
meeting and travelling on a train approaching Edgware Road when a bomb exploded
on the train travelling in the opposite direction.

He managed to leave his carriage and cross over to help passengers in the train
targeted by a suicide bomber.

Speaking after receiving his medal at Buckingham Palace yesterday, he said:
"When I got to the carriage it was carnage, there was a huge crater in the floor
and bodies everywhere.

"The man nearest to the crater was dead and it was completely dark, full of
smoke and dust. There were people all around screaming for help."

He tried to calm people down and tended to Professor John Tulloch, an Australian
working in London, who was sitting only a few feet from where the bomb went off
and had suffered severe head injuries.

He picked Prof Tulloch up and helped him through the train when the emergency
services arrived 45 minutes later.

He also stayed with him until he was taken to hospital.

When the pair were later reunited, Prof Tulloch praised him for his outstanding
courage and professionalism.

Wing Commander Staniforth said: "At the end of the day you try to react as
anybody else would have.

"If you asked me if I would do it again, I don't know.

"I was there as a passenger, but the training the RAF has given me helped me
cope with the situation. I was just trying to help out."

He was joined at Buckingham Palace by his wife Kaye, 18-year-old daughter
Charlotte and 16-year-old son Joshua.

a.williams@bathchron.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Echo (NewsQuest)

                              July 13, 2007 Friday

'My terror at dog attack'

BYLINE: Gina Marden

SECTION: SOUTHEND NEWS

LENGTH: 246 words


A TEENAGER has told of the terrifying instant he was savaged by a dog.

Scott McLaughlan, 13, said he froze with fear as the Akita, a Japanese dog which
stands at over 5ft on its hind legs, locked its jaws on his arm.

The James Hornsby High School pupil spoke out after magistrates ordered the
destruction of the dog.

Scott said: "I was just walking with my friends and the dog came running towards
us.

"I thought it was running at another dog, but it jumped up at me and it was
growling and bearing its teeth. Then it just bit me.

"I just froze. I didn't really think about hitting it or anything because I
didn't want to torment it."

Scott and his friends ran off and it wasn't until he got home he realised the
dog had bitten through his jacket and left a bone exposed in a large wound on
his left arm.

Scott, of Frobisher Close, Laindon, said he now panics when he sees large dogs
out on the street.

At Basildon Magistrates' Court, prosecuting Ricky Khagram said the Akita, called
Diamond, got out of its owner Ajivike Akinola's home in Long Lynderswood,
Laindon, after her daughter left the door open.

Akinola, 45, a midwife, pleaded guilty to having a dangerously out of control
dog in a public place.

Representing Akinola, Coral Fitzgerald said the dog had never showed any signs
of aggression and that Akinola was a responsible dog owner who had insured her
pet.

Akinola was given a 12-month conditional discharge, ordered to pay £100 and the
court ordered the destruction of the dog.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 13, 2007

Glasgow Airport's busiest day just 2 weeks after terror attack;
NO FEARS AS 180,000 JET OUT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 37 words


TENS of thousands of Scots were today jetting out of Glasgow Airport.

Just two weeks after a terrorist attack on the main terminal, 180,000 people
were taking off on the first weekend of the Glasgow Fair.

FULL STORY - PAGE 9

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 13, 2007 Friday

Campus 'emir' faces jail over terror attack files

BYLINE: PAUL CHESTON

SECTION: C; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 399 words


A MUSLIM cleric arrested at Luton airport with computer plans for a terrorist
attack is set to be jailed at the Old Bailey.

Yassin Nassari's computer material included lessons on how to make the type of
rocket-propelled missiles used by Hamas and information on landmines, TNT and
nitroglycerine.

Nassari, 28, from Ealing, the self-styled "emir" of the Harrow campus of
Westminster University, was convicted of possessing information likely to be
useful to a potential terrorist. He was cleared of the more serious charge of
possessing articles for terrorist purposes.

His wife Bouchra El-Hor was found not guilty of failing to disclose acts of
terrorism. The court heard that she offered up her five-month-old son for
martyrdom. Police found a letter from her praising Allah and saying she and
their son would be proud to die for their cause. But Dutchborn El-Hor said it
was a work of fiction she had written under pressure from her husband.

She claimed she wrote Islamic fiction set just after the death of the prophet
Mohammed and insisted the letter should not be taken seriously.

She insisted she had no knowledge of what was on her husband's hard drive.

The couple were seized after landing on an easyJet flight from Amsterdam in May
last year.

He claimed the computer plans had been placed there without his knowledge by a
former friend.

While a student at the University of Westmin- ster Nassari would push his
extreme beliefs on students in the canteen.

He set up a stall to drum up recruits for Islamic meetings at the Harrow campus
and handed out disturbing leaflets in the refectory.

Nassari disappeared from his course between 2002 and 2003 and returned wearing
traditional Islamic dress and branded himself "the emir" of Muslims there.

On his arrest police found in their luggage files containing lessons on becoming
a martyr and articles justifying the slaughter of women, children and the
disabled in the name of jihad.

There were several articles from the Jihad Magazine including one headlined: "We
are terrorists and terrorism is an obligation".

Other files included excerpts from the book "39 ways to serve and participate in
jihad".

Police in Brisbane today dropped a request to extend the detention of an Indian
doctor suspected of involvement in the failed London and Glasgow car bombings.
But Mohammed Haneef, 27, was not likely to be released immediately and could
still be charged..

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Accused: Yassin Nassari and his wife Bouchra El-Hor at the Old Bailey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland

                                 July 13, 2007

SCOTCH CORNER: Terror attacks fail to dent demand for US

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 134  words


Scottish holidaymakers are flocking to the US this summer to take advantage of
the favourable exchange rate, according to agents.

Some agents had feared a dip in bookings across the Atlantic following the
recent terror attacks in Glasgow and London.

There were also concerns that long queues at immigration in US airports would
prompt Scots to seek alternative holiday destinations.

But travel consultant Jimmy Martin, of Jimmy Martin Travel, said agents were
selling more holiday than ever to the States.

"In the run-up to the Glasgow Fair, starting today, demand for flights and
accommodation has been almost unprecedented," he said.

"The attacks made no difference to the Scots' pursuit for sun. Packed flights
are leaving Glasgow and Edinburgh for New York, Orlando and Atlanta."

Curt welcome: Jenny, page 30

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                      Copyright 2007 CMP Information Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Essex

                              July 13, 2007 Friday

'My terror at dog attack'

BYLINE: Gina Marden

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 248 words

DATELINE: Echo


A TEENAGER has told of the terrifying instant he was savaged by a dog.

Scott McLaughlan, 13, said he froze with fear as the Akita, a Japanese dog which
stands at over 5ft on its hind legs, locked its jaws on his arm.

The James Hornsby High School pupil spoke out after magistrates ordered the
destruction of the dog.

Scott said: "I was just walking with my friends and the dog came running towards
us.

"I thought it was running at another dog, but it jumped up at me and it was
growling and bearing its teeth. Then it just bit me.

"I just froze. I didn't really think about hitting it or anything because I
didn't want to torment it."

Scott and his friends ran off and it wasn't until he got home he realised the
dog had bitten through his jacket and left a bone exposed in a large wound on
his left arm.

Scott, of Frobisher Close, Laindon, said he now panics when he sees large dogs
out on the street.

At Basildon Magistrates' Court, prosecuting Ricky Khagram said the Akita, called
Diamond, got out of its owner Ajivike Akinola's home in Long Lynderswood,
Laindon, after her daughter left the door open.

Akinola, 45, a midwife, pleaded guilty to having a dangerously out of control
dog in a public place.

Representing Akinola, Coral Fitzgerald said the dog had never showed any signs
of aggression and that Akinola was a responsible dog owner who had insured her
pet.

Akinola was given a 12-month conditional discharge, ordered to pay £100 and the
court ordered the destruction of the dog.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Scott with his dad Andrew and his pet dog

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 14, 2007 Saturday

Arrests in anticipation of terror attacks unacceptable - Moroccan lawyer

LENGTH: 263 words


Excerpt from report by Qatari Al-Jazeera satellite TV on 13 July

[Presenter] Moroccan Minister of Justice Mohamed Bouzoubaa has said that 15
people suspected of planning subversive attacks are remanded in custody before
being referred to the Moroccan general prosecutor for investigation. [Passage
omitted: Quote from Moroccan Al-Sabah newspaper]

[Presenter] We are joined by Mohamed Zayan, head of Moroccan Bar Association and
former minister of human rights. Mr Mohamed, what do you think of the arrests?
Is there any worthy information on these detainees?

[Zayan] I hope these arrests are not made in anticipation of [terror] attacks
but rather due to their involvement in [planning future] attacks. We cannot in
the 21st Century, and in a country such as Morocco, arrest citizens in
anticipation of attacks. [Passage omitted: Referring to Al-Sabah article and
guest's viewpoint on definition of terrorism and Al-Qa'idah]

[Presenter] Being a lawyer and a former human rights minister, to what extent
will this pre-emptive step be effective?

[Zayan] In any case we cannot prevent any state from defending itself.
Self-defence is a legitimate duty of all states. I think that the Moroccan
people look up to their government to be at the level of the measures taken, in
order to guarantee everyone's safety. This is a basic rule. Now, we are all
mobilized to fight terror, but it is unacceptable that in the name of fighting
terror, we allow the violations of rights and the abandonment of the civilized
and human rights values.

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 2200 gmt 13 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 14, 2007 Saturday

Terror attack averted in northwest Pakistan

LENGTH: 208 words


Text of report by Associated Press of Pakistan (APP) news agency

Peshawar [North West Frontier Province], 14 July: The bomb disposal squad
defused two anti-tank mines planted in a car parked in front of Askari Bank
situated in the famous Green Shadi Hall building in the heart of cantonment this
afternoon [local time].

It was a sheer good luck of the people of the vicinity that the engine of the
car caught fire, which was reported to the fire brigade for help. However, the
fire brigade staff informed the bomb disposal squad, which is a routine
practice. The bomb disposal squad, after the fire was extinguished, recovered
two anti-tank mines, each weighing five kg, with a timer and a small battery.
The registration number of the car is AEG 622.

When contacted, the chief capital police officer (CCPO), Abdul Majeed Marwat,
told APP: "We have taken all measures to prevent the incidents of terror and
sabotage."

"This is the best we could do", he maintained, adding: "We have enhanced
patrolling of the police party and checking of the vehicles on all the entry
points to Peshawar".

About the owner of the car, the CCPO said that it is yet to be ascertained.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1211gmt
14 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                      July 14, 2007 Saturday 10:25 PM GMT

Two charged over failed terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 136 words


Police in Britain have charged a 26-year-old man in connection with the failed
car bomb attacks in London and Glasgow a fortnight ago.

Sabeel Ahmed, who is a doctor, is charged with possession of information which
could have prevented an act of terrorism.

Earlier today Australian police charged a medical doctor with supporting
terrorism almost two weeks after arresting him over the attempted car bombings
in Britain.

The federal police said 27-year-old Mohammed Haneef from India was charged with
providing 'reckless' support to a terrorist organisation allegedly behind the
three failed bombings in London and Glasgow last month.

Dr Haneef arrived in Australia in September last year and worked as a registrar
at a hospital on Queensland's Gold Coast.

Before that he had worked in the National Health Service in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2007 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                              July 15, 2007 Sunday

Doctor in court over UK terror attacks

SECTION: FB; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 177 words


AN INDIAN doctor appeared in an Australian court yesterday, charged in
connection with the London and Glasgow bomb attempts.

Mohammed Haneef, 27, was remanded in custody by Brisbane magistrates until
tomorrow, when a bail application will continue.

Haneef, who works at Gold Coast Hospital, is charged with supporting suspects
Kafeel and Sabeel Ahmed.

Kafeel Ahmed, 27, who allegedly rammed a Jeep into Glasgow Airport on June 30,
is critically ill in hospital. He is thought to be the older brother of Dr
Sabeel Ahmed, who was himself charged by police in London yesterday with
possessing information which could have prevented an act of terrorism.

The charge against Haneef relates to a phone SIM card he allegedly gave to the
two suspects when he left Britain for Australia last year.

He was arrested on July 2 as he tried to leave Brisbane for India.

Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdullah was remanded in custody in London last Saturday,
charged with conspiring to cause explosions.

Two more doctors, and two trainees, were still being questioned by police in
London yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             July 15, 2007, Sunday

FANATICS' TRIPLE TERROR ATTACK EXPOSED;
 EXCLUSIVE AL-QAEDA CELL TARGET MILITARY BASES, JAILS AND

BYLINE: BY RACHAEL BLETCHLY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 854 words

HIGHLIGHT: THREAT: Glasgow attack is taste of what's in store, experts fear; 1
BOMB MILITARY BASE To cause devastating carnage; 2 BLITZ PHONE EXCHANGE And
hamper rescue operation; 3 BLAST JAIL WIDE OPEN Let danger men roam streets


AN al-Qaeda terror cell planning a deadly threepronged attack on Britain is
being tracked by MI5.

Islamic extremists are plotting to BOMB a key military base - and simultaneously
WRECK communications networks by blowing up a phone exchange and crippling
computer systems.

MI5 agents believe they also aim toSTORM a prison to free jailed associates -
and let hundreds of other dangerous criminals loose on Britain's streets.

Spy chiefs say the triple strike would cause mayhem and carnage if police failed
to thwart it.

In the wake of the failed carbomb attacks in London and Glasgow, al-Qaeda
believe a bomb outrage at an RAF or Army base will act as a call-to-arms for
other Muslim radicals.

By crippling telephone and computer networks they could scupper 999 operations
and throw the Government's anti-terror strategies into disarray.

And with dangerous convicts at large, they would maximise public panic - and
stretch police and military forces to breaking point.

Terrorism expert Dr Steve Hewitt said last night: "This new form of attack would
divide the response of the UK's emergency services - which could ultimately mean
a greater loss of life.

"If you look at the pattern of major al-Qaeda attacks around the world, they
often strike simultaneously at different targets.

"If this was to happen in Britain with communications lines completely knocked
out, it could cause devastation."

The People has learned that members of the terror cell have been spotted
carrying out a string of recconnaisance missions at military centres in the
south of England.

They have also been seen casing a nearby BT telephone exchange and a jail -
which is thought to be Bullingdon Prison in Oxfordshire.

Undercover cops and security personnel have been watching two of the cell's
suspected agents for some time.

The men - both of south-east Asian appearance - were first sighted driving
slowly round the perimeters of military bases in a vehicle fitted with
blacked-out windows.

On later occasions, they seemed to be timing journeys.

And they were also seen getting out of their vehicle and apparently measuring
distances between specific locations. The duo were also tracked to addresses in
Slough, Berks, and Swindon, Wilts - further evidence that terror cells are
spreading to allcorners of Britain.

Security bosses are currently monitoring 219 extremist groups around the UK -
DOUBLE the number of a year ago.

They believe the terrorists are moving into quiet towns and villages in a bid to
evade MI5's radar.

More than 1,600 extremists are said to be plotting chemical, biological and
nuclear atrocities - with at least 30 major operations identified to date.

And sources say the triple strike plan is designed to spark a new wave of
terror.

Birmingham University expert Dr Hewitt said: "So far the pattern has been to
launch physical attacks.

"But a hit on communications - where multiple targets are attacked - would
divide the response of emergency services.

"That would mean a greater risk of casualties because they are not getting
attention quickly enough."

Dr Hewitt warned a jailbreak - a regular al-Qaeda tactic in Iraq - could cause
chaos on our streets.

He said: "There may be dangerous prisoners who they are looking to help escape.

"The resources and time it would take to track them down would restrict the
ability of the emergency services to deal with victims of attacks elsewhere.

"I twould create fear, inflict large numbers of casualties and damage national
morale."

Experts claim military targets could include the vital RAF bases at Brize Norton
and Lyneham.

Brize Norton, near Oxford, is the RAF's biggest station and employs up to 4,000
people.

Troops fly to Afghanistan and Iraq from there - and bodies of service personnel
killed in action are flown home to the base.

It is also the HQ of planes used by the Royal Family.

Lyneham, near Swindon, is home to the UK's Hercules transport aircraft and the
RAF's teenage cadets.

Other targets include the nearby Defence Academy, an elite centre for officer
training where Prince Andrew once studied.

The People has learned that RAF South Cerney, Glos, could also be in the
terrorists' sights. It iswhere all troops being sent to warzones are processed.

The base is close to the M4 and M5, meaning terrorists could flee the area
quickly and escape to another part of the country.

Experts fear another key target would be computer networks.

Cyber-terrorists could paralyse entire systems with a well-placed virus - or
overwhelm them with millions of simultaneous emails.

Either way, the onslaught could be launched from ANYWHERE in the world.

MI5 believe the triple strike plan is still at an early stage and are only
monitoring the suspects.

They have not yet arrested the two men in the hope the pair will lead them to
the plot's ringleaders.

A source told The People last night: "It's a crucial balancing act. "Protecting
Britain and preventing atrocities is paramount.

"But arresting two lesser players when the masterminds are still at large will
not necessarily stop the carnage."

r.bletchly@people.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sunday Herald

                                 July 15, 2007

Third man is charged over airport attack;
TERRORISM: MEN IN COURT;
Cousin appears before Australian authorities

BYLINE: By John Bynorth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 811 words



HIGHLIGHT: Above: Dr Mohammed Haneef, cousin of Dr Sabeel Ahmed, has appeared at
Brisbane Magistrates Court.Top: Dr Haneef 's lawyer addresses the media outside
the court


A THIRD man will appear in court tomorrow in connection with the Glasgow Airport
and London bomb attacks.

Indian-born Dr Sabeel Ahmed, 26, was yesterday charged under Section 38 of the
2000 Terrorism Act with possessing information which could have prevented an
explosion.

His brother Kafeel Ahmed, 27, was allegedly the driver of the Jeep Cherokee
which crashed into the airport's entrance laden with gas cylinders and burst
into flames on June 30, leaving him with life-threatening burns.

The incident came little more than 24 hours after police foiled a plot to blow
up two Mercedes cars packed with gas cylinders, petrol and nails remotely by
mobile phone detonators outside a London nightclub.

Dr Ahmed, of Liverpool, who worked at the Halton Hospital in Cheshire, will
appear before City of Westminster Magistrates Court. He has been held at the
high security Paddington Green police station in west London since his arrest
near Liverpool Lime Street station on June 30.

Scotland Yard made the announcement after his cousin Dr Mohammed Haneef, 27,
appeared at Brisbane Magistrates Court in Australia charged with "reckless
support" of a terrorist organisation yesterday. The offence has a maximum prison
sentence of 15 years.

Australian Federal Police (AFP) believe Dr Haneef concealed vital evidence
"relevant" to their investigation by asking an unwitting colleague to hide his
laptop computer. AFP commissioner Mick Keelty said: "The specific allegation
involves recklessness rather than intention." Last week, Dr Bilal Abdullah, also
27, a locum at the Royal Alexandra Hospital (RAH) in Paisley and allegedly the
Jeep's passenger, was remanded in custody after being charged with conspiracy to
cause explosions in Glasgow and London. His next hearing is at the Old Bailey on
July 27.

Dr Haneef was arrested on July 2 at Brisbane airport after buying a one-way
ticket to India, via Kuala Lumpar, Malaysia, where he claimed he was heading to
see his wife and their new new-born daughter.

He is alleged to have provided a mobile phone Sim card to Dr Sabeel Ahmed and
Kafeel Ahmed before leaving Britain to work at a Queensland hospital last year.
He denies any involvement in the attacks.

Reports in the Australian media claimed that he sent an email to a colleague
after the failed attacks saying that he had to leave Australia in a hurry, but
made no mention of his wife or child.

Police disclosure documents seen by an Australian newspaper appear to show Dr
Haneef told investigators he once lived with Kafeel and Dr Sabeel Ahmed in
Liverpool. He is also alleged to have told them he was in close contact with the
latter until shortly before June 29, when the London bombs were discovered.

He admitted to twice visiting Cambridge in 2004, to see Kafeel Ahmed who studied
for a PhD in engineering at the city's Anglia Polytechnic University, the
reports added. It was there that Dr Haneef admitted to police that he knew a
Bilal - Dr Abdullah's first name.

Despite that, he claimed never to have heard of the other suspects, including Dr
Mohammed Asha, 26, a Saudi-born neurosurgeon from Newcastle-Under-Lyme, and two
junior doctors aged 25 and 28, who were arrested at an accommodation block
attached to the RAH.

Dr Haneef allegedly told police he left his mobile phone with Dr Sabeel Ahmed.
He was allegedly in contact with his cousin on June 26, when the latter emailed
to congratulate him on the birth of his child.

On July 2, Dr Haneef arranged for a colleague to collect his laptop, car and
items of jewellery for safe-keeping from the Gold Coast Hospital in Queensland
before he tried to catch his flight.

A hand-cuffed Dr Haneef, dressed in a brown pullover, check shirt and slacks,
showed little emotion as he heard the case against him from the securityencased
dock during the 90-minute hearing.

His legal team will apply for him to be freed on bail at a hearing tomorrow. The
court was unable to make a decision yesterday because of the case's complexity
and volume of documents.

Speaking from their home in Bangalore, Haneef 's wife Firdous said: "The police
were aware from day one that he had left his SIM card with his cousins.

They could not find anything substantial. Hence, they have charged him with
this.

"I was expecting them to release him, but they have decided to frame these
charges after such a long delay. Was there anything wrong in his having a
communication with his cousins?" Last Thursday, Dr Asha's wife, Marwah, 27, was
released without charge from questioning in London.

Police have until today to charge or apply for more time to question the two
junior doctors, who are believed to be Saudi or middle-eastern.

Officers were yesterday afternoon given until July 21 to continue questioning Dr
Asha.

Kafeel Ahmed, 27, the alleged Jeep driver, remains critically ill with 90-per
cent burns in Glasgow Royal Infirmary, where he is under police guard.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNHER


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                             July 15, 2007, Sunday

TESCO TERROR;
SCOTLAND UNDER ATTACK FROM THE EXTREMISTS SHOPPERS CLEARED OUT OF STORES BY
TURTLE FANATICS' EXPLOSIVE THREATS

BYLINE: By NORMAN SILVESTER & RAYMOND HAINEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 368 words


TESCO stores across Britain were put on terror alert last night over a string of
bomb threats.

The scare is believed to have been sparked by animal rights extremists
protesting about the supermarket's treatment of TURTLES.

At least three Scottish stores were shut down including a 24-hour flagship shop
in Barrhead, Renfrewshire. In Fife, the Kirkcaldy and Dalgety Bay supermarkets
were closed.

Staff were told the sudden shut-downs were due to "technical problems".

One worker said: "We've been told nothing about bombs.

They told us it was because the tills had broken down."

But an employee in a hotel near the Dalgety Bay store said it had closed at
12.30pm due to a suspected bomb scare.

The worker said: "The staff have all left for the weekend."

Police said last night they were probing threats against 14 Tesco stores in the
UK.

The threat at Barrhead Tesco comes two weeks to the day that suicide bombers
targeted Glasgow Airport.

The store is little more than five miles from the airport. It was evacuated at
lunchtime and closed for the rest of the day.

Last night Strathclyde Police said no one had been hurt and stressed the
evacuations and closures were a precaution.

He added: "Police are investigating a series of incidents in locations across
the country involving Tesco stores.

"These stores have been temporarily closed as a precaution for public safety."

Last night it was feared the extremist animal rights group the Animal Liberation
Front was behind the threats.

Tesco have come under fire for selling live turtles in China.

Yesterday was designated a national day of action against Tesco by the ALF. The
group - whose mottos are Meat is Murder and No Compromise - use extreme protest
to get their message across. They have targeted Tesco in the past.

Last night shadow justice minister Margaret Curran said: "This is highly
irresponsible.

"Scotland faces a very real terror threat and we should all be pulling together.
We should tell these people actions of this type damage their cause."

Last night a police guard was kept on at the Barrhead store.

A Tesco spokeswoman said: "Police are investigating so we can't comment. As
always, customer welfare is our priority."

SUNDAY EMAIL

n.silvester@sundaymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Under fire: Animal activists are furious that Tesco stores in China are
selling live turtles, left
Alert: Barrhead Tesco is evacuated and shut down yesterday after threats by
Animal Liberation activists

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 16, 2007 Monday

Pakistan president, PM condemn ''terrorist'' attacks in northwest

LENGTH: 353 words


Text of report by Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 15 July: President General Pervez Musharraf and Prime Minister
Shaukat Aziz have condemned the terrorist attacks in Swat and Dera Ismail Khan
[on 15 July] and urged the nation to work together with the law enforcement
agencies to combat the scourge of extremism and militancy.

In his message, the president said that the dastardly acts of terrorism
committed in Swat and Dera Ismail Khan should be condemned by all sections of
the society.

As I have already appealed to the people, the president said the menace of
extremism and militancy need to be curbed by government with the cooperation of
the people from all walks of life. He said Pakistan cannot afford to ignore the
extremists and militants pent upon disrupting the progress and development of
the country by derailing the economy through acts of terrorism.

Once again, the president said: I appeal to all Pakistanis to extend maximum
cooperation to the law enforcement agencies to root out extremism and militancy.
The president also prayed rest and eternal peace for the victims of the
unfortunate terrorist attacks and sympathized with the families of those who
lost their kin and kith.

Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz, in his message, expressed grief and sorrow over the
loss of innocent lives in the terrorist attacks in Swat and Dera Ismail Khan.

Condemning the incidents, the prime minister said such cowardly acts of
terrorists against innocent citizen cannot deter the government from its resolve
to fight out extremism and terrorism in all its forms and manifestation.

He directed the law enforcement agencies to leave no stone unturned to bring to
the book the culprits of terrorist attacks which killed dozens of innocent
people in Swat and Dera Ismail Khan on Sunday [15 July].

The prime minister also prayed to Allah Almighty to rest the departed souls in
eternal peace and grant the bereaved families the courage and fortitude to bear
the loss of their near and dear ones in the heinous acts of terrorism.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1704gmt
15 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 16, 2007 Monday

Kenyan police say terror arrest averted attack in May

LENGTH: 429 words


Text of report by Abdulsamad Ali entitled "Arrest averted terror attack"
published by Kenyan newspaper Daily Nation website on 16 July

The arrest of terror suspect Abdulmalik Mohammed averted a planned attack in
Mombasa during the World Cross Country Championships in March this year, the
Nation has learnt.

The police also believe a bomb had already been prepared for the attack.

"It is still believed that the bomb, probably assembled in Somalia, is still in
Kenya," said the source.

Police sources told the Nation yesterday the arrest of Mr Abdulmalik, who was
later transferred to the dreaded American base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, came in
the nick of time as plans for the attack were at an advanced stage.

He was seized at a forex bureau near Fort Jesus in Mombasa where he had gone to
change 6,000 dollars (about 408,000 shillings) and to receive another 10,000
dollars (about 680,000 shillings) from a contact in London. The contact in
London was also arrested.

Mr Abdulmalik was believed to be the mastermind behind the planned attack and
his arrest threw all plans into disarray as his accomplices were unable to make
contingent plans to carry out the attack before the championships.

It was believed Mr Abdulmalik was expected to purchase a vehicle to be used in
the attack after receiving the 10,000 dollars at the forex bureau.

It is now confirmed the suspect was not mistaken for Mr Swaleh Nabhan, whom he
is said to resemble.

"Police had received his particulars from contacts in Somalia and were therefore
on his trail following his every move," said another source.

Police and other sources believe Mr Abdulmalik was recruited into the east
African cell by Mr Harun Fazul - the most wanted terror suspect in the region -
with 5m dollars on his head for his alleged involvement in the 2002 Kikambala
attack and the 1998 US embassy bombing in Nairobi.

Sources say Mr Abdulmalik gave useful information to the police before he turned
hostile, prompting his transfer to the high security prison at Guantanamo Bay.

At the same time, the whereabouts of eight Kenyans suspected of terror links who
were released from an Ethiopian military camp is still unknown.

The eight are part of a group that was arrested in Kiunga in January this year
while fleeing from Somalia and brought to Nairobi then flown to Mogadishu and
later to the military camp in Addis Ababa.

A Tanzanian, Mr Mohammed Abushir Salmin, who was with the group in Addis Ababa,
confirmed from his home in Dar es Salaam that the eight were released in May.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 16 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 16, 2007 Monday

EU caught leaderless by UK terror attacks - Spanish daily

LENGTH: 757 words


Text of report by Spanish newspaper ABC website on 16 July; subheading as
published

Brussels: Al-Qa'idah has struck again in Europe - London and Glasgow - but
within the EU there is a patent lack of coordination or antiterrorist
initiatives. The prolonged absence of a European coordinator and the diverging
opinions about preventive measures - which have led Germany and the [European]
Commission itself to disagree about the appropriateness of "selective attacks"
outside European territory - create a strong feeling that there is no clear,
definite antiterrorist policy.

In the European Council building in Brussels, one of the most important offices
has been empty for five months. Since the Dutchman Gijs de Vries announced that
he did not intend to opt for a second mandate, the post of EU antiterrorist
coordinator has remained vacant. The interior ministers and the presidents and
prime ministers have concerned themselves little with seeking a figure to
replace him, and there has even been talk of the position having to be
cancelled. Sometimes it has been said there is a candidate but he is not good
enough at languages; at other times the impression is that the EU has lost touch
with the fight against terrorism.

Portugal wants to give it a boost

The creation of this post, under the structure dominated by Javier Solana [head
of the EU's common foreign and security policy] at the European Council, came
amid the atmosphere following the New York attacks in 2001, and less than a
month passed between the moment of deciding upon it and the appointment of a
head. Now, the political rhythm within the EU is very different. The Portuguese
presidency insists on the need to appoint a replacement, but the doubts and
hesitations have reappeared, where two years ago everything was clear. There are
governments like Germany's, whose interior minister, Wolfgang Schaeuble, spaked
controversy by proposing that the EU consider "selective assassinations" in
cases of self-defence, and others like Spain's, which - despite being
historically one of those most affected by the criminal phenomenon - has been
busier conveying its concern for the so-called [Basque] "peace process" to the
European institutions.

Unlike previous governments, [Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez]
Zapatero's has placed the emphasis in Europe on the fight against illegal
immigration and much less on antiterrorist cooperation, and this has had its
effect. Since the approval of the European arrest warrant, which was one of the
hobbyhorses of the government of [former Prime Minister Jose Maria] Aznar, the
EU has practically not budged except to agree common rules to ensure that
communications operators make data on telephone calls and emails available to
the police. For citizens, all we have seen is a strengthening of certain
security rules on access to planes - and this amid controversy, making use of
the procedure of "comitology" [committee system overseeing acts implemented by
the European Commission].

The consensus solution for reviving the text of the vanished European Commission
only went half-way along the originally intended path. On the one hand, there
was success in ensuring strategic decisions would be taken by a majority and
would not require unanimity, but on the other, one of the group of five large
countries in terms of home affairs, the United Kingdom, reserves the right to
ignore them.

As was to be expected, the vice-president of the European Commission in charge
of home affairs, Franco Frattini, replied to the German minister that the EU has
no intention of approving the tactic of selective assassinations, even in the
case Schaeuble cited of the whereabouts of [Usamah] Bin-Ladin himself being
discovered. The EU has banned the death penalty.

The level of disagreement on this subject affects others on which the member
countries cannot agree, either. For example, in the case of the Middle East, the
application of the maxim preventing contacts being held with terrorist
organizations is not something everyone understands in the same way when it
comes to Hamas. There are an ever greater number of countries that would approve
of an end to the isolation of this organization, which still proclaims that
violence against Israel is a means of political action. The letter sent last
week by 10 foreign ministers, proposing that the plan based on the road map be
disregarded, suggested that Hamas should be included as an interlocutor in a
possible international conference.

Source: ABC website, Madrid, in Spanish 16 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              July 16, 2007 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TERROR ALERT;
Asylum seekers turn to attacking Britain

BYLINE: by TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 330 words


A QUARTER of terror suspects arrested in Britain are asylum seekers, it emerged
yesterday.

A shock report showed that of the 963 people held under the Terrorism Act
between 2001 and 2005, 232 had previously applied for asylum.

The figures include failed asylum seekers who should have been deported from the
country.

And since they were compiled, the number of people arrested has risen to at
least 1,100, meaning more than 260 are now likely to have entered Britain
claiming asylum.

One, dad-of-three Omar Altimimi, 37, was jailed for nine years earlier this
month for possessing terrorism-related computer files. Altimimi, from Bolton,
Greater Manchester, claimed GBP 100,000 from the National Asylum Support Service
in the six years since entering Britain.

Originally he said he was fleeing persecution in Iraq. But in reality he had
come from Holland, where he had shared a house with other extremists.

His application was rejected - but instead of being kicked out, he just changed
his name, and used the money to support himself while he collected his
bomb-making documents.

Last night Tory Susan Williams, leader of Trafford Council in Manchester, said:

"How many more terror sleepers are the British public funding? It is time we had
a full, independent investigation into this appalling situation."

Yesterday a top think tank urged Home Secretary Jacqui Smith to let hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants stay in Britain.

The Institute of Public Policy Research, which often influences Labour policies,
said up to 500,000 illegals should stay in the UK.

But a Home Office spokesman said: "An amnesty for immigrants illegally in the UK
would simply create a strong pull for waves of illegal migration."

Meanwhile. Ken Jones, head of the Association of Chief Police Officers, urged
the Government to let police hold terror suspects for longer than the current
28-day limit.

But he stressed he wasn't encouraging internment. "We are not arguing for some
kind of Guantanamo, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEMAND: Jacqui Smith

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              July 16, 2007 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TERROR ALERT;
Asylum seekers turn to attacking Britain

BYLINE: by TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 330 words


A QUARTER of terror suspects arrested in Britain are asylum seekers, it emerged
yesterday.

A shock report showed that of the 963 people held under the Terrorism Act
between 2001 and 2005, 232 had previously applied for asylum.

The figures include failed asylum seekers who should have been deported from the
country.

And since they were compiled, the number of people arrested has risen to at
least 1,100, meaning more than 260 are now likely to have entered Britain
claiming asylum.

One, dad-of-three Omar Altimimi, 37, was jailed for nine years earlier this
month for possessing terrorism-related computer files. Altimimi, from Bolton,
Greater Manchester, claimed GBP 100,000 from the National Asylum Support Service
in the six years since entering Britain.

Originally he said he was fleeing persecution in Iraq. But in reality he had
come from Holland, where he had shared a house with other extremists.

His application was rejected - but instead of being kicked out, he just changed
his name, and used the money to support himself while he collected his
bomb-making documents.

Last night Tory Susan Williams, leader of Trafford Council in Manchester, said:

"How many more terror sleepers are the British public funding? It is time we had
a full, independent investigation into this appalling situation."

Yesterday a top think tank urged Home Secretary Jacqui Smith to let hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants stay in Britain.

The Institute of Public Policy Research, which often influences Labour policies,
said up to 500,000 illegals should stay in the UK.

But a Home Office spokesman said: "An amnesty for immigrants illegally in the UK
would simply create a strong pull for waves of illegal migration."

Meanwhile. Ken Jones, head of the Association of Chief Police Officers, urged
the Government to let police hold terror suspects for longer than the current
28-day limit.

But he stressed he wasn't encouraging internment. "We are not arguing for some
kind of Guantanamo, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEMAND: Jacqui Smith

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 16, 2007 Monday

Doctor remanded over terror attacks

BYLINE: FRANK THORNE

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 437 words


A DOCTOR accused over the failed car bomb attacks in London and Glasgow was
remanded in custody today.

Dr Sabeel Ahmed, 26, who worked at Halton Hospital in Runcorn, Cheshire, is
charged with possessing information that could have prevented an act of
terrorism.

Solicitor Nadeem Afzal told City of Westminster magistrates his client would
plead not guilty. The doctor, the third person to be charged over the attacks,
was arrested in Liverpool's Lime Street area on 30 June.

Ahmed is charged under Section 38 of the Terrorism Act with having information
which he "knew or believed may be of material assistance in preventing the
commission by another of an act of terrorism".

He is the brother of Kafeel Ahmed, 27, who was arrested after a flaming Jeep was
driven into doors at Glasgow airport.

Karen Jones, prosecuting, told the court the injured man was in an "extremely
poor physical state". She added that the charge against Dr Sabeel Ahmed,
originally from Bangalore, was connected to the investigation into the two
failed car bombs found in central London and the airport incident.

The court heard that the Runcorn doctor held no tenancy agreement for his
Liverpool home and had not applied to extend his working visa. District Judge
Anthony Evans remanded him in custody and said the case would be reviewed by
City of Westminster magistrates next Monday before a committal hearing on 13
August.

The Ahmeds' second cousin, also a hospital doctor, is facing deportation from
Australia after he was charged on Saturday with recklessly providing resources
to a terrorist organisation.

Dr Mohammed Haneef 's visa has been cancelled and he is to be held at an
immigration-detention centre after he was charged with being associated with the
failed London and Glasgow car bombings.

Haneef, who moved to Australia from Liverpool last year to take up a post at the
Gold Coast Hospital near Brisbane, has already been suspended from his job.

The Indian-born doctor, who previously worked for the NHS in the North-West of
England, was granted bail by Brisbane magistrates until 31 August. He will
remain in Australia as long as he faces charges.

A mobile phone sim card registered in Haneef 's name was used by the Ahmed
brothers and found in a phone in the blazing Jeep at Glasgow airport.

. Two trainee doctors held in Scotland over the failed car bomb attacks have
been released without charge. The pair, aged 25 and 28, were arrested at the
Royal Alexandra Hospital, Paisley, on 2 July.

Officers have until 21 July to continue questioning Dr Mohammed Asha, 26, of
Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffs, arrested on the M6 in Cheshire on 30 June.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Accused: Dr Sabeel Ahmed, brother of the man being treated for burns
after Jeep attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 17, 2007 Tuesday

Pakistan Muslim League leaders condemn suicide attacks, terrorism

LENGTH: 190 words


Text of report by Associated Press of Pakistan (APP) news agency

Multan, 16 July: Human Rights [HR] and labour wing office bearers of PML
[Pakistan Muslim League] Multan on Monday [16 July] condemned the suicide
attacks and urged upon the people to stand united against the menace of
terrorism.

Vice president HR wing of PML Multan district Rana Muhammad Hafeez and president
PML labour wing Multan division Ali Sher Bosan said that every individual should
condemn the suicide bombings, said a press release.

They said that all political parties should support the government in its
efforts against extremism and terrorism.

They said that central president HR wing of PML senator S.M. Zafar and adviser
to CM's [Chief Minister] task force Ayesha Javed have issued instructions to
disseminate the revolutionary message of President Gen Pervez Musharraf and
Chief Minister Chaudhry Pervez Elahi. They said that a seminar would soon be
held in Multan in this connection to highlight the role of PML in Pakistan
movement and the sacrifices rendered by the people.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1706gmt
16 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                             July 17, 2007, Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

Medic accused of failed terror attacks remanded in custody

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words


A doctor accused over the failed car bomb attacks in London and Glasgow was
remanded in custody yesterday.

Dr Sabeel Ahmed, 26, who worked at Halton Hospital in Runcorn, Cheshire, is
charged with possessing information which could have prevented an act of
terrorism.

At a hearing at City of Westminster Magistrates' Court yesterday, his solicitor,
Nadeem Afzal, said his client intends to plead not guilty to the charge.

Ahmed, who appeared in the dock wearing traditional white robes, spoke only to
give his name, address and to confirm his date of birth during the 20-minute
hearing.

The doctor, who is the third person to be charged over the attacks, was arrested
in the Lime Street area of Liverpool on June 30.

He is charged under Section 38 of the Terrorism Act with having information
which he "knew or believed may be of material assistance in preventing the
commission by another of an act of terrorism".

He is the brother of Kafeel Ahmed, 27, who was arrested after a flaming Jeep was
driven into Glasgow Airport.

Karen Jones, prosecuting, told the court the injured man was in an "extremely
poor physical state".

District Judge Anthony Evans remanded Ahmed, originally from Bangalore in India,
in custody.

He said the case would be reviewed at City of Westminster Magistrates' Court
next Monday before a committal hearing on August 13.

Meanwhile, the Australian government said yesterday it would override a
magistrate's decision to allow bail for another doctor charged over the alleged
plot.

Australian immigration minister Kevin Andrews said Mohammed Haneef, 27, would be
detained for immigration breaches because he "failed the character test".

Queensland state magistrate Jacqui Payne had granted Haneef bail on a charge of
providing support for a terrorist organisation, saying there was no clear
evidence the was involved in the alleged car bomb plots in London and Glasgow.

The third person to be charged is Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdullah, 27, who is due to
appear at the Old Bailey on July 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                             July 17, 2007 Tuesday

Landlady tells of her terror at violent attack by 'growling' man

SECTION: Pg. 0

LENGTH: 236 words


A Landlady has spoken of her terror after a punter brandished a knife in her
pub.

Lincoln Imp licensee Amanda Johnson was terrified after furious Andrew Dean
Conlon threatened to murder another customer.

The 31-year-old demanded she tell him the address of fellow punter Stephen Daly
so he could "kill the bastard", Lincoln Magistrates' Court heard yesterday.

Conlon had already fought Mr Daly outside the pub in Blankney Crescent, off
Riseholme Road, minutes before going home for his knife, prosecutor Jim Clare
said.

In an interview with police after the incident on July 1, Ms Johnson said: "He
took the knife out of his pocket and waved it across the bar in my face. He was
angry and was growling.

"He waved it within inches of me. I was frightened he might strike me with it."

Conlon, who lives in Hanover House on Lincoln's Ermine Estate, admitted one
count of threatening to kill, one of possessing an offensive weapon and one
count of criminal damage.

Solicitor Tony Cunningham said Conlon reacted to years of bullying by Mr Daly, a
fellow regular.

Mr Daly provoked him by head butting him, leaving him with a scar above his left
eye, he said.

Magistrates adjourned to August 6 for reports, but warned Conlon he could face
prison for his crimes.

Speaking outside court, Conlon said: "I'm sorry to the landlady about it all.
That was the last thing I wanted to happen."

For the full story see Tuesday's Lincolnshire Echo.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                             July 17, 2007 Tuesday

Plane spotters drafted in to help protect airport from terrorist attacks

SECTION: REGIONAL

LENGTH: 244 words


PLANE spotters may be recruited by the police to help safeguard one of the
region's airports from criminal and terrorist activity.

Local enthusiasts are being invited to a meeting next Thursday, July 26, at
Durham Tees Valley Airport to discuss the possible creation of an airport watch'
scheme.

A Durham Police spokesman said the scheme would harness aircraft spotters'
expert knowledge and regular presence at the facility to existing safety
measures.

A similar initiative has been up and running at Bristol Airport since March this
year, using spotters as extra eyes and ears for the police and on-site security
staff.

Police stressed the meeting at DTVA, which starts at 7pm, was arranged long
before the recent terrorist attack on a terminal building in Glasgow.

Det Supt Neil Malkin of Durham Police said: "We have thought for some time the
plane spotters who visit Durham Tees Valley may be a very useful source of
information.

"They are at the site on a regular basis and could potentially be the first to
spot any suspicious activity. "This idea has worked in other areas and if there
are sufficient numbers interested, it could be just as effective up here."

Nicola Baines, airport services manager said: "Durham Tees Valley Airport is
welcoming an airport watch' scheme to enhance the safety of the public which is
obviously a primary concern for all of us.

"Such a scheme will allow the police and other agencies to share information
more easily and effectively."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            July 18, 2007, Wednesday

'Greater likelihood' of terror attack in US

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: OVERSEAS NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 121 words


US intelligence chiefs believe that al-Qaeda will probably seek to use "contacts
and capabilities" in Iraq for a terrorist attack on American soil, according to
a declassified document released yesterday (Tom Baldwin writes).

The warning was given by the National Intelligence Estimate, representing the
authoritative views of 16 spy agencies on the threat of terrorism. Al-Qaeda "has
protected or regenerated key elements of its (US) attack capability", securing a
safe haven in remote parts of Pakistan, and is likely to "intensify its efforts"
to place terrorists inside the US. Plots are expected to concentrate on
"prominent political, economic and infrastructure targets" with the aim of
producing mass casualties, it said.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 19, 2007 Thursday

Russian security service arrests suspected participant in 1995 terrorist attack

LENGTH: 198 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 19 July: The Federal Security Service [FSB], in cooperation with the
Russian Federation Ministry of Internal Affairs, has arrested one of the
participants in the attack on [the Stavropol Territory town of] Budennovsk in
1995.

"An active participant of bandit formations, who has been hiding from law
enforcement agencies for a long time, has been found. He is Igor Leonidovich
Idobayev, born in 1970, also know, according to altered registration data, as
Aleksey Leonidovich Sokolov, born in 1971," reads a release by the FSB Centre
for Public Relations published on Thursday [19 July].

"Idobayev (Sokolov) was directly involved in the armed attack on the Stavropol
Territory town of Budennovsk in 1995 led by Shamil Basayev and M. [Magomed]
Khatuyev," the press release says.

The Prosecutor-General's Office's Main Directorate in the Southern Federal
District ordered to detain Idobayev. He was detained and taken to Stavropol
Territory. On 18 July he was charged under Articles 205(3) and 209(2) of the
Criminal Code of the Russian Federation and arrested, the FSB said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0754 gmt 19 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                             July 20, 2007, Friday

FOURTH DOC CHARGED OVER AIRPORT TERROR;
JORDANIAN FACES RAP OVER ATTACK

BYLINE: By Paul O'Hare

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 181 words


A JORDANIAN doctor last night became the fourth man to be charged with the
failed bomb attacks on Glasgow and London.

Dr Mohammed Jamil Asha, 26, is accused of conspiring with the two men arrested
last month after they drove a Jeep into Glasgow Airport.

The Metropolitan Police named Dr Bilal Abdullah and Kafeel Ahmed, both 27, on
the charge along with "unknown others".

Iraqi Dr Abdullah, who worked at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley, has
already appeared in court charged with conspiracy to cause explosions.

He is being held in custody at high-security Paddington Green Police Station.

Ahmed, an Indian engineer, remains in a critical condition in Glasgow Royal
Infirmary.

He is not expected to survive after suffering 90 per cent burns.

Asha, 26, of Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire, was arrested on the M6
motorway in Cheshire in the wake of the attack.

He has been charged with conspiracy to cause explosions and will appear before
City of Westminster magistrates' court today.

Two others remain in custody in connection with the foiled attacks, one of them
held in Australia.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BURNT: Ahmed is arrested at Glasgow Airport
ACCUSED: Asha

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 20, 2007 Friday
                                 Fourth Edition

Doctor charged over failed terrorist attacks;
Home News IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 199 words


A Jordanian man arrested on the M6 motorway in the wake of the car bomb attacks
on London and Glasgow has been charged with conspiracy to cause explosions. Dr
Mohammed Jamil Asha, 26, is accused of conspiring with Bilal Abdulla, Kafeel
Ahmed and "others unknown", Scotland Yard said. He remains in custody at
Paddington Green police station in London and will appear at the City of
Westminster magistrates' court today at 10am. His wife, Marwa Asha, was arrested
on the same date, but was later released. Dr Asha is the fourth person to be
charged in connection with the terror plots. Dr Sabeel Ahmed, 26, the brother of
Kafeel Ahmed, is charged with possessing information which could have prevented
an act of terrorism. He appeared at City of Westminster magistrates' court on
Monday and was remanded in custody. Another man, Mohammed Haneef, 27, has been
detained in Australia for immigration offences after being charged in connection
with the plot. He is accused of giving his mobile phone SIM card to the British
suspects Sabeel and Kafeel Ahmed when he moved to Australia in July 2006. The
two brothers are believed to be cousins of Mr Haneef. All three men have links
to Bangalore in India.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 21, 2007 Saturday

Police alert against possible terror attack in Pakistan's northwest district

LENGTH: 292 words


Excerpt from report by Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 21 July: In view of the prevailing potential threats of terrorist
attacks the police department has been put on high alert in Tank district to
pre-empt any untoward happening.

The officials have been directed to immediately adopt stringent security
measures in their respective jurisdiction for the safety of people and their
properties, Tank DPO [district police officer] Mumtaz Zareen told APP on
Saturday [21 July].

"Police department in its contingency plan has reviewed security arrangements
following the increasing suicidal terrorist attack," the DPO informed.

For this purpose, he continued, apart from existing police check-posts five more
checkpoints have been recently established, which are also playing vigilant role
in monitoring anti-social activities across the district.

He said that police personnel have also been deployed at various important
public offices and busy areas.

The police official called upon the people to be vigilant of their surroundings
and intimate police if they find any unclaimed things or items so as to foil any
saboteur act and make the area crime free.

While underlining the perspective of existing law and order, he said that as a
result of infiltration of some political groups from nearby South Waziristan
during last few months the area had slipped into a constant state of fear and
tension which resulted in chaos and harassment of the public. He elaborated that
the town of Tank has been engulfed with overt incidents of violence adding that
the city had become so politicized that it made the writ of government a
complete failure. [passages omitted]

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1258gmt
21 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 22, 2007 Sunday

Terror attacks in Pakistan northwest, situation tense

LENGTH: 142 words


Text of report headlined "Tense situation grips North Waziristan, red alert
security at Pakistan-Afghanistan border" published by Dubai-based Pakistan
television GEO TV website on 21 July

Miranshah [in North Waziristan agency]: The tense situation still grips North
Waziristan, and red alert security has been ordered at Pakistan-Afghanistan
border, the sources said on Saturday [21 July].

Several check posts of khassadar [local police] force were blown up [by] the
miscreants in different parts of North Waziristan, including Bannu, Miranshah
Road, Pati and Chashma, the sources said. The explosions were also reported and
rockets were fired in the said areas; however, no loss of life was reported. The
banks have been closed down in Miranshah and other areas due to the tense
situation, the reports said.

Source: GEO TV website, Dubai, in English 21 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                 July 22, 2007

CRIME: Terror strikes provoke spate of racist attacks

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 142 words


Since the failed terrorist attack on Glasgow airport, Strathclyde police have
had to deal with more than 200 racial incidents, many of them carried out as
reprisals on innocent members of the Muslim community. Verbal and physical
assaults, along with damage to property ranging from graffiti to a vehicle being
driven into a shop belonging to Asians and set on fire, have been reported
across the city.

Just over 10 racially motivated crimes per day, on average, have been recorded
since the airport bomb attack compared with a daily average of less than seven
racist incidents during April, May and June.

'I am concerned about the rise in the number of racist incidents,' said John
Neilson, Strathclyde's assistant chief constable. 'However, I am also encouraged
at the number of victims who have come forward and reported their experiences to
the police.'


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                 July 22, 2007

'Dirty bomb' terrorist scalded in jail attack

BYLINE: Jamie Doward

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 283 words


Dhiren Barot was returned to jail under high security.PA

THE JAILED al-Qaeda mastermind behind a 'dirty bomb' plot on Britain has been
treated in hospital for burns after being attacked with boiling oil and water by
fellow inmates.

Dhiren Barot, who led a British-based al-Qaeda cell that plotted to drive
limousines packed with explosives into the New York Stock Exchange and release a
dirty bomb in London, is now back in Frankland Prison, Durham .

Northumbria Police mounted a security operation when transferring Barot, 35, to
hospital. 'The aim was to protect the safety of patients, hospital staff,
visitors, prison staff, members of the public, and the prisoner, while keeping
disruption to a minimum,' police said yesterday.

The police requested a ban on the media reporting Barot's treatment until he had
been returned to jail.

The attack on Barot, once described by security sources as the 'second most
dangerous man in Britain' after Abu Qatada, the Jordanian preacher awaiting
deportation, has raised fresh questions about the presence of al-Qaeda
extremists in British jails and how best to house them there.

It has been reported that the Bluewater bomb plot terrorist Omar Khyam, 25, also
at Frankland, is living in fear of his life after fellow prisoners threatened to
kill him. Khyam's lawyer, Imran Khan, has called for his client to be moved from
the jail.

Khyam, whose terrorist cell discussed blowing up the Ministry of Sound
nightclub, Britain's gas network and the Bluewater shopping centre in Essex, was
secretly transferred from Belmarsh jail in south east London for radicalising
other prisoners, something that is becoming a major concern for those working in
the Prison Service.


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 July 22, 2007

Terrorist back in jail after attack

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 32 words


Dhiren Barot, who plotted a dirty bomb blast in London, has been released from
hospital after being attacked with boiling oil at Frankland prison, Co Durhham.

Barot, 35, suffered third-degree burns.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 July 22, 2007

Terrorist back in jail after attack

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Ulster News; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 40 words


Dhiren Barot, who plotted a dirty bomb blast for London, has been released from
hospital after being attacked with boiling oil in jail. Barot, 35, who suffered
third-degree burns to his face and body, has returned to Frankland prison, Co
Durham.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 23, 2007 Monday

Arrests may have averted terror attacks in Morocco - Italian minister

LENGTH: 556 words


Text of report by Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera website on 22 July

[Report by Marco Nese: "Amato: 'Ready To Strike' Tighter Surveillance on All
Mosques Now"]

Rome - "The police did a great job." Interior Minister Giuliano Amato is glad to
acknowledge the fact. He explained: "Yet again, our police forces displayed
their great ability to keep these circles under surveillance, thus averting some
very specific threats." It is not yet clear what was being planned by the group
of Moroccan citizens arrested in Umbria, whether they intended to strike in
Italy or abroad. But the minister pointed out that "two years ago Morocco
enabled us to avert attacks in Bologna and on the Milan subway. Now, with the
arrests in Perugia, we may have averted attacks in Morocco."

Be that as it may, Amato is "very pleased": "Lengthy investigations were
conducted that made it possible to identify not just another somewhat radical
sermon, but the use of the mosque for outright terrorist activities. This
confirms the need always to keep a close watch on premises that should be used
solely for religious activities."

There was a chorus of praise for the police forces that carried out the Perugia
operation, from both majority and opposition, starting with Prime Minister
Romano Prodi, who praised the "investigative skill" that enabled "the country to
avert this fearsome menace." But the CDL [Freedoms Home] was critical, too.
First, of the foreign minister. Forza Italia Senator Enrico Pianetta said that
he considers it "absurd" that on the one hand the DS [Left Democrats] are
praising the terrorists' arrest while on the other hand they "capitulate to them
abroad, as Minister D'Alema did with Hamas."

D'Alema was also criticized by Luca Volonte (UCD [Union of Christian and Centre
Democrats],) who deplored "the minister's ill-pondered foreign policy ideas
about armed combatants that want to destroy Israel." For his part, D'Alema
called "fundamentalist terrorism the greatest challenge of our time." In order
to combat it we cannot rule out " the legitimate use of force. But force alone
is not enough against blind fanaticism."

The other issue of political dispute concerns mosques. AN's [National Alliance]
Andrea Ronchi pointed out that "the Prodi government allocates vast resources to
the mosques for supposed integration courses." League deputy Roberto Cota also
took issue with the government majority, which "has submitted a bill on
so-called religious freedom that turns the mosques into a kind of state within
the state." The League's Cota considered this unacceptable, because the mosques
are "potential time bombs."

This belief is shared by Forza Italia's Osvaldo Napoli. In his opinion, what
happened in Perugia confirms that some mosques are "terrorism schools and
terrorist recruitment centres" and that therefore "these places must be closed."
If a tolerant attitude were to be adopted, there would be a danger of "nurturing
further tides of racism among the Italian people."

According to Forza Italia deputy Fabio Garagnani, the arrest of the Perugia imam
should serve as a warning to Mayor Cofferati's council in Bologna, "which
granted permission for a 6,000 square meter site to be used to accommodate a
mosque, an Islamic cultural centre, and related services."

Source: Corriere della Sera website, Milan, in Italian 22 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 23, 2007 Monday

Algerian "terrorist" wounded in foiled attack - paper

LENGTH: 447 words


Text of Lyes Menacer headlined "Foiled attack on policemen in Maatkas",
published by Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 23 July

One terrorist was wounded yesterday at about 1400 [local time] following an
aborted attack on -duty policemen in downtown Maatkas 21 km to the southwest of
Tizi Ouzou.

According to reliable sources, the wounded terrorist tried to kill a policeman
who reacted on time, forcing the criminal to flee with one of his henchmen. A
search and lock-down operation was quickly begun to find the wounded terrorist,
our sources added. Soldiers from the People's National Army [ANP] were also
called in as reinforcements to search the surrounding wooded massif of Amdjoudh,
reputedly one of the numerous pull-back zones for the terrorists from the Salafi
Group for Call and Combat [GSPC; the group now known as Al-Qa'idah in the Lands
of the Islamic Maghreb, or AQLIM] in Kabylie.

This attack came the day after another bomb attack in La Crete, in the
municipality of Mizrana, in which one soldier was slightly wounded as a
permanent roadblock was being relieved. In the wooded Yakouren massif, 50 km to
the east of Tizi Ouzou, news reports are telling of the discovery of the body of
a terrorist riddled with bullets not far from the village of Sahel, in the
administrative district of Bouzeguene. According to local sources, the lifeless
body of the terrorist was found, with his Kalashnikov-type weapon, by citizens
from the region.

Sources close to the security presence have denied this news report and stated
that no toll from the search operation, which has now been under way for 10 days
in Yakouren, was available for the time being. But other sources are already
talking of several terrorists slain, and whose bodies have still not been
recovered by the forces of the ANP which, according to them, are getting ready
to mount the final assault. As of yesterday evening, the artillery and
helicopter bombardments had intensified because one group of 20 or so terrorists
is reportedly being targeted by the paratroopers, who are making slow progress
because of the antipersonnel mines that are planted in several places in the
Yakouren forest.

Let us note that one of the four terrorists slain during the aborted attack on
the Yakouren Gendarmerie brigade has still not been identified. The latter had
last been spotted in a mosque in Azazga, at the time of the Friday prayers. The
deterioration in the security situation in Kabylie is beginning to worry more
than one person in recent days, where not a day passes without there being a
terrorist attack on gendarmes who are on patrol or on-duty policemen.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 23 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                              July 23, 2007 Monday

'Germany at rising risk of terror attacks'

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 146 words


Germany is facing a higher risk of attacks from Islamic terrorists, including al
Qaida, its government has warned.

"In the past days, there have been many concrete indications that Germany is
increasingly in the sights of international terrorists," interior minister
Wolfgang Schaeuble was quoted as saying in daily BZ on Saturday.

German Islamists who have been trained in terror camps in Pakistan re-entered
Germany a few weeks ago, weekly Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung reported
yesterday.

Germany has not faced any major terror attacks but in July 2006, extremists
planted bombs on two German trains which failed to explode. In March Islamic
militants threatened to attack Germany unless it withdraws its troops from
Afghanistan.

Germany has no troops in Iraq but has about 2,700 soldiers serving with the
Nato-led International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                              July 23, 2007 Monday

Al Qaida terrorist attacked in N-E jail

SECTION: REGIONAL

LENGTH: 829 words


AN al Qaida mastermind who was seriously injured in a North-East prison may not
have been targeted because of his terrorist crimes.

Dherin Barot, the leader of a British-based al Qaida cell that plotted to murder
thousands of people with "dirty bombs", was scarred for life when fellow inmates
at Frankland Prison, in Durham, poured an "oil" - believed to have been made out
of boiling sugar and water - over him.

Following the attack, Barot spent five days in Newcastle's Royal Victoria
Infirmary, recovering from burns and surrounded by armed police.

He was returned to Frankland on Saturday.

But a prison service source last night told The Northern Echo his attackers
might not have known of his past.

"It could have been anything," the source said.

"He could have looked at someone the wrong way, or had the wrong coloured shirt
on."

The source said Barot, who was jailed for life in November, was moved to
Frankland only three weeks ago, from Belmarsh jail in London, because of
concerns for his safety.

Barot, 35, from London, was once described by security sources as "the
second-most dangerous man in Britain", after Jordanian preacher Abu Qatada.

An Indian-born former Hindu, who converted to Islam, he plotted to drive
limousines packed with explosives into the New York Stock Exchange, flood the
London Underground, and considered using radioactive "dirty" bombs.

Sentencing him to serve at least 40 years behind bars, Mr Justice Butterfield
said that, if successful, his attacks would have caused carnage on a "colossal
and unprecedented scale".

Barot's lawyer, Muddassar Arani, said a Frankland inmate had thrown boiling
water over his back, leading to a fight.

Later, while Barot was nursing his wounds, another convict poured boiling "oil"
over his head, Ms Arani said.

She added: "He has scarring all over his face, up to his neck."

But the prison source said inmates could not get hold of oil - instead they mix
boiling water with sugar so the solution sticks to the victim's skin and
inflicts maximum pain.

"They can do lots of things with what they can get hold of," the source said.

Barot was taken to the Newcastle hospital last Monday for assessment, and
returned to Frankland the same day. On Tuesday, he returned for treatment,
staying five days, during which time Northumbria Police deployed armed officers
and an air support unit to the hospital.

A police spokeswoman said the aim of the security operation was to protect
patients, hospital staff, visitors, prison staff, the public and the prisoner.

She said the measures were proportionate to the assessed level of risk and
maintaining public safety had been paramount.

The Northern Echo knew about this security operation but agreed not to report
it, in order to protect public safety.

Superintendent Jo Farrell, of Northumbria Police, said the operation passed
without incident.

Frankland is a high-security prison, with capacity to handle up to 734 high-risk
criminals. It accepts only convicts with sentences of four years and more.

It has emerged that Barot is not the only terrorist being held within its walls.

Frankland also houses Omar Khyam, ringleader of an al Qaida cell that plotted to
blow up Kent's Bluewater shopping centre, the Ministry of Sound nightclub, in
London, and the UK gas network, using fertiliser bombs.

Khyam, 25, was moved North in secret, from Belmarsh jail, for radicalising other
prisoners - which is becoming a major concern for those working in the Prison
Service.

People living near Frankland say they are not scared of inmates escaping, but
worry that co-conspirators could target the area.

Leslie Leek, a former soldier and security guard who lives yards from the
prison, said: "Security has never been so lax round here. You never see patrols.
This is a high-profile area and it should be monitored more closely.

"They won't escape, but their mates could come up here and plant anything."

Durham City MP Roberta Blackman-Woods praised police and prison staff for their
handling of the incident, but called for Barot and Khyam to be deported.

She said: "Questions need to be put to the Ministry of Justice about how long
this person, as well as another al Qaida operative, Omar Khyam, currently in
Frankland Prison, are likely to serve of their sentence before being deported.

"I do not think it is appropriate for them to be serving their sentence in a
British prison."

The Muslim Council of Great Britain called for a full investigation of all
attacks on inmates.

Inayat Bunglawala, of the council, said: "There have been other incidents in the
past, where prisoners have been attacked by their own fellow cell mates.

"It's vital that they (the prison authorities) investigate the attack, to ensure
that prisoners, whatever they've been convicted of, are given basic safety and
are allowed to pass their sentences in at least some dignity."

Durham Police and the Prison Service have launched an investigation into the
incident. The Prison Service could not be contacted for comment last night.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                              July 23, 2007 Monday

Al Qaida terrorist attacked in N-E jail

SECTION: NEWS:

LENGTH: 829 words


AN al Qaida mastermind who was seriously injured in a North-East prison may not
have been targeted because of his terrorist crimes.

Dherin Barot, the leader of a British-based al Qaida cell that plotted to murder
thousands of people with "dirty bombs", was scarred for life when fellow inmates
at Frankland Prison, in Durham, poured an "oil" - believed to have been made out
of boiling sugar and water - over him.

Following the attack, Barot spent five days in Newcastle's Royal Victoria
Infirmary, recovering from burns and surrounded by armed police.

He was returned to Frankland on Saturday.

But a prison service source last night told The Northern Echo his attackers
might not have known of his past.

"It could have been anything," the source said.

"He could have looked at someone the wrong way, or had the wrong coloured shirt
on."

The source said Barot, who was jailed for life in November, was moved to
Frankland only three weeks ago, from Belmarsh jail in London, because of
concerns for his safety.

Barot, 35, from London, was once described by security sources as "the
second-most dangerous man in Britain", after Jordanian preacher Abu Qatada.

An Indian-born former Hindu, who converted to Islam, he plotted to drive
limousines packed with explosives into the New York Stock Exchange, flood the
London Underground, and considered using radioactive "dirty" bombs.

Sentencing him to serve at least 40 years behind bars, Mr Justice Butterfield
said that, if successful, his attacks would have caused carnage on a "colossal
and unprecedented scale".

Barot's lawyer, Muddassar Arani, said a Frankland inmate had thrown boiling
water over his back, leading to a fight.

Later, while Barot was nursing his wounds, another convict poured boiling "oil"
over his head, Ms Arani said.

She added: "He has scarring all over his face, up to his neck."

But the prison source said inmates could not get hold of oil - instead they mix
boiling water with sugar so the solution sticks to the victim's skin and
inflicts maximum pain.

"They can do lots of things with what they can get hold of," the source said.

Barot was taken to the Newcastle hospital last Monday for assessment, and
returned to Frankland the same day. On Tuesday, he returned for treatment,
staying five days, during which time Northumbria Police deployed armed officers
and an air support unit to the hospital.

A police spokeswoman said the aim of the security operation was to protect
patients, hospital staff, visitors, prison staff, the public and the prisoner.

She said the measures were proportionate to the assessed level of risk and
maintaining public safety had been paramount.

The Northern Echo knew about this security operation but agreed not to report
it, in order to protect public safety.

Superintendent Jo Farrell, of Northumbria Police, said the operation passed
without incident.

Frankland is a high-security prison, with capacity to handle up to 734 high-risk
criminals. It accepts only convicts with sentences of four years and more.

It has emerged that Barot is not the only terrorist being held within its walls.

Frankland also houses Omar Khyam, ringleader of an al Qaida cell that plotted to
blow up Kent's Bluewater shopping centre, the Ministry of Sound nightclub, in
London, and the UK gas network, using fertiliser bombs.

Khyam, 25, was moved North in secret, from Belmarsh jail, for radicalising other
prisoners - which is becoming a major concern for those working in the Prison
Service.

People living near Frankland say they are not scared of inmates escaping, but
worry that co-conspirators could target the area.

Leslie Leek, a former soldier and security guard who lives yards from the
prison, said: "Security has never been so lax round here. You never see patrols.
This is a high-profile area and it should be monitored more closely.

"They won't escape, but their mates could come up here and plant anything."

Durham City MP Roberta Blackman-Woods praised police and prison staff for their
handling of the incident, but called for Barot and Khyam to be deported.

She said: "Questions need to be put to the Ministry of Justice about how long
this person, as well as another al Qaida operative, Omar Khyam, currently in
Frankland Prison, are likely to serve of their sentence before being deported.

"I do not think it is appropriate for them to be serving their sentence in a
British prison."

The Muslim Council of Great Britain called for a full investigation of all
attacks on inmates.

Inayat Bunglawala, of the council, said: "There have been other incidents in the
past, where prisoners have been attacked by their own fellow cell mates.

"It's vital that they (the prison authorities) investigate the attack, to ensure
that prisoners, whatever they've been convicted of, are given basic safety and
are allowed to pass their sentences in at least some dignity."

Durham Police and the Prison Service have launched an investigation into the
incident. The Prison Service could not be contacted for comment last night.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS


              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                              July 23, 2007 Monday

Al Qaida terrorist attacked in N-E jail

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 463 words

DATELINE: The Northern Echo


On Tuesday, he returned for treatment, staying five days, during which time
Northumbria Police deployed armed officers and an air support unit to the
hospital.A police spokeswoman said the aim of the security operation was to
protect patients, hospital staff, visitors, prison staff, the public and the
prisoner.She said the measures were proportionate to the assessed level of risk
and maintaining public safety had been paramount.The Northern Echo knew about
this security operation but agreed not to report it, in order to protect public
safety.Superintendent Jo Farrell, of Northumbria Police, said the operation
passed without incident.Frankland is a high-security prison, with capacity to
handle up to 734 high-risk criminals. It accepts only convicts with sentences of
four years and more.It has emerged that Barot is not the only terrorist being
held within its walls.Frankland also houses Omar Khyam, ringleader of an al
Qaida cell that plotted to blow up Kent's Bluewater shopping centre, the
Ministry of Sound nightclub, in London, and the UK gas network, using fertiliser
bombs.Khyam, 25, was moved North in secret, from Belmarsh jail, for radicalising
other prisoners - which is becoming a major concern for those working in the
Prison Service.People living near Frankland say they are not scared of inmates
escaping, but worry that co-conspirators could target the area.Leslie Leek, a
former soldier and security guard who lives yards from the prison, said:
"Security has never been so lax round here. You never see patrols. This is a
high-profile area and it should be monitored more closely."They won't escape,
but their mates could come up here and plant anything."Durham City MP Roberta
Blackman-Woods praised police and prison staff for their handling of the
incident, but called for Barot and Khyam to be deported.She said: "Questions
need to be put to the Ministry of Justice about how long this person, as well as
another al Qaida operative, Omar Khyam, currently in Frankland Prison, are
likely to serve of their sentence before being deported."I do not think it is
appropriate for them to be serving their sentence in a British prison."The
Muslim Council of Great Britain called for a full investigation of all attacks
on inmates.Inayat Bunglawala, of the council, said: "There have been other
incidents in the past, where prisoners have been attacked by their own fellow
cell mates."It's vital that they (the prison authorities) investigate the
attack, to ensure that prisoners, whatever they've been convicted of, are given
basic safety and are allowed to pass their sentences in at least some
dignity."Durham Police and the Prison Service have launched an investigation
into the incident.

The Prison Service could not be contacted for comment last night.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 24, 2007

Dad and kids;
in fire terror;
HOME ATTACKED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 48 words


A FATHER and two young children were subjected to a horrific firebomb attack in
the early hours of this morning.

They were sleeping in their Lanarkshire home when a hooded man hurled a petrol
bomb against the kids' bedroom window.

Police believe the house may have been targeted by mistake.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 24, 2007

Firebug attack terror for family

BYLINE: By DEBORAH ANDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 293 words



HIGHLIGHT: Police believe the house may have been targeted by mistake


A FAMILY were recovering today after a firebug threw a petrol bomb at their
children's bedroom window.

The culprit tried to torch their home in the early hours of today when two young
children lay in their beds.

Detectives are now hunting the attacker as it emerged he may have struck the
wrong house.

The incident happened around 4am today in Lime Crescent, Cumbernauld, when the
two children and their father were sleeping.

Normally the children would have been in their own room - where the firebomb was
thrown - but they had changed bedrooms.

Their mum is in hospital comforting their younger sister, who has just gone
through an operation.

The householder heard a bang and then seconds later another one followed. It is
believed a hooded man ran through a close and threw one firebomb, which narrowly
missed the house.

A second attempt saw him hurl the device at the kids' bedroom window. The force
of it smashed one pane of glass before it crashed to the ground, scorching the
pavement.

It is believed the family, who only moved in last week, were innocent victims
and the intended target was the house next door.

The terrifying incident has left residents stunned.

One neighbour said: "We heard someone had thrown a petrol bomb and they were
seen running away.

"It's horrifying to think kids were in the house. They must have been
terrified."

Residents woke to find police searching through bushes and the quiet row of
terrace houses cordoned off.

Another neighbour said: "I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw a police search
going on.

"It's such a quiet area and nothing like this has ever happened before."

Relatives said the family were too upset to talk at this stage but were adamant
they were the wrong target.

A police spokesman said inquiries were continuing.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 25, 2007 Wednesday

Pakistan terror attacks kill 167 since 4 July

LENGTH: 166 words


Text of report by Associated Press of Pakistan (APP) news agency

Islamabad, 24 July: As many as 167 people lost their lives and more than 300
others injured in 21 terrorist attacks including 12 suicide bombings since 4
July.

It was stated by the spokesman of the Interior Ministry Brig (Retd) Javed Iqbal
Cheema here Tuesday in a press conference.

He said the government is determined to overcome the threat with the cooperation
of the nation.

The elements behind these dastardly and cowardly attacks aim to harm the
integrity, solidarity and security of the country, he added.

The spokesman said the law enforcement agencies are on high alert throughout the
country to protect lives and properties of citizens. The necessary measures have
been taken in coordination with the provincial governments, he said, adding
adjustments and improvements in the security measures are being made when and
wherever required.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1448gmt
24 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                             Entertainment Close-up

                            July 25, 2007 Wednesday

BAE Tests Crisis Command System During 'Terrorist Attack'

LENGTH: 344  words


BAE Systems said that it has successfully tested a mobile ground station for use
by emergency services at a simulated crisis exercise in Valencia, Spain, on July
18.

The ground station is a key element of MARIUS -- the Mobile Autonomous Reactive
Information System for Urgency Situations -- a technology project funded by the
European Commission.

The demonstration, conducted in coordination with Valencia firefighters,
consisted of a simulated terrorist attack in an urban area. The portable ground
station served as an information hub for emergency operations, linking inputs
provided by other MARIUS partners. These inputs include data, video from
ground-based cameras and an unmanned aerial vehicle, and a helicopter-based
mobile phone detection system. The ground station's sophisticated user interface
is designed to support cooperation and decision-making among emergency services.

"BAE Systems is working to help ensure our nations stay safe and are as well
equipped as possible to handle emergency situations," said Richard Cross, MARIUS
project manager for BAE Systems in Rochester, U.K. "Because it provides a
single, integrated view of operations in the field, MARIUS increases the ability
of emergency services teams to cooperate efficiently and save lives."

BAE Systems is one of 12 industrial and academic partners from five countries
that are developing the MARIUS system, which is coordinated by EADS. The
University Politecncia de Valencia organized the event with support from
authorities in the region of Valencia.

The system also can process mobile telecommunications information to track
casualties and ground-based personnel, displaying their locations on a detailed
map. Users can populate the map with additional details, such as severity of
injuries, to help teams prioritize treatment and first-responder needs.

BAE Systems is a global defense and aerospace company, delivering a full range
of products and services for air, land, and naval forces, as well as advanced
electronics, information technology solutions, and customer support services.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007 Wednesday

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: Entertainment Close-up


                     Copyright 2007 M2 Communications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 26, 2007

ATTACK TERROR;
West End women in fear of rape gang

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 58 words


TERRIFIED women in the West End of Glasgow were today warned a brutal sex gang
may strike again.

A mum was gang-raped by four thugs as she walked her dog early in the morning.

The attack has left local women scared to go out.

Detective Inspector John Mellon said today: "We're warning women in the area to
be very careful as the gang could strike again."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lancaster Guardian

                                 July 26, 2007

Businesses learning to cope with terror attacks

LENGTH: 290 words


ACCORDING to statistics, a business will face major interruption once every five
years.

How your business responds to that disaster will determine how your customers,
suppliers, staff and creditors continue to remain confident in your business,
thus securing its continued existence.

Preventing chaos in a crisis is more efficient than having to recover from a
disaster.

With this in mind, a training day was held at the Lancaster House Hotel recently
for businesses to learn how to cope with a terrorist attack.

Project Argus, a National Counter Terrorism Security Office (NaCTSO) initiative,
took more than 50 business people from around the district through a simulated
terrorist attack, which identified the measures to take for preventing, handling
and recovering from a major incident.

The event, the first of its kind in the district, was hosted by Lancaster City
Council, Lancaster District Chamber of Commerce and the Lancashire Constabulary,
and was presented by a speaker from the NaCTSO.

Attack

Participants were asked to deal with a simulated attack, which involved taking
control of the situation and thinking about how their business would be affected
not only during the immediate aftermath but also from the long-term
consequences.

Mark Bartlett, civil contingencies officer at Lancaster City Council, said: "I
hope we can run a similar event in the not too distant future and give more
local businesses the opportunity to take part."

Ann Morris, Chamber of Commerce manager, said: "It was a very thought provoking
and well presented event. Those who attended learnt a great deal about the
realities of managing people in the event of a serious disaster and the need for
contingency planning to minimise the impact on their business."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Post Magazine

                             July 26, 2007 Thursday

SME - Terrorism - Being prepared.;
The potential damage from terror attacks affects individuals, structures and
businesses and has the ability to destroy lives. As Martin Singleton writes,
small to medium-size enterprises need to have a prepared disaster recovery
strategy in place to maximise employee safety and minimise business disruption.

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 908  words

DATELINE: UK


In the wake of the recent terrorist attack in Glasgow and the foiled attack in
London's West End, there is an even greater need for businesses - especially
small to medium-size enterprises - to ensure they have adequate cover and plans
to avoid terrorist acts, or at least minimise consequences that could include
going out of business.

Damage resulting from acts of terrorism is a standard exclusion under most
commercial property policies in the UK, and policyholders must ensure that they
purchase terrorism insurance separately to obtain cover.

Most UK commercial property insurers are members of Pool Re, a mutual
reinsurance company through which they can offer cover for acts of terrorism in
Britain to their policyholders.

Through Pool Re, member insurers are able to obtain reinsurance for damage to
property and consequent business interruption losses resulting from acts of
terrorism in Britain. Therefore they can offer, at an additional cost, such
cover to their own policyholders.

In the case of an incident where there is no damage to property, such as the
recent foiled attacks in London, Pool Re terrorism cover will not apply so
policyholders must ensure that they have purchased adequate 'non-damage'
business interruption extensions that can provide suitable cover. Many SMEs may
not be aware of this cover, which might leave them open to problems.

'Police action' extensions provide cover for businesses that have been closed or
where police have prevented access to the premises for customers and employees
due to a danger or disturbance in the vicinity of the policyholder's premises.
This is a non-damage extension and only applies where no actual damage has
occurred.

With the Glasgow airport incident where damage to property did occur, many
businesses will have been affected by the disruption and nearby road closures,
although such businesses will not have suffered any direct damage themselves.

Terrorism exclusions

Such losses resulting from this act of terrorism are likely to be excluded from
standard BI policies and businesses in the vicinity of the damaged airport will
only have insurance cover if 'prevention of access' or 'loss of attraction'
extensions to BI covers have been purchased, together with Pool Re terrorism
cover.

While the right level of insurance protection is vital, SMEs can also protect
themselves by ensuring they employ adequate risk management measures, including
a business continuity plan. General security is a must and should be in place
for all entrances and windows. A good quality intruder alarm system should be
considered for sensitive or unmanned areas of the building.

Areas that are not normally open to the public can also be controlled with the
use of security personnel, CCTV and security lighting. Staff should be made
aware of the need for vigilance. Any suspicious objects, persons or vehicles
should be reported to the police immediately. Full and written guidance should
be incorporated in staff handbooks including clear instructions to reception
staff and telephonists for handling bomb threats.

Space both inside and out should be kept clean and tidy to reduce the
opportunity for an explosive device to be planted undetected. Should a search
need to be conducted it is advisable that this is carried out in pairs.

Protective measures

There are a number of products available that can help to reduce the possibility
of injury and damage in the event of a terrorist explosion. For example:
laminated glass, security/anti-shatter window film and anti-blast curtains.
Obviously these may be costly for small businesses in the short term but in the
long run they may well be worth their weight in gold.

Businesses also need to identify designated safe areas where people can gather
in case evacuation is not the best solution; preferably an area that has access
to drinking water and toilets and is located away from windows and glazed areas.

In addition, all fire fighting equipment should be regularly checked, in working
order and readily available for use. Sprinkler systems have also proved to be
effective in limiting the extent of damage from incendiary devices.

Particular attention should be paid to computer and communications systems and a
plan of action should cater for the replacement and re-siting of equipment or
records. This should also include recovery of data from back-up resources, which
ideally should be kept off the premises.

It is necessary to regularly review and rehearse plans to ensure they remain
workable, particularly in light of changes that often take place within a
business; whether involving the structure, personnel, equipment or processes.
These measures can and will assist in protecting assets, staff and customers
from a terrorist attack or other major incident, and could assist the business'
survival should such an event occur.

The overall advice to SMEs, and in fact any business, is that, before creating
any additional measures, review what is already in place - implement good basic
security practices and test them regularly. Businesses are often reluctant to
create contingency plans because of the perceived cost that may be involved.
However, often the cost of doing nothing outweighs the cost to the business when
an incident occurs. Statistics show that even minor incidents can cost small
companies an average of two days lost business to the sum up to £10,000.

- Martin Singleton is technical manager, property, for Norwich Union.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright 2007 Timothy Benn Publishing Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                             July 26, 2007 Thursday

Man suffers attack terror

BYLINE: Charley Morgan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: Wiltshire Times


A MAN was threatened with a spade and had stones thrown at him as he walked home
from the shops on Tuesday night.

The attack happened after the man had done some shopping at Tesco Express in
Eastbourne Road, Trowbridge at 10pm.

After leaving the store he crossed the road and walked onto the subway when two
men approached him, one of whom was carrying a long garden spade.

Both men became verbally abusive and one threatened him with the spade.

The victim managed to retrieve the spade from the two men but as he was walking
away he was hit from behind with some small stones being thrown by the two men.

He suffered minor injuries in the incident and did not need hospital treatment.

The victim remembers seeing members of the public in the area at the time and
police are appealing for any of them to come forward.

The first man is described as white, of small build, 17-18-years-old, with a
dirty complexion and wearing dark cloths and a baseball cap.

The second is also described as white, about 5ft 10ins, 17-18-years-old, with a
dirty complexion and wearing dark cloths and possible a blue t-shirt.

Anyone with information should contact Pc Gemma Payne at Trowbridge Police.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wiltshire Times

                             July 26, 2007 Thursday

Man suffers attack terror

BYLINE: Charley Morgan

SECTION: TROWBRIDGE NEWS

LENGTH: 195 words


A MAN was threatened with a spade and had stones thrown at him as he walked home
from the shops on Tuesday night.

The attack happened after the man had done some shopping at Tesco Express in
Eastbourne Road, Trowbridge at 10pm.

After leaving the store he crossed the road and walked onto the subway when two
men approached him, one of whom was carrying a long garden spade.

Both men became verbally abusive and one threatened him with the spade.

The victim managed to retrieve the spade from the two men but as he was walking
away he was hit from behind with some small stones being thrown by the two men.

He suffered minor injuries in the incident and did not need hospital treatment.

The victim remembers seeing members of the public in the area at the time and
police are appealing for any of them to come forward.

The first man is described as white, of small build, 17-18-years-old, with a
dirty complexion and wearing dark cloths and a baseball cap.

The second is also described as white, about 5ft 10ins, 17-18-years-old, with a
dirty complexion and wearing dark cloths and possible a blue t-shirt.

Anyone with information should contact Pc Gemma Payne at Trowbridge Police.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wiltshire Times

                             July 26, 2007 Thursday

Man suffers attack terror

BYLINE: Charley Morgan

SECTION: TROWBRIDGE NEWS (TROWBRIDGE NEWS)

LENGTH: 195 words


A MAN was threatened with a spade and had stones thrown at him as he walked home
from the shops on Tuesday night.

The attack happened after the man had done some shopping at Tesco Express in
Eastbourne Road, Trowbridge at 10pm.

After leaving the store he crossed the road and walked onto the subway when two
men approached him, one of whom was carrying a long garden spade.

Both men became verbally abusive and one threatened him with the spade.

The victim managed to retrieve the spade from the two men but as he was walking
away he was hit from behind with some small stones being thrown by the two men.

He suffered minor injuries in the incident and did not need hospital treatment.

The victim remembers seeing members of the public in the area at the time and
police are appealing for any of them to come forward.

The first man is described as white, of small build, 17-18-years-old, with a
dirty complexion and wearing dark cloths and a baseball cap.

The second is also described as white, about 5ft 10ins, 17-18-years-old, with a
dirty complexion and wearing dark cloths and possible a blue t-shirt.

Anyone with information should contact Pc Gemma Payne at Trowbridge Police.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 27, 2007 Friday

Terror attack in Indian Kashmir, seven policemen dead

LENGTH: 240 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI


Srinagar [Indian-administered Kashmir], 26 July: The Central Reserve Police
Force (CRPF) Thursday [26 July] foiled an attempt by Lashkar-i-Toiba (LeT)
[militant Islamist group] militants to storm its battalion headquarters near a
research centre of the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) here by killing two
of their cadres. Two heavily-armed ultras tried to enter the headquarters of 42
Battalion at Zakura [in Srinagar] this morning [local time], but were killed in
the ensuing encounter, CRPF Inspector-General S.K. Singh told PTI. Seven CRPF
men were injured in the attack carried out from the rear side of the camp, he
said. The militants, taking advantage of tall grass in the nearby field, came
close to the boundary wall of the camp and hurled grenades and fired
indiscriminately at the pickets. The two militants were killed in the
retaliatory firing. Another militant, who provided cover fire to these two,
escaped. Later, a caller identifying himself as LeT spokesman Abdullah Gaznavi
told local media that the attack was mounted to denounce claims by authorities
that peace has returned to the valley. He also threatened of more such attacks
till their goal is achieved. He identified the deceased militants as Feroz Ahmad
Khan alias Abu Muslim and Abu Maaz. This is first attack of its kind in the city
for nearly one year.


Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1459gmt 26 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 27, 2007 Friday

Russia: Mothers of Beslan say they have new video evidence about terror attack

LENGTH: 227 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Ekho Moskvy

Beslan, 27 July: The Mothers of Beslan [committee] has a video recording which
contradicts the official version of circumstances surrounding the terrorist
attack on the Beslan school [in 2004]. The chairman of the Mothers of Beslan
committee told Ekho Moskvy that the cassette, which was sent to them anonymously
by post, was filmed by prosecutor's office investigators on 3 - 4 September
2004.

"It shows people who removed the mines from the sports hall telling
investigators that the home-made explosive devices went off as a result of a
fire," said Susanna Dudiyeva. "They say that this is supported by the nature of
injuries sustained by those injured and killed, as well as by the breach in the
wall of the sports hall, which is not typical of a blast from the inside," she
added.

According to Dudiyeva, representatives for the victims have repeatedly asked for
"the cassette to be added to the case materials, but the prosecutor's office
said that it had been lost". At the same time, she expressed the hope that "the
cassette will help establish the truth". "We will force the prosecutor's office
to work based on the facts which they themselves established, but which are
being concealed, probably under pressure from above," said Dudiyeva.

Source: Ekho Moskvy news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0505 gmt 27 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                             July 27, 2007, Friday

HOSE A SILLY BOY?;
EXCLUSIVE BRIGADE CHIEF'S SON, 9, WIPED OUT INCIDENT ROOM MASTERPLAN AT HEIGHT
OF AIRPORT TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: By Craig McDonald

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 474 words


A FIRE chief's young son wiped out emergency plans as Glasgow Airport burned
after last month's terror attack.

Firefighters were stunned when Brian Sweeney brought his son into the
Strathclyde brigade's mobile nerve centre at the airport during the alert.

Then the nine-year-old boy wiped a whiteboard which showed details of all the
fire vehicles' positions.

Insiders yesterday reveale the bizarre situation in the brigade's Forward
Command Unit vehicle.

One source said: "It was absolutely farcical. There is no way a child should
have been in the control unit in the first place. But no one tells the chief
what to do."

Sweeney, 46, was off duty when the burning Jeep rammed the airport terminal but
arrived as the building was engulfed in fire and smoke - with his son in tow.

He told colleagues he couldn't get a babysitter for the boy so had no choice.

It is understood at least one firefighter has complained to superiors about the
chief's behaviour but Sweeney has not been disciplined.

The insider said: "This was totally unacceptable. Officers couldn't believe
their eyes when he turned up to the forward control unit with his boy.

"Theoretically, he could get a rap from the convener of the Fire Board but no
one is wanting to put themselves into the firing line by making an official
complaint.

"Why he turned up with his boy with him, God only knows. And why he then took
his boy into the Forward Control Unit, no one knows either.

"It's inside the inner safety cordon. It's a risk area and should only have
authorised personnel in it - end of story.

"His son has then wiped out the white board which had operational details on it,
such as where the replacement pumps were to be deployed.

"He either rubbed against it, rubbed it out or rubbed part of it out to draw
on."

"There was confusion and chaos but thankfully the situation was brought back
under control very quickly."

The Forward Command Unit vehicle is the fire service's nerve centre on the day
of a major incident.

The source went on: "It's critical that concentration is maintained at all
times. Bringing a child into that kind of situation because you can't get a
babysitter is just farcical.

"He knows he could be called to any kind of terrorist attack or major incident
at any time so he should have contingency plans in place.

"At the time, the whole country was in a high state of alert so everybody knew a
major attack was a real possibility."

Strathclyde Fire and Rescue last night defended Sweeney's actions.

A spokesman said: "The chief had to get to the incident as soon as possible and
had no one else to look after his boy.

"He was placed in a forward command vehicle back from the incident. What else
could the chief do - leave him in the street?"

The spokesman said no disciplinary action was planned.

The fire chief is estranged from his 44-year-old wife Pamela, the boy's mother.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNDER FIRE: Brigade chief Brian Sweeney
COMMAND UNIT: A Fire Brigade major incident lorry makes its way through the
chaos at Glasgow Airport during the terrorist alert last month
INFERNO: Firefighters tackle the burning Jeep that rammed the airport
NO CHILD CARE: Chief Sweeney

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                 July 27, 2007

How to cope with terror attack

LENGTH: 152  words


CLUBS, pubs and other night-time economy businesses which attract large numbers
of people will be offered free advice on how to respond to a terrorist attack.

The three-hour seminar is being organised by Peterborough City Council's
emergency planning team and will take place on Wednesday, September 19.

It will be hosted by Liquid nightclub on New Road, from noon to 3pm.

The seminar - a National Counter Terrorism Security Office initiative called
Project ARGUS - will be led by two detectives from Cambridgeshire Constabulary
and will include contributions from the emergency services and emergency
planning officers.

The three-hour exercise is designed specifically for clubs and other
establishments that attract lots of people.

Places will be allocated on a first-come, first-served basis.

n For more information and to reserve a place, call Vicki Bales on 01733 452474,
or e-mail victoria.bales@peterborough.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                             July 28, 2007 Saturday

No action for taking son to Glasgow terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 289 words


A fire chief will not face further action for taking his young son into a mobile
incident room at Glasgow Airport in the aftermath of the terrorist attack,
authorities said yesterday.

Brian Sweeney, Strathclyde Fire and Rescue  chief, brought his nine-year-old son
into the forward command vehicle during the terror alert last month.

The boy waited in the vehicle while his father and colleagues assessed how to
deal with the danger posed by the burning Jeep at the airport entrance.

A spokesman for Strathclyde Fire and Rescue said that Mr Sweeney had no choice
but to bring his son to work because he could not get a babysitter at short
notice.

He said: "He is not facing any action.

"He had no alternative because he had to get to the incident as quickly as
possible because of the incident and had no one else to look after his boy.

"He was placed in a forward command vehicle back from the incident.

"What else could the chief do? Leave the child in the street? His son was with
him for a short while. His son did not touch anything."

The spokesman said the boy was not put in any danger.

He said: "When he first arrived, the boy spent some time in a police car but it
was only after the Jeep was known to be safe that he was placed in the forward
command vehicle and that was when the incident was under control."

Mr Sweeney came to public prominence in the aftermath of the explosion at the
Stockline plastics factory in Glasgow on May 11, 2004, in which nine people
died.

He was later awarded the Queen's Fire Service Medal in recognition of his work
during the rescue operation.

Mr Sweeney, originally from Ghortahork in County Donegal, joined Strathclyde
Fire Brigade as a recruit in 1980. He was appointed chief officer in October
2004.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                             July 28, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

SEX ATTACK GIRL IN 25-MILE TERROR RIDE;
Victim snatched from city street, assaulted in car and then dumped at M1
services

BYLINE: By Ben Griffin CRIME REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 310 words


A TEENAGER snatched from a Coventry street was sexually assaulted as she was
driven on a 25-mile nightmare journey.

The 19-year-old was kidnapped by a sex fiend who then drove her through
Warwickshire and on to the M1 motorway.

Her ordeal ended at the Watford Gap services when she was dumped by her
attacker.

Police are appealing for anyone who saw a man bundling the woman into a car to
come forward.

The woman's nightmare began when was she dragged into a car in Britannia Street,
Hillfields, Coventry, at about midnight on Wednesday.

Detective Inspector Martin Lawrence, who is leading the investigation, said the
driver asked her for "business", mistaking her for a sex worker.

When she told him she was not a sex worker, he pulled her into his car.

During the journey, the man sexually assaulted her. It is believed he attacked
her as he drove.

He went out of Coventry and is believed to have travelled along the A45 and M45
to get to the M1.

The woman was eventually dumped at the Watford Gap services, between junction 16
and 17 of the M1 near Daventry, where she raised the alarm.

Det Insp Lawrence said the car was described as a red, old-style two-door
vehicle.

He added: "This is a very unusual incident. We would urge anyone who was in the
vicinity of Britannia Street to contact us."

Police said they will treat anyone who comes forward in the strictest of
confidence.

Det Insp Lawrence, of Little Park Street police station's CID, added that
detectives have not at this stage linked the assault to an attempted sex attack
in Gosford Green on Friday, July 6. In that incident, a man tried to drag a
woman into bushes but fled when she called for help and four people came to her
aid.

He urged witnesses or anyone with information about Wednesday's attack to
contact him on 0845 113 5000.

Information can also be left anonymously with Crime stoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SNATCHED FROM HERE ... Britannia Street, in Hillfields, Coventry.;
...AND DUMPED HERE... Watford Gap service station on the M1 in Northamptonshire.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                              July 29, 2007 Sunday

Manhunt as three Iraqi doctors go missing in Glasgow after terror attack;
Medics fail to turn up for flights back to Middle East after training programme
ends

BYLINE: GLEN OWEN, STEVE SMITH

SECTION: FB; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 529 words


POLICE are hunting three Iraqi doctors who went on the run in Glasgow after
terrorists tried to blow up the city's airport.

The men arrived in the UK in May to take part in a Government-backed training
programme, but failed to turn up for their flights back to Baghdad earlier this
month.

They disappeared just two weeks after Bilal Abdullah, an Iraqi-trained doctor
who worked at a Glasgow hospital, was arrested and charged with terrorist
offences over the airport attack on June 30.

He was a passenger in a Jeep driven by Kafeel Ahmed, an engineer who is being
treated for extensive burns after the vehicle burst into flames as it hit the
doors of the passenger terminal.

Two other junior doctors of Middle Eastern origin, who worked at the same
hospital as Abdullah, the Royal Alexandra in Paisley, were arrested on July 2,
but released without charge on July 15.

Last night, the Department of Health - which has been forced to defend itself
against criticism of its security vetting - insisted that the three missing
doctors were not being linked to any anti-terror investigations.

They were part of a group of 26 doctors flown to Britain from Baghdad by the
international consultancy group Mott MacDonald, which is contracted by the
Government to run a training programme to improve the management skills of Iraqi
medical staff.

The stressful conditions and dangerous working environment in Iraq have led to a
'brain drain', with many top doctors fleeing the country.

The training programme is part of an international effort to repair some of the
damage caused by the exodus - with the doctors gaining improved clinical skills
and knowledge, so that they can improve health services in Iraq when they
return. Training had initially taken place in Iraq, but when the security
situation deteriorated they were forced to move it to the UK.

The group undertook their training at four hospitals in the city, the Glasgow
Royal Infirmary - where Ahmed is being treated for his burns - the Western
Infirmary, the Gartnavel and the Southern General, but the Department of Health
said none of them visited the Royal Alexandra.

They were due to fly back in two groups on July 13 and 14, but only 23 turned up
at the airport.

Abdullah, 27, who had worked at the Royal Alexandra since last March, has been
charged with conspiracy to cause explosions.

It is believed he entered Scotland from Pakistan - a known training ground for
Al Qaeda terrorists.

Patrick Mercer, Tory MP for Newark and former party spokesman on homeland
security, said the episode proved vetting procedures were too lax.

'This underlines the need for an effective border security service,' he said.

'It is vital that we keep track of foreign visitors, and particularly those
coming into the country from hotspots.' A Department of Health spokeswoman said:
'We can confirm three Iraqi doctors gaining experience in the UK have failed to
return.

'We are satisfied that there is no link to the recent terrorist incidents.
Police are investigating, and are working closely with the immigration service.

'We are disappointed that three participants chose not to return, but glad that
23 will now be helping improve services for Iraqis.'

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLAST: The Jeep goes up in flames after it was driven into the terminal
doors CAPTURED: Dr Bilal Abdullah is taken away by police

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 30, 2007 Monday

German politicians view danger of terrorism a year after failed attacks

LENGTH: 594 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp

[Report by Joerg Saeuberlich: "Concern Over Danger of Terrorism in Germany - On
Anniversary of Suitcase Bomb Attacks, Beckstein Warns About Security Gaps"]

Berlin - The Trade Union of the Police (GdP) and Union politicians, on the
occasion of the anniversary next Tuesday [1 August] of the failed suitcase bomb
attacks, made statements of concern over terrorist danger in Germany. The deputy
chairman of the GdP, Bernhard Witthaut, stressed this weekend that increasing
travel by suspected Islamic extremists between Iraq and the Federal Republic is
"alarming." Bavarian Interior Minister Guenther Beckstein (CSU) [Christian
Social Union] warned about security gaps.

However, in the opinion of the chairman of the Bundestag committee on interior
affairs, Sebastian Edathy (SPD) [Social Democratic Party of Germany], Germany in
the fight against terrorism is "well-prepared overall." Edathy stressed that
important decisions had been made to "minimize security risks." Nonetheless, the
Federal Republic is not a region "free of endangerment."

Beckstein warned: "We must be aware that Germany, as part of the Western world
hated by Islamists and because of our engagement in Afghanistan and Iraq, is
also in the focus of Islamist terrorists." Although there are no indications of
specific upcoming criminal acts, the danger situation goes beyond the general,
abstract danger.

Among other things, Beckstein called upon the SPD to make possible a domestic
Bundeswehr deployment. He admonished: "We must finally create the prerequisites
so that - when necessary and factual - we can fall back on the resources of the
Bundeswehr for the protection of our populace and defence against terrorist
danger, for example from the sea or from the air." This discussion must be
carried out now - "and not only after a devastating attack has taken place also
in Germany."

CDU [Christian Democratic Union] expert on internal affairs Reinhard Grindel
also called for additional measures against terrorism. In the fall, the grand
coalition will discuss the creation of a "host and warning data base [against
visa abuse]." In it should also appear the so-called persons of reference who
guarantee that the German state does not incur expenses because of foreigners
staying here. Grindel emphasized: "In this way, one of the two suitcase bombers
would have attracted our attention."

GdP deputy chief Witthaut stressed: "The failed suitcase bomb attacks one year
ago have shown that terrorists no longer have to bank on large-scale
operations." Rather "a handful of blinded and convinced adherents" are enough
"who can buy ingredients for a bomb on the construction market."

At the same time, Witthaut also criticized: "The so-called thought initiatives
by the interior minister have actually made more difficult the discussion about
suitable means for the police, accepted by the populace, to fight terrorism.
People have become insecure."

Edathy expressed the hope that Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble (CDU) "will
return to the basis of reason." Schaeuble's proceedings have not only caused
vexation in the grand coalition, but also "irritation among the public." One
must not give up "principles of a constitutional state in order to defend the
constitutional state against terrorism." The SPD politician added: "Some of the
proposals or so-called thoughts of the interior minister have the effect that
when in doubt, he is willing to dismantle the constitution rather than protect
it."

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 0821 gmt 29 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 30, 2007 Monday

Terror attacks feared in Pakistan east

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report by Shahzad Malik headlined "TNSM bombers head to Pindi" published
by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 30 July

Islamabad: The law-enforcement agencies are searching for at least two would-be
suicide bombers whom the Tehrik-i-Nifaz-i-Shariat-i-Mohammadi [militant Islamist
group] has tasked with attacking the residences of military officials in
Rawalpindi [Punjab province], sources told Daily Times. They said intelligence
agencies had sent reports to the Interior Ministry claiming that two suicide
bombers trained by TNSM head Maulvi Faqir Muhammad and his brother Maulvi Ghulam
Muhammad had left Bajaur Agency [northwest Pakistan] for Rawalpindi. "The
bombers are clean-shaven and around 25 years of age," according to the reports.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 30 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 30, 2007 Monday

Terror attack averted in India east, explosives seized

LENGTH: 303 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Dibrugarh [in Assam state, eastern India], 30 July: Huge quantities of RDX
[explosive], weighing about 25 kg and suspected to be used by the United
Liberation Front of Assam (ULFA) [separatist militant group] to disrupt
Independence Day [15 August] celebrations, was recovered and four persons
rounded up in Assam's Dibrugarh district, police said Monday [30 July].

Dibrugarh Additional Superintendent of Police Ashim Swargiary, who led the
operations, told PTI that the police, acting on a tip-off, launched a search
operation in two remote villages under Tingkhong [in Assam] police station late
Sunday night [local time] and recovered the explosives.

Police recovered 12 kg of explosives from a cowshed in the house of one Phulo
Gogoi, who was later arrested, in Sishumara Borkulpari village, and another 13
kg from a house in Nosandang Kunwarchuk village.

The police have arrested four persons, including a 15-year-old girl, who
allegedly has a relationship with a hardcore ULFA cadre of the 28th battalion,
in this connection.

The explosives, brought by another hardcore ULFA cadre of the outfit's 28th
battalion, Amar Tanti, was suspected to be used to disrupt Independence Day
celebrations in the parade ground [in Dibrugarh], and also as car-bombs to
trigger off a series of blasts in upper Assam districts, Swargiary said.

The police had recovered an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) 25 June from the
heart of the town here, and arrested one ULFA militant, who confessed that it
was meant to be planted at the parade ground here.

Four other ULFA militants, two each from Guwahati and Sibsagar [both in Assam],
arrested recently, also revealed similar plans to disrupt Independence Day by
triggering serial blasts.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1302gmt 30 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 30, 2007 Monday

Algerian policeman killed in "terrorist" attack in Biskra - radio

LENGTH: 109 words


Text of report by Algerian radio on 30 July

A policeman, who was the target of a terrorist attack this afternoon in Biskra
[some 425 km south of Algiers], died this evening of the serious injuries he
sustained. According to hospital sources, the victim was rushed to [Bachir]
Benaceur Hospital [in Biskra] in a very serious condition and was put in
intensive care, but he later died of internal bleeding.

The Algerian news agency APS has reported that a suspect has been arrested and
that a weapon has also been recovered. A vast search operation is under way for
the capture of a second suspect.

Source: Algerian radio, Algiers, in Arabic 2200 gmt 30 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Wigan Evening Post

                                 July 30, 2007

Shop owners trained for terror attack

LENGTH: 278 words


Shopkeepers in Wigan are to be trained on how to deal with a terrorist attack.

The one-day sessions being run over the next few weeks aim to ensure retailers,
particularly those in large shopping centres, are prepared for a terrorist
attack and are fully aware of their roles and responsibilities.

The training will be carried out by officers from Greater Manchester Police
counter terrorism unit, the county's Fire and Rescue Service, civil contingency
departments and North West Ambulance Service.

Sessions will involve taking businesses through a simulated terrorist attack and
looking at a number of aspects including preventing, handling and recovering
from an attack.

They will also explore what is likely to happen during an incident and the types
of injuries that can be expected.

A number of pilot training days have already been run but an event today at the
Reebok Stadium, Bolton is the first to be done on this scale.

More than 50 representatives from local businesses are expected to attend,
ranging from financial organisations through to major retailers.

A further nine events will be held this year with more planned for 2008.

GMP's assistant chief constable Justine Curran said: "The threat from terrorism
is very real and everyone has a role to play in preventing it, particularly
local businesses.

"These events are a unique opportunity for retailers to find out about how they
should respond and what their incident management and contingency plans should
consist of so staff, customers and company assets are safeguarded.

"I would urge businesses to attend training days."

The events are being run under Operation Argus - a national counter terrorism
initiative.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 31, 2007 Tuesday

Western Indian states on alert after possible terror attack inputs

LENGTH: 378 words


Excerpt from report by Samyabrata Ray Goswami headlined "Sea terror alert on
west coast" published by Indian newspaper The Telegraph website on 30 July

Mumbai, 29 July: Maharashtra and Goa [western Indian states] are on high alert
following intelligence inputs about a terrorist attack along the coast, possibly
on a port or a harbour.

According to sources in the Indian Coast Guard, 83 Indian fishing boats
impounded by the Pakistan Navy off the Gujarat [western Indian state] coast in
the past few months are expected to be used to launch attacks on sensitive
coastal installations, including ONGC's [Oil and Natural Gas Corporation
Limited] offshore projects.

The intelligence report has indicated that terrorist groups aided by the ISI
[Inter-Services Intelligence, of Pakistan] are planning to strike using
apprehended Indian fishermen as decoys, the sources added.

Pakistan and India routinely arrest fishermen who stray into each other's
waters.

"The reports indicate that the fishing boats could be used by trained Lashkar-e
Toiba terrorists to carry out strikes against India. Apprehended Indian
fishermen could be used as decoys to steer the boats into Indian waters or even
as human shields," said a source.

The anti-terrorist squad of Maharashtra police said it was aware of the
intelligence input. "There is an alert against terrorist attacks from the sea.
But it has been there since the last three months," said Assistant Commissioner
of Police Parambir Singh.

Goa police, too, have confirmed it.

"As per our information, islands off the Goa and Gujarat coasts are being used
to offload recce groups by terrorist networks. These infrequented islands, many
of which are underwater during high tides, serve as ideal spots to sneak into
India. They are often used by smugglers to offload goods," said N.S. Randhawa,
the Goa inspector-general of police.

"We are on high vigil, especially after the recent bust of a terror module by
police in Gujarat's Kutch area," he added.

Following leads from their investigation after busting the terror module, Kutch
police along with the Maharashtra ATS [Anti Terror Squad] raided a sleeper cell
of the Pakistan-based militant outfit, Al Badr, last week.[Passage omitted.]

Source: The Telegraph website, Kolkata, in English 30 Jul 07

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 31, 2007 Tuesday

Battle over housing for injured troops' families: Surrey suburb residents
fearful of terror attacks Service families plan to picket planning meeting

BYLINE: Audrey Gillan

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 470 words


A battle over an application to turn a house in a Surrey suburb into
accommodation for the families of service people who have lost limbs while
serving in Iraq and Afghanistan is to come to a head tomorrow, when former and
current members of the services gather to protest against local objections at
what is expected to be a heated planning meeting.

The Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association has proposed to turn the
six-bedroom house in Ashtead into a base for families of amputees being treated
at the nearby Headley Court military rehabilitation centre in Leatherhead.

But more than 100 local residents have complained to the council that the
presence of services families would not only increase traffic but may lead to
terrorist activity in their private road.

One letter to the council said: "We pay a premium on our properties to live in
as near a rural environment as we can to London, thus enjoying the peace and
relative tranquillity that this brings with it, together with a communal sense
of good neighbourliness. If No 36 were to be changed into a 'hostel' this would
change completely with the constant comings and goings . . . similar to a small
hotel."

Another complains that "there is no provision for guarding the premises as there
is with other military establishments or for protecting local people either from
attack by terrorists, or by those taking revenge, who may themselves have lost
family members . . ."

The attitude of some of the objectors has angered military personnel and their
families and provoked a nationwide campaign, including a petition to Downing
Street with 33,000 signatures. A thread on the unofficial forces website the
Army Rumour Service, arrse.co.uk, has almost 300 pages of protest.

Sue Norton, whose husband, Captain Peter Norton, was awarded the George Cross
for defusing an improvised explosive device, said: "I am absolutely outraged.
Their objections are all rather bizarre."

Capt Norton lost his left leg and left arm and suffered nerve damage to his
right leg, and was treated at Headley Court. His wife added: "They don't want it
in their back yard and it makes us feel like some sub-class."

Debbie Brennan, the wife of Sergeant Mick Brennan, who lost both his legs in a
suicide attack in Iraq , said: "The nature of the war that we are fighting now
means that there will be more severe casualties and they will need this
support."

Mole Valley district council said the matter would be judged on whether it
fitted into planning regulations, but councillors could overrule any guidance.

In a letter to the council, Liam Fox, the shadow defence secretary, said that
"the idea that 'an increased threat of terror' should be used as a reason for
objection is both preposterous and offensive, given the self-evident sacrifice
that those in Headley Court have made."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 31, 2007

Back to the baggage for hero of airport terror attack ';
De-stressed' John Smeaton returns to work

BYLINE: WILLIAM TINNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 597 words



HIGHLIGHT: RECOVERED: The baggage handler said he was the same 'run-of-the-mill
John' during his first day back. Picture: David Cheskin/PA


ABAGGAGE handler who attracted worldwide fame after tackling one of the
suspected Glasgow Airport terrorists returned to work yesterday for the first
time since the incident.

John Smeaton helped staff and police overpower an attackerwho drove a Jeep into
the airport terminal building on June 30. He was interviewed just after the
incident and his comments about his deeds were broadcast around the world,
quickly elevating him to cult status.

The 31-year-old, from Erskine, Renfrewshire, made a lowkey return to work
yesterday at 2pm and after a meeting with managers resumed supervising the
loading of bags. He said he has got used to more attention from members of the
public, with people taking his photo yesterday afternoon.

He said: "People notice me now but I'm just the same John, I'm just bog-standard
run-of-the-mill John. I know certain things have changed but I'm not going to
let it change me. It is really good to be back at work, good to see the boys
again."

Mr Smeaton said he spent the past four weeks "de-stressing" to recover from the
traumatic experience. I was quite stressed out for the first couple of weeks,
but my friends have helped me recover and keep my feet on the ground, " he said.

"I have been going fishing and my friends have been looking after me, taking me
out for the occasional meal. I've got rid of the bad memories. I had them for a
couple of weeks but they disappeared. You've just got to get on with your life
and you cannot let it affect you. If you let it affect you then they win."

After the attack, a website was set up in Mr Smeaton's honour and fans pledged
to buy him a pint as a reward for his bravery. He later announced he would give
GBP2100 of the money raised to military veterans' charity Erskine while he would
use the rest to fund a night out for those who were present at the Glasgow
Airport incident.

His unexpected fame has also brought him the chance to mingle with stars. On
Saturday he was given a hero's welcome when he watched his favourite team
Rangers play Chelsea in a friendly match at Ibrox. He was introduced to the
crowd from the pitch before the match.

Mr Smeaton said: "That was the best experience of my life. It was fantastic and
I cannot thank Rangers enough.

"They asked me to go out on the pitch - that's the highest honour I have ever
had." Along with other members of the public who helped police officers during
the failed car bomb attack on Glasgow Airport, he is to be recognised by the
Scottish Parliament at an official reception next month, hosted by the First
Minister.

Mr Smeaton's return to work came on the same day an Indian doctor freed from
jail in Australia when terror charges against him were dropped for lack of
evidence said he wanted to go back to work in Australia. The jailing of Dr
Mohamed Haneef, 27, aroused waves of sympathy in his native India where he was
greeted with a hero's welcome upon his return 24 hours earlier.

Dr Haneef met the chief minister of the Karnataka state, who offered him a job
in a state-run hospital. However, Dr Haneef, speaking at his first media
conference since his release, indicated he preferred to return to his work at
Australia's Gold Coast Hospital. The hospital said his job was waiting for him
if he regained his visa.

The doctor was allowed to return home after Australia's top prosecutor on Friday
dropped the charge because of a lack of evidence.

Dr Bilal Abdullah, arrested at Glasgow Airport, has been charged with conspiracy
to cause explosions. Kafeel Ahmed, who was detained at the airport, remains
under armed guard at Glasgow Royal Infirmary.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Wigan Evening Post

                                 July 31, 2007

Two jailed for terror attack on debtor

LENGTH: 390 words


Two Wigan men who launched a vicious assault over an unpaid debt have been
jailed.

John White who is currently serving 10 years for causing the death of a cyclist
by dangerous driving, was sentenced to 44 weeks consecutively.

Dean Hampson received 57 weeks prison plus 30 days consecutively for being in
breach of a suspended sentence.

Liverpool Crown Court heard that White became friendly with 25-year-old Stephen
Leather in the summer of 2005 and next spring White introduced him to Hampson.

Later last year Mr Leather borrowed £300 from White.

Prosecutor Andrew Ford said: "The prosecution case is that this assault was to
enforce repayment of the debt."

White sent Mr Leather a text telling him to ring and warning that he knew where
his girlfriend lived.

Mr Leather rang him and White said that the debt was now with Hampson.

Hampson spoke to him and said he wanted it repaid at £100 a week and Mr Leather
was afraid and agreed to pay.

Later that night he was walking home when he saw White approaching his house, so
he rushed round to the back door.

White came in and began assaulting Mr Leather, helped by Hampson.

Mr Ford added: "During the joint attack Mr Leather had furniture thrown at him."

One of the men threw a heavy glass ashtray which hit him on the head.

Hampson later admitted he had thrown a table at the victim and had twice kicked
him.

They left, warning him not to call the police or an ambulance or he would get a
bullet through his head.

After they had gone the victim called a neighbour and he was taken to hospital.

He was found to have an eight-centimetre cut to his head caused by the ashtray,
swelling and bruising to his forehead and tenderness to his shoulder and a
swollen right ear.

White, 21, formerly of Bridges Street, Atherton, and 28-year-old Hampson, of
Lynton Road, Tyldesley, both pleaded guilty to assault causing actual bodily
harm.

The court was told that Hampson had been a robbery victim a few months before
the attack which left him traumatised and he had started using cocaine.

White was jailed for 10 years and banned from driving for 10 years last month
after being convicted of causing the death of Barry Hilton by driving a Ford
Escort dangerously on January 21.

Father of two 36-year-old Mr Hilton, of Firs Lane, Leigh, died at the scene of
the tragedy in Leigh Road, near the junction with Church Street.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           August 1, 2007, Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

Video casts doubt on terror attack;
INTERNATIONAL RUSSIA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 157 words


A video that remained secret for nearly three years after the horrific Beslan
hostage crisis in Russia has cast new doubt on official conclusions about what
led to the deaths of more than 330 people during one of Russia's worst terror
attacks.

The video and the material it shows is far from conclusive or definitive about
one of the central questions to the September 1-3, 2004, attack - what caused
the initial explosions that were followed by a chaotic gun battle and the
collapse of the roof of School No. 1's gymnasium where the more than 1,100
hostages were held.

A final official report of the events has still not been released.

The lead parliamentary investigator has suggested the homemade bombs rigged up
by the 32 militants were detonated.

However, activist groups comprising victims and relatives of the dead, and at
least one member of the parliamentary commission, maintain that law enforcement
agencies botched the rescue operation.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           August 1, 2007, Wednesday

Doctor 'was told to flee after terror attacks'

BYLINE: Bernard Lagan, Sydney

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 529 words


* Australia still suspects he was involved in plot

* Minister says that his brother urged him to run

Mohamed Haneef was warned by his brother to flee Australia after the terror
attacks in Central London and Glasgow, authorities in Australian claimed
yesterday.

The Indian doctor, who was arrested as he attempted to board a flight to India,
spent 25 days in jail as investigations continued into his alleged links with
the attacks in June.

The Australian Government, facing intense criticism over its handling of the
Haneef case, said yesterday that it still suspected that he was part of the
terrorist conspiracy.

Dr Haneef, 27, was arrested on July 2 on suspicion of recklessly supporting
terrorism in a case centred on the loan of a mobile phone Sim card to a relative
in Britain. He was released after three weeks without charge but his visa and
work permit were cancelled.

Kevin Andrews, the Immigration Minister, gave details of an alleged internet
conversation between Dr Haneef and his brother in India to support his decision
to cancel the visa.

Mr Andrews also made public the advice from the Solicitor-General that
information provided by the Australian Federal Police (AFP) was sufficient to
revoke Dr Haneef's visa.

However, further evidence was being withheld on the grounds that it might
prejudice the judicial process or jeopardise subsequent investigations.

Mr Andrews said that the Solicitor-General's advice covered matters such as
contact between Dr Haneef and his cousins in Britain, Kafeel Ahmed and Sabeel
Ahmed, also a doctor, who are accused of involvement in a failed plot to bomb
London and Glasgow airport.

"Importantly, there was a computer (chat) room conversation with Dr Haneef's
brother in India on the afternoon before his attempted hasty departure from
Australia," he said.

"In it, the brother of Haneef says, 'Nothing has been found out about you' and
asked when Dr Haneef would be getting out, to which Haneef replied 'today'.

"The brother asked whether he had permission to take leave and what he told the
(Gold Coast) hospital. "Dr Haneef said he told them his baby was born in an
emergency Caesarean operation. The brother told him to 'tell them that you have
to as you have a daughter born, do not tell them anything else'.

"The brother then said not to delay his departure and not to let anyone else use
his number in Australia, nor to give it to anyone."

Mr Andrews said that the AFP had told him before he made a decision about the
visa that the internet conversation could be evidence that Dr Haneef had prior
knowledge of the bomb plot.

"The whole circumstances surrounding Haneef's attempted hasty departure from
Australia, including chat-room conversations, led me to form a reasonable
suspicion as required by the migration legislation," Mr Andrews said. "I
received information from the Australian Federal Police regarding Dr Haneef and
I cancelled his visa in the national interest based on that advice. I will
continue to put the security and safety of Australians first in relation to this
matter."

Dr Haneef, who is now with his family in Bangalore, has denied that he was
involved with or had prior knowledge of British terrorist plots.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 2, 2007 Thursday

India court sentences 73 for terror attacks

LENGTH: 493 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Coimbatore [southern Indian city], 1 August: S.A. Basha, the mastermind of the
1998 blasts that killed 58 people shortly before the arrival here of senior
Bharatiya Janata Party [political party] leader L.K. Advani, was Wednesday [1
August] convicted with 72 others by a special court that exonerated Kerala
[southern Indian state]-based hardline leader Abdul Nasser Madani.

Basha, the founder of the outlawed Al-Umma [Islamist group]; Mohammed Ansari,
the group's general secretary; and the other convicts were found guilty of
hatching a criminal conspiracy to trigger a series of explosions here on 14
February 1998 and to create enmity between two communities [Hindus and Muslims].

Judge K. Uthirapathy of the sessions court handling the blast cases exonerated
People's Democratic Party chairman Madani of all five charges against him,
including participating in the conspiracy to carry out the blasts and to create
communal hatred as well as alleged links to efforts to obtain explosives for the
attacks.

Madani, who is suffering from various ailments, including diabetes, was freed
later in the day on bail and travelled to Ernakulam in Kerala. Emerging from the
central [federal] prison, where he was held for the past nine-and-half years,
Madani told reporters that he had no connection with the bombings.

"The court has now acquitted me of all the charges," he said.

Delivering the verdicts amidst tight security, the judge said the major charge
under Section 120b (criminal conspiracy) of IPC [Indian Penal Code] had been
proved against 73 of the 166 accused.

Uthirapathy said the charges against eight persons had not been proved. He
deferred the verdict against five accused, and said there were minor charges
against the remaining accused.

The sentences are expected to be pronounced from 6 August after the judge hears
arguments by the defence.

Nineteen bomb blasts, which also injured over 200 people, rocked this city
shortly before then-Home Minister Advani was to address election meetings here.

The special investigation team that probed the blasts said they were part of a
conspiracy to eliminate Advani in retaliation for the killing of 17 Muslims, as
a fallout of the murder of traffic constable Selvaraj on 29 November 1997.

The blasts also damaged property worth over 140m rupees [one US dollar equals
about 40.45 rupees] in this industrial city.

A majority of the 168 people who were arrested after the blasts owed allegiance
to the Al-Umma. One of them later turned approver, while another died in
custody.

The trial began in March 2002 and the arguments in June 2006. It was completed
on 10 April this year after the court examined about 1,300 witnesses out of a
total of 2,345.

Madani was also granted bail today by the Kerala High Court in a 15-year-old
case registered against him by police for violence during a hartal [strike] in
that state.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1910gmt 01 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 2, 2007 Thursday

Four men jailed over terrorist attacks in Russian region

LENGTH: 183 words


Text of report by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS

Kazan, 2 August: Tatarstan's Supreme Court today sentenced two leaders of a gang
whose members have committed acts of terrorism in Volga region to lengthy prison
terms. An ITAR-TASS correspondent was told this by an assistant to the
republic's prosecutor, Ravil Vakhitov.

Virsul Khayrullin and Rauf Zinnurov, natives of Tatarstan, have been sentenced
to 12 and 17 years' imprisonment in a high security colony respectively. Members
of the group Sayd Dangayev and Lema Atuyev, natives of Chechnya, have been
jailed for three-and-a-half years each. The court also ruled that the members of
the group should pay the companies whose facilities were damaged by the
explosions R3m.

A Wahhabi style criminal organization carried out a series of acts of terrorism
in 2005-2006, bombing a gas pipeline and electricity transmission lines on the
territories of Tatarstan and neighbouring republics, the investigation said.

Members of the group were also charged with possession and use of firearms.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1334 gmt 2 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                            August 2, 2007, Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Plans for terror attack Down Under;
AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 153 words


Australia's largest city has installed dozens of loudspeakers to tell residents
what to do in a terrorist attack.

About 40 speakers should be operational in Sydney in time for next month's
meeting of 21 world leaders at the Asia Pacific Economic Co-operation summit,
said New South Wales state Police Minister David Campbell.

"If there were a terrorist event or a fire and there were people in the streets,
this is a way of giving them information," Campbell said.

A wailing siren would attract residents' attention, followed by a police
announcement directing people to evacuation points.

Meanwhile, a senior police chief involved in planning for September's Apec
summit said authorities could order office workers to remain inside their
buildings if a bomb were to explode nearby.

Superintendent Greg Rolph acknowledged public fears about possible building
collapses in the wake of the September 11, 2001, attacks in the US.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                            August 2, 2007 Thursday

Sydney installs loudspeakers in case of terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 166 words


Australia's largest city has installed dozens of loudspeakers to tell residents
what to do in a terrorist attack.

About 40 speakers should be operational in Sydney in time for next month's
meeting of 21 world leaders at the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation summit,
said New South Wales state police minister David Campbell.

"If there were a terrorist event or a major building fire and there were people
in the streets, this is a way of giving them information," Mr Campbell said.

A wailing siren would attract residents' attention, followed by a police
announcement directing people to evacuation points.

Meanwhile, a senior police chief involved in planning for September's Apec
summit said authorities could order office workers to remain inside their
buildings if a bomb were to explode nearby.

Superintendent Greg Rolph acknowledged public fears about possible building
collapses in the wake of the September 11 2001 attacks in the US but said
staying inside offices was usually the safest option.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             August 3, 2007 Friday

Warning over threat of 'terrorist attack' using hospital chemical

BYLINE: Nic Fleming Science Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 286 words


A RADIOACTIVE chemical widely used in medical and industrial equipment should be
taken off the market because it could be used in a terrorist attack, scientists
say. Prof Peter D Zimmerman and colleagues at King's College London said
hundreds could be poisoned or burnt if enough cesium-137 fell into the wrong
hands.

They argued that the substance, used in radiotherapy machinery and on factory
production lines, was one of the most likely candidates for use in an "I-cubed''
attack - involving victims' chemical ingestion, inhalation or immersion.

The warning comes weeks after two foreign doctors, who worked in British
hospitals, were charged with offences relating to the foiled London and Glasgow
car bomb attacks. The driver of the jeep that crashed into Glasgow airport, who
died in hospital last night, also worked in a hospital department.

In an article in The New York Times, Prof Zimmerman said: "Water-soluable cesium
chloride should be taken off the market immediately. The death of Alexander
Litvinenko, who drank polonium-210 in a cup of tea, underscored the damage that
radiological terrorists could do.

"Most analysts believe that about 10 people would die from radiation poisoning
after a dirty bomb attack. But radioactive material inside the human body is far
more dangerous. A terrorist attack using the ingestion, inhalation or immersion
of radioactive material would be almost certain to kill hundreds.''

Many hospital machines use cesium-137, especially in the treatment of
gynaecological cancers.

An Environment Agency spokesman said: "There is already a strong regulatory
regime in place. We work with the Government on this issue and with counter
terrorism advisers to ensure it is kept securely.''

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 August 3, 2007

BOMB ATTACK;
Airport terror suspect is dead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 49 words


A TERRORIST who suffered serious burns in a car bomb attack at Glasgow Airport
has died.

Police said Kafeel Ahmed, 27, who was being treated at Glasgow Royal Infirmary,
died last night.

He had been moved to the hospital's burns unit after initially being treated at
Paisley's Royal Alexandra Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 August 3, 2007

Airport terror attack suspect dies of burns;
Indian engineer's death comes 33 days after blast

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 427 words



HIGHLIGHT: Kafeel Ahmed, inset, was left horribly burned after the incident at
Glasgow Airport


A TERROR suspect being treated for burns following the car bomb attack on
Glasgow Airport has died in hospital.

Kafeel Ahmed, 27, was in a specialist unit at Glasgow Royal Infirmary after the
incident on June 30.

A police spokesman said: "We can confirm that the man seriously injured during
the course of the incident at Glasgow Airport on Saturday June 30 has died in
Glasgow Royal Infirmary."

He said the man died last night, adding: "The circumstances surrounding the
death have been reported to the procurator fiscal."

Ahmed was under police guard after being transferred from the Royal Alexandra
Hospital in Paisley.

He was said to have suffered 90-per cent burns and spent 33 days in hospital.

The engineer, from Bangalore, India, was one of two men held at the airport
after a burning car was driven into the terminal building.

Fellow suspect Bilal Abdullah, 27, an Iraqi doctor, was arrested and charged
with conspiring to cause explosions "of a nature likely to endanger life or
cause serious injury".

A spokesman for the Scottish Executive said: "We understand that the suspect
being treated following the Glasgow Airport attack has now died.

"It was perfectly right that he should have received the appropriate treatment
our health service could offer as this reflects the value our society places on
human life.

"The focus now should be on the criminal investigation that is under way."

The Glasgow Airport attack followed two suspected car bomb attempts in central
London when police discovered two vehicles allegedly filled with gas canisters
and fuel.

Eight people were initially held over the incidents, of which three were
eventually charged.

Mohammed Asha, 26, of Newcastle-Under-Lyme, Staffordshire, was arrested on the
M6 motorway near Sandbach, in Cheshire, on the day of the airport attack.

He is accused along with Abdullah of conspiring to cause explosions between
January 1 and July 1.

Dr Sabeel Ahmed, 26 and from Liverpool, is accused of not disclosing information
that could have helped police arrest a suspected terrorist.

Ahmed was the only one of all eight people arrested in connection with the
attacks who did not appear to have direct links to the NHS.

Abdullah had been working at the Royal Alexandra Hospital, where Ahmed was
initially taken for treatment.

Asha had been working at North Staffordshire Hospital in Stoke-on-Trent.

The two men are expected to appear at the Old Bailey on September 10 for a
committal hearing.

Bangalore-born Sabeel Ahmed, said to have worked at a hospital in Warrington in
the past, is the brother of Kafeel Ahmed.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 3, 2007

Airport terror attack Jeep driver dies of his burns;
Engineer from Bangalore was under armed guard

BYLINE: WILLIAM TINNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 556 words



HIGHLIGHT: KAFEEL AHMED: Crashed Jeep into Glasgow Airport in June.


A TERROR suspect being treated for severe burns after the Glasgow Airport attack
has died in hospital, police said last night.

Kafeel Ahmed, 27, was being treated in a specialist burns unit at Glasgow Royal
Infirmary following the attack on Saturday June 30. It is understood he had been
under armed guard.

A spokesman for Strathclyde Police said: "We can confirm that the man seriously
injured during the course of the incident at Glasgow Airport on Saturday June 30
has died in Glasgow Royal Infirmary.

"The man died earlier this evening and the circumstances surrounding the death
have been reported to the procuratorfiscal."

Ahmed was one of two men held at the airport after a Jeep was rammed repeatedly
into the main terminal building and burst into flames.

The would-be suicide bomber was wrestled to the ground by police and members of
the public after setting himself on fire, having jumped from the vehicle. The
incident happened a day after police found two unexploded car bombs in central
London.

Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdullah, who was believed to be a passenger in the vehicle
at Glasgow Airport, was charged on July 6 with conspiring to cause explosions.

Ahmed, from Bangalore, India, had suffered third-degree burns to 90per cent of
his body when arrested. He was initially treated at the Royal Alexandra
Hospital, Paisley, but was transferred to Glasgow Royal Infirmary within a few
days of the attack.

The severity of his injuries led some medical experts to predict he would not
survive. Some said he might not even live a week after the incident.

In the days after the attack, one of the medical team who treated him said his
condition was "beyond repair".

Speaking anonymously to a news organisation, he said: "The prognosis is not good
and he is not likely to survive. He has third-degree burns over most of his
torso and limbs. It is beyond repair and because he has lost so much skin, he is
now vulnerable to infection and won't be able to fight it."

One report later quoted senior police sources as saying that Ahmed was being
kept alive on the orders ofMI5.

They claimed the security services wanted him alive to avoid a backlash from
radicalMuslims.

It is understood he was on a life-support machine in hospital. Police and
medical sources claimed the decision to keep him alive was more to do with
politics than clinical judgment.

One medical source estimated the combined cost of round-theclock security and
medical treatment for Ahmed since the attack had reached GBP150,000.

He had been in a coma since the incident.Most burns experts believed he was
effectively dead. Last week it emerged that special shark-skin implants costing
GBP20,000 were being used to treat his injuries.

It was initially thought he was a medical doctor. However, it was later
confirmed he was an engineer who had a doctorate in aeronautical engineering. He
had studied at Queen's University, Belfast, and Anglia Polytechnic University in
Cambridge.

Seven men and one woman were initially held over the car-bomb attack on Glasgow
and the attempted attacks in central London.

As well asMr Abdullah, those arrested included Mohammed Asha, stopped on the M6
in Cheshire on June 30. He was also charged with conspiracy to cause explosions.
Two trainee doctors, arrested at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley on July
1, were later freed without charge.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             August 3, 2007 Friday
                                 1 Star Edition

HE'S DEAD;
AIRPORT TERRORIST DIES FROM BURNS IN FAILED ATTACK

BYLINE: BY ALLISON MARTIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 160 words


FAILED Glasgow airport bomber Kafeel Ahmed died in hospital last night from his
extensive burns.

The 27-year-old crashed a blazing Jeep Cherokee into Terminal One on June 30 and
was turned into a fireball when the vehicle exploded, as hundreds fled for their
lives.

Ahmed, originally from Bangalore, India, had 90 per cent burns and had been
under guard in a coma since the botched attack.

Strathclyde Police said: "We can confirm the man seriously injured at Glasgow
Airport has died in Glasgow Royal Infirmary."

Ahmed, an engineer with a PhD, was also suspected of being key in the plot to
blow up two car bombs in London days earlier. His passenger in the Jeep, Bilal
Abdullah, 27, is charged with conspiring to set off explosions.

Jordanian doctor Mohammed Jamil Asha is the other man facing charges over the
failed attacks.

Ahmed's brother, Sabeel, 26, also faces trial accused of withholding information
that could prevent an act of terrorism.

mirrornews@mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ARREST: Kafeel is held by cops; BOMBER: Kafeel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 4, 2007

Doctor tells of treating airport terror attack driver

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 297 words


ADOCTOR yesterday spoke of the ordeal of staff who treated the driver of the
Jeep which rammed in to Glasgow airport.

Kafeel Ahmed, 27, died on Thursday in Glasgow Royal Infirmary, five weeks after
he was critically burned in the attack on the airport.

Witnesses saw Ahmed, an Indian engineer, set himself ablaze and struggle with
police and passers-by who tried to put out the flames. He suffered burns to 90%
of his body.

Ahmed spent more than a month in a hospital, unconscious and under armed guard.
He was a key suspect who police believed was at the centre of the plot, but he
was never officially arrested or charged.

Yesterday, a member of Ahmed's medical team said the suspect was in a coma his
entire time in hospital and he did not think police had been able to interview
him.

"This was one of the worst cases of burns I have seen. It was traumatic for
everyone involved in his care, " said the unnamed doctor. "I was surprised he
survived this long."

Another man believed to have been a passenger in the car, Iraqi doctor Bilal
Abdullah, has been charged with conspiring to set off explosions "of a nature
likely to endanger life or cause serious injury".

Eight people were initially held over the incidents, of which three were
charged.

Mohammed Asha, 26, of Newcastle-Under-Lyme, Staffordshire, was arrested on the
M6 near Sandbach, in Cheshire, on the day of the airport attack. He is accused
along with Abdullah of conspiring to cause explosions between January 1 and July
1.

Dr Sabeel Ahmed, 26 and from Liverpool, is accused of not disclosing information
that could have helped police arrest a suspected terrorist. Bangalore-born
Sabeel Ahmed is the brother of Kafeel Ahmed.

Abdullah and Asha are expected to appear at the Old Bailey on September 10 for a
committal hearing.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2007 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:41:42

