



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:18:06
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 2, 2002, Wednesday

OAP SEX ATTACK TERROR;
 WIDOW'S ORDEAL IN OWN HOME

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 250 words


A PENSIONER was subjected to an horrific sex attack in the bedroom of her
Birmingham home by a man who broke in on New Year's Day.

The 78-year-old widow, from Kings Heath, was left deeply traumatised after being
woken by the man who held her down, threatened and then assaulted her.

Police launched a major manhunt after the attack at the house in Brandwood Park
Road between 5am and 7.30am yesterday.

After subjecting the woman to the sex attack the man ran off. She then staggered
outside to raise the alarm with horrified neighbours.

Today the woman was being cared for by relatives and detectives were due to
interview her at length. House-to-house inquiries and forensic tests were also
continuing.

Det Chief Insp Sally Bourner, of Kings Heath CID, said: 'It was an horrific
attack on a vulnerable pensioner. We need to trace the callous individual who
carried out this despicable assault on an elderly woman in her own home.

'We are not yet sure how long the ordeal went on for, but the woman may have
heard the man downstairs for some time before he came up. She has been left
deeply traumatised. It appears that nothing was taken.'

The attacker was a slim white man, in his early 20s, about 5ft 8in, with a round
face, short brown hair and a local accent.

Anyone who saw anything suspicious or anyone acting strangely in the area should
contact Kings Heath police on 0845 113 5000.

Alternatively, Crimestoppers can be called confidentially on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 2, 2002, Wednesday

SEX ATTACK ON WOMAN DRAGGED INTO ALLEY;
 TERROR AFTER BUS TRIP HOME

BYLINE: Alison Dayani

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 250 words


A YOUNG woman was dragged into an alley and subjected to an horrific sex attack
as she made her wayhome from the New Year celebrations.

A pervert pounced on the 23-year-old Cradley woman after she got off the No 9
bus in Halesowen High Street in the early hours of yesterday morning.

He dragged her terrified and screaming into a passageway, where she was forced
to the ground and assaulted.

DI Neville Smart of Stourbridge CID, who is heading an inquiry into the sex
attack, said the dishevelled and shocked victim managed to flag down a passing
taxi and get help after the ordeal at 4.30am yesterday.

The taxi driver comforted the young woman until police officers arrived to
escort her home.

DI Smart said: 'This was a terrible and determined attack on a young woman and
she is obviously very upset.

'She was coming home from a New Year party and started walking home to Cradley
when she was forced to the ground and subjected to a serious sexual assault.

'I believe there were a number of people in the area at the time and appeal for
anyone who was on the No 9 bus arriving into Halesowen at 4.30am or in the High
Street and heard a noise to contact detectives immediately. 'We need to catch
this man as soon as possible.'

The sex attacker is described as 5ft 10, in his early 20s and foreign looking
with dark curly hair. He wore a black leather jacket and brown shoes.

Anyone with information on the attack should contact Stourbridge CID on 0121 626
8156.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Blackpool Gazette

                                January 2, 2002

Raider in shop terror attack

SOURCE: Blackpool Gazette

BYLINE: By John Mangnall

LENGTH: 312 words


POLICE are hunting a knifeman who slashed a terrified shop worker during a raid
in Blackpool.

Sally Fisher, 40, who works at the Costcutters post office and convenience store
in Bispham, needed hospital treatment following the raid yesterday afternoon.

The raider slashed her hand with a 12in-blade knife although she obeyed him and
opened the till at the store in Bispham Road at 4.40pm.

Security cameras showed that when the man entered the store he browsed down an
aisle before walking behind the counter.

He brandished the knife at Ms Fisher ordering her to hand over all the money.

As she reached out to open the till the robber brought the knife up sharply
catching her hand.

He then fled with the

takings and escaped on a mountain bike which had been left outside.

Another assistant working in the store at the time raised the alarm with the
store's owners, Elizabeth and David May, who were in an upstairs' flat.

Three young boys were the only customers in the store during the raid.

Mr May said: "Sally was terrified. He just grabbed her and threatened her with
the knife and then slashed her hand."

Mrs May added: "David got into his car to try to catch the robber up but he
disappeared where the road meets Blackpool Road." Both of the assistants have
been left in a state of shock.

Blackpool Crime Manager, Det Sgt Paul Phillpott, said: "This was a frightening
experience for the shop assistant in this violent incident at her workplace.

"The offender was willing to inflict injury on the

victim."

The knifeman is described as 38 to 40, 5ft 5in, of medium build and wearing a
black woollen hat turned over at the bottom and with an emblem or badge on the
front.

He was also wearing a grey fleece jacket, zipped up to the neck, light blue
jeans and dark shoes.

He had spectacles on and spoke with a Scottish accent.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 3, 2002, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: NEW ATTACK: LAST HUDDLE BEFORE DEATH

BYLINE: Lorraine Fisher In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 248 words

HIGHLIGHT: HONOURED: Firefighters carry dead colleagues from the twin tower
ruins


BODIES of two firefighters have been found huddled tragically together at Ground
Zero.

The pair were pulled out on New Year's Day along with eight of their colleagues
and three civilians.

It is the biggest number of bodies found in the rubble in a month.

Workers who found them had given up their holidays to search through the night.

Tom Da Palma, of the firefighters' union, said: "While everyone else was
celebrating the New Year, they were there searching.

"It's hard going, but they feel they are accomplishing something when a body is
found - it's their reward."

He also claimed it proved there was still a need for firefighters to assist at
Ground Zero.

Last week an order banning them from the site was re-instituted because fire
stations were being left short-staffed whenever corpses were discovered. Mr Da
Palma said: "This was good for the firefighters to show that there is some
closure by finding their brothers."

The latest discovery gives hope that more intact bodies will be dug out. Workers
who have reached 60ft beneath where the twin towers stood have discovered areas
where victims' remains were protected.

Vito Messana, a trucker who volunteers at the site, said: "You could tell they
were suffering - they were digging through the debris with their fingers.."

More than 260 bodies and 12,000 body parts have been found. All are sent to the
Medical Examiners' Office for identification before being returned to their
families.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 3, 2002, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: NEW ATTACK: INTO A CAULDRON;
 BLAIR FACES TOUGH TASK AS INDIA TENSION RISES

BYLINE: James Hardy, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 517 words

HIGHLIGHT: PEACE MISSION: Tony Blair; INJURED: Indian troops help a victim of
yesterday's attack in Kashmir


A NEW terror attack in Kashmir by Islamic extremists yesterday plunged Tony
Blair's imminent peace mission into crisis.

Militant separatists hurled two grenades at the state parliament in Srinagar,
killing a police officer and wounding 23 bystanders.

The attack, in the Indian-controlled part of the disputed border region,
heightened tension between India and Pakistan - both nuclear powers.

And it came as India said it would use its full military might to defend itself
if required.

Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee said: "Whatever weapon is available, we will
use it.

"If, because of that weapon the attacker is defeated...if he is killed, we
should not be held responsible."

The day of escalating tension left Mr Blair, due to visit both countries in the
next few days, facing an uphill task in the search for a breakthrough.

The latest terrorist atrocity comes two weeks after Kashmiri separatists made a
suicide assault on the Indian national parliament in Delhi. Foreign Secretary
Jack Straw said Britain would not take sides in the long-running dispute over
Kashmir.

But he bluntly warned Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf that a new crackdown
on Kashmiri terror groups did not go far enough.

He said: "We welcome the action that President Musharraf has taken, with arrests
which have been recognised by the Indian foreign minister.

"But there has to be further action by Pakistan.

"It is not acceptable in the new climate against terrorism that there should be
groups in either of these countries - and they happen to be in Pakistan - who
seek to pursue their political objectives by violent means."

In the wake of yesterday's blasts, Mr Straw played down hopes of a breakthrough
during the PM's visit.

He said: "It is extremely important... that expectations about the potential of
the Prime Minister's visit to defuse tension should not be raised.

"There is no Blair peace plan whatever that the Prime Minister could or should
take out of his pocket."

India blames Kashmiri separatists based in Pakistan for the suicide raid on its
Delhi parliament which left 14 dead. And it claims the same group - the Lashkar
-e-Taiba - yesterday threatened to blow up the Taj Mahal.

An Indian official said the threat to its monument to love in the northern city
of Agra was sent by email.

"They have threatened to blow up the Taj Mahal, some other monuments and
government buildings," he added.

Yesterday's attack on the Srinagar legislature appeared aimed at a police post
and a nearby border guard patrol.

It echoes an assault on the heavily-guarded parliament in early October which
killed 40 people, again thought to be the work of Kashmiri separatists.

India and Pakistan were already massing forces on their 1,100-mile joint border
before yesterday.

Indian defence minister George Fernandes said troop build-ups along the border
were complete but were "not in battle positions".

Asked how seriously India was considering military action if diplomacy failed,
Fernandes said: "That will be the ultimate option."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 3, 2002, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: NEW ATTACK: OMAR MAY SURRENDER

BYLINE: Tom Newton-dunn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 93 words


TALIBAN leader Mullah Mohammed Omar may be persuaded to surrender at his
mountain hide out, it was revealed yesterday.

Afghan intelligence commander Jamal Khan said talks were going on through tribal
leaders.

He added: "We have confirmed reports that Mullah Omar is hiding somewhere in
Baghran".

Hundreds of US Marines surround the town, 100 miles north of Kandahar.

The Taliban's feared intelligence chief Qari Ahmadullah died in US bombing eight
days ago.

Meanwhile, Turkey has offered to lead peace-keepers when UK troops leave.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 3, 2002, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: NEW ATTACK: BUSH NOTE TO RYAN, 6

BYLINE: Patrick Mulchrone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 92 words


LITTLE Ryan Leeming touched the heart of President George Bush when he wrote to
him after the New York terror attacks.

Ryan, six, told in his letter how upset he was at what the "naughty men" had
done.

Now Mr Bush has written back personally thanking him for his "kindness and
compassion" and adding: "God bless you."

Ryan, from Stockport, Greater Manchester who went on holiday to New York last
year, said: "I'm pleased Mr Bush took the time to write back to me."

Mum Wendy, 40, said: "It's unbelievable. We're so proud of him."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 3, 2002, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: NEW ATTACK: BRIT GIRLS HELP WOMEN OF KABUL

BYLINE: Tom Newton Dunn In Kabul

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 268 words

HIGHLIGHT: AID: RAF officer Liz yesterday; ARMED: Gina supervises Afghan
labourers Pictures: JULIAN ANDREWS; PLANS: Gina and Liz chat with male troops


THE first female British soldiers arrived in Kabul yesterday, vowing to help
repressed Afghan women.

One officer and three lower ranks are part of a team sent to prepare a base for
the arrival of thousands of ISAF peace-keepers.

They were not included in the first batch of soldiers deployed because defence
chiefs did not want to offend Muslim sensitivities.

But after a good reaction to the Royal Marines of 40 Commando, the women were
allowed to go.

One, RAF Squadron Leader Elizabeth Rowland, said: "Afghans who see me driving do
double takes.

"When the Land Rover stopped, they rushed up and shook my hand. It wasn't the
reaction I expected, but it was very nice."

The 33-year-old, from Exeter- who will supervise incoming supply flights -
added: "I'm keen to talk to Afghan women and try to understand their life.

"It is strange to see them still in burkas but I know they are scared. It would
be nice to think our presence will create an environment where they feel free to
take them off if they want to."

Along with their 70-strong contingent who arrived overnight, the women set to
work transforming wasteland into a military HQ.

Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers Staff Sergeant Gina Smith took charge
of a group of Afghan workers at the base.

The 30-year-old, from Walsall, West Midlands, said: "They were a little shell
-shocked and they weren't used to seeing a woman with a rifle. But now they
don't mind being bossed around by me at all."

All the women will carry weapons because of the security threat from Taliban and
Al-Qaeda renegades.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                January 4, 2002

Terror attack effects;
 Business news in brief

SECTION: Business, Pg.45

LENGTH: 82 words


World Travel Holdings - the travel group which bought Sir Bob Geldof 's
Deckchair. com - has shown its businesses were still being affected by the
after-effects of the September 11 attacks.

The Cardiff-based firm said the last quarter of 2001, the three months to
September 2001, had been severely disrupted by the changes in global travel
patterns - which caused it to make "swingeing cuts" in costs and it said more
action could be taken if recovery is not as strong as expected.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 4, 2002

Campaign against Terror: New alert over reprisal attacks

BYLINE: Jeremy Campbell

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 140 words


From Jeremy Campbell in Washington

A "CONTINUED flow of daily intelligence" pointing to new attacks on America is
behind today's decision by the US government to extend a national terror alert
into the spring.

Americans are being told to be on their guard at least until March, and report
any suspicious activity to the authorities. This is, in part, because the CIA
and the Pentagon strongly believe that Osama bin Laden supporters are determined
to inflict reprisals for the bombing in Afghanistan and the deaths of senior
figures in the al Qaeda and Taliban leadership.

Adding to the US government's anxiety is the possibility that Bin Laden himself
may have been killed by massive air strikes yesterday on a site in Afghanistan
near the Pakistan border where unusually intense security suggested he was
present.


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 4, 2002, Friday

14%: HOUSE PRICES SOAR DESPITE TERROR ATTACK;
 HOUSE PRICES SOAR DESPITE TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Kanchan Dutt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 345 words


HOUSE prices soared last year despite the economic effects of September 11,
figures revealed yesterday.

The cost of a home rose by an average of almost 14 per cent - pounds 11,000 - in
2001, according to the Nationwide Building Society.

The mortgage lender said that made it the strongest year for increases since
1988.

But Nationwide gave mixed news for the year ahead, predicting sustained rises
for some areas but a slowdown in others.

LONDON: Prices rose 14.3 per cent to an average value of pounds 168,783. But
rises will "slow substantially" amid fears over jobs and pay.

GREATER LONDON: There was an increase of 11.7 per cent last year to pounds
150,831, but growth is again expected to slow.

SOUTH EAST: Prices surged 15.8 per cent to pounds 117,566. Growth will slow.

SOUTH WEST: There was a 17.5 per cent rise to pounds 104,355 but double-figure
rises are "unsustainable" this year, said Nationwide.

EAST ANGLIA: An 18.1 per cent leap to pounds 97,371.

WALES: Homes rose 11.9 per cent to pounds 68,191. Further increases are
expected.

WEST MIDLANDS: There was a rise of 12.8 per cent to pounds 85,976 despite
manufacturing problems. The strong showing should continue.

EAST MIDLANDS: Value-for-money homes should underpin further rises in the
region, which saw a jump of 15 per cent to pounds 79,186.

NORTH WEST: Prices rose by 14.8 per cent to pounds 74,687. Further growth is
expected.

YORKSHIRE and HUMBERSIDE: There was a 10.8 per cent increase to pounds 67,591.
Nationwide predicts more room for increases.

THE NORTH: Prices rose by 11.2 per cent to pounds 59,510.

SCOTLAND: One of only two regions not to see double-figure rises. Huge job
losses saw a rise of 4.7 per cent to pounds 67,731.

NORTHERN IRELAND: The lowest rise in the UK at just 3.5 per cent to pounds
73,697.

The National Association of Estate Agents said: "The resilience of the market
surprised us and although there will be a slowdown in the first six months of
the year things will probably pick up in the second half."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                January 4, 2002

Estate Terror: Council go on the attack.

BYLINE: Alistair Shand

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 223 words


The people of Keighley will no longer stand back and be intimidated by young
hooligans, says Bradford council's housing chief.

Cllr Kris Hopkins spoke out after his tenancy enforcement team successfuly
applied for anti-social behaviour orders against the Braithwaite teenagers.

Team members spent more than 18 months gathering evidence from residents and
going through a complicated legal process in order to serve their first-ever
orders. They worked closely with Keighley police.

Cllr Hopkins (Worth Valley), executive member for health and housing, said
anti-social behaviour was totally unacceptable.

"I would like to applaud the efforts made by the housing tenancy enforcement
team," he said.

Inspector Dave Pighills, of Keighley police, said new legislation, contained in
the Crime and Disorder Act 1998, was exploited to overcome the problem of
residents' fear. He added: "We want to ensure people have the opportunity to
live quietly and peacefully without being disrupted by others.

Cllr Hopkins added: "This action is a warning to other such people that the
people of Keighley will no longer stand back and be intimidated."

Mick Westerman, chairman of the Braithwaite People's Association, said: "We are
glad the council is using its powers and working with the police to impose these
restrictions."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 4, 2002

Exodus;
 West house prices soarby 17% as people desert the big city for the peace of the
countryside in the wake of terror attacks

BYLINE: Mike Ribbeck

SECTION: News :Housing :Prices, Pg.10

LENGTH: 444 words


HOUSE prices in the West are fast outstripping other regions in the country -
against all the odds.

The West Country saw house prices soar by 17.5 per cent last year against a
backdrop of the September 11 atrocities and gloomy economic forecasts.

And experts say an exodus from London and the South East in the wake of the
terror attacks has made the region one of the most attractive places to live and
work. Even the foot-and-mouth epidemic failed to halt the huge leaps in prices
in the area.

Only East Anglia saw slightly higher rises in house prices, and the boom in the
M4 corridor and in parts of Somerset and Devon is showing no sign of slowing.

Market watchers believe big money buyers are no longer willing to risk investing
in expensive property in the capital in the wake of September 11.

And the ever increasing trend of working from home has led to more people
turning their backs on the big cities in favour of a more relaxed rural
lifestyle.

Predictions that buyers would become more cautious as the economy slowed down
simply failed to materialise over the year.

The cost of the average semi in the West broke through the 100,000 barrier for
the first time in 2001, with the boom continuing until December.

Many estate agents feared a slowdown was inevitable after years of unprecedented
rise and a threatened economic slump.

But the average leap in house prices across the country over the last 12 months
was 13.8 per cent. Things finished on a high in the West at the end of the year
and the average home now costs more than 104,000.

Despite the best year on record the experts have warned that the boom will
eventually slow down in 2002.

Alex Bannister, an economist with the Nationwide, said: "The housing market
ended the year with considerable momentum. Households have remained resilient in
the face of considerable upheaval this year including the foot-and-mouth
epidemic in the spring.

"This year will see higher unemployment and a weaker economy, but the UK should
avoid recession.

"House sales will be held back by fewer first-time buyers and owners trading up.

Remortgaging may also be moderate although it will remain a significant feature
of the mortgage market."

Stags Estate Agents sell in Devon and Cornwall and even have an office in London
marketing exclusive homes in the West.

Spokesman Steve Talling said: "There are certain parts of Devon and Somerset
that are incredibly popular with buyers.

"We have seen a surge in the number of people from the cities who want to work
from home in a rural idyll.

"The key to the region is the fantastic quality of life."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 5, 2002

European airline stocks soar ;BA buoyed by sentiment that air travel is
recovering from terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Douglas Hamilton

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 695 words


THE European airline industry, still reeling from the impact of the September 11
terrorist attacks in the US, showed signs of recovery yesterday.

British Airways (BA) and the Dutch carrier KLM reported an improvement in
December passenger numbers and a revival of traffic to North America.

BA shares jumped 13% and those of KLM, Lufthansa, and Air France also rose
sharply.

The British airline reported a 10% increase in transatlantic traffic over
November to 506,000.

A BA spokesman said lower ticket prices had helped overcome the fear of flying
after terrorist hijackers destroyed the World Trade Centre in New York and
damaged the Pentagon in Washington.

BA airline carried 2.7 million passengers in December, 8.5% fewer than a year
earlier, but slightly more than in November.

BA said its main barometer of passenger traffic figure - the number of
kilometres flown per paying passenger- showed a year-on-year decline of 10.4%

in December. But that was a "measurable improvement" on declines of 17.8% in
November and 24.7% in October.

The number of passengers travelling on domestic routes

and between Britain and Eu-rope, dipped by 6.5% to just over 1.8 million.

Traffic to the Americas showed the largest year-on-

year fall - down nearly 14% while passenger numbers on Asia-Pacific routes
dipped 9.7%.

In November, BA reported a 98% collapse in profits in the three months to the
end of September, to just (pounds) 5m.

BA shares, which fell to a low of 139p after the September 11 attacks, were star
performers yesterday, gaining 28.5p to 241.5p.

Airline industry analysts welcomed the improved operational performance, but
remained cautious. "It's a positive step," said Steven Bowen at BNP Paribas.

But other analysts said BA, Europe's largest airline, was

still finding it tough to entice back business and corporate travellers. There
was an 18.3% year-on-year 18.3% drop in

premium first and business class traffic and a 9.2% reduction in economy class.

BA acknowledged that it still faces some difficulties. The combination of
cheaper tickets and the drop-off in demand for lucrative business seats was
expected to weaken average fare yields, said Martin George,

BA's director of marketing and communications.

"When the market is as soft as it is, I think there is going to be pressure on
yields for some time," he added.

George said BA would encourage high-paying business passengers to return through
incentives such as frequent flyer programmes.

The update from BA followed better December traffic figures from KLM and upbeat
comments by Sir Richard Branson on the prospects for his Virgin Atlantic
airline. Branson said he was now "truly confident" about its future, whereas he
had not been three months ago.

KLM said its December traffic picked up from November, though levels were still
8% down from a year ago. It noted that the year-on-year drop in traffic was less
dramatic than the fall-off seen in October and November.

The figures from BA and KLM were the first signs that the big carriers are
starting to see signs of recovery. Until now, only the budget firms like Go,
easyJet and Ryanair have managed to buck the fall in passengers.

Go, which is rapidly expanding its route network, said yesterday it carried
340,384 people in December, a 57.3% improvement on the previous year. Its load
factor - the percentage of paying passengers occupying available seats - was up
1.6% at 70.5%.

Go was sold by British Airways to a management buy-out team last year. Since
then the budget airline has acquired more planes and expanded its route network.

Sensitive to economic cycles, the airline and civil aerospace industries were
battered from the downturn in the global economy exacerbated by the September 11
terrorist attacks.

Thousands of jobs have been cut, hundreds of surplus aircraft have been
grounded, and two European flag carriers - Sabena and Swissair - have collapsed.
Destinations and flight frequencies have been reduced and orders for new planes
delayed,

as demand for air travel has dropped, especially on lucrative transatlantic
routes.

LOAD-DATE: January 05, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TAKING OFF: Europe's leading airlines' shares rallied after passenger
numbers from BA and KLM persuaded investors the worst may be over for the
industry. Picture: PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                January 05, 2002

US B-52s attack 'terrorist' targets;

BYLINE: by BRIAN DENNY

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 395 words


UNITED States B-52 bombers attacked ground targets in eastern Afghanistan for a
second day yesterday.

The attacks continued despite previous calls from the new Western-backed regime
in Kabul for an end to bombing which has left thousands dead since last October.

US Defence Department spokesman Bryan Whitman said that B-1 bombers, AC-130
flying gunships and F/A-18 navy attack jets had also taken part in the latest
attacks.

The targets have been around the town of Zhawar, 19 miles south of the
provincial capital Khost.

The area was a former base for Western-backed mojahedin fighting Soviet troops
during their 1979-1989 US-backed war in Afghanistan.

In 1998, the US hit the base with cruise missiles in an attempt to destroy
training camps which had been set up by Osama bin Laden - originally with heavy
US military and financial support.

UN refugee spokeswoman Fatoumata Kaba said that frightened refugees were still
fleeing Afghanistan for Pakistan as conditions in the east of the country
worsened.

"The deteriorating conditions in eastern Afghanistan are pushing more Afghans to
Pakistan.

"There are several thousand Afghans waiting at the border to be admitted to
Pakistan, " she said.

Afghanistan's interim leader Hamid Karzai said that he believed that Taliban
supreme leader Mullah Mohammad Omar is still on the loose and that he would turn
Omar over to the US if he is captured.

Mr Karzai comments followed several reports that Mullah Omar had been captured.

Afghan fighters, backed by US forces, have taken up positions around a village
where the Taliban supreme leader is believed to have taken refuge, said an
official in the southern Afghan city of Kandahar.

UN Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Assistance spokesman Einar
Holtet also said that security in Kandahar was breaking down.

He added that the situation was still deteriorating, with reports of gunfire and
rocket fire coming from Kandahar.

"Local and international personnel are strictly advised to stay in their homes,
" he said.

Mr Karzai also said that he believed that Saudi dissent Osama bin Laden is still
alive, but he may have escaped from Afghanistan, possibly into Pakistan.

"We're looking for him too and, if we arrest him, we'll treat him as a criminal
and we'll deliver him to court for trial, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

GRAPHIC: LEGACY OF WAR: Afghan women wearing burqas walking in front of the
ruins of the former presidential palace in Kabul.

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            January 6, 2002, Sunday

WAR ON TERRORISM: KASHMIR CRISIS - INDIAN MINISTER ATTACKS 'INTERFERING' BLAIR

BYLINE: Nigel Morris In Bangalore, India Diplomatic high-wire: the Prime
Minister treads gingerly in India; DAN CHUNG/REUTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 542 words


Tony Blair was publicly rebuked by an Indian cabinet minister yesterday over
suggestions he had arrived with a plea for calm over the flashpoint region of
Kashmir.

In a foretaste of the formidable diplomatic high-wire act he will have to
perform in talks with feuding India and Pakistan, the Prime Minister listened
gravely as Pramod Mahajan told him: "People say you have come to cool us down.
We've been cool enough for the last 50 years."

Mr Mahajan, Minister for Parliamentary Affairs and Information Technology, also
demanded that the leaders of the Kashmiri separatist groups that India blames
for last month's bombing of its parliament are rooted out with the same
determination shown by the West in tracking down Taliban leaders. "There cannot
be one set of rules for one and another set of rules for another," he told the
Prime Minister.

Mr Blair pleased his Indian hosts but risked inflaming hardline Islamists with a
bluntly worded call for the Muslim world to combat the "fundamentalism and
fanaticism" that exports terror around the world.

But the problem he faces in talks today with his Indian counterpart, Atal Behari
Vajpayee, is how to call for restraint by India's armed forces on the Pakistan
border without ruffling feathers in a nation notoriously hostile to suggestions
of interference by its former colonial master.

India's sensitivity on the issue was highlighted yesterday after Mr Blair said:
"Of course Pakistan has a very strong position on Kashmir, and they are entitled
to that political position."

His comments were interpreted by the Indian media as suggesting Britain backed
Pakistan in the dispute that has raised tensions to their highest level in 30
years. His aides later said it was a simple statement of the force with which
Pakistan argued its case.

Downing Street has grim memories of the disastrous visit to India in 1997 by the
then Foreign Secretary Robin Cook, who infuriated the Indians with a reported
promise to mediate in the Kashmir dispute. This time Britain has been at pains
to stress that the stand-off can only be resolved by India and Pakistan.

Mr Blair, speaking to the conference of the Confederation of Indian Industry in
Bangalore, admitted: "From time to time since independence, relations between
Britain and India have - let me put it diplomatically - occasionally been a
little scratchy." He said the links were now "strong and confident" and won
applause with a promise to support India's bid for a permanent seat on the
United Nations Security Council.

The Prime Minister said the world had received a "wake-up call about religious
fundamentalism" following the 11 September attacks on the US. He called on
Muslim secular and religious leaders to "take on the fanatics, the extremists
who warp the true message of Islam, which is caring and decent".

With signs of the diplomatic temperature lowering between India and Pakistan,
the Government has been heartened by moves by Pakistan's President Pervez
Musharraf to crack down on the leaders of Pakistan-based militant groups
fighting in Kashmir. In a meeting with General Musharraf later this week, Mr
Blair is expected to welcome the arrests but urge him to go further.

Anne McElvoy, page 20

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            January 6, 2002, Sunday

America switches attack to Somalia terror fugitives

BYLINE: Sarah Baxter

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 367 words


THE next theatre of the war on terror looks increasingly likely to be Somalia,
amid growing American fears that it could become a haven for fleeing Al-Qaeda
forces, writes Sarah Baxter.

Warlords running the country say they would welcome the return of American
forces, who were chased out of a peacekeeping mission in humiliating
circumstances in 1993.

"We've had enough," said Muhammad Kanyare Afrah, a businessman who controls a
swathe of Mogadishu and the surrounding countryside. "We want to help the
Americans. They should not worry about 1993 happening again."

Bombing raids, rather than the use of troops, are being planned. American air
reconnaissance missions over Somalia were stepped up last week after defence
officials suggested that Al-Qaeda might be trying to regroup there. "Our
intelligence about Somalia is increasing every day and what we're learning
worries us," said one American government official.

Up to 100 Al-Qaeda terrorists are said to be operating in the country already,
although it is not clear how senior they are. They have been linked to the
Islamic rebel group Al-Ittihad Al-Islam, known as Al Al, which has received
financial aid from Osama Bin Laden.

The group has gone to ground and its training camps, in remote, uninhabited
regions, are difficult to identify. Al Al has lost much of the territory it
controlled, but the march of fundamentalist Islam in Somalia has made it easier
for its forces to melt into the population.

"Al-Qaeda terrorists could easily be hidden away in Mogadishu," said Vincent
Cannistraro, the CIA's former head of counter-terrorism. "Despite heavy naval
patrols they could be entering in small fishing vessels and dhows."

What the American vice-president Dick Cheney called "the secret war" against
Al-Qaeda networks is becoming more obvious. Washington believes its warning to
nations with a known terrorist presence is having a salutary effect.

Yemen last week moved to expel 80 foreign students from an Islamic
fundamentalist institute and a number of Arabs were detained for questioning. It
also emerged that American forces will train Yemeni troops to hunt for Al-Qaeda
operatives.

John Moore


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: War on Terror

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                January 7, 2002

Student tells of terror as thugs attack and rob him in city lane

BYLINE: ataylor

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Murders/violentcrime; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 410 words


Angela Taylor A STUDENT robbed at knifepoint in a city lane spoke of his ordeal
last night.

The 23-year-old, who does not wish to be identified, was pushed into an alley,
robbed and assaulted shortly before 10pm on FridayJan 4 while on his way to
work.

The victim was walking alone along George Street on his way to Alldays
supermarket, where he planned to buy cigarettes before catching a bus into town.

He was approached by a man standing near an unnamed lane near Cycling World.

While the man distracted the software-technology student, an accomplice grabbed
the victim's clothing from behind.

"One guy grabbed me from behind and one pushed me into the alley," the student
said.

"I thought it was a joke or something, and he pulled out a knife at me and I
knew what was going on then.

"They said, 'Get your stuff out', and I did." "They punched me in the stomach
twice - each of them punched me in the stomach.

"I wasn't sure what was going to happen next." The student fell to the ground
after being assaulted and his attackers walked away, leaving him lying in the
lane.

He managed to pull himself to his feet and went home.

The student had no money to go to work after his wallet was stolen, so he waited
for his flatmate to return.

"I had a couple of drinks," the victim said.

When his flatmate arrived home, he gave the student money to get a taxi to Asda
at the Bridge of Dee, where he works as a cleaning supervisor.

"I was not going to tell the police," the victim said. "I was not going to say
anything, but then I went to work and my manager asked me what happened and I
told him. He persuaded me to report it." The student - who said he had been
shaken by his ordeal and was now nervous about going out - did not get a good
look at his assailants because it was dark.

The men stole personal items and a wallet containing a two-figure sum of money
and credit cards.

The first attacker, who pulled out the knife, is in his late 20s, 6ft 2in and
well built, with brown hair.

He was wearing a black woollen hat, a blue hooded sweater, light-blue jeans and
dark shoes. He had a silver hoop earring in his left ear.

The second assailant was in his late 20s, 6ft and of medium build.

He had short fair hair and was dressed in a dark jacket, blue Levi-style twisted
jeans and white trainers.

Anyone with any information is urged to contact Grampian Police on (01224)
386000 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            January 7, 2002, Monday

TOLKIEN TITLE FEARS AFTER TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 159 words


THE title of the sequel to the hit fantasy film the Lord of the Rings was almost
changed after the terror attacks on New York's World Trade Center.

The movie, called TheTwoTowers, will be released in December this year and the
final part of the trilogy, Return Of The King, will hit screens at Christmas
2003. Fears had been raised that the title of the second part of JRR Tolkien's
epic novel could cause offence after the destruction of the US twin towers on
September 11.

The inspirations for Tolkien's Two Towers were Perrott's Folly and Edgbaston
Waterworks Tower in Birmingham.

The two gothic structures dominate the skyline in the area and are near the Ivy
Bush pub, which is the name of the tavern in the Shire of Hobbiton.

New Zealand director, Peter Jackson, admitted the atrocity led to major concerns
about the title.

'I just pray that by the time the second movie comes out, it won't cause any
controversy,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            January 7, 2002, Monday

BIN LADEN FAN IN MINI TRADE CENTRE ATTACK;
 SCHOOLBOY PILOT BACKED TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 344 words


THE schoolboy who crashed a plane into a US skyscraper wrote a suicide note
backing terror king Osama bin Laden.

Tampa police chief Bennie Holder said 15-year-old Charles Bishop supported the
September 11 attacks - but there was no evidence that he had terrorist ties.

Holder added: "Bishop can best be described as a young man who had very few
friends and was very much a loner.

"From his actions we can assume he was a very troubled young man."

Straight-A student Bishop crashed a Cessna 172R into the 42-storey Bank of
America building in Tampa, Florida, after taking off without authorisation and
ignoring signals to land from a coastguard helicopter that pursued him.

Fire Department Captain Bill Wade said: "There was no doubt he died on impact."

Bishop, of Palm Harbor, was told to check the plane's equipment before a flying
lesson on Saturday. Instead, he took off without waiting for an instructor who
was supposed to accompany him.

A pair of F-15 jets scrambled to intercept the small plane arrived after the
crash.

Yesterday, investigators interviewed Bishop's family and said they would search
his personal computer for evidence.

Friends at East Lake High School said Bishop had been "down", "unhappy" and
"very despondent" recently.

Two other light planes - one in California and the other in Colorado - crashed
within minutes of the Tampa incident.

The crashes sent shockwaves across America, sparking memories of the September
11 hijackings. President Bush was briefed on the latest incidents.

The Tampa building was almost empty when Bishop's plane hit - but just an hour
before, a lawyer had been working at one of the desks the plane destroyed.

Fire department officials said damage to the building was limited to the office
where the plane hit and parts of adjoining floors.

Most of the building was expected to be open today, though there was concern
about chunks of the facade falling. Until it was pulled in yesterday, the
plane's tail had dangled from the 28th floor of the building.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 8, 2002, Tuesday

WE TRIED TO GET POLICE TO ARREST THIS TRAITOR.. NOW HE'S SAFE IN PAKISTAN AND
INCITING TERROR ATTACKS ON BRITAIN;
 YARD PROBE BUTT'S NEW THREAT

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 540 words

HIGHLIGHT: RABBLE-_ROUSING: Hassan Butt in Pakistan; FANATIC: Hassan Butt has
message of hate


A FANATIC tracked down by The Mirror called yesterday for terror attacks on
Britain by Islamic fighters he claims to have recruited in Pakistan.

British-born Hassan Butt, 22, slipped into London last month and demanded pounds
100,000 for his story. The Mirror refused to pay - and told police where he
could be arrested.

But the traitor flew back to Pakistan to carry on his hate-filled mission.

Butt used a radio interview to claim he had recruited more than 200 British
Muslims to fight for Afghanistan's former Taliban regime, and said many of them
would be returning to Britain for military action.

He said the targets would be "military and Government institutes, as well as
British military and Government individuals"."

Scotland Yard are now investigating whether Butt can be prosecuted.

One detective said: "In hindsight it probably would have been better if we had
detained him for questioning while we had the chance."

Butt, born in Luton and raised and educated in Manchester, went to Pakistan
before the September 11 attacks on America.

A mysterious go-between named "Mr Ahmed" set up last month's meeting with The
Mirror in Trafalgar Square.

Scotland Yard at first declined to act, saying they could find no evidence Butt
had committed offences in this country, even though Foreign Secretary Jack Straw
and Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon had warned that British citizens who preached
war against the UK or helped our enemies would be arrested when they returned.

After we secretly photographed Butt lurking in Trafalgar Square, and ran the
story on the front page, the police decided they wanted to question him after
all.

Anti-Terrorist Chief, Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, ordered an immediate
investigation into his background, both in Britain and abroad. But by then Butt
was on his way back to his sanctuary in Pakistan.

Yard detectives later asked us to give a full account of our dealings with him
and Ahmed. In his latest rant, Butt urged returning British "mujahedeen" to take
up arms against the Government and leading politicians.

On BBC Radio 4's Today programme, he warned that Britain was about to face a
"new phase" of terrorism organised from within. He said: "When they return to
Britain I believe they will take military action within the country."

Butt's comments were condemned by mainstream Muslim leaders, and Downing Street
warned that his claims should be treated with caution.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "We have to be slightly careful in
giving too much credibility to claims like this.""

A Yard spokesman said: "The Met is working closely with the Crown Prosecution
Service to examine comments made on the radio today, to establish if any
offences have been committed."

The al-Muhajiroun group, which Butt has claimed to represent, said he was no
longer linked to the London-based organisation.

Sheik Omar Bakri said: "He does not have our support. We are an ideological,
political party.

"We do not recruit people to go and fight on behalf of anybody or to indulge in
any military activities."

Butt studied for a law degree at the University of Wolverhampton but his ravings
got him expelled last summer.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 8, 2002, Tuesday

WE TRIED TO GET POLICE TO ARREST THIS TRAITOR.. NOW HE'S SAFE IN PAKISTAN AND
INCITING TERROR ATTACKS ON BRITAIN;
 YARD PROBE BUTT'S NEW THREAT

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 720 words

HIGHLIGHT: RAVING: Hassan Butt in Pakistan; CAUGHT: Mirror finds the traitor in
London; EXPOSED: Butt meets The Mirror; FANATIC: Hassan Butt has message of hate


A FANATIC tracked down by The Mirror called yesterday for terror attacks on
Britain by Islamic fighters he claims to have recruited in Pakistan.

British-born Hassan Butt, 22, slipped into London last month and demanded pounds
100,000 for his story. The Mirror refused to pay - and told police where he
could be arrested.

But the traitor flew back to Pakistan to carry on his hate-filled mission.

Butt used a radio interview to claim he had recruited more than 200 British
Muslims to fight for Afghanistan's former Taliban regime, and said many of them
would be returning to Britain for military action".

He said the targets would be "military and Government institutes, as well as
British military and Government individuals"."

Scotland Yard are now investigating whether Butt can be prosecuted.

One detective said: "We are carrying out a full investigation into his
activities, his background and all his associates in Britain.

"In hindsight it probably would have been better if we had detained him for
questioning while we had the chance."

Butt, born in Luton and raised and educated in Manchester, went to Pakistan
before the September 11 attacks on America.

A mysterious go-between named "Mr Ahmed" set up last month's meeting with The
Mirror in Trafalgar Square.

Scotland Yard at first declined to act, saying they could find no evidence that
Butt had committed offences in this country, even though Foreign Secretary Jack
Straw and Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon had warned that British citizens who
preached war against the UK or helped our enemies would be arrested when they
returned.

After we secretly photographed Butt lurking in Trafalgar Square, and ran the
story on the front page, the police decided they wanted to question him after
all.

Anti-Terrorist Chief, Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, ordered an immediate
investigation into his background, both in Britain and abroad. But by then Butt
was on his way back to his sanctuary in Pakistan.

Yard detectives later asked us to give a full account of our dealings with him
and Ahmed.

In his latest rant, Butt urged returning British "mujahedeen" to take up arms
against the Government and leading politicians.

On BBC Radio 4's Today programme, he warned that Britain was about to face a
"new phase" of terrorism organised from within. He said: "When they return to
Britain I believe they will take military action within the country.

"The mujahedeen will strike at the heart of the country, within Britain - I have
always been in favour of this."

Butt said some British volunteers had been "martyred" in Afghanistan, and others
were in Pakistan organising operations.

He added that he was not worried about any investigation into his activities.

The authorities had not managed to track him down when he spent three weeks in
Britain last month.

Butt, who has been based in Islamabad, said: "The fact that the British
Government had no idea I was here shows the incompetence and vulnerability that
Britain has when dealing with the mujahedeen and the Muslims."

Butt's comments were condemned by mainstream Muslim leaders, and Downing Street
warned that his claims should be treated with caution.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "Attention-seeking does take many
different forms. We have to be slightly careful in giving too much credibility
to claims like this.""

A Yard spokesman said: "The Met is working closely with the Crown Prosecution
Service to examine comments made on the radio today, to establish if any
offences have been committed."

The al-Muhajiroun group, which Butt has claimed to represent, said he was no
longer linked to the London-based organisation.

Sheik Omar Bakri said: "He does not have our support. We are an ideological,
political party.

"We do not recruit people to go and fight on behalf of anybody or to indulge in
any military activities."

Butt studied for a law degree at the University of Wolverhampton but his ravings
got him expelled last summer.

Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin said last night that it was not known if
Butt was "largely fantasising".

But Mr Letwin added: "There is a real threat here, and we are not going to be
able to protect ourselves against it unless we have adequate security."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 9, 2002

Cover under fire;
Floods and terror attacks lead to rise in homes insurance

BYLINE: Lorna Bourke

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 322 words


LAST winter more than 10,000 homes and businesses in England and Wales were
flooded and the insurers picked up a claims bill of GBP 1.3 billion. Yet,
although some 1.7 million UK homes are at risk of flooding, fewer than one in 10
does anything to prepare for it. No wonder insurance premiums have risen.

More than 10,000 homes and businesses were flooded in England and Wales last
year, making a big impact on insurance rates.

Risk is not the only factor affecting premiums, however.

For years UK insurance firms lost millions trying to operate in the US markets
and it was the British customers who ended up paying. Now 11 September will have
an impact on what we pay for our insurance-Also, the US recession means that
many insurance companies have no alternative but to increase rates because they
cannot recoup losses on the stock markets.

But rather than waiting for your renewal notice to come through with an
increased premium, shop around for competitive quotes. The internet makes this
easy: log on to any search engine, such as Google UK, and countless references
will come up.

Internet- based insurers Bluesure claim, for example, to be able to cut the cost
of household insurance in at least half the cases they see by
customisingpolicies for each customer.

Internet or direct insurers often cherry-pick, however. If you have had a claim
in the past three years, you will often not get a quote from them. If you had a
flood claim last year, finding a new insurer may be virtually impossible.
Accepting a higher excess may help.

Few people are aware of how wide apart quotes can be, so a good broker is worth
its weight in gold.

The big banks have great buying power and so can sometimes find good deals for
people with poor claims track records.

Try the biggest, NatWest Insurance Services, for general insurance broking or
HSBC, which has a large general insurance wing, too.


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           January 9, 2002, Wednesday

LOW-COST EASYJET BEATS JINX OF SEPTEMBER 11 TERROR ATTACKS;
 AIRLINES: MASSIVE EXPANSION PLANNED

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 196 words


LOW-COST airline easyJet reported another jump in passenger numbers today as it
continued to shrug off the gloom in the airline sector.

During December, the Lutonbased group carried 670,390 passengers, 36.5pc above
the same month the year before.

And the airline's load factor, which represents passengers as a proportion of
seats available, was 82.8pc compared to 79.5pc in December 2000.

Despite the impact of the September 11 terrorist attacks, operators such as
easyJet, Ryanair and Go have seen continued passenger growth.

Yesterday, easyJet said it would be ordering 75 new planes as part of a major
expansion planned for the next five years.

It has already had discussions with Boeing and Airbus about placing the order,
thought to be worth around pounds 2.7bn.

Today's figures can partly be put down to the airline's recent expansion, with
around 25pc more capacity brought on line in the past year.

The report means easyJet's load factor has averaged close to 83pc during the
last 12 months.

Internet sales at the airline have also remained strong, accounting for 89.1pc
of the total last month, compared to 82.3pc in December 2000.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUCCESS: Stelios Haji-Ioannou, founder and owner of the easyJet
airline, inside his easyEverything internet shop

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                January 10, 2002

Robber hunted after terror attack on shop

SECTION: News, Pg.3

LENGTH: 254 words


A ROBBER wielding a screwdriver threatened to kill a shop assistant after
forcing her to hand over cash from a till.

The terrified worker at a newsagents in Bradford on Avon gave him 250 before the
masked man fled into the town, sparking a police manhunt.

The raider walked into St Margaret's Newsagents in St Margaret's Street,
yesterday afternoon. He threatened the assistant with a screwdriver which was
about ten inches long and had a flat blade.

The white man, in his late teens or early 20s, swore at the member of staff and
demanded that she open the till.

Sgt Peter Auburn, of Bradford on Avon police, said:

"She was understandably scared and handed over a reasonable amount of money.

"He threatened to kill her ifshe moved as he left the shop on foot and he was
last seen walking in the direction of the railway station."

Nobody else was in the shop at the time of the incident, at around 1.25pm, and
the assistant called the police moments later.

Sgt Auburn added: "This is the first shop robbery we have had in Bradford on
Avon in well over two years.

"If anyone is aware of who this man is they should contact the police
immediately."

He is described as between 5ft 7-8ins tall and of average build. He was wearing
a cream baseball cap, and a beige checked scarf was pulled over his mouth and
nose.

He was also wearing cheap black plastic sunglasses, a black padded jacket and
blue jeans.

Anyone with information should contact Trowbridge police on 01225 763101.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                January 10, 2002

Terror attack on shop;
 250 TAKEN: screwdriver wielded

BYLINE: Rachael Sugden

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 264 words


A ROBBER wielding a screwdriver threatened to kill a shop assistant after
forcing her to hand over cash from a till.

The terrified worker at a newsagents in Bradford on Avon gave him 250 before the
masked man fled into the town, sparking a police manhunt.

The raider walked into St Margaret's Newsagents in St Margaret's Street,
yesterday afternoon.

He threatened the assistant with a screwdriver which was about ten inches long
and had a flat blade.

The white man, in his late teens or early 20s, swore at the member of staff and
demanded that she open the till.

Sgt Peter Auburn, of Bradford on Avon police, said: "She was understandably
scared and handed over a reasonable amount of money.

"He threatened to kill her if she moved as he left the shop on foot and he was
last seen walking in the direction of the railway station."

Nobody else was in the shop at the time of the incident, at around 1.25pm, and
the assistant called the police moments later.

Sgt Auburn added: "This is the first shop robbery we have had in Bradford on
Avon in well over two years.

"If anyone is aware of who this man is they should contact the police
immediately."

He is described as between 5ft 7-8ins tall and of average build.

He was wearing a cream baseball cap, and a beige checked scarf was pulled over
his mouth and nose covering most of his face.

He was also wearing cheap black plastic sunglasses, a black padded jacket done
up to the neck and blue jeans.

Anyone with information should contact Trowbridge police station on 01225
763101.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 10, 2002, Thursday Edition 1

Cab driver terrorised by masked attackers

BYLINE: By the Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 318 words







The director of a hard-hitting film about life on a tough estate has been
arrested following the knifepoint hold-up of a taxi driver.

Police were alerted in the early hours of yesterday when it was reported a
cabbie had been attacked and robbed outside a block of flats on North Tyneside.

As uniformed officers went to the scene outside St John's Green flats, Percy
Main, two plain clothes officers already in the area confronted two men.

A knife was allegedly pulled on one of the officers and he was threatened during
the arrest of the suspects.

One of the accused is father-of-one Tommy Laws whose ability to scale buildings
and roofs in his youth led to him being dubbed Spiderboy.

He was recently paid by a church charity, the Cedarwood Trust, to direct a
hard-hitting documentary about life on a tough estate.

Shaken taxi driver Martin Uren, 32, was recovering today. He suffered cuts to
his hands during the hold-up.

Mr Uren, from Whitley Bay, who works for Foxhunters, said: "I go to work to pay
my mortgage and my bills but at the minute I don't know if I'll ever feel like
driving a taxi again. I am really shocked and upset."

His boss Paul Irwin, owner of Foxhunters Taxis, said: "It is worrying that we
could have an attack on a taxi driver.

"Drivers can be vulnerable and are advised to carry out certain precautions like
emptying cash bags and avoiding carrying large sums of cash on them."

A police spokesman said: "Two men have been jointly charged with conspiracy to
rob a taxi driver and affray and will appear before North Shields magistrates
today.

"A woman has also been charged in connection with the conspiracy."

Tommy Laws, 21, of no fixed address was jointly charged with John Oliver, 30, of
Percy Main, North Tyneside. They will appear in court along with Claire Bell,
20, of North Shields.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 10, 2002

Terror attack on Sellafield 'would wipe out the north'

BYLINE: Paul Brown and Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 617 words


A terrorist attack on Sellafield could render the north of England uninhabitable
and release 100 times the radioactivity produced by the nuclear accident at
Chernobyl in 1986, the House of Commons defence committee was told yesterday.

The most vulnerable part of the facilities at Sellafield, dating back to the
1950s, contain giant tanks of high level radioactive waste which has to be
constantly cooled and stirred to prevent a chain reaction.

Gordon Thompson, executive director of the Institute for Resource and Security
Studies in Cambridge, Massachusetts, said he believed documents from both the
nuclear industry and the government showed neither had ever attempted a thorough
analysis of the threat or the options for reducing it.

Dr Thompson, who was based in Britain for 10 years and gave evidence at the 1977
Windscale inquiry into reprocessing at Sellafield, and at the Sizewell inquiry,
is an expert on the potential fallout from a nuclear accident or act of
terrorism.

As well as the threat of a bomb, missile or hijacked plane hitting Sellafield,
Dr Thompson raises the possibility of a rogue worker or terrorist infiltrator at
Sellafield sabotaging the cooling equipment which prevents the stored waste from
boiling and causing a massive radioactive release.

Dr Thompson's report, sent this week in response to the committee's call for new
evidence after a report it published last month, is likely to further alarm the
Irish government, which has repeatedly protested about danger from the high
level waste tanks at Sellafield.

The problem is that the plant which is supposed to turn this liquid waste into
more manageable and less dangerous glass blocks has never worked properly and a
backlog cannot be cleared for 15 years.

Among the possibilities Dr Thompson raised was a vast release of liquid waste
into the Irish sea. That would contaminate fisheries and travel north on
currents, making fishing in western Scotland impossible.

Anywhere downwind of Sellafield during the releases would be rendered
uninhabitable probably for generations and people caught in the fall-out would
have a greatly increased chance of getting cancer.

Depending on the direction of the wind, cities including Newcastle, Edinburgh
and Leeds would be well within fallout range, as would be Dublin.

Dr Thompson said: "A civilian nuclear facility is a potential radiological
weapon if the facility contains a large amount of radioactive material that can
be released into the environment.

"A notable example of a potential radiological weapon for an enemy of the UK is
the B215 facility at Sellafield. This facility houses 21 steel tanks and
associated equipment in above ground concrete cells. The tanks contain high
level radioactive waste in the form of self-heating, acidic liquid that requires
continuous cooling and agitation."

He said these tanks contained 2,400 kilograms of caesium-137, the main cause of
off-site radiation exposure from the Chernobyl accident.

The total amount released from Chernobyl was 27kg, almost 100 times less than
the potential release from the facility at Sellafield.

Dr Thompson said the buildings designed in the 1950s could not withstand a crash
from an airliner.

The Commons defence committee in its report said that "attention has
particularly focused on perceived vulnerability of nuclear installations.

But the Ministry of Defence said yesterday that a "quick response procedure was
in place to cover the whole of the country in the event of a hijack attack.

The task of shooting down a hijacked commercial airliner has been assigned to
RAF Tornado F3 fighters based at Coningsby, Lincolnshire.


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                January 10, 2002

Mother's terror at bus attack;

BYLINE: By Kieran McDaid

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 283 words


AC ATHOLIC mother of two Holy Cross school children has spoken of her terror as
a bus carrying girls as young as four was attacked by loyalists on Ardoyne Road.

The woman, who was taking her sixyear-old daughter home from school on the bus
yesterday, said the children were hysterical as it was pelted with stones and
missiles.

She said the bus was attacked when it was forced to stop as it approached a
lorry working on speed bumps on Ardoyne Road.

"As soon as the bus stopped, a crowd of people came running out of Hesketh and
attacked it, " she said.

"This was like the first day all over again and it started just as quickly. The
kids were absolutely terrified and they were all crying hysterically.

"I could not believe what was happening as grown men and women were throwing
missiles at children as young as four, five and six years old.

The woman, who did not want to be named, said she believed the attack had been
planned.

"Where did they all come from? How did such a large group of people get to the
bus so soon after it had stopped?"

she asked.

"Glenbryn residents had been trying to start trouble all week. As we made our
way to and from the school, people have been bumping into us and making comments
about the peace not lasting much longer, but I didn't think it would end this
quickly.

"The whole thing is madness. They have terrorised these children for months and
when they suspended their protest they got GBP 18 million to help their area.

"When I went back to get to the school to get my other girl, I couldn't even get
to it because of all the trouble on the Ardoyne Road - is that what they call a
suspension of the protest?"

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REPLAY? Nationalists target an army vehicle after children were
attacked returning from Holy Cross school yesterday PICTURE: Brendan Murphy

                     Copyright 2002 The Irish News Limited

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            January 11, 2002, Friday

MONEY;
 POUNDS 120M BILL FOR TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Colin Calder

SECTION: MONEY PAGE; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 278 words


THE knock-on effects of the terrorist attacks on the USA to the Scottish economy
have been "greatly exaggerated", says a new report.

The study says the damage to Scotland will be restricted to about pounds
120million - much less than was originally feared.

Today's report - from respected leading independent Scots economists Mackay
Consultants - is also predicting that 2002 will be a buoyant year with growth of
1.8 per cent, slightly higher than last year.

The firm says this is in stark contrast to most "doom and gloom experts", who
estimate that Scotland will see a marked downturn this year with growth falling
to just 1.2 per cent.

The upbeat forecasts in the Mackay report will be a boost to the Scottish
Executive.

They have been trying to talk up Scotland's economy, despite evidence it is
lagging behind the rest of the UK.

The report's findings will also make good reading for the Scottish business
community - some of whom feared the terrorist attacks would throw the economy
into meltdown.

Author Tony Mackay said: "We expect the terrorist attacks in the USA to have
only a small impact on the Scottish economy and have calculated the cost at
pounds 120million.

"The negative impact of September 11 has been greatly exaggerated."

The report, however, says that the one industry which will be badly hit will be
tourism.

Tony Mackay added: "Americans will cancel their holidays in Scotland and
elsewhere and business travel will also fall.

"But we do not think many other Scottish businesses will be directly affected by
the September 11 tragedies as few Scots firms have subsidiaries in the United
States."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       January 11, 2002, Friday Edition 1

Terror attacks threat to Britain

BYLINE: By the Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 174 words







British cities are still under threat of terror attacks like the September 11th
atrocities in the USA, London's police chief said today.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir John Stevens, today warned the lull in al
Qaida activities should not be taken as a sign that the threat had receded, as
the group took years to plan attacks.

Sir John said: "The risk is still there. There is a general risk to major cities
in the world, and everybody knows that.

"We work very closely with our colleagues elsewhere in the world and we have got
to be on guard, not just for international but also domestic terrorism."

Co-operation between the Met, Police Service of Northern Ireland and MI5 had
successfully prevented as many as two-thirds of attacks planned by Irish
terrorists over the years, claimed Sir John.

He said: "We have been highly successful in relation to that. We disrupted those
operations. Something like two-thirds have been disrupted over the years."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       Lancashire Evening Post (Preston)

                                January 11, 2002

Mugging victim tells of terror after attack

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post (Preston)

BYLINE: By Emma Broom

LENGTH: 550 words


Terrified pensioner Shantaban Chauhan is too scared to leave her home after
becoming the latest victim in a spate of street muggings.

A routine trip to her local store has left the 73 year old quaking in fear after
the robber struck.

She became the third mugging victim in Preston in the past few days.

Today, as she recovered at home comforted by her family, Shantaban bravely
relived her ordeal in a bid to catch the thug who pounced just a few hundred
yards from her house.

She was walking home down an alleyway near Lauderdale Street, off Fishergate
Hill, when the mugger struck.

The mum-of-nine, who speaks little English, refused to hand over her bag.

She was pushed to the ground, smashing her head on the concrete.

Her shouts for help went unheard and she was forced to stagger to a friend's
house where her head injuries were tended.

The attack is the latest in a spate of street robberies this week. A woman was
left battered and bruised in an attack in Ashton and a gang of teenage thugs
left a student lying in a pool of blood after attacking him and stealing his
mobile phone close to the university campus.

Speaking through her grandson, Amit Chauhan, a visibly shaken Mrs Chauhan said:
"It all happened very fast.

"He pulled my bag and then just gave me one push and that did it, I hit the
floor.

"I shouted to the shopkeeper for help but he must have been out the back and
didn't hear.

"I'm a very active person but now I'm frightened to go out.

"I'm just angry because whoever did this hasn't gained anything. They've just
made things hard for me. We've lived in this area for 18 years and I've made
that trip hundreds of times and never had any problems.

"There should be tougher penalties for the people who do these things.

"The community have been very supportive and we've got plenty of family here to
support us."

The robber struck at 5.50pm on Tuesday. Mrs Chauhan was approached by her
attacker as she walked close to the Cricketers pub.

Police are appealing for anybody with any information to come forward.

Det Insp Joe Kellet said: "The robber targeted this lady, she was vulnerable but
she tried to fight back.

"He then escaped with her shopping bag and its contents."

The stolen bag was a black and grey Carlton shopping bag containing a pair of
gloves, a set of house keys and personal documents, together valued at (GBP)19.

The robber was white, aged about 18 and 5ft 4in.

If you have any information call Preston CID on 01772 203203 or Crimestoppers on
0800 555111.Julie Young, area manager for Victim Support Lancashire, said there
was a worrying trend in violent crime in the county.

Stranger

She said: "Violence and the threat of violence is definitely on the increase.

"This is a very worrying trend and we have certainly noticed an increase in the
number of victim referrals over the past 12 months.

"We are currently collating our statistics and it is clear that this is the
trend."

She said practical and emotional help was always available to victim from Victim
Support Lancashire.

She said: "Everybody reacts in a different way to this sort of situation.

"People can come to us at any stage, they don't have to be referred by the
police. Often it can really help to confide in a stranger."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                January 11, 2002

Terror of fake cabman's sex attack victim

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Joanne Ginley

LENGTH: 514 words


A WOMAN said last night she was terrified to leave her house alone and had
become a "bag of nerves" after being indecently assaulted by a man posing as a
taxi driver.

The 47-year-old mother of four from Beeston, Leeds, said she had decided to
speak out because she wanted to stop the bogus private hire driver who attacked
her from striking again.

"I'm not myself," she said. "I'm usually happy-go-lucky, but now I'm a bag of
nerves really."

She said that after an evening out in Leeds on Thursday, January 3, she
signalled for a taxi in Vicar Lane, in the city centre, at about 10pm.

"A car pulled up and the driver said 'do you want a taxi?' so I said yes. He
asked me where was I going and I told him."

She sat next to the Asian driver in the front of the red car. He was personable,
asked if she had a boyfriend and said she was nice-looking.

She said he seemed "okay" at first, but as they pulled up at traffic lights on
Dewsbury Road, he pulled her hair back, jerked her towards him and subjected her
to an indecent attack.

"I was scared stiff," she said.

She eventually managed to get away and get help.

Yesterday she said: "I want to stop other people being attacked. He wants
catching before he does it to somebody else. You expect to be safe when you get
into a taxi."

Her boyfriend said she would not go anywhere without him since the attack, "even
if we just need to go to the supermarket".

Det Con Shaun Kenyon, of West Yorkshire Police, appealed for women, especially
those travelling alone, to check they were getting into a licensed taxi.

He urged people using private hire vehicles to call a cab firm to pre-arrange a
pick-up or get a cab from a taxi office, and flag down only black and white
Hackney carriages. Both types of vehicle should have special licensing plates
and drivers should have identification badges on display, he said.

The assault in Leeds was the latest in a string across Yorkshire.

Last month a woman travelling alone was raped by a cab driver after being picked
up in Sheffield city centre and last summer police launched a hunt for a bogus
Asian cab driver wanted for two rapes and an indecent assault.

Last night Det Con Kenyon said the latest Leeds attack was not being linked to
those in Leeds last summer.

Private hire firms in the city have begun carrying larger signs and logos on
their vehicle doors, windscreens and bonnets as part of a trial designed to
reassure people they were getting into a licensed cab.

It was announced this week that, following the success of the scheme, from April
all drivers seeking a new or renewed licence will be required to display the
larger signs. Some drivers, whose licences do not yet need renewing, have
volunteered to display the signs anyway to reassure the public.

The driver sought in connection with the indecent assault is described as Asian,
in his early to mid-30s, with short black hair, clean shaven, of medium build
and with a soft accent. He wore a beige jacket and dark trousers and was driving
a red, four-door car.


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           January 12, 2002, Saturday

MONEY LETTERS: TERRORIST ATTACKS MAY INFLUENCE INVESTMENTS

BYLINE: Ross Bennett

SECTION: YOUR MONEY; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 687 words

HIGHLIGHT: HORROR: terrorist atrocity


Query: I have delayed using my ISA allowance this year because of the events of
September 11. However, I am prepared to invest for at least five years and feel
that investing in shares will still be a good investment, although I don't want
to take any really big risks. What type of fund should I be looking for?

LG Londonderry

Answer: Although it is understandable why you have held back from investing in
stocks and shares since September, it is important that you do not lose the
valuable tax break that investing in an ISA provides.

If you wish to invest your pounds 7,000 allowance fully in shares, then a Maxi
ISA is required.

Historically, shares have out performed every other type of investment over the
long term, although past performance is no sure guide to the future.

Certainly, you are wise to be looking at investing for at least five years, and
with markets still relatively low at the moment it could be argued that now is a
good time to invest.

As to the type of fund to invest in, I would suggest you consider one of the
Portfolio Funds offered by some ISA providers. This will allow you to choose a
number of funds within the same ISA wrapper which could be in different
investment sectors and even with different fund managers.

This means you can spread the investment risk over a wider area than just
investing in one manager or one investment sector. It is also easy to switch
your funds if you need to in the future.

See an Independent Financial Adviser, who will guide you to some suitable funds
for your attitude to risk.

For further information on Equity ISAs, ring 02825 898220

Query: I have just had a three-year building society bond mature and want to
reinvest about pounds 20,000 of it.

I have put the rest into a high interest deposit account for immediate needs but
now want to invest the pounds 20,000 somewhere to provide some growth for the
next three years, after which I will need to take a regular monthly income.

I don't want to put the pounds 20,000 back into the building society because
rates are so low, but I don't want to have too much risk either. What can you
suggest for a basic rate tax payer?

JR Antrim

Answer: Your disappointment with low high street deposit rates is not uncommon.
Savers have been hard hit as interest rates have fallen. I can also appreciate
that you are unwilling to move too much higher up the risk scale.

However, to beat building society rates you will need to consider an investment
that is at least partly invested in stocks and shares.

The good news is that this does not mean you have to take any big gambles with
your money.

Because you will need an income in the next three years as well as some growth
in the meantime, you could consider a Distribution Bond. This is a type of
insurance bond that can provide some growth potential as well as a regular
income. income that would have been paid to you re-invested to provide extra
growth until you need to switch the income on.

Your money would be invested in a mix of shares and other investments such as
fixed interest bonds, corporate bonds and sometimes commercial property.

Some Distribution Bonds are riskier than others, so it is important you find out
what the exact mix of investment is, because the higher the share element
usually the higher the risk.

An Independent Financial Adviser will be able to guide you.

Further information on Distribution bonds is available by ringing 02825 898220

Ross Bennett is an Independent Financial Adviser with Ross Bennett Associates, a
member of DBS Financial management PLC, which is regulated by the Personal
Investment Authority. Any questions should be sent to Ross Bennett at The News
Letter, 46-56 Boucher Crescent, Belfast BT 12 6QY.

Answers given are for general guidance only, and specific advice should be taken
before acting on any of the suggestions made. The value of shares and
investments and the income they generate can go down as well as up.

All information is based on our understanding of current tax practices, which
are subject to change.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                January 12, 2002

Man died after row over terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.12

LENGTH: 157 words


A WESTCOUNTRY man died of a heart attack after being punched following an
argument about the terrorist attacks in New York.

Gordon Barrett collapsed as he walked home from an evening out with his
26-year-old son Greg. The pair had just returned from a holiday and had gone to
Topsham Town Football Club, near Exeter, for a drink.

A trial at Honiton Magistrates' Court heard that, while inside, the 52-year-old
had become involved in an argument with Martin George Isaac about the attacks on
September 11.

Greg Barrett told the court that when he and his father later left the club they
were followed by Isaac, who punched the older man. Shortly afterwards Mr Barrett
slumped to the ground and died.

District Judge Phillip Wussall found 36-year-old Isaac, of Newport Road,
Countess Wear, Exeter guilty of using threatening behaviour with intent towards
Mr Barrett.

He had denied the charge and will be sentenced next month.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                January 12, 2002

Man died after row over terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 22 words


A WESTCOUNTRY man died of a heart attack after being punched following an
argument about the terrorist attacks in New York.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                 Copyright 2002 Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           January 12, 2002, Saturday

AIRPORT PASSENGER NUMBERS START TO TAKE OFF AGAIN AFTER TERRORIST ATTACKS;
 TRAVEL: FIGURES RELEASED BY THE BRITISH AIRPORTS AUTHORITY SHOW A MAJOR
RECOVERY

BYLINE: James Pritchard

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 282 words


AFTER a bleak-midwinter for the air industry there were more signs yesterday
that a thaw might be on its way.

Passenger figures released for the December period by airports operator BAA
showed that the UK's major airports are continuing their recovery from the
impact of September 11.

And the news will be welcomed by the operator of Cardiff, Luton and Belfast
airports, TBI, which has also reported recently that passenger figures are
remaining relatively buoyant despite the terrorist attacks in the US.

Yesterday BAA said 8.2m passengers passed through its seven UK airports in
December.

This was just 6.4pc down on December 2000, continuing the gradual recovery seen
at the UK's major airports since the terrorist attacks in the United States.

And BAA said the strongest recovery in the month came on North Atlantic and
other long-haul routes, those most affected by the fall-out from the attacks.

North Atlantic traffic was down 13pc in December compared with the same month
the year before, a marked improvement on a 26.1pc year-on-year fall in November.

Other long-haul routes registered a 6pc drop last month.

The company said the figures represented "continued progress" on those seen in
October and November and were down to "very strong" Christmas traffic.

"In the seven days ending December 31, passenger numbers were similar to last
year, " a spokesman said.

The figures will add to cautious optimism about the airline sector, coming a
week after improved figures from British Airways and KLM.

Last Friday, BA said it had seen a "measurable improvement" in its market
conditions in December after introducing a range of special offers.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                January 14, 2002

I saw my mugger just hours later
 Young nurse tells of terror attack ordeal

BYLINE: by adargie

SECTION: NEWS:999:Murders/violent crime, Pg.10

LENGTH: 348 words


A YOUNG nurse who fought off an armed mugger was terrified when she came
face-to-face with him again just hours later.

Her attacker actually approached her begging for money without realising who she
was.

The 22-year -old Seaton woman was walking down a dark lane minutes from her home
when the attacker first struck.

He brandished a kitchen knife and demanded she hand over her purse.

The woman feared she was going to be raped.

She said: "I was walking down the lane off School Road and I heard footsteps
behind me.

"I didn't think anything of it until he walked past me then turned round and
came back at me.

"He was staring straight at me and I saw he had a knife.

"I thought he was going to rape me and I started screaming and hitting him. I
was terrified."

But when she fought back the cowardly attacker fled ditching his weapon in a
garden.

She said: "He was pathetic - he had a knife but I think he was more scared than
I was."

The victim was left shaken but uninjured.

Hours after her ordeal she encountered her attacker again.

She and her mother passed the man, who was hanging around with friends, as they
walked to a friend's home to Promenade Court.

The man who hours ago had threatened her with a knife turned round and asked for
20p for the phone.

"I knew it was him but I don't know if he recognised me. It was a real shock to
see him standing there as if nothing had happened.  We went straight into my
friend's house and phoned the police."

Today police investigations were continuing.

The man was in his late teens, 5ft 6, slim and pale.

Anyone with information should contact Grampian Police on 01224 386000.

Police arrived within the hour to discuss the new information with the victim.

But when they went back to find the man he had gone.

Inspector Adrian Berkley said the call had not been treated as urgent because it
was not an "ongoing" incident.

He said that while it could have been helpful to get a unit round faster, there
hadn't been anyone available and urgent calls took priority.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                January 14, 2002

I saw my mugger just hours later; Young nurse tells of terror attack ordeal

BYLINE: adargie

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Murders/violentcrime; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 345 words


fear: A YOUNG nurse who fought off an armed mugger was terrified when she came
face-to-face with him again just hours later.

Her attacker actually approached her begging for money without realising who she
was.

The 22-year-old Seaton woman was walking down a dark lane minutes from her home
when the attacker first struck.

He brandished a kitchen knife and demanded she hand over her purse.

The woman feared she was going to be raped.

She said: "I was walking down the lane off School Road and I heard footsteps
behind me.

"I didn't think anything of it until he walked past me then turned round and
came back at me.

"He was staring straight at me and I saw he had a knife.

"I thought he was going to rape me and I started screaming and hitting him. I
was terrified." But when she fought back the cowardly attacker fled ditching his
weapon in a garden.

She said: "He was pathetic - he had a knife but I think he was more scared than
I was." The victim was left shaken but uninjured.

Hours after her ordeal she encountered her attacker again.

She and her mother passed the man, who was hanging around with friends, as they
walked to a friend's home to Promenade Court.

The man who hours ago had threatened her with a knife turned round and asked for
20p for the phone.

"I knew it was him but I don't know if he recognised me. It was a real shock to
see him standing there as if nothing had happened.  We went straight into my
friend's house and phoned the police." Today police investigations were
continuing.

The man was in his late teens, 5ft 6, slim and pale.

Anyone with information should contact Grampian Police on 01224 386000.

Police arrived within the hour to discuss the new information with the victim.

But when they went back to find the man he had gone.

Inspector Adrian Berkley said the call had not been treated as urgent because it
was not an "ongoing" incident.

He said that while it could have been helpful to get a unit round faster, there
hadn't been anyone available and urgent calls took priority.


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           January 15, 2002, Tuesday

US IS FEARFUL OF OLYMPIC TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 446 words


America's security chief yesterday warned there is no guarantee the Winter
Olympics will be safe from a terrorist attack. Tom Ridge, appointed by President
Bush in the wake of the September 11 attacks to oversee efforts to improve the
nation's security, said the Salt Lake City games were at risk of attack.

The games open in less than a month and include a pounds 210 million security
plan, the most expensive in Olympic history.

Mr Ridge went to Utah to examine the plans and yesterday he said: 'They've done
everything I believe is humanly and technologically possible - but that still
means it's not fail-safe.

'We should operate under the assumption that there are still some sympathisers
or cells in the US.

'We know they're an audacious group - and that this is a very, very
sophisticated group.'

The security plan for the games includes the use of closed circuit television
systems in the city, an innovation in the US where its use in public areas is
virtually unknown.

More than 2,000 soldiers are tobe on the streets, armoured police and army
vehicles will be parked near stadiums and there will be a no-fly zone over the
area used for many of the events.

During the opening and closingceremonies, which security chiefs think are a
prime target, all flights in and out of the city will be grounded, and Salt Lake
City's airport will become the first in the US to screen all luggage for
explosives.

His warning came as it was revealed the US government fears Osama bin Laden and
his closest associates gave the go-ahead to a spectacular terrorist attack
before the war in Afghanistan began.

Stephen Hadley, Mr Bush's deputy national security adviser, said: 'We don't know
how muchthey have in the can. What we worry about is that there are operations
already trained, populated, planned and funded, and they are simply waiting for
an opportunity.'

American fears centre on the fact that the September 11 attacks involved at
least two years of planning, with the key hijackers, including ringleader
Mohamed Atta, spending much of that time in the United States.

If another spectacular attack had been planned, its perpetrators could be on the
loose and undetected, waiting to strike.

A senior US official said: 'Al Qaida has been crippled in Afghanistan and
crippled in Pakistan, but it hasn't been put out of business by any stretch.
They are still capable of doing a lot of damage.'

The evidence from the war-torn country included a video tape found in a house
which led to the capture of 15 suspected terrorists in Singapore who were
allegedly plotting to blow up embassies including the British and US missions.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           January 15, 2002, Tuesday

NAKED MAN IN TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 163 words


DETECTIVES are hunting a man who made two indecent attacks on women in North
Wales.

The attacks took place in Mold and Buckley in the early hours of Sunday morning.

The first attack happened in Buckley, near the junction of Mold Road and
Springfield, between 1.30am and 2am.

The man, who was completely naked except for an item of clothing wrapped around
his face, tried to grab two women who were walking together.

The second attack was in the Elm Drive area of Mold when the naked man tried to
attack two young women.

Det Sgt Neil Anderson said: "He just seems to have appeared out of the shadows.
They were walking along and suddenly this man was running towards them.

"The victims were very distressed and alarmed.

"It must have been a terrifying ordeal for them and we would appeal for the
public to help us catch this man."

Anyone with information should contact Mold CID on 01352 707517, or call
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           January 15, 2002, Tuesday

I WAS HIT BY ACID BOMB IN BELFAST;
 TEENAGE SOLDIER RELIVES TERROR OF ATTACK

BYLINE: Rachel Newton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 423 words


A TEENAGE soldier from Cheshire last night relived the terrifying moment he was
hit in the face with an acid bomb.

Guardsman Andrew O'Connell, who is serving in Belfast, was struck as his
Grenadier Guards unit faced a loyalist mob in the early hours of Friday.

They had been sent in to break up groups of youths rioting near the Crumlin Road
on the dividing line between the Catholic and Protestant communities.

The 19-year-old needed emergency treatment on the street after he felt a burning
sensation on his face.

He said: "The bomb must have hit me as we were doing a rapid advance but I
didn't realise what had happened at first.

"It was only when we pulled back behind a wagon that I began to feel burning in
my mouth and on my cheek and lips.

"Then my leather gloves starting to melt and I realised I must have been hit by
an acid bomb.

"I shouted over to my officer and he rushed me to the medics who were just a few
feet behind us. It all happened so fast that I didn't have time to panic.

"I was doused with water which was painful but at the time I just felt lucky
that I got medical attention so fast.

Otherwise my injuries could have been serious."

As soon as he had been treated, Guardsman O'Connell went back on duty to face
the 60-strong mob.

"I was not in shock and I just wanted to get back out on the base line with my
colleagues. I didn't think twice about it, " he said.

"I hadn't seen the acid bomb coming because they are not easy to spot like
petrol bombs. But you have to expect this kind of thing.

"All sorts of missiles were flying through the air that night, bricks and
bottles and the like.

"I have been hit by a few bricks before now but never anything like an acid
bomb. I have got two burns on my cheek but luckily the doctors say I won't be
scarred."

He was among 82 police and troops hurt during the 48 hours of trouble which
followed a confrontation between Protestant protesters and Catholic parents
taking their children to the nearby Holy Cross Primary School.

The security forces keeping the two sides apart braved hundreds of petrol bombs,
fireworks, bricks and bottles as well as blast bombs and even a hand grenade
which failed to go off.

Guardsman O'Connell has been serving in Belfast for two months. He has another
four months to serve.

Company commander Major Johnny Frost paid tribute to Guardsman O'Connell's
colleagues for their actions.

He said: "It is good to see them looking after each other in the way they
should."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRONT LINE: A car burns during last week's rioting in Belfast near the
Holy Cross Primary School

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                January 16, 2002

Attack families to sue;
 WAR ON TERROR: The latest stories from around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 39 words


AMERICA: Four families of victims of the September 11 terror attacks have
launched legal action against the airlines whose planes were hijacked, it was
revealed yesterday, claiming they were negligent in security procedures.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          January 16, 2002, Wednesday

HOTEL CHAIN RECOVERING FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 109 words


LEISURE giant Whitbread yesterday said its Marriott hotels chain was recovering
from the impact of the September 11 terrorist atrocities.

The group has cut 300 jobs to offset a slump in demand but yesterday said sales
were holding steady despite a fall in tourists to the UK.

Like-for-like sales across the three, four and five-star hotel chain were down
0.4 per cent in the 44 weeks to January 5 on the same period a year earlier.

Over Christmas and New Year Marriott saw growth of 0.1 per cent.

Whitbread's chief executive David Thomas said: "Marriott has recovered well from
the position immediately following September 11."

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           January 17, 2002, Thursday

VICTIM RELIVES TERROR OF GANG'S CASH ATTACK

BYLINE: Stephen Rylance Cheshire Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 615 words


A VICTIM of a gang of burglars who have targeted pensioners across Chester has
told of his terrifying ordeal.

Roger Sands, 61, is one of seven residents in the area who have been targeted in
the last fortnight.

Mr Sands suffered a cut to his nose and bruising to his eye after three youths
burst into his Handbridge home and stole his life savings from the pockets of
his trousers.

One of the gang is believed to be as young as 14.

The housebound pensioner, who lives alone, was watching television at 7.20pm on
January 10 when the men forced their way in through a bedroom window before
ransacking the house. They held him down and rifled his pockets, taking pounds
915.

Mr Sands yesterday joined police in appealing for help to catch the gang.

Detectives are linking the attack with six other offences since January 7. Three
involved the burglars putting their hands over their victims' mouths and
restraining them.

Police believe the same gang could be responsible for three recent offences in
Ellesmere Port.

They are also exploring connections with a number of similar incidents elsewhere
in Merseyside and North Wales.

Mr Sands said: "I was sitting by the fire watching TV when the door burst open
and three youths rushed in.

"One of them grabbed me and put his hand over my mouth to stop me shouting. The
other put his hand over my face so I couldn't see.

"I told them all the money I had was pounds 15 in a tin. But one of them put his
hand in my pocket and got the money out." He added: " have been staying with my
niece since the attack and I'm very nervous about going back to the house. I
find it difficult to get out to a bank or post office so I keep my money on me.

"But I've learned my lesson about keeping money in the house.

"They have taken my life savings." Police believe the gang is deliberately
targeting houses which give a clue that an elderly person lives there, such as a
handrail outside. In Chester, the gang has struck in Vicars Cross, Handbridge,
Hoole, Elton and Upton.

The incidents at Ellesmere Port took place in Little Sutton, Great Sutton and
Whitby.

The victims are aged between 62 and 95 and most live alone.

Det Sgt Kevin Bennett, who is leading the hunt for the gang, said: "These are
appalling offences where the offenders have targeted elderly and vulnerable
people.

"These people have got away with a lot of money. If anyone knows of any young
people who have been on a spending spree we would ask that they let us know."
Police say the ringleader in the attack on Mr Sands is 18 to 20-yearsold, 5 ft 9
ins, of medium build, with brown hair. He wore a grey coat, dark blue jeans and
training shoes.

The second youth was aged 15-16, 5 ft 6in, with short, fair hair and wore a
light grey anorak.

The 14-year-old gang member is about 5ft 5ins.

Anyone with information should call police on 01244-350222.

Ordeal of woman who faced robbers

AN 88-YEAR-OLD woman was confronted by three masked men at about 9pm last Monday
at her home in Vicars Cross.

She was so badly shaken that police say it is still unclear whether anything was
stolen.

The next day, at Woodlands Drive in Hoole, a woman in her 80s was targeted. Her
bedrooms were ransacked and cash was stolen.

An 80-year-old woman in Handbridge was confronted in her living room the same
day by a man who pushed her into a chair and put his hand over her mouth to stop
her screaming. The man fled empty-handed after he was confronted by a neighbour.

A 95-year-old Hoole woman was burgled of cash and jewellery and an elderly
couple were targeted in Elton last Wednesday when cash and jewellery was also
stolen.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WANTED: E-fits of the men wanted for questioning by police VICTIM:;
Roger Sands, who was held while the raiders rifled through his pockets

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 17, 2002

CITY AND BUSINESS EDITED BY STEPHEN KAHN; TERROR ATTACKS BLIGHT THISTLE

BYLINE: ANDREW JOHNSON

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 173 words


GLOOM from the terror attacks on the United States continues to take its toll on
Thistle Hotels.

Chief executive Ian Burke said yesterday there were few signs of an upturn as
foreign business people and tourists refused to travel to Britain.

And marketing campaigns to appeal to British travellers were not enough to
prevent falls in occupancy rates and turnover.

He said the terror attacks happened just when the company believed trade was
recovering from the effects of the foot-andmouth outbreak.

"We were beginning to see signs of strong turnover growth for September, " he
said.

"Now we are not seeing a trend up or down."

But he added steps taken to reduce costs by cutting the workforce by 570 staff
meant the firm was in better shape to meet market conditions.

Analysts believe the company will make profits around GBP 45million, down from
estimates of GBP 50million or more for the year to December.

Thistle said turnover had fallen 5.9 per cent to GBP 305million. The shares fell
5 mp to 112p.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            January 18, 2002, Friday

REPUBLICANS 'CASHING IN' ON MURDER OF POSTMAN;
 MAN SHOT IN TERROR ATTACK DREADS COMING FACE-TO-FACE WITH HIS WOULD-BE KILLERS

BYLINE: Gemma Murray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 620 words

HIGHLIGHT: LUCKY TO BE ALIVE: former postman Sammy Brush with his UDR statue;
Picture: Brian Little


DANNY McColgan was the fourteenth postal worker to be killed by terrorists
during the Troubles.

Postman Sammy Brush could have been another statistic. He was shot by IRA gunmen
in Pomeroy in l981 but survived. He tells GEMMA MURRAY how that incident has
affected his life.

SAMMY Brush was on his regular post run in Ballygawley back in 1981 when he was
set-up by terrorists who lured him with a phoney letter to a farmhouse in the
Tyrone countryside.

He managed to escape with his life but still suffers from the injuries of eight
bullet wounds.

No one was caught for his attempted murder and he still lives in "fear and
dread" of coming face-to-face with his would-be killers.

Mr Brush is today scathing about the "manipulation" of 20-year-old Mr McColgan's
murder, which he has found "sickening".

He said the republican movement had killed numerous postmen, school bus drivers
and Ulsterbus drivers - "sitting ducks" - who died because they were easy
targets who served the whole community.

A father-of-four, he joined the postal service in the footsteps of a predecessor
who was also injured in an IRA bomb a few years earlier.

Aged 38 when he was attacked, Mr Brush was also a part-time UDR sergeant and
local councillor - factors he believes increased his profile as a terrorist
target.

He vividly remembers the events of June 13, a day that was to shape the rest of
his life.

"It was Saturday and I was almost finishing my run. It was about a quarter to
one and I was on my way back into Ballygawley and had one letter, first-class,
typewritten, white, about nine by four envelope: I can remember it well," he
said.

Entering a lane, he approached a single-storey farmhouse.

"I put the letter through the letterbox and, just as I was turning away, one
gunman came out."

The sniper fired, hitting him on the left side of his chest, partially covered
by body armour.

"The second missed the body armour, hitting my right shoulder, passing through
the right lung and out," he said.

"It just missed my spine but cut the nerves to the right hand as well."

His ordeal wasn't over yet. A second gunman appeared and, as he attempted to
escape, fired at least another eight shots.

Mr Brush's only line of defence was his 38 revolver, acquired on the advice of
his then company commander in the UDR, former UUP MP Ken Maginnis.

He fired four shots before making his getaway to the village police station.

Ironically, the friend who rushed him to hospital, officer George Gilliland, was
killed in an IRA attack on the station four years later.

"It's still hard to talk about it, although in all honesty it's quite clear in
my mind. It's one of those things I don't think I'll ever forget," he said.

Describing postmen as "sitting ducks", Mr Brush reflected that threats against
postmen had been fulfilled before - Stanley Adams was among them, cut down near
Pomeroy a few years previously.

Mr Brush has been galled by republican propaganda in the wake of Mr McColgan's
murder, claiming republican terrorists were always very good at setting up "easy
targets".

He is "fully behind" the unions' reaction this week but regrets that he never
received their assistance when he tried to secure alternative work within the
postal service.

"I'm glad to see they've wakened up but I'm just wondering why it took so long,"
he said.

No one was ever charged with his attack.

" I'm still living in fear to a certain extent, still living in dread," he said.

"It's annoying to think that these people who did this to me are now free to
walk the streets without fear or favour and I'm just wondering, will I meet
them, and what will happen if I do?"

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            January 18, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: FIND THEM!;
 MASSIVE HUNT FOR SUICIDE TERROR ATTACK SUSPECTS ABD AL-RAHIM UNKNOWN KHALID IBN
AL-JUHANI RAMZI BINALSHIBH MUHAMMAD; SA'ID ALI HASAN

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 367 words


AMERICA has unveiled pictures and video images of five alleged terrorists it
wants to catch before they commit suicide attacks.

The five men were on videos found in a ruined house used by Mohammed Atef, one
of Osama bin Laden's top deputies, destroyed in an American air raid which is
thought to have killed the terror chief.

The videos show the men talking to a camera and American attorney-general John
Ashcroft said they were delivering messages that they were willing to become
suicide terrorists.

One man hugs an AK-47 assault rifle in the videos, while the others face the
cameras.

Four of the five men have been identified as Abd Al-Rahim, Khalid Ibn Muhammad
Al-Juhani, Ramzi Binalshibh and Muhammad Sa'id Ali Hasan. The identity of the
fifth man is a mystery.

Binalshibh has already been named by American authorities as the man who
funnelled cash to the 19 September 11 hijackers from a hideout in the German
city of Hamburg.

Mr Ashcroft said: 'Little is known to law enforcement at this point about the
other individuals featured on the tapes.

'Investigators note that these men could be anywhere in the world.

'The video tapes depict young men delivering what appear to be martyrdom
messages from suicide terrorists.

'The men may be trained to commit future suicide attacks.'

Whether or not the attack is imminent is something we cannot determine.'

No award is on offer for the capture of the five men, and there the only one
with an outstanding arrest warrant is Binalshibh, who is wanted by German police
for questioning.

FBI director Robert Mueller said: 'The photographs are from a trove of valuable
information being recovered in Afghanistan.

'Every piece of information is potentially valuable. We hope that no one
hesitates to surface anything that could be of interest.'

Mr Ashcroft said it was possible all five men were dead, but added that American
authorities, who sent the pictures to police worldwide, did not know where the
men were.

Tapes of suicide bombers are common in the Middle East and are usually recorded
shortly before they go their deaths and released afterwards by the organisation
behind their attacks.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                January 18, 2002

FAMILY'S TERROR IN GANG ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 25 words


A VICIOUS gang, wielding knives and crowbars, burst into a home and stole GBP
2,000 of treasured jewellery in front of two terrified toddlers.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: hosk007

                     Copyright 2002 The Gloucester Citizen

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           January 19, 2002, Saturday

NEW LINK IN TERROR ATTACKS ON ELDERLY

BYLINE: Hayley Cuthbertson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 332 words


POLICE in Warwickshire are working with a team of Coventry detectives to catch
the thugs they believe are responsible for a string of terrifying burglaries at
the homes of elderly people.

Last week the Evening Telegraph reported that police were linking 15 incidents
in Coventry in the past month, including the deaths of two pensioners who had
been targeted by thieves.

Officers analysing the pattern of the crimes now think the same men have struck
at homes in Rugby, Princethorpe, Long Itchington and Leamington.

Det Chief Insp Dave Mirfield, from Chace Avenue police in Coventry, has called
on the help of an offender profiler from the National Crime Facility in
Bramshill, Hampshire.

Mr Mirfield said: "I am of the firm belief these offenders are motivated by
drugs and will stop at nothing to purchase drugs."

The four Warwickshire incidents took place over two days. Three of them happened
within a few hours on December 7.

Thieves burst into the home of an 88-year-old woman in Kay Close, Rugby, about
7.45pm on December 6.

The trio searched her house and stole cash and bank books before escaping on
foot, leaving the pensioner badly shaken.

The following day, a 72-year-old woman was attacked in her home in Southam Road,
Long Itchington, by a man who demanded cash.

When she tried to call police he pulled the telephone wire and socket from the
wall, grabbing her roughly.

About 40 minutes later, two men tricked their way into the home of a 76-year
-old woman in Leicester Street, Leamington, and stole cash.

About 6.30pm the same day, thieves targeted the home of a 77-year-old woman in
High Town, Princethorpe. One man stayed with her while the others searched the
house.

The team - codenamed Operation Delgardo - is also investigating the death of a
woman in her 80s in Allesley Old Road, Coventry, whose home had been ransacked
by thieves, and a blind grandfather who died two days after his life-savings
were stolen by burglars.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 19, 2002

Review: The Guardian Profile: Susan Sontag: The risk taker: A university student
at 15, she married at 17 and had a child at 19. Now one of America's foremost
writers and intellectuals, her outspoken stance on the US response to the
September 11 terrorist attacks has led to fierce criticism. Despite recurring
cancer, her energy is formidable, reports Gary Younge

BYLINE: Gary Younge

SECTION: Guardian Saturday Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 3987 words


The teenage Susan Sontag was lying on her living room floor, book in hand, when
her stepfather walked over with a warning. "Susan," he said, "if you keep on
reading so much you'll never get married." It was just after the war, a time of
economic affluence and cultural complacency in America, and from the backwater
that was home on a dirt road in Tucson, Arizona, there could have been little
evidence that Sontag's readings of Proust would come in handy in later life, let
alone be attractive to the opposite sex.

But the young Sontag could barely contain her mirth: "I just couldn't stop
laughing," she says. "I thought, 'Oh gosh, this guy's a perfect jerk. There must
be millions of people out there who want to know me.' I knew there must be loads
of people just like me, interested in the same stuff. Otherwise who else was
writing these books and drawing these paintings, and who were they doing it for?
I thought there were two worlds and if I could only get out of this one the
other one would be so much more fun."

It is this combustible mixture of self-confidence, optimism and tenacity, so
evident in her adolescence, that continues to drive the essayist, novelist and
playwright at 69. "Sontag stands for what is articulate, independent,
exploratory: for self as a work in progress," claims fiction writer, Hilary
Mantel. "During her four decades as thinker and cultural commentator, as
novelist, director and playwright, compliance has not been part of her brief."

"I'm very devoted to the idea of transformation," says Sontag. "It's the most
American thing about me and it's what I love most about America; you're allowed
to change your life, to reinvent yourself. That's what I look for in art and
arts; the willingness to give it up or move on, put it in a closet or put it in
storage."

And so it is, that after 20 years in storage, she has placed her essay-writing
skills on display in a collection entitled Where The Stress Falls. The book
gathers around 40 pieces penned between 1982 and last year - prefaces,
forewords, afterwords, tributes, articles and talks - in a display case for
Sontag's full range of interests and writing styles. The subject matter
stretches from her love for Bunraku, a Japanese form of puppet theatre, to her
account of directing Waiting For Godot in besieged Sarajevo.

The shortest is a 400-word note on Don Quixote, published in translation for the
National Tourist Board of Spain, while other pieces flit from praise for
individual artists, authors and filmmakers to broader themes, such as a century
of Italian photography or the inherent complications in literary translation.
The longest, and the one Sontag is most proud of, is on Roland Barthes: "The
single most ambitious essay in the whole collection and the one that took me
longest to write," she says. It is also the most emblematic.

If you're preparing for an intellectual journey through her book then you should
not travel light. Her work presumes a shared breadth and depth of intellect from
the reader as well as a common singularity of purpose. If dumbing-down is indeed
a cerebral virus of the modern age then Sontag has had her jabs. "I guess I
think I'm writing for people who are smarter than I am, because then I'll be
doing something that's worth their time. I'd be very afraid to write from a
position where I consciously thought I was smarter than most of my readers."

She does not read reviews: "I often feel I know what's wrong better than any
reviewer does," she once said. Her friends say this is a coping strategy - a
means of asserting some power over a situation over which she has no control. So
she measures success principally in terms of durability. "Is it an essay that
people will want to read 30 or 50 years from now, which is certainly not the
case with most essays," she asks. "It works for me if it is saying things which
are true, original and saying them in as eloquent, spirited, lively and lucid a
way as I can."

It is the essays that have made her famous. Over the past 40 years her voice has
been marked, first and foremost, by a supreme intellectual confidence, a tone
evident from the first line of the first essay (Notes on Camp) that made her
name in 1964: "Many things in the world have not been named. And many things
that have been named, have never been described." From then on she became best
known for the occasional declamatory remark: "America is founded on genocide";
"the quality of American life is an insult to the possibilities of human
growth"; and "the white race is the cancer of history" are just three sparky
sentences she threw into the tinder box of an America at war with the world and
itself in the mid-60s. But more common was a subtle, if strident, tone that
preferred complexity to simplicity and met intellectual and emotional challenges
head on. Her account of a trip to Hanoi in 1968 reveals an individual both
politically dedicated and personally conflicted at a time when loyalty was
supposed to be determined by the camp you were in rather than the ideas that you
held.

Susan Rosenblatt was born in 1933 in New York city. Her parents, Mildred and
Jack, spent most of their time in Tientsin, China, where her father was a fur
trader, leaving Susan, and later her younger sister, Judith, to be looked after
by her Irish-American nanny Rosie, whom Sontag remembers as "an enormous, benign
elephant". When Susan was five, her mother returned from China on her own,
saying Jack would soon follow. A few months later, when he still had not
arrived, her mother took Susan aside during lunch break and said he had died of
tuberculosis. She then sent her daughter back to school.

The episode is illustrative of Sontag's emotionally spartan childhood, which
produced a self-contained but not insular child. "The most meaningful
relationship I had as a child was in my head. I adored my fragile, withholding
mother, who was not very maternal. I had a sister who I was not close to, whom I
belatedly befriended at my mother's death- bed. There was no support or
encouragement. I experienced childhood as though it were a prison sentence. I
never wanted to look back because there was nothing I wanted to take with me."

The family was always on the move: to New Jersey, then Florida and then Tucson,
Arizona. When Susan was 12 her mother married Captain Nathan Sontag, an army air
corps pilot. The children took his name, but her stepfather never formally
adopted them. Sontag still refers to him as "Mr Sontag". She finally escaped at
a precociously early age: at 15 she went to study for a semester at Berkeley.
While waiting to register, she overheard a conversation between two older
students about Proust that confirmed her arrival in a world in which she would
be more comfortable. "I thought, 'that's how it's pronounced'. I'd been saying
it all wrong. I thought, it's all going to be great."

The responsibilities of adulthood came on suddenly. By 17 she had married a
sociology lecturer, 28-year-old Phillip Rieff. By 19, she had given birth to a
son, David, who is now a journalist and to whom she remains very close. "The
most meaningful relationship I've had in my life was with my child," she says,
describing parenting as "an upgrading experience". They moved to Boston, where
Sontag studied philosophy at Harvard and let her mind marinate in the work of
the great philosophers. Herbert Marcuse stayed with them for a year. "The
culture I was involved in had absolutely no relation to anything contemporary.
My idea of modernity was Nietzsches thinking about modernity."

With her late teens taken up with books, marriage and motherhood she had
bypassed the traditional joys of adolescence. And it was in search of them that
she divorced Phillip and headed for New York at 26, with her seven-year-old son.
The end of her marriage marked the beginning of her adolescence. She says: "I
had a very enjoyable adolescence from 27 to about 35, which coincided with the
60s - I enjoyed them in a way people much younger experienced them. I was
practically 30 and I learned to dance. I became a dancing fool." She took a
series of editing and lecturing jobs, thus starting a financially precarious and
intellectually enriching career.

While she is best known for non-fiction, it is fiction that she most enjoys
writing. Roger Straus, a close friend and editor at Farrar, Straus Giroux who in
1963 published her first novel, The Benefactor, says fiction interested her most
from the beginning, "perhaps, because the writers she admired most were
novelists. I remember her then as very intense, very pretty and very interested
in absolutely everything." The Death Kit, her second novel released four years
later, received mixed reviews and modest sales, which Straus says "she took in
her stride".

But in between came Against Interpretation, which included Notes on Camp and
outlined a theory of her own artistic sensibilities - railing against
"interpretive criticism and mimetic art" in favour of an appreciation of
artistic work for what it is rather than what we would like it to be. "Suddenly,
she had a very high profile," recalls Straus. "From then on Susan Sontag was a
name to be conjured with." It is from this reputation that she has long been
trying to escape and why this current collection of essays has been so long
coming. She says it represents a longer span of work than any of the previous
collections "and the reason is that I've been trying to kick the habit of
writing essays. From the beginning they received what was, in my eyes, a
surprising amount of interest, which was disorienting. But it was also
seductive.

"The fiction for several reasons fell to the side. I lost confidence. I knew how
to write essays. I was at the top of my form and maybe at the top of the form
but I didn't feel I was the best fiction writer in the world or in my country or
the English-speaking world." But then came two novels which were released to
widespread if not universal acclaim. First, in 1992 Volcano Lover, the
fictionalised account of the triangular relationship between Lord Hamilton, his
wife Emma and her lover, Horatio Nelson, and then, in 2000, In America, the tale
of a Polish actress who gives up her career and resettles in California hoping
to set up a commune, for which Sontag won a National Book Award. "It was only
when I'd written two novels I really liked that I thought I could permit myself
to collect the essays I felt were worth saving. I do forgive myself for waiting
that long.

Never having had a regular job she has not had to negotiate the constraints of
an institution. She has no regular working regime or timetable, no structure
other than that which she imposes episodically on herself. "I don't feel the
need to write every day or even every week. But when I get started on something
I just sit for 18 hours and suddenly realise that I have to pee. Many days I
start in the morning and suddenly it's dark and I haven't gotten up. It's very
bad for the knees."

But nor has she known the security of a regular pay check. "Money was always a
problem," says Straus. "It's only in the past 15 years that she's really been
comfortable." Sontag says, "It was okay because I didn't look on it as a
sacrifice. I could get along without doing things I didn't want to. I was helped
by a series of fellowships and grants - I had two Rockefellers, two Guggenheims
and a MacArthur fellowship. But I didn't want a car or a television set, or a
house in the country. I just wanted to pay the rent and make sure David had what
he needed."

In her top floor flat on Paris's Left Bank, overlooking the raging high tides of
the Seine, she strides purposefully through the sparse living room. She is a
tall, commanding physical presence dressed in comfortable, casual black.

A conversation with Sontag is a breathless event, a narrative operating under
its own steam. Continuous in its logic, it careers off on endless and lengthy
diversions without ever quite losing sight of the main path. "Everything makes
me think of something else," she says. "It's the story of my life." But it is
nevertheless a conversation. Rare among high-profile thinkers, Sontag does not
simply bombard you with anecdotes or even appear to enjoy holding court. She is
interested in engaging and being engaged. You will leave with a book list ("I
know you're gonna love this"), but more importantly with the impression that she
would be even happier if you left her with one too. "She's a very grounded
person," says actress and long-time friend Vanessa Redgrave. "Probably Sarajevo
has been part of her grounding."

She loves going to the cinema where, says her friend and Italian translator,
Paolo Dionardo she insists on sitting in the centre of the third row. "They are
usually small art house cinemas, so it actually makes sense because you feel
you're part of the film," he says.

"Susan's like a brilliant older sister," says writer and friend Darryl Pinckney.
Sontag has little patience with the journalistic shorthand she believes often
either distorts or disfigures meaning. She has described herself as bisexual but
remains guarded about her private life. Pinckney says, "I think people get
annoyed when they can't get her to talk in terms they want her to talk in.
Nobody makes her use words she doesn't respect." Dionardo first met her after
she had rejected the first Italian translation of Volcano Lovers, not done by
him, and asked if he would do another one. He went to New York to work on it
with Sontag, who reads and understands the language. "We worked on the book
together word by word," he recalls. "She loves language. She can discuss the
meaning of just one word for hours."

The result is a woman often depicted as formidable, arrogant and doctrinaire.
Many people who knew her reputation before they actually got to know her admit
feeling apprehensive about their first meeting. At the beginning of their
friendship Pinckney recalls her saying: "Look, you've got to stop being scared
and say what you think." She is far less intimidating than her image would
suggest. True, she peppers her sentences with highbrow references, but they are
always there to illustrate her point rather than illuminate her brilliance. She
is sufficiently confident about her own intellect not to make you feel
self-conscious about your own. She doesn't expect you to know what she knows
because she presumes you know something else that she doesn't.

And alongside her intellect she has an acute emotional intelligence, equally at
home talking about feelings as well as ideas, but very aware that feelings can
inform ideas, and vice-versa. "I feel that my public persona is just an
accumulation of misunderstandings and misperceptions, and my impulse is just to
flee," she says. "How in the world would I begin to correct it?"

But while her public perception is unfair, it does not come from nowhere. Some
of it stems from more awkward aspects of her personality. Even her friends
describe her as "proud" and occasionally "severe". "She doesn't suffer fools,
and she'll meet an argument head on," says Alan Little, a BBC reporter who met
and befriended Sontag in Sarajevo during the Bosnian conflict.

A review of Where The Stress Falls in the Washington Post, accused her of a
haughty writing style: "Her manner now is virtually indistinguishable from that
of George Steiner in his lugubrious moments as Last Intellectual, striking that
solemn pose as embodiment of high seriousness - perched atop the Nintendo ruins
of western civilization," wrote Scott McLemee.

She is not averse to self-praise, saying things of herself which are true but
which others might leave for someone else to point out. "I'm one of the very few
essayists still in print," she says. "My collected essays have been around for
20 years and never gone out of print. They've been translated into 28 languages.
That's unusual."

"She doesn't have guile," says Pinckney. "In some ways she's strikingly
innocent. In this day and age of celebrity, when people want to be talked about
and written about, she wants to be known for her work but not for herself. She
comes from a different tradition." But much criticism stems from who she is,
rather than what she has ever said or written. Some of it is undoubtedly rooted
in sexism. "Being a woman is a cliche," she says. "If you are or were good
looking, as I was when I was young, then it's a double cliche. Being a smart
woman is just fair game. With intelligent women there is a feeling that it is
inappropriate."

One of the worst things, she believes, that was ever said about her was supposed
to be a compliment from Jonathan Miller, who remains a good friend. "He said in
an interview that I was the 'smartest woman in America'. I just felt covered in
shame and humiliation to be described in this way. First of all it's so
offensive and so insulting. It so much assumes that you're doing something which
is not appropriate for the category that is being named, namely being a woman.
Secondly, it isn't true because it can't be true because there is no such
person."

Her transatlantic lifestyle, shared between New York, Paris and, to a lesser
extent, Berlin and London, seems to be born from a deeply ambivalent attitude to
the US, which many American commentators understand as a sign of her aloofness.
"I don't like America enough to want to live anywhere else except Manhattan,"
she says. "And what I like about Manhattan is that it's full of foreigners. The
America I live in is the America of the cities. The rest is just drive-through."

And she is an intellectual member of what she describes as "that obsolete
species - an old-fashioned liberal democrat" in a country that has little love
for either liberals or intellectuals. It is a tension that propelled her into
the public eye following a short article she wrote in the New Yorker following
the attacks on September 11. The article questioned the use of the word
"cowardly" to describe the attacks, accused commentators of infantilising the
public, and ended with: "Our country is strong, we are told again and again. I
for one don't find this entirely consoling. Who doubts that America is strong?
But that's not all America has to be."

Sontag says: "I hope I'm not getting timid in my older years. I thought I was
writing centrist, obvious mainstream commonsense. I was just saying, let's
grieve together, let's not be stupid together." The reaction was ferocious; she
received hate mail, death threats and calls to be stripped of her citizenship.
For a few days she was part of the story. The New Republic ran an article asking
what did Osama bin Laden, Saddam Hussein and Susan Sontag have in common. The
answer: they all wish the destruction of America.

Sontag says: "I still think mine was the right response. But I was quite
astonished. It all goes very, very deep. The American way of looking at
themselves is that the US is an exception and doesn't have a destiny like other
nations. Anytime anything happens in the States, people are indignant. Americans
are always talking about losing their innocence, but then they always get it
back again. They say 'Before, we were innocent; before, we were naive, trusting,
gullible. But now we realise that it can happen here and we too are vulnerable.'
My deepest fear is that this time it's true. The country does feel different.
The forces of conformism and mindless acquiescence to authority have certainly
been strengthened."

Friends most commonly describe her as generous - with her time, contacts,
intellect and money. "When we were both living in Berlin and I had no money,"
recalls Pinckney, "there was a time when Susan took me to dinner 30 nights in a
row." Where The Stress Falls is itself a huge act of generosity. Around half the
collection is made up of tributes to other writers, artists and filmmakers. She
has singlehandedly saved a number of less-well known writers from extinction by
championing their work and pushing for their publication. "She's very interested
in other writers," says Straus. "She brought us a number of important authors we
would never have heard of."

Sontag says: "I'm very ambitious. But I don't think I'm competitive. I feel that
everybody who is still doing good things is part of an informal association or
company that strengthens others. One wouldn't want to be the last good writer or
the last serious writer or the last serious person on the planet. You have to
feel that there are people out there who are doing things that you admire and
respect."

Sontag is lucky to be alive. In 1976 she was diagnosed with metastatic breast
cancer. "I was supposed to be in stage four, which was terminal," she says
matter-of-factly. "I sought good treatment when doctors were telling me to go on
a trip and enjoy myself." She had no medical insurance, but friends had a
collection so that she could find the best treatment available.

"They told me I had two years, they told David (her son) I had six months. I
said, 'I just wanted to see if there was a possibility'. I sought experimental
treatment here in Paris and it worked. So back in New York I'm called the
miracle patient." Her response was not just medical but intellectual. In 1978
she published Illness as Metaphor, in which she argued that society has obscured
and mystified its relationship to sickness by transforming it into a metaphor
for social, cultural or moral decay. In what is probably her most widely read
work, she used her own experience as a starting point for understanding the
issue. The essay never strayed into the self-indulgent or autobiographical, but
looked out to the sense of listless inertia that blights patients when what is
needed is aggression and energy.

Once again she has been struck, this time by a rare form of uterine cancer,
diagnosed in 1998, for which the survival rate is only 10% after five years. For
several months, a couple of years ago, she was in great pain, unable to walk,
and living on morphine derivatives. "A few times I seriously thought we were
going to lose her," says Andrew Wylie, her literary agent. "This time, it's a
different cancer," says Sontag, "but I'm in an early stage."

Facing down apparently certain death, only to confront it again in a similar
form but a different place, she says, forces a permanent re-evaluation of your
sense of self. "There is something about facing a mortal illness that means you
never completely come back. Once you've had the death sentence, you have taken
on board in a deeper way the knowledge of your own mortality. You don't stare at
the sun and you don't stare at your own death either. You do gain something from
these dramatic and painful experiences but you also are diminished. There's
something in you that becomes permanently sad and a little bit posthumous. And
there's something in you that's permanently strengthened or deepened. It's
called having a life."

It was this mindset that took her to a besieged Sarajevo in the early 90s to
direct Beckett's Waiting For Godot to the sound of bombing and sniper fire. Alan
Little, who attended the opening night, described her presence there as being of
"tremendous symbolic importance at a time when symbols really mattered. She
didn't just swan in for three days and then leave. She stayed and worked." But
she says few of her American friends understood her commitment. "I would come
back and my friends would say, 'How could you be in a place that could be so
dangerous?' And I thought, it's okay. I didn't think I was invulnerable, because
I had a couple of very close calls, and I don't think I'm a thrill-seeker. I
just thought it's okay to take risks, and if ever I get to the point when I
don't then take me to the glue factory."

Where The Stress Falls is published next week by Jonathan Cape at pounds 17.99


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                January 19, 2002

17 held in round-up of terror suspects
 Detectives question men about possible links to al Qaida network and terror
attacks

BYLINE: Jacqui Walls

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.24

LENGTH: 458 words


DETECTIVES were yesterday questioning 17 people arrested in the UK's largest
round-up of terrorist suspects since September 11.

The group were being held in Leicester where they were being quizzed about
possible links to the al Qaida network and alleged plans for terrorist attacks
in Europe.

They are suspected of engaging in credit card fraud to raise money for
terrorism.

Nine of the group, all men aged 23 to 40, have been arrested for suspected
terrorism offences.

The remaining eight people, including two women, are being held in connection
with immigration matters.

Sixteen of the group were arrested in Leicester yesterday and on Thursday.

The 17th suspect, a 27-year -old man held for suspected terrorist offences, was
arrested in north London and taken to Leicester for questioning with the others.

Specialist teams completed searches at six addresses in Leicester and one in
London and searches were continuing at two Leicester homes yesterday.

The arrests were made in a joint operation between Leicestershire Constabulary
and the Metropolitan Police anti-terrorist branch, supported by the Immigration
Service.

Another two men appeared before Leicester magistrates on Thursday accused of
being members of the al Qaida network.

The two Algerian men, believed to have been arrested in Leicester in September,
were remanded in custody until January 24.

Baghdad Meziane, 36, was charged with directing al Qaida, inciting an act of
terrorism overseas and four charges relating to the financing of terrorism.

Brahim Benmerzouga, 30, was charged with membership of al Qaida, four charges
relating to the financing of terrorism, possession of an article for the
purposes of terrorism and possession of racially inflammatory material.

Benmerzouga is accused of possessing 19 videos containing visual images intended
to stir up racial hatred and a solar-powered battery pack suspected of being
used in terrorism.

Mezaine and Benmerzouga are believed to have been two of three men arrested in
Leicester on September 26 last year.

The third, Kamel Daoudi, 23, was returned to France after fleeing when police
swooped on suspects there. Another suspect Djamel Beghal, 35, who is accused of
recruiting for al Qaida, is also being held in France.

Reports have claimed Beghal recruited London -born shoe-bomb suspect Richard
Reid and Zacharius Moussaoui, who had lived in Brixton, south London and is
accused in the US of being the 20th September 11 hijacker.

Reid yesterday pleaded not guilty to all nine charges he faces after allegedly
trying to blow up a transatlantic airliner.

The 28-year-old Briton was remanded in custody to a federal prison in Boston.

SHOE-BOMB SUSPECT: Richard Reid yesterday denied all charges

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                January 19, 2002

17 held in round-up of terror suspects; Detectives question men about possible
links to al Qaida network and terror attacks

BYLINE: Jacqui Walls

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 22 words


DETECTIVES were yesterday questioning 17 people arrested in the UK's largest
round-up of terrorist suspects since September 11.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: HANDS-ON Motor mechanic Kevin Francis and Prestige Auto owner Paul
Simmonds teach Dylan Jones, Richard Sturley, Alun Rees and Karl Jones motor
repair skills.

                 Copyright 2002 Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                January 19, 2002

Terror attack 'to use new recruits'

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 434 words


American intelligence agents fear Al-Qaida is to unleash a new wave of
terrorists from south-east Asia and Africa to outwit security forces, it emerged
last night.

The Indonesian, Filipino, Malaysian and African operatives may be used to get
round American security checks which focus on Arabs, Washington officials
believe.

The fear has grown after the arrest of suspected Al-Qaida terrorists in
Singapore and Malaysia, and increased American involvement in the Philippines,
where extremists Muslim separatist group Abu Sayaf is fighting a bitter guerilla
war.

A senior official told the Washington Post newspaper: "The next face of this is
not going to be an Arab face, but possibly Indonesian, Filipino, a Malaysian
face, or even African.

"They understand the security profile we are operating on. They are trying to
attack. We have evidence of that."

And the case of Briton Richard Reid, who is accused of trying to blow up a
transatlantic flight with explosives concealed in his shoes, also raised
concerns. Reid is a British citizen and would not have been picked out by
intelligence systems designed to find the most high-risk people entering
America.

The newspaper reported that intelligence officials who interrogated Al-Qaida
prisoners in Afghanistan learned planning was under way before September 11 to
strike an American city using terrorists from outside the Middle East.

Fears have also been fuelled by the fact that two of the dead hijackers, Khalid
Almihdhar and Nawaf Alhazmi, were videoed at an Al- Qaida meeting in Malaysian
capital Kuala Lumpur in 2000. And the so-called 20th hijacker Zacarias
Moussaoui, who is accused of having conspired with the 19 dead men to commit
kamikaze attacks, is also believed to have visited Malaysia twice in 2000.

Earlier this month, Singapore arrested 13 men suspected of having plotted to
blow up embassies, including the British mission to the Asian state, American
naval vessels and a bus used by American service personnel.

Eight of the suspects are alleged to have been trained at Al-Qaida camps in
Afghanistan. The American government has repeatedly warned that Al-Qaida has
cells in more than 60 countries around the world.

It has already struck targets in Africa, when it bombed the American embassies
in Kenya and Tanzania in 2000, and during the trials of the men accused of being
involved in the attacks, it was claimed it had cells which included citizens of
both Africa countries.

The American government has sent special forces to train Filipino troops
involved in the Abu Sayaf conflict.


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                January 20, 2002

UK terror detentions 'barbaric': MPs attack 'concrete coffins' in prison

BYLINE: Martin Bright, Nick Pelham Burhan Wazir and Jason Burke

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 694 words


BRITISH terror suspects are being held in conditions condemned as barbaric by
the Home Office's own medical experts and described by lawyers who have visited
them as 'concrete coffins'.

Opposition politicians called last night for an immediate investigation into
conditions in Belmarsh high-security prison in south-east London, where seven
Islamist suspects have been held without charge since their arrest last month.

Claims that the detainees - not convicted of any offence - have been denied
access to lawyers and had their basic human rights violated come as police and
MI5 draw up plans for fresh arrests.

The Belmarsh detainees are locked up for 22 hours a day and do not see daylight.
On detention they were given no access to lawyers or to their families, while
being given five days to appeal against their internment.

They are unable to speak to their families in Arabic without the presence of an
approved translator who visits once a week. In some cases, clearance for phone
calls to lawyers was approved only last week.

Complaints lodged with the Home Secretary have received no response. These
include concerns about men being subjected to body searches by women prison
officers, unacceptable to Muslims. They have also been denied prayer facilities,
except for 15 minutes on a Friday without an imam.

Gareth Peirce, who repre sents several detainees, told The Observer : 'These men
have been buried alive in concrete coffins and have been told the legislation
provides for their detention for life without trial.'

Additional evidence has been provided by Djamel Ajouaou, one of eight foreign
nationals seized before Christmas. He left for his home country, Morocco, rather
than face further internment.

Speaking from his mother's home in Tangiers, Ajouaou, who worked as a volunteer
translator for Peirce, said prison guards had mocked and abused the terror
suspects. 'The guards shouted at us, called us Bin Ladens, and threatened us if
we didn't strip naked,' said Ajouaou. Guards also refused him medication for
depression.

Liberal Democrat Home Affairs spokesman Norman Baker said: 'These are very
serious allegations that require immediate investigation. If true, it is
shameful that the British Government has allowed these men to be treated in this
way, especially when they have been convicted of no crime. Both the British and
US governments have lost the moral high ground.'

In 1996, the Governments former chief medical officer, Sir Donald Acheson,
produced a stinging internal report to the Prison Service, concluding that
conditions in security units could contribute to mental illness. Amnesty
International said later that lack of adequate daylight, exercise and medical
treatment led to deterioration of mental and physical health.

The claims about Belmarsh will cause serious embarrassment to the Government,
under growing pressure to oppose the American treatment of Taliban and al- Qaeda
prisoners held in Cuba.

This week Amnesty International will meet lawyers representing men detained in
Britain under the new legislation. 'We want to ensure they are held in humane
conditions,' a spokesman said.

Muslim leaders joined the condemnation of conditions in Belmarsh. Dr Ghayasuddin
Siddiqui, leader of the Muslim Parliament, said his organisation will lodge a
complaint with the Government. 'The Government has expressed concerns over the
treatment of prisoners in Guantanamo Bay - yet they are doing the same thing
here.'

Inayat Bunglawala of the Muslim Council of Britain said: 'The war on terrorism
was meant to be a war on behalf of civilised values. It is crucial that the
values we hold dear are upheld.' Roger Bingham of the civil rights organisation
Liberty said: 'These reports would be cause for concern if someone had been
convicted of a serious crime, but these people haven't even been charged.'

The Home Office said yesterday: 'All detainees enjoy the same rights as any
other category A prisoner. They have the same access to legal representation,
their families and their fellow prisoners.'

www.observer.co.uk/libertywatch

Liberty Watch campaign


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            January 21, 2002, Monday

COST IN JOBS OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 106 words


Up to 400,000 jobs may have been lost throughout the global civil aviation
industry as a result of the terror attacks in the US.

Academics at Cardiff University have undertaken a closer analysis of employment
fall-out within the industry following the September 11 atrocities.

The researchers at the University's Cardiff Business School conclude even more
jobs would have been lost if redundancy and early retirement programmes were not
so costly.

Their report will be presented today at a meeting of governments, employers and
workers on civil aviation in Geneva, organised by the International Labour
Organisation.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 21, 2002, Monday

BREEDING GROUNDS FOR TERROR;
 A NEW ATTACK AGAINST AMERICA COULD COME FROM ANY OF THESE HOT-SPOTS

BYLINE: Stephen White

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 828 words

HIGHLIGHT: FURY: Burning a Union Jack at an anti-West demo in Indonesia;; SPARK:
Anti -US protest; HOSTAGES: Terror boss Sabaya; ARREST: Hassan al-Turabi;
BATTLES: Separatist Abdul Gani Bhat


ANGER against the US over the "war on terror" continues to grow in the Arab
world.

But American intelligence chiefs warn that a fresh terrorist attack could come
from a country not yet seen as a hotbed of anti-US feeling.

Trying to stop it will be a diplomatic minefield if the drive to end terrorism
is not to be seen as a war against Islam.

Here, we assess the non-Arab countries that could pose the biggest threat to the
West.

INDONESIA Population: 228,437,870

HOME to the world's largest Muslim population and scene of increasing Islamic
fundamentalism - which has resulted in street riots mostly connected to domestic
issues.

When the bombing of Afghanistan began, there were widespread anti-US
demonstrations and students tried to storm the parliament building.

At the time, president Megawati Sukarnoputri said that no government had the
right to attack another country or seek to cleanse blood with blood.

Severe economic woes have seen many highly educated youngsters turn to Islam, as
a supposed answer to their problems.

CHECHNYA Population: 1,080,877

ISLAMIC warlords in the breakaway Soviet republic are known to have received
million of dollars in financing from al-Qaeda.

Chechens were among the last to surrender in Afghanistan and made up a large
proportion of Osama bin Laden's personal bodyguard.

Russia has been criticised for its hard-line war on the terrorists and its
effect on the civilian population, but there are fears that rebels in the area
have had access to Soviet military technology - including missing nuclear bombs
that can be packed into a suitcase.

Despite their relatively small number, the rebels have been blamed for
conventional bomb attacks in Moscow.

PHILIPPINES Population: 82,841,518

US TROOPS are already deployed to assist in operations against Islamic rebels in
the south of the country, sparking widespread anger.

One of the country's own terrorist groups, Abu Sayyaf, has ties to Osama bin
Laden and has taken a number of westerners hostage.

Many Filipinos joined al-Qaeda and there are reports that at least 50 managed to
get out of Afghanis-tan early and headed home.SOMALIA Population: 7,488,773

UP to 100 al-Qaeda members are known to operate in this war-torn country and
cells based here are blamed for the bombing of US embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania.

Somalian rebel group al-Ittihad al-Islam, known as Al Al, received financial aid
from Osama bin Laden.

American forces were driven out in 1993 after a mission went wrong, leaving 18
soldiers dead and 70 injured - the story is told in new film Black Hawk Down.

A US warship is now patrolling off the coast.

MALAYSIA Population: 22,229,040

A MONTH ago a judge sentenced three leaders of the Al-Ma'unah group to death and
16 members to life imprisonment for treason. The group were accused of trying to
topple the government.

The extremist Islamic movement caused a massive security alert 18 months ago
when they stole a huge cache of weapons from military armouries.

The group surrendered after a four-day stand-off with 2,000 troops, in which
they killed two hostages.

SUDAN Population: 36,080,373

OSAMA bin Laden lived in the country until 1996.

But the government claims to have expelled 3,000 Arab and African al-Qaeda
supporters since the attacks on September 11.

Hassan al-Turabi - an uncle of bin Laden's wife and a former member of the
government - is also presently under house arrest.

The Sudanese authorities are accused by the US of developing a germ-warfare
programme and are currently involved in a civil war with rebels in the south.

The country is also believed to be the location for terrorist training camps
closely linked to bin Laden's al-Qaeda group.

SINGAPORE Population: 4,300,419

THIRTEEN people were arrested in Singapore accused of links to Zacarias
Moussaoui, the man said to be the "20th hijacker" in the attacks of September
11.

All those arrested were said to be a "threat to national security" and planning
attacks on US and foreign targets in the country.

The suspects were members of Singapore-based Islamic group Jemaah Islamiyah,
which has been active for the past five years, controlled, say the government,
by elements operating from Malaysia to Afghanistan.

Documents and a videotape found in Afghanistan after the fall of Kabul and
passed to Singapore authorities are claimed to have foiled a planned terrorist
attack there.

KASMHIR Population: 8,600,000

HELD responsible for a suicide attack on India's parliament and home to the
world's most determined Islamic movements, which now number more than two dozen.

Many Kashmiris fought for al-Qaeda and many have now returned to the mountainous
province to continue the fight to break way from India.

But many of the militants accuse the West of falling to recognise their cause
and the victims of a war which has claimed up to 30,000 lives.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 22, 2002, Tuesday

POSTMAN JAILED FOR ATTACK ON GIRL OF 12;
 TERROR FOR TRUSTING PUPIL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 197 words


A POSTMAN who carried out a sex attack on a 12year-old girl after luring her
back to his flat was today starting a two and a half year jail sentence. 'It
doesn't take much imagination to work out what she must have been thinking and
fearing,' Judge Frank Chapman told 49-year-old John Corrigan.

He added: 'This girl was simply playing in the park and she needed a little help
from an adult because she felt she was being followed. You took advantage of
this.'

Corrigan of Riches Street, Wolverhamptonm admitted abducting and indecently
assaulting the girl and the judge also ruled he should stay on the sex offenders
register for the rest of his life.

Mr David Jones, prosecuting, said Corrigan helped the schoolgirl because she
felt she was being pestered by two other men in a Wolverhampton park.

He offered to give her a lift home but he made excuses and instead took her back
to his flat.

It was there, said Mr Jones, the girl was indecently assaulted by Corrigan - a
man she described as 'weird'.

After Corrigan went to another room the 'trembling girl' managed to get away and
after she told her mother what had happened the police were notified.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           January 22, 2002, Tuesday

BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY 2002: READY FOR ROUGH RIDE?;
 AMID WORRIES, OUR BUSINESS TEAM ASKS IF FIRMS ARE ... DEVASTATING BLOW: The
terror attacks in the US on September 11 had an effect on the economy

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1032 words


WARNINGS about the economic downturn have been rife in recent months and the
issue has remained high on the business and political agenda.

The scale of the September 11 terrorist attacks on the USA prompted industry
analysts to warn of potentially greater economic consequences.

Government help has been cited as a way of lifting business confidence in the
face of downturn and to help firms survive recession and recover.

Experts have said that small businesses in Coventry and Warwickshire could
weather the economic storm by taking positive action.

In the pre-Budget report, Chancellor Gordon Brown said Britain was better placed
than many countries to ride out a downturn.

The Evening Telegraph's business and industry team asked companies across the
region the question: "Is Coventry and Warwickshire well placed to resist the
economic downturn?"

DAVID McCULLOUGH, managing director, The Projects Network, Priors Hardwick.

"WE work in the financial services industry - not a happy place to be at the
moment selling IT project management.

"What's heartening for us is that as times get tougher and people discover cost
control and look for businesses like ours offering good value.

"If there's one reason why Coventry and Warwickshire is well placed to resist
the economic downturn, it's not because of where it is but because the area is
home to lots of businesses like us - new, keen to provide a real service, tight
on costs and suddenly looking much more attractive than our struggling
competitors in the South East."

ROBERT SHAW, director, Harry Shaw City Cruiser, Binley, Coventry.

"I DON'T think Coventry will be that badly hit by any downturn for the simple
reasons that we are not as reliant on manufacturing as we were and, secondly,
companies in that sector are now so efficient because they have been pared back
in earlier lean times.

"We seem to have more service industries and government departments in Coventry
than ever before and they are more immune to economic hard times than other
sectors.

"I know that retail companies were expecting a good Christmas but were more
worried about sales in January and February."

TONY LOWE, joint managing director, NPL Technologies, Nuneaton.

"OUR order book is strong and because of our continued investment in technology,
new facilities and skilled people we are not forecasting any significant
negative effects of a slowdown in the UK, Europe or global economy.

"We have major markets in overseas foundry tooling, Formula one and new car
model development which are currently buoyant.

"At the same time we have increased the flexibility of our skilled workforce and
kept our overheads under tight control, keeping us lean and strong to respond to
any slowdown that may come."

DAVID LESTER, head of commercial clients department, Blythe Liggins, Leamington.

"THE UK economy appears to be holding up relatively well compared to other
countries.

"There is no denying that the events of September 11 have resulted in a severe
change for the worse, particularly within the airline industry but also within
those industries which rely on manufacturing exports to the United States.

"Tourism is another area which is bound to be affected.

"However, there has not yet been an indication of any significant slowdown in
the UK consumer spending."

LIZ MILLETT, chief executive, City Centre Company, Coventry.

"I THINK everywhere and everyone will be vulnerable.

"Different sectors will be hit in different ways and it is good, for example,
that our economy is not heavily reliant on leisure tourism which is already down
because of September's events.

"Retail figures in Coventry are holding up well so consumer confidence is still
high.

"Indicators suggest that if we are hit by a large scale downturn we will be one
of the last economies to suffer and therefore any recession may be shorter lived
here."

PETER DEELEY, chairman, Deeley Group, Tile Hill, Coventry.

"A GLOBAL downturn will hit everywhere.

"I think Coventry will be affected because of the importance of manufacturing to
its economy.

"As a large commercial centre Coventry will have certain problem spots but that
will be of no difference to any other city.

"That said, if you take Coventry, Warwickshire and Solihull as a major sub
-region then I don't think we will fare as badly as some areas because there is
a wide spread of services and industries within the area."

GEORGE DICK, managing director, Travel Management Group, Leamington.

"THE effects of economic downturn were already beginning to be felt worldwide
when the dreadful events of September 11 served as a massive accelerant.

"There are signs already that the confidence to travel and to spend is slowly
returning to both individual and corporate clients.

"One of the reasons is the sheer quantity of travel and holiday bargains around.

"Travel Management Group is very confident about 2002 which is why we saw no
reason to curtail our development plans, bucking the general travel industry
trend."

DAVE ANDERSON, partner, Anderson and Ryan, Coventry Business Park.

"WE work in a specialist market which has not been affected by recent events and
the economic downturn.

"Show cars and limited editions are still in demand.

"There are several specialist automotive suppliers such as ourselves in Coventry
and Warwickshire and, although production in the major automotive manufacturers
may be marginally affected, we expect the small specialist companies supplying
niche markets to ride the downturn."

MARIE BAWDEN, partner, DA Owen and Co, Leamington.

"MANY businesses in the region have experienced a number of very successful
years and should have a solid and established financial base upon which to
consolidate and face an economic downturn.

"If, indeed, local business is threatened by recession, it is important to
realise that close management of overall cash flow will be an essential part of
any firm's survival kit.

"In difficult economic times it is also important to be prepared and to plan
ahead.

"The key message is to remain calm and think ahead."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           January 22, 2002, Tuesday

SKATEBOARD ATTACKERS;
 SCHOOLBOY'S TERROR AS THUGS MAKE OFF WITH HIS CHRISTMAS PRESENT

BYLINE: David Powell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 349 words


POLICE were last night hunting four young thugs who punched a terrified North
Wales boy in the stomach and stole his skateboard.

Richard Hughes, 11, was attacked by two boys and two girls who ran off with his
pounds 25 Christmas present in broad daylight on Sunday at 3pm.

The victim, who attends Borras Park School, was later comforted at home in
Hullah Lane, Wrexham.

His mum Carol Hughes said last night: "I think it's absolutely disgraceful. He
was very tearful and shaking. I just hugged him." North Wales Police said the
attack happened outside telephone kiosks in Dean Road.

Mrs Hughes said: "He had just been to Dean Road football field to see his
friend. He was coming back by himself by the Greyhound roundabout, waiting to
cross the road.

"Four children went up to him. The youngest one said, 'Give me a go on your
skateboard'.

"Richard said, 'No', and the eldest one said, 'Let him have a go or I'll hit
you!' "One of the girls went in front and the other went behind. They blocked
him in. Then one of the lads punched him in the stomach and he bent over.

They grabbed his skateboard and ran off." All four culprits wore sports clothes.
One of the girls was wearing a New York Yankee baseball cap.

Mrs Hughes added: "He just could not believe it. He came home and said, 'Oh mum,
someone has just hit me'." Carol and husband Nick tried to find the robbers. "We
jumped straight in the car and went looking round. Within five minutes we were
on the scene. We went everywhere but couldn't find them." But the couple
reported the incident to police. Mrs Hughes said: "Richard was quite nervous in
the police station giving descriptions.

"He's still quite shaken up to be honest. I wanted to give him a bit of freedom
so he could walk a quarter of a mile down the road. He's not allowed out when it
gets dark." The Hudson plain deck skateboard is black on top with black grip
tape.

The older boy was 13 or 14 and his accomplice was nine or ten. Both girls were
about 11 or 12.

Witnesses should contact Wrexham Police Station on 01978-290222

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIM: Richard Hughes is still shaken after the attack Picture:; VIC
CLEVELEY

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          January 23, 2002, Wednesday

PAKISTAN REJECTS INDIA BIKER GUN RAID CLAIMS;
 AFTERSHOCK: 'TERRORIST ATTACK' AS ARMED MEN ON MOTORBIKES ATTACK US CENTRE OF
CALCUTTA

BYLINE: Robert Porter An Israeli woman cries in a shop after a Palestinian
gunman opened fire in downtown Jerusalem yesterday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 510 words


Motorcycle gunmen sprayed automatic fire outside the US government cultural
centre in Calcutta yesterday, leaving five dead and 20 wounded.

Draped in shawls, four attackers on two motorbikes drove up to the American
Centre in the heart of the sprawling Indian city. They shot at Indian policemen
posted there and fled.

The wounded included 18 policemen, one pedestrian and one private security guard
working at the four storey building that is always under heavy security, said
Amit Kiran Deb, the state's home secretary. All of the dead were policemen, he
said.

India's powerful home minister, Lal Krishna Advani, condemned what he called a
'terrorist attack' against US and Indian interests.

A senior home ministry official said a man called police in New Delhi and said
the attack had been carried out by Harkat-ul Jehad-e-Islami.

The Pakistan-based militant group that once fought the Indian army in Kashmir in
the 1990s.

However, a spokesman for Kashmirbased Islamic militant groups denied any
involvement by the group and claimed the Indian spy agency RAW was responsible.

No American citizens were injured and there were no consulate staff in the
building.

A pool of blood could be seen outside the American Centre and spent AK-47
bullets littered the street, where several hundred police stood guard.

'They used high-calibre automatic weapons.

'It is a terrorist attack but we cannot yet identify which group was involved,'
Chakraborty said. Armed forces were quickly deployed to guard bus and railway
stations, bridges, reservoirs, and other key facilities throughout the state.

In the capital New Delhi, the Cabinet security committee held an emergency
meeting and a high alert was issued at the US embassy and other American
institutions.

Joint Commissioner of Police Suresh Roy said there were intelligence reports of
a possible strike against US establishments in India, as part of an
'unprecedented threat' during India's Republic Day celebrations this coming
Saturday.

'We have tightened the entire security arrangement at the US embassy and all US
establishments. A general alert has been sounded,' Roy said.

'This is a serious matter. We are keeping a close watch.'

Anti-American protests by communists and unions are often held in Calcutta,
capital of the communist-run West Bengal state but this was the first violent
attack against an American compound in India. Advani said the militant group
Harkat-ul Jehad-e-Islami, which fought the Indian army in Kashmir in the 1990s,
was connected to Pakistan's spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence.

However, a spokesman for the group denied any involvement in the attack and
accused India of manufacturing the claim.

'None of our members was behind it,' said spokesman Mohammed Rizwan Kashmiri.

Pakistani Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammed Aziz Khan also denied any
involvement in the attack.

'These are all baseless allegations. 'There is no truth that Pakistan's ISI was
behind the attack on the American Centre,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          January 23, 2002, Wednesday

FASHION ATROCITY;
 DESIGNS INSPIRED BY TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Georgia Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 172 words


FASHION finally went too far yesterday.

French designer Frederic Molenac showed off a tasteless series of designs
"influenced" by the September 11 terrorist atrocity.

Models wearing gas masks and New York firefighter-style uniforms sparked a mix
of outrage, contempt and derision at Paris Fashion Week.

Billed as a "post-apocalyptic" collection, Molenac's creations included a net
dress to represent the hunt for bin Laden and a Taliban-style head-dress with
ghoulish eyes printed on the veil.

Another model wore a fireman's helmet with a jacket unzipped in a seductive
manner. And one girl had a gas mask hanging on her bare breasts.

The designer claimed he was trying to "incorporate the darkness of a world at
war, whilst trying to breath new hope into humanity for the future".

But critics were left comparing the sentiment of the collection to the words of
another barmy artist, German composer Karlheinz Stockhausen, who previously said
September 11 was "the greatest work of art in the cosmos".

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          January 23, 2002, Wednesday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: ATTACK ON US BASE IN CALCUTTA LEAVES FIVE POLICE
DEAD

BYLINE: Peter Popham In Delhi Pankaj Barman, left, is comforted by an
unidentified relative after being told his brother is dead Reuters; Indian
commandos and police stand guard outside the US information office in Calcutta
Reuters

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 909 words


TENSIONS BETWEEN India and Pakistan were on the rise again last night after
Pakistan denied involvement in a gun attack on the American Centre in Calcutta
that left five people dead and 20 wounded.

Four men on motorcycles opened fire with automatic weapons outside the United
States Information Service building in central Calcutta before dawn yesterday,
as the night shift of armed policemen guarding the premises was going off duty
and being replaced. The assailants killed five policemen and wounded 20 more
before escaping, apparently unscathed. The attack lasted barely four minutes. No
consular staff were hurt.

Two separate Islamic militant groups phoned Calcutta newspapers to claim
responsibility. One of them, Harkat ul-Jihad-e-Islam, has its headquarters in
Bangladesh and was set up with the assistance of Osama bin Laden.

In Delhi, India's Home Minister, Lal Krishna Advani, described the incident as a
"terrorist attack" aimed at harming Indian and American interests, and accused
Pakistan's military intelligence agency, ISI, of involvement.

Pakistan wasted no time in disputing the claim. In Islamabad, Aziz Ahmad Khan, a
Foreign Ministry spokesman, angrily rejected the allegation. "Pakistan has
condemned terrorism," he said. "We have co-operated to eliminate terrorism. We
have taken measures against terrorism. These are baseless allegations."

The attack is believed to be the first on an American facility in India. The
assault on the building that acts as America's cultural showcase in eastern
India was also among the slickest the world has seen since 11 September.

It was 6.25am, grey first light in the heart of Calcutta, India's most densely
populated city. The armed police who had been on night shift outside the US
Information Service Building in Park Street, informally known as the American
Centre, were climbing into the van vacated by the officers who had arrived to
replace them.

Then a motorcycle roared up. The pillion passenger was draped in a shawl. He
pulled out an AK-47 automatic rifle and, before any of the police could react,
opened fire.

The motorcycle screeched away but almost immediately a second pulled up and,
while the wounded and dying lay writhing on the ground, repeated the
performance. "It was so sudden," one of the injured officers said later from his
hospital bed, "we could not react."

Within four minutes it was all over: five policemen dead, 18 injured. A security
guard and a civilian passer-by were also wounded. The four assailants fled
without apparent injury.

Across the country in Delhi, by coincidence, the central government was
welcoming Francis X Taylor, appointed to the specially created post of co
-ordinator of counter-terrorism by President Bush, and Robert Mueller, head of
the FBI.

They arrived in the capital on Monday for the first meeting of the joint working
group on counter-terrorism set up by the United States and India after the World
Trade Centre attack. Later in the day, Mr Taylor reminded Indian journalists
that "the US and India have transformed their bilateral relationship and are
today working together on many fronts to defend our common interests."

But Calcutta is beginning to count the cost of India's newfound cosiness with
the US. Fifty-four spent Kalashnikov cartridges were collected outside the
building; a pool of blood lay in the street for much of the day. Survivors said
that many more might have died if the police van delivering and collecting
officers had not blocked the terrorists' line of fire. In all, 34 armed police
were at the scene during the attack.

Officials in both the Indian Home and Foreign Ministries said the attack might
have been launched by Harkat ul-Jihad-e-Islam. The group is said to have 15,000
supporters in Bangladesh. Several hundred have trained in militant camps in
Afghanistan. Its activities include menacing liberal intellectuals such as the
feminist poet and novelist Taslima Nasrin, who was forced into exile.

Yesterday Mr Advani claimed the group had links to Pakistan's powerful Inter
-Services Intelligence Directorate, the military intelligence agency blamed by
India for what it calls the "proxy war" waged by Pakistan- based Islamic
militants in Kashmir.

With nearly one million Indian and Pakistani troops eyeball to eyeball across
the border, India has been braced for further terrorist attacks, which could be
calculated to catapult the nuclear-capable neighbours into all-out war. The
danger may have increased since President Pervez Musharraf's speech 10 days ago,
during which he committed his regime to extirpating the "cancer" of Islamic
extremism: now the militants have nothing whatever to lose by his downfall.

Last Tuesday, 15 January, police in Delhi arrested four men who they said were
members of Lashkar-e-Toiba, the most prominent of the groups banned by General
Musharraf and one of the two groups blamed by India for the attack on its
parliament building last month, an attack that precipitated the crisis. The men
were said to be in possession of RDX explosive and preparing to cause havoc
during India's Republic Day parade in Delhi on Saturday 26 January.

The United States, meanwhile, responded warily, with no representative in Delhi
willing to describe what happened as a terrorist attack. "It's still not clear
that this is an attack on a US government facility," a spokeswoman for the US
embassy in Delhi said.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                January 23, 2002

BOLTON muslims fled from their mosque last night after the building was bombed
in a suspected revenge attack following the American terrorist outrages..

BYLINE: Murray Walker

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 196 words



It was one of a number of incidents across Britain where muslims were targeted
as feelings ran high in the wake of the attacks in New York and Washington.
Today police, civic heads and religious leaders were making appeals for calm.

Meanwhile in Afghanistan the population was today being urged to prepare for a
holy war against the United States as the country's Taliban rulers decided
whether to hand over terrorist Osama bin Laden.

The explosion at Bolton's Alavia mosque, Bromwich Street, is believed to have
been caused by a home-made device left in a bag outside shortly after 9pm.

It started a small fire and blew out three windows. Six people at prayer inside
escaped without injury. The noise of the blast could be heard half a mile away.

Today is a week since more than 5,000 people were killed in the suicide crashes
into the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

In London, an Afghan minicab driver was left paralysed after being beaten up, in
Swindon a 19-year-old Asian girl was battered with a baseball bat and in Dover
an Afghan refugee was punched and kicked.

Several mosques around the country have also been daubed with graffiti.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           January 24, 2002, Thursday

INDIA HAS SECOND THOUGHTS ABOUT 'TERRORIST' ATTACK

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 209 words


INDIA yesterday appeared to be backing away from blaming Pakistan backed
terrorists for the murder of four policemen guarding a US cultural centre in
Kabul.

Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Nirupama Rao described it as a "criminal incident"
- 24 hours earlier she said it was "obviously a terrorist attack."

US State Department and FBI officials said they have no evidence that terrorists
were behind the attack.

Indian police have arrested five Bangladeshis and three Indian Islamic teachers
suspected of involvement in the attack.

Four men on motorcycles sprayed the police with automatic gunfire yesterday
killing four and injuring more than 20.

Adding to the 'who-was-responsible' confusion, Sourin Roy, chief secretary of
the West Bengal state government, said: "We are verifying their links with
Pakistan's spy agency and a Dubai-based Mafia don, but we can't disclose details
at this stage."

Police officers who survived the attack said their own guns - Enfield bolt
action rifles dating back to the First World War - either jammed or were
unloaded. They described the gunmen were professional and determined.

"How can you expect us to face these gunmen armed with AK-47s?" Bablu Mondal
said from his hospital bed .

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           January 24, 2002, Thursday

'LOADS OF BIG BLOKES WERE WALKING PAST DOING NOTHING. . .';
 TEENAGE MOTORIST TELLS OF FILLING STATION ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Steve Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 382 words


A TEENAGE girl fought off an attacker who dragged her out of her car at a petrol
station.

The 19-year-old from Barry had just paid for cigarettes at the Texaco garage in
City Road when a man - believed to be on drugs - grabbed her by the wrists and
announced:

"Get out of your car, love, I'm a policeman."

He tried to snatch the car keys from her hand in an attempt to car jack the
vehicle.

But the brave teenager, who does not want to be named, hit back.

She said: "He had hold of my wrist and started hitting me, trying to get the
keys from my hand.

He threw a few punches and hit me twice.

"But I kicked him in the groin - he didn't even flinch. He must have been on
something."

The struggle continued for several minutes with many passers-by choosing to
ignore the attack.

Eventually a female witness ran to the teenager's aid and together they kept his
blows at bay.

The teenager said:

"Loads of big blokes were walking past doing nothing, she was only 5ft 4in tall
and a size eight but she tried to help me by pulling him off.

"Eventually he charged at me and tried to push us both over before running off."

The man was last seen heading off down City Road towards Newport Road. Police
are examining CCTV stills to track him down.

The feisty teenager added: "I was scared - he could have had a knife on him -
but he had hold of my wrist so tightly I couldn't let go of the keys.

My car is only worth pounds 350 - who'd want that?"

Detective Constable Dave Bancroft, of Cardiff CID, said: "This was a nasty
incident and the victim showed particular bravery in fighting off the attacker,
together with the other witness who went to help her.

"We appeal to anyone who may have witnessed this incident or who may know the
suspect to contact us immediately."

The teenager's proud father added: "I've always brought her up to look after
herself."

The suspect, who struck at 4pm on Monday, is described as white, 5ft 8in to 5ft
10in tall, aged 30 to 35, with pitted skin and mousy/fair receding hair. He was
unshaven, slightly overweight and was wearing a green Tshirt with two white
stripes down the arms and stonewashed jeans.

If you can help call Cardiff Central CID on 029 2052 7420 or Crimestoppers on
0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HITTING BACK The teenager who joined forces witha female passer-by to
fight off her attacker. Below, a CCTV picture of the man police are hunting.
MAIN PICTURE: Mark Fraser

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                January 24, 2002

Road rage terror attack.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 277 words



A TERRIFIED mother and daughter were trapped inside their car during a road rage
incident involving five youths at Whipps Cross roundabout.

The mother, who teaches at a Walthamstow secondary school and lives in Woodford,
was driving towards the Leytonstone roundabout with her 18-year-old student
daughter just after 7.30pm last Wednesday.

A black Volkswagen Polo car with five passengers hit the front bumper of their
grey Nissan Primera.

The teacher said: "I pulled over to the grass verge, and saw the Polo reverse
back and four boys jump out of the car.

"They starting going mad and smashing the windows. I screamed at them 'why are
you doing this?, I was so scared."

The fifth man remained in the car with the engine running.

One man with a hooded black sweater attacked the car with a crowbar, smashing
the right rear passenger window and back windscreen. The others kicked and
punched the car, damaging the side panels of the vehicle.

The daughter said: "I was sitting in the front passenger seat, and my mother was
hysterical. We thought they were going to kill us. When I saw them coming
towards my side of the car, I told my mum to drive off."

The group then moved off in the direction of Woodford.

During this traumatic incident, the women were not physically attacked by the
men, but are still in deep shock.

The group are described as white and aged between 14 and 18.

Investigating officer DC Andrew Fleming said: "This was a dreadful attack on two
innocent people, which has left them traumatised. It is possible that it was a
racial attack, and anyone with information should contact me on 8345 3030."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                January 24, 2002

Music festival axed in wake of terror attacks

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Brian Dooks

LENGTH: 506 words


FEARS of more terrorist attacks following the September 11 atrocities in the
United States have led to the cancellation of Harrogate International Youth
Music Festival.

This year's would have been the 30th festival, bringing 1,000 musicians, dancers
and singers from around the world to perform in towns and villages across North
Yorkshire at Easter.

But it is off because school groups, particularly from the US and Canada, are
too frightened to travel after seeing hijacked airliners crash into the World
Trade Centre and Pentagon.

Even parties from Europe and Scandinavia, who would have travelled by coach and
ferry, cancelled. As a result organiser Perform Europe, a subsidiary of the
Kuoni Travel Group, decided "with enormous regret" not to proceed with an
inferior event.

Wendy Good, of Perform Europe, has written to local organisers saying: "The
events and aftermath of September 11 have unfortunately had an enormous impact
on many people, including a number of groups who had planned to attend the
festival this year."

Perform Europe hopes the fear of terrorism will have subsided by next year and
the festival can resume with its artistic director, Jon de Revere, a former
associate professor of music and music education at New York University, in
charge of concerts in the Royal Hall and Harrogate International Centre.

Miss Good said: "We confidently believe it will return to its former glory in
2003, as members of the groups who have postponed from this year have expressed
a wish to attend when the world has returned to something more akin to
normality."

The cancellation is a bitter blow for the Harrogate Liaison Committee and its
chairman Ian Topham, who have provided local guides and helped to raise money to
pay fares of groups who would otherwise never have been able to attend.

Mr Topham said: "We are terribly disappointed but rather than have a poor
festival it is probably better to have a year without one."

Perform Europe's general manager Alf Scrimgour originally received firm
inquiries from 20 groups from the US and Canada, including two marching bands,
who wanted to bring a total of 500 performers - paying (GBP)1,800 each to take
part.

But the situation changed after September 11, when Canadian education
authorities banned travel by schools.

He said: "It is very sad for us to have to cancel Harrogate, but as a travel
company it is part of a much bigger picture since September 11."

Before Christmas the company still hoped to be able to run a reduced festival in
Harrogate with two US groups.

Mr Scrimgour said: "Then one by one they fell out. After discussions with Ian
and his committee it seemed better to cancel rather than do something second
rate."

He said letters to Perform Europe showed parents were worried about letting
their children travel and their fears were confirmed when Richard Reid was
arrested on a Paris to Miami flight. "Also the Home Office and FBI are
constantly telling us there is another attack imminent."


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                January 25, 2002

Data suggests US terror attacks hitting Scottish economy harder

BYLINE: amacdonald

SECTION: BUSINESS; ECONOMY; Financial; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 444 words


Arthur Macdonald SCOTLAND'S economy appears to have suffered more from the
September 11 terrorists attack on the United States than the rest of the UK,
according to the Scottish Executive's latest economic review.

Economic growth in Scotland was already significantly below that of the rest of
the UK before the attacks, but it looks likely that, because of its reliance on
exports and tourism, it will suffer more.

In the year to the end of June, the Scottish economy grew by just 0.3%, compared
with 2.5% for the UK as a whole.

The report says that a key issue facing Scotland's economy, both in the short
and longer term, will be the prospects for the global economy given the
importance of international trade and investment.

Manufacturing, which accounted for 23% of national output north of the border,
fell by 4.8% in the year to June while in the UK it managed to grow, though only
by 0.6%.

Service-sector activity, which accounted for some 63% of output, lifted by 2.4%,
but was still below the UK level of 3.5%.

The report said: "Although Scottish Executive data indicated that the rate of
increase of gross domestic product in the second quarter of 2001 was above that
for the UK as a whole, growth over the year to 2001's second quarter was
significantly lower than in the UK." A separate report, The Impact of the
Terrorist Attacks on The Scottish Economy - An Update, said that the different
levels of growth showed that the world downturn had affected Scotland earlier.

It said that the UK economy was well placed to face the global economic
slowdown, and as a major trading partner this would benefit the Scottish
economy.

A number of key sectors - including tourism, aviation, oil and gas, electronics,
financial services, inward investment, and exports - were identified as the most
likely to be affected by the attacks.

So far there was very little specific data on these areas, but the report said
that, while aviation was suffering a major downturn globally, statistics from
Scottish airports showed it was bucking this trend.

VisitScotland surveyed 1,000 tourism-related businesses on the impact of the
terrorist attacks. It found that there was an immediate reduction in US and
overseas trade, with about 20% of firms expecting the attacks to have serious
effects on their business in the year ahead.

However, 25% expected the attacks to have no commercial impact.

While a fall in oil prices could see less North Sea development, there had been
no sign of this since September.

The report added that the financial services sector was back to operating as
normal soon after the attacks.

Comment - Page 17

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                January 25, 2002

YOUNG MUM IN FEAR OF KNIFE ATTACKER;
 Shopping trip ends in terror outside home

BYLINE: JULIE HARDING

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 333 words


A YOUNG mother was attacked by a knife-wielding man at her Whitehall home after
being followed along a cycle path.

The 20-year-old woman, who was with her 14-month-old daughter, fought off the
attacker but is now so scared he will return that she has moved out of her house
and has asked for her identity to be kept secret.

She spoke about her ordeal to the Evening Post to warn other women who use the
cycle path, which runs through Whitehall to Rose Green Road.

The mother went shopping in St George on Monday afternoon and was returning home
along the cycle path, pushing her daughter in a buggy, when she noticed a man
following her.

She said: "I felt a bit uneasy so I quickened my pace. As soon as I was off the
cycle path I didn't think twice about it and went into my garden.

"I had just opened the front door and turned to pull the buggy indoors when I
saw the man opening my garden gate.

"I screamed 'Oh my God, help' and saw the man produce an 18-inch knife.

"He lunged over my daughter towards me as I tried to get her into the house. He
went to grab my hair and I punched him in the face. Then he tried to stab me. I
let myself fall backwards to avoid the blow and the knife missed me by inches."

The attacker then demanded money before pulling the buggy - which had shopping
bags slung over the handles - out into the garden. The mother and the attacker
had a tug-of-war with the buggy - in which her terrified daughter was still
strapped.

She said: "That was the worst part of it. I was screaming at him 'Don't hurt my
daughter'.

"I wanted to get my handbag for him but it was underneath the shopping bags.

"In the end I managed to release it and the man ran off with it chased by my
next door neighbour."

The attacker was black, of medium build, aged in his mid-30s and spoke with a
strong Jamaican accent. He was 5ft 11in to 6ft tall and was wearing a dark
green, long scruffy coat with a hood.

Call Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            January 25, 2002, Friday

99-YEAR-OLD IN ATTACK TERROR;
 THUGS HIT PENSIONER IN SECOND VILLAGE BURGLARY

BYLINE: Catherine Turnell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 322 words


A 99-YEAR-OLD man was hit across the head in a terrifying attack at his home.

Burglars grabbed the pensioner round the neck and struck him as they searched
for cash - but left empty-handed.

It is the second time a pensioner's home has been targeted in Ryton-on- Dunsmore
in the past week.

Police are linking the crimes and have asked neighbours and relatives to look
out for elderly residents.

The victim is said to be "shaken" after he was confronted by two burglars on
Wednesday - just days after men matching the same description burgled the home
of an 85-year-old.

In that incident last Friday, the raiders forced the man to sit in a chair while
they searched his home and stole pounds 135.

The latest attack happened at about 3.15pm on Wednesday, when the pensioner, who
celebrates his 100th birthday in a few weeks, heard a knock at the kitchen
window. As he opened the back door a man ran in and grabbed the pensioner around
the neck, forcing him into the lounge, as a second man ransacked the room.

The pensioner was hit across the head and they threatened to hurt his pet dog if
he did not say where his money was, but after searching the house, the men left
with nothing.

Det Insp Paul Littlehales of Rugby police said: "This was an extremely nasty act
committed against an elderly gentleman in his own home.

"We would urge relatives and friends of elderly people to encourage

them to use a chain on the door and if they can't afford to have one fitted, to
contact their Neighbourhood Watch co-ordinator."

He said they were keen to talk to people who may have seen a suspicious vehicle
in the area, and added: "It's important people remain vigilant and we would urge
anyone with information about these people to provide the information to us to
prevent more elderly people from becoming victims of this type of offence."

Rugby CID can be contacted by phoning 01788 541111.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           January 26, 2002, Saturday

TERROR ATTACK ON FAMILY HOME;
 DISTRAUGHT FATHER BLAMES THE IRA

BYLINE: Gemma Murray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 354 words

HIGHLIGHT: TARGETED: the family's White City home Picture: Paul Hamilton


A DISTRAUGHT north Belfast father yesterday appealed for the thugs who threw a
device into his living room yesterday to ask themselves if they would like their
families to experience such terror.

At 2.20am yesterday, a white car pulled up outside the family home in Mulderg
Drive in the loyalist White City estate.

A man hesitated before throwing what was thought to be a pipebomb through the
family's living room window.

Army bomb experts attended the scene and houses in the area were evacuated.

Police later said the 12-inch galvanised pipe was a hoax device.

Yesterday, the tired and angry father - who did not wish to be named - said his
five-year-old son and girlfriend, who were upstairs at the time of the incident,
were "living on their nerves".

"My son had to stay off school today because he is so upset," he said. "He
couldn't even sleep later because he thought 'bad men' were outside the house.

"The man who threw the pipebomb would have had to walk past my son's toy tractor
lying outside in the garden. Who in their right mind would bring such terror to
a youngster?"

The young Protestant man was sitting in the living room of his home when he
heard a car pull up outside.

"I went to the window and saw a man outside get out of a white car with
something in his hand," he said.

"The fella froze for a minute when I looked at him but as soon as I pulled the
blinds the pipebomb crashed through it."

The father said he blamed the IRA for the attack.

"This, like every other attack in the White City, has been orchestrated by Sinn
Fein. We are plagued with attacks every night and day of the week and it is
really wearing the community down."

He appealed for a 24-hour police presence in the area.

"Last week, a pensioner's house was petrol-bombed and he has moved out of the
area. Another man has just had his 50th pane of glass put into the same window
after more stoning," he said.

"The nationalists think the more trouble they give us, the more of us are going
to move out, allowing them to turn the area green.

"But that is not going to happen."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           January 26, 2002, Saturday

'ALWAYS IN OUR THOUGHTS';
 ECHO POLITICAL EDITOR PHILLIP NIFIELD VISITED GROUND ZERO DURING A RECENT TRIP
TO NEW YORK. HERE HE DESCRIBES THE SCENE LEFT BY THE TERROR ATTACKS OF SEPTEMBER
11.

BYLINE: Phillip Nifield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 705 words


IT'S the place every visitor to New York must see - but wishes there were no
reasons to do so.

Ground Zero has replaced some of the Big Apple's more famous landmarks on every
tourist's itinerary and become a tribute to the indomitable spirit of New
Yorkers.

The area of destruction left by the terrorist attack on the World Trade Centre
is now both the site of a huge clear-up and the place where New Yorkers and
those from the rest of the world can pay their respects.

Such is the interest in Ground Zero that a viewing platform has been constructed
with visitors prepared to queue for up to three hours just to get a free ticket
to the site. Every half hour, up to 250 people are allowed on the platform at a
specified time-slot.

Talk in the queue is all about the evil of the September 11 attack as the
Americans recall the terrorist outrage.

But the emotions really rise to breaking point after you have walked the 15
minutes from the ticket booth to Ground Zero. Next to me in the queue is an
American who lost his neighbour in the disaster. He has tears in his eyes as he
talks about his friend and the pointless death and destruction caused by the
terrorists.

Others break down and are comforted by friends and relatives, Lying next to the
Ground Zero platform is St Paul's Chapel, amazingly left untouched by the
disaster, which has become both a shrine to the victims and a base for rescue
workers.

Three Welsh flags adorn the area around the church - one contains messages such
as United We Stand - Sian; You'll Never Walk Alone; and Always In Our Thoughts.
There are other banners and flags - Love and Land of The Free are typical of the
messages left.

According to the New York Welsh Society, the tributes from Wales are from
schools and communities touched by the terrible loss of life.

When you get to the platform you are immediately struck by the enormous area
covered by the remains of the World Trade Centre - I suppose it must be like a
big chunk of Cardiff's Queen Street and St Mary Street being flattened. And the
buildings surrounding the Ground Zero lie blackened from the terrific heat
caused by the destruction.

Some will have to be demolished.

One veteran New Yorker in the local tourist office told me he likened the area
of destruction to the impact of German bombing of London during World War II.

The FDNY (Fire Department New York) and NYPD (New York Police Department) are
the heroes of New York. As I stood close to Ground Zero, visitors were shaking
their hands and thanking them for their efforts. And FDNY fire stations close to
the site have become shrines with pictures and tributes to the lost
firefighters.

And across the city it is much the same - baseball caps and T-shirts with FDNY
and NYPD on the front have replaced Nike and the rest of the designer labels as
the must-wear items.

New Yorkers are clearly pulling together, the Stars and Stripes are more in
evidence than ever before and I Love New York T-shirts have been replaced by I
Love New York More Than Ever. It is a city pulling together in grief.

US newspapers continue to give vast coverage to the aftermath of the disaster.
Stories on just one day included the continuing funerals for one of the 2,889
victims, a row over a statue of firefighters, compensation protests and a
survivor giving birth.

The New York Times has also put together a complete collection of biographical
sketches of all those lost on September 11 with a hard-cover book of Portraits
of Grief due out later this year.

In a famous speech to the US Congress, former US President Franklin D Roosevelt
described the surprise Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, as
"a date which will live in infamy". The same can be said for September 11.

THE DEATH TOLL

3,113 people are reported dead or missing and presumed dead. There were also 19
hijackers.

At the World Trade Centre: 2,889 dead or missing with 147 dead on two hijacked
planes 670 death certificates issued by medical examiner's office 1,952 death
certificates issued at request of families

At the Pentagon: 184 dead or missing, with 59 dead on hijacked plane

In Pennsylvania: 40 dead on hijacked plane

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NOT FORGOTTEN Buildings in New York still bare the scars of the;
September 11 attacks. Above, Ground Zero and, left, the queues form to gain
access to the platform overlooking Ground Zero.next to the Ground Zero platform
and tributes to firemen who died in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in
New York. MEMORIALS TO THE BRAVE AND DEAD The remains of the; Trade Centres,
above, and, right, Welsh flags adorn the area around St; Paul's Chapel which
lies

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                January 26, 2002

The moment of terror for sex attack victim.

BYLINE: Nikki Masters

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 364 words



A SEX attack victim has spoken of the moment when she heard a pervert walking up
behind her, preparing to pounce.

The Darwen woman -- whose identity must be protected -- said the man approached
her in the multi-storey car park, in Blackburn town centre.

The attack, at 9.25am on Sunday, occurred in the same weekend two women were
raped in unconnected incidents in East Lancashire.

The 22-year-old office worker said the man grabbed hold of her and asked her for
sex, although she managed to escape and ran straight to the police station.

Police today said they were not linking the incident with either of the two
rapes which occurred at the weekend.

Shortly after 9pm on Friday a 32-year-old woman was attacked on waste ground in
Sandringham Road, Darwen. And on Saturday -- again at 9pm -- an 18-year-old
woman was attacked in her own home, on Blackburn Road, Great Harwood.

Inquiries into both incidents are ongoing.

The woman involved in the attack on Sunday described her ordeal as 'terrifying.'

She said: "I saw him in the car park when I was parking up, and I noticed he had
no coat on, which I thought was strange.

"I could hear him walking after me as I was heading to the stairs but I just
ignored him. He grabbed me and turned me round and said 'I want sex with you.'

"I managed to shrug him off and ran down the stairs and straight to the police
station. It was so frightening, I still feel very scared now.

"I have been very lucky, but the implications were awful."

Detective Inspector Jim Elston confirmed the incident was being investigating,
but said police were not connecting all three incidents.

He said: "Clearly this is an extremely upsetting incident.

"At this stage, we are not linking it with the assault in Darwen or Great
Harwood, but we would urge women, particularly now that dark nights are drawing
in much earlier, to exercise common sense.

"Where possible, they should consider making any journey in an illuminated
street and try to avoid walking alone and in the dark."

The description given to police was of an Asian man, 5ft 7ins tall with long
hair.

He was wearing a dark jumper, jeans and trainers.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                January 27, 2002

Terror attacks deepen company profit gloom

BYLINE: Sarah Bridge

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 177 words


THE number of companies issuing profits warnings has hit record levels,
according to a report today from consultancy firm Ernst & Young.

It says 149 firms warned on trading in the last quarter of 2001. That brought
the total number of alerts for the year to 520 more than twice as many as in
2000 and the most since the survey began three years ago.

More than 40 per cent of companies blamed the US terrorist attacks for worsening
business conditions.

And the number of sectors dogged by profits warnings is also widening.

While software and computer services continued to generate most warnings 13 per
cent traditional sectors such as engineering showed a sharp increase on last
year. Richard Coates, corporate restructuring manager at Ernst & Young, said:
'We are definitely seeing a continuing shift in the hot spots of corporate
distress.'

While the number of profits warnings issued by companies is expected to decline
from its record-breaking peak, the bad news for companies is that 2002 is
expected to be just as tough.


LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                January 27, 2002

FOCUS WAR OF THE WARDS MARKS AN END TO THE CEASEFIRE IN REAL POLITICS
AFTERSEPTEMBER TERROR ATTACKS; PATIENTS CAUGHT IN THE CROSSFIRE AS OUR AILING
NHS SPARKS NEW POLITICAL BATTLE

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley Brewer POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 1351 words


IN a few weeks' time, Rose Addis, a 94-year-old great-grandmother, will be
released from hospital to return to her East London home, with nothing but a
small scar to remind her of the head wound she suffered when she fell in her
kitchen a fortnight ago today.

But the bitter battle between Labour and the Tories over the first few days of
her treatment at the hands of the NHS will leave far deeper wounds that threaten
to remain gaping and bleeding for many years.

The political mud-slinging over Mrs Addis was quickly dubbed a "war of wards" at
Westminster but as the debate raged over standards of care in casualty
departments across the country, the real casualty was the ceasefire on real
politics in the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

At the end of a long political week, both Labour and the Conservatives emerged
bloody-nosed as the verbal brawling revealed two party leaders ready for a
fight.

Not since the furore over Jennifer's ear in the 1992 election and Sharron
Storer's attack on Tony Blair during the 2001 campaign has a single patient's
plight dominated the NHS.

Yet the facts of Mrs Addis's treatment by doctors and nurses at London's
Whittington Hospital, where her family claimed she had been left caked in blood
and untreated for two days, will soon be forgotten. The real story lies in the
vicious war of words between the Government and the Opposition that has
announced "open season" on the NHS and set the stage for the next election as
the Tories try to steal Labour's thunder on the future of public services.

"The patient, the family and the hospital have become meat in a rather
unfortunate sandwich, " according to a well-placed Health Department source.

"This is a row not about Rose Addis but about tactics and judgment, and whether
it is actually right to use individual cases to damn an organisation that treats
one million patients a day. If we're going to have a mature debate on health in
this country, we should have it based on the facts."

But more than that, Labour insiders claim, the battle is about a concerted
Conservative bid to convince voters that the NHS simply cannot cope, no matter
how many billions are poured into hospitals, and that the solution lies not in
the public sector. The Tories, it was argued, had finally realised that they
cannot win the voters' trust on the funding and managing of public services.
Instead, they would seek to move the debate on to a different battlefield
altogether by highlighting cases of individual failures in the NHS.

But it was a sign of how worried Labour was that such claims - hotly denied by
the Tories - even saw the light of day.

The plight of Rose Addis first came to light in the London Evening Standard
newspaper, which printed the family's version of events last Monday. The story
was picked up by BBC Radio 4's flagship Today programme on Tuesday, which put
the case to Health Secretary Alan Milburn who hit back at the family's claims by
saying that the media should report "facts and not fiction".

This was a bloodsoaked rag to the Tory leader, who is Mrs Addis's local MP.
Already informed of the case a few days' earlier, he was so enraged by Mr
Milburn's dismissive handling of the case that he decided to air it at his
weekly joust with the Prime Minister on Wednesday.

The heated exchange left MPs on all sides clamouring for more.

While the Tories were delighted to have finally scored a big hit on the Prime
Minister, Downing Street has accused the Tories of a making a "major strategic
blunder" by bringing up the case at all - and particularly Mr Duncan Smith's
angry insistence that Mrs Addis had been treated worse than a dog.

Labour went on the offensive, accusing the Tories of unfairly attacking
beleaguered NHS staff.

Conservative Central Office hit back with counter-claims that it was the
Government's own mishandling of the case that had brought it into the political
spotlight.

"Labour are rattled, " said Liam Fox, the shadow Health Secretary and a doctor
himself. "The reason is not because of this particular case but because they
know the treatment this lady got is not an exception.

"Downing Street's first reaction was to deny it, then they attacked the
credibility of the witnesses, with claims about racism, then they claimed it was
all a conspiracy by the Conservatives to destroy the NHS."

He added: "They spout a lot of rubbish about having a patient-orientated health
service but the first time the patients raise their heads, they are told to keep
quiet.

"This Government seems to view NHS patients as Dickensian peasants queueing up
for their gruel - and no matter how bad things get, they are supposed to be
grateful."

While Dr Fox is judged to have performed well this week, his opposite number has
not fared so well.

The Prime Minister is understood to be "furious" with his Health Secretary for
his hopeless handling of the Addis case. Mr Milburn, after all, has put in his
tuppence worth without once visiting the hospital or speaking to the Addis
family.

A senior Tory said: "This was incredible political mismanagement by the
Government. Milburn is very much on the ropes.

"He completely backed Blair into a corner on this. Milburn took such an
absolutist line on the radio, which Downing Street didn't think was necessary,
but having done it, they decided to make a virtue out of necessity at Prime
Minister's Question Time." And Labour MPs agree. As one senior Labour
backbencher said: "Milburn is a boy doing a man's job.

"It shows a remarkable lack of political sensitivity by Milburn to have
embroiled the Government and the Prime Minister in this.

"There is no currency in it for anybody. If that's what Duncan Smith wants to
do, that's his choice, but the Prime Minister should not be put in that
position."

While Mr Blair accused the Tories of attacking hard-working and dedicated NHS
staff, the Tories hit back with claims that Labour was seeking to cast a slur on
the honesty of Mrs Addis and her family.

By Wednesday afternoon the story was moving at a breakneck pace.

Downing Street was forced onto the back foot, repeatedly having to bat away
damaging allegations that the Prime Minister's staff had released details from
confidential medical records relating to Mrs Addis and two other patients,
claims which a spokesman later described as "a dirty tricks campaign".

The plot thickened with what appeared to be insinuations in a BBC interview from
a hospital chief, James Malone-Lee, that Mrs Addis was a racist who had refused
to allow black nurses to care for her. The family hit back with the simple fact
that Mrs Addis had two home carers, both of whom are black, and the Tories
demanded an apology for the racist slur.

But, again, the story took another turn when it emerged that Mr MaloneLee was a
long-standing Labour Party member and activist, prompting claims that the
Government had had a hand in writing the hospital trust's letter read out by the
Prime Minister.

By the end of the week, Labour had regrouped, with a long-planned speech by the
Prime Minister to a group of health care workers on Friday morning, accusing the
Tories of running down public services to make people believe the NHS is not
worth saving.

A senior Number 10 source said:

"Tony thought how Iain Duncan Smith raised it was a pretty silly thing to do.
Once the noise dies down, we've got the argument exactly where we want it, which
is: how do you properly prepare our public services for the future?"

Next week Mr Milburn will attempt to seize back the health agenda with a series
of announcements and new initiatives on hospital improvements and reforms to
increase patient choice in coronary heart disease cases.

Dr Fox, meanwhile, will be travelling to Turkey to find out why a recent league
table published by the World Health Organisation rated their health service
better than the UK's.

While Mrs Addis's battle back to good health may soon be over, it seems the
political war over the nation's health has only just begun.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                January 28, 2002

Yorkshire firms hit by terror attacks

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

LENGTH: 306 words


THE NUMBER of Yorkshire and Humber companies issuing profit warnings reached a
record high in the final quarter of 2001 as firms suffered the fall-out from the
events of September 11, according to figures released today.

A total of 12 companies from the region issued warnings during the three months
to December 2001, according to accountants Ernst Young, an increase of 300 per
cent compared with the four warnings issued in the previous quarter.

The firm said it also represented a dramatic increase compared with the same
period of the previous year, when only a single profits warning was recorded.
Nationally, a total of 149 warnings were recorded (a rise of 10 per cent from
the third quarter), taking the UK year-end figure to a total of 520.

Both are the highest such figures since Ernst Young started its analysis in
January, 1998.

Peak

However, experts at the firm expect the numbers of warnings to decline
significantly in the first quarter of 2002 as part of a trend that saw a
decrease from an exceptional peak of 68 warnings nationally in October 2001 down
to 49 in November and 32 in December.

Hunter Kelly, corporate restructuring partner with Ernst Young in Leeds, said:
"Some companies in every area of the country were understandably caught in the
after-effects of the September 11 attacks, with over 40 per cent of the warnings
either directly citing the impact of the attacks or referring to their knock-on
effect on transport, tourism or American consumer confidence.

"However, if you look at what happened in the corporate sector once the
immediate impact had been felt, there is a clear distinction between successful
companies that simply suffered a temporary blip, and businesses that continued
to struggle.

"Fortunately, this region has many more of the former than the latter."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 29, 2002

Business: US terror attacks cost 'is GBP 453bn'

BYLINE: Jane Padgham

SECTION: Pg. 34

LENGTH: 156 words


US terror attacks cost 'is GBP 453bn'

THE 11 September terrorist attacks on America will have cost the US economy a
staggering $ 639 billion (GBP 453 billion) by the end of 2003, a new report
claims, writes Jane Padgham.

That means more wealth than the entire economy of Spain has been wiped out by
the attacks.

The report, prepared for the New York State Senate by economic consultant
DRIWEFA, also estimates two million US jobs will be lost as a direct result of
11 September.

Some 700,000 of them will be in New York and a third of these will be from
financial services.

"Across the United States, economic activity ground to a halt in the week of the
attacks and, as the dust settled, it was clear that consumers were in no mood
for immediate spending," the report says.

On foreign exchanges, the euro dangled above yesterday's six-month lows against
the dollar, steady at 86.15 cents, or 61.12p.


LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 31, 2002

Saudi bombings: Caught in Bin Laden's wave of terror: Evidence that shows
attacks on expats could be work of al-Qaida supporters has been suppressed

BYLINE: Reporting team David Pallister, Paul Kelso, Brian Whitaker

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 949 words


Throughout 2000 and 2001 a large network of supporters of Osama bin Laden,
thousands of them young Saudi men, were working on schemes to kill westerners.
This culminated in the attacks on the US of September 11.

But the frontline of their jihad was always Saudi Arabia, where a year-long wave
of bombings killed a Briton, an American and blinded or maimed several other
expatriates.

A Guardian investigation has revealed that a large amount of evidence pointing
to supporters of the Saudi exile's al-Qaida network as being behind the attacks
has been suppressed. All the bombs could easily have been planted by Islamists.
Christopher Rodway and his wife, the first victims, had left their car parked in
the open for 24 hours before a bomb was planted. Noel Rooney, an Irishman who
found a bomb hidden under his car, had also left it out overnight.

Jackie Gill, one of the nurses in a jeep that was blown up on the way home from
the Celtic Corner drinking club, reported the unusual sight as her party first
parked their car, of two Arabs at the gate of the westerners-only compound,
trying to gain access.

Similarly, the wife of David Brown, a Scot blinded at the port town of Khobar,
reported that two Saudis had eyed them suspiciously at the store where a bomb
was subsequently planted on their windscreen. Two Asians, possibly Pakistanis,
were reported to have handed in the parcel bomb that maimed a US chiropractor,
Gary Hatch.

Other bombs were planted in the street, outside a shopping mall and a bookshop.
And the eighth bomb, which killed a US oil engineer on a busy pavement, was
admitted to have been the work of a suicide bomber.

Anti-western sentiment, particularly directed at the American military presence
in Saudi Arabia, has been fuelled for a decade by militant dissident clerics.
Their calls have found a sympathetic response, not least among the 10,000 or so
Saudis who volunteered to wage jihad against the Russians in Afghanistan.

Last week the Saudi regime conceded the existence of an intelligence survey it
had conducted last October of educated Saudis aged between 25 and 41. The New
York Times, which disclosed it, said it concluded that 95% supported Bin Laden.

Bin Laden's notorious 1996 declaration of war against the Americans and their
allies in Saudi Arabia, was specifically targeted at young Saudi men. It waxed
eloquently about "hundreds of thousands of unemployed graduates" in the kingdom
and attacked Prince Naif, the Saudi interior minister, by name for filling his
jails with the country's "best sons".

And Bin Laden praised two bombings which al-Qaida supporters had already carried
out in Saudi Arabia. In November 1995, a car bomb in Riyadh had killed seven
people, five of them US advisers. Four young Saudi men had been forced by Prince
Naif's men to confess and were summarily executed. The response was a huge
bombing in June 1996, near Khobar on the coast, which killed 19 US soldiers and
forced the Americans to relocate their base to a safer place out in the desert.

Bin Laden urged his men on: "The explosions at Riyadh and Khobar are a warning
of the volcanic eruption emerging as a result of oppression, suffering,
iniquity, humiliation and poverty . . . the deterioration of the economy,
inflation, increasing debts and jails full of prisoners. Government employees
complain that the value of the rial is continuously deteriorating."

He issued another statement in February 1998: "The ruling to kill the Americans
and their allies - civilians and military - is an individual duty for every
Muslim who can do it in any country in which it is possible to do it." This was
followed by the US embassy attacks in east Africa which killed 225 people.

The tempo of Bin Laden-inspired attacks in the Gulf did not slacken. On August
10 2000, a Saudi student fired on expatriates at housing on the Khamis Mushayt
airbase.

On October 12 in the Yemen, the suicide bombing of the US warship, the Cole,
killed 17 servicemen. At the same time, a bomb was lobbed over the wall of the
British embassy in the capital, Sana'a.

In November, at about the time that the US put a price of Dollars 5m (pounds
3.5m) on Bin Laden's head and Kuwait seized a large cache of explosives and
grenades from his supporters, came the first of the series of Saudi bombings
against westerners.

From London, dissidents claimed that 38 of their number had been rounded up by
Prince Naif's men. As the bombings continued and the Saudi regime began rounding
up westerners, claiming that the attacks were part of "turf war" between
bootleggers, the Saudi dissidents in London claimed that the interior ministry
had received a letter warning that more bombings would follow unless the
"mojahedin youths" who had been arrested and tortured were released.

After stage-managed televised "confessions" by three haggard westerners in
February, Saad al-Faqih, head of the London-based Movement for Islamic Reform in
Arabia, said: "The government knows it was jihadi groups behind all these four
attacks. They just do not dare to admit it."

The bomb-throwing is only part of the picture of growing civil unrest in Saudi
Arabia. Prince Naif concedes that 100 of the men being held by the US at
Guantanamo Bay after their capture in Afghanistan are Saudis.

But not all the young Islamist extremists can be exported. Just before
Christmas, 1,000 young men were reported to have rioted in Jeddah. In the
heavily repressed Saudi polity, this kind of behaviour can be seen as a grave
sign. The bombings of the expatriates, analysts believe, may be only one of
several signs that the internal pot may be starting to boil over.


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                January 31, 2002

ANNE'S TERROR IN CAR ATTACK

BYLINE: Ian Sharp

LENGTH: 161 words


    A THUG was caged yesterday for a terrifying attack on a woman as she sat in
her car waiting for a pal.

    Drug addict Robert Balmer, 20, tried to force his way into Anne Rae's
vehicle after demanding cash.

    Shocked Anne, 47, told him to "go away" -but then screamed as the fiend
started to attack her car.

    Advocate depute Celia Sanderson told the High Court in Glasgow yesterday:
"The accused then began banging on the door with his hand. Terrified Mrs Rae
began to scream and tried to reverse her car.

    "The accused then began throwing stones at the car and stood in front of it
and began banging with his hands on the windscreen."

    Anne, who was waiting for her pal in Kilwinning, Ayrshire, finally managed
to drive to safety.

    And just 10 minutes later Balmer, of Dalry, mugged a woman nearby.

    Yesterday the thug admitted a string of robberies and was jailed for six
years. A judge said: "These were terrifying ordeals for your victims."


LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2002 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 1, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: A VASTLY MORE DEADLY ATTACK;
 RUMSFELD WARNS OF STRIKES ON US

BYLINE: Andy Lines Us Editor In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 408 words


THE USA must prepare for attacks "vastly more deadly" than September 11, Defence
Secretary Donald Rumsfeld warned last night.

Calling for pounds 34billion extra on next year's defence budget for the "war on
terrorism", he claimed America is vulnerable to cyber attack on computer
networks and ballistic missiles aimed at cities.

And he said new enemies may strike in unexpected ways with weapons of increasing
range and power.

"These attacks could grow vastly more deadly than those we suffered September
11.

"Our job is to close off as many of those avenues of potential attack as
possible."

He said previous administrations had not spent enough on new military
technologies.

Rumsfeld listed six lessons learned from the Afghan war:

WARS increasingly need military, economic, diplomatic, financial, law
enforcement and intelligence to work together.

FORCES must be able to communicate and operate seamlessly, like US special
forces in Afghanistan sending target information to pilots.

THE US should accept help against an enemy from any country and avoid talking
publicly about what those countries are doing.

WARS must be fought by "coalitions of the willing" but not by committee - the US
took the lead in Afghanistan and did not let coalition partners determine the
mission.

DEFENDING the US requires prevention and sometimes pre-emptive attacks. Rumsfeld
quoted the old saying that "the best defence is a good offence".

NEVER rule out using ground forces, as President Clinton did early in the 1999
war in Kosovo.

CIA director George Tenet told Congress that diagrams of US nuclear power
stations and the Seattle Space Needle were found in the Kabul home of Osama bin
Laden's deputy Mohamed Atef.

Satellite images of Los Angeles and documents about nuclear weapons were also
found. He said: "The diagrams, while crude, describe essential components -
uranium and high explosives - common to nuclear weapons." But terrorists are not
believed to have a functional weapon, he said.

Intelligence agencies issued an internal alert that terrorists plan a
spectacular attack to rival September 11.

The detailed warning in the past two weeks said one target was a US nuclear
power plant or nuclear weapons dump.

President Bush said the world should be behind him as he goes after "rogue
nations" because their weapons of mass destruction "could be pointed at them
just as easily as us".

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 1, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: A VASTLY MORE DEADLY ATTACK;
 RUMSFELD WARNS OF STRIKES ON US

BYLINE: Andy Lines Us Editor In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 406 words


THE US must prepare for attacks "vastly more deadly" than September 11, Defence
Secretary Donald Rumsfeld warned last night.

Calling for pounds 34billion extra defence spending for the "war on terrorism",
he claimed America is vulnerable to cyber attack on computer networks and
missiles aimed at cities.

And he said new enemies may strike in unexpected ways with weapons of increasing
range and power.

"These attacks could grow vastly more deadly than those of September 11. Our job
is to close off as many avenues of potential attack as possible."

Rumsfeld listed six lessons learned from the Afghan war:

WARS increasingly need military, economic, diplomatic, financial, law
enforcement and intelligence to work together.

FORCES must be able to communicate and operate seamlessly, like US special
forces in Afghanistan sending target information to pilots.

THE US should accept help against an enemy from any country and avoid talking
publicly about what those countries are doing.

WARS must be fought by "coalitions of the willing" but not by committee with
coalition partners determining the mission.

DEFENDING the US requires prevention and pre-emptive attacks. Rumsfeld quoted
the saying: "The best defence is a good offence."

NEVER rule out ground forces, as President Clinton did in 1999 over Kosovo.

CIA director George Tenet told Congress that diagrams of US nuclear power
stations and documents about nuclear weapons were found in the Kabul home of
Osama bin Laden's deputy.

Intelligence agencies issued an internal warning that terrorists plan an attack
to rival the September 11 strikes, it was revealed.

Targets were said to include a nuclear power plant or nuclear weapons dump.

President Bush said the world should back him as he goes after "rogue nations"
because their weapons of mass destruction "could be pointed at them just as
easily as us".

He echoed his State of the Union speech warning to Iraq, Iran and North Korea:
"If you are one of these nations that developed weapons of mass destruction and
you're likely to team up with terrorists... then you too are on our watch list.

"People say, 'Well what does that mean?' It means they better get their house in
order, is what it means.

"It means they better respect the rule of law. It means they better not try to
terrorise America ... or the justice of this nation will be served on them as
well."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                February 2, 2002

Blaze attack terror

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

BYLINE: BY ROD HOPKINSON

LENGTH: 360 words


A SPURNED husband torched his ex-wife's home in a fit of depression after she
met another man.

Gareth Evans poured petrol through the letterbox and tried to set the fuel
ablaze.

A court heard his terrified former wife, Janet, had realised what was going on
and threw a bucket of water onto the petrol.

But 48-year-old Evans managed to light the outside of the door which damaged the
hall.

Evans, of Inglewood Drive, Seacroft, Leeds, was jailed for six years after he
admitted arson with intent to endanger life in July last year.

Jailing him at Leeds Crown Court, Judge Kerry Macgill told the father-of-two:
"No one was physically harmed, by the grace of God, but had these flames got
hold, it is quite possible you would have been facing a murder charge.

"Arson is a terrible crime with potential to burn people to death."

Jonathan Carroll, prosecuting, said Mrs Evans, who had divorced her husband
seven years earlier, was at home in Fairfax Close, Seacroft, with her partner
Andrew Eatock, and her son's fiancee, Louise Bowen, when her ex-husband carried
out his arson attack.

The couple, he said, had an amicable relationship after their marriage broke up
but things took a turn for the worse when their home was to be split.

Mrs Evans, not wanting to be accused of deception, revealed she had met someone
else and her ex-husband reacted badly. "In one phone call he was abusive and
rambling and told her You are afraid to die, aren't you?'," he said.

Evans told police after his arrest he had "all sorts of motives" for his
actions. One was his ex-wife had a new boyfriend living in the house and, he
said, he felt he was being short-changed over the proceedings from the property.

Paul Fleming, for Evans, said he had been made redundant two years ago and it
was a "cycle of depression" which had led to these events taking place.

He added that at the time he was taking medication for depression and had mixed
that with alcohol.

"He was driven to this state by a combination of things, including the loss of
his employment and his difficulty in coming to terms with the end of the
relationship," said Mr Fleming.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           February 03, 2002, Sunday

Al-Qaeda terror manual orders attack on Big Ben

BYLINE: BY MARTIN BENTHAM

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 479 words

AN AL-QAEDA training manual that contains orders for an attack on the clocktower
containing Big Ben has been discovered in Afghanistan, providing some of the
most conclusive evidence of the terrorist threat to Britain.

The 11-volume Manual of Afghan Jihad, obtained from a disaffected al-Qaeda
fighter, says that targets of "sentimental value", such as Big Ben, the Statue
of Liberty and the Eiffel Tower, should be destroyed. It calls for attacks on
sites of "high human intensity", including skyscrapers, nuclear plants and
football stadiums, with the aim of causing "thousands of deaths".

"There must be plans in place for hitting buildings with high human intensity
like skyscrapers, ports, airports, nuclear power plants and places where large
numbers of people gather such as football grounds," it states. "The choice of
targets should be as follows . . . like the Statue of Liberty in New York, Big
Ben tower etc . . . in other words, hitting museums and monuments which have
sentimental value."

The 5,000-page document, dedicated to Osama bin Laden and Abdullah Azzam, a
prominent Palestinian killed during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, is in
Arabic and is thought to have been written by an Egyptian.

It was obtained in Afghanistan by AP, an American news agency. AP said that once
the document had been fully translated it would probably then be handed over to
Western security services.

It is believed that it contains chapters giving advice on how to raise money
through kidnappings, extortion and blackmail, and calls for special al-Qaeda
units to be set up to target Jews. "In every country we should hit their
organisations, institutions, clubs and hospitals," the document says. "The
targets must be identified, carefully chosen and include their largest
gatherings so that any strike should cause thousands of deaths.

"As for Arab nations, operations should expand to include the assassination of
influential and effective personalities." A further chapter, entitled "External
Pressure", reads like a blueprint for the September 11 attacks on America. "The
strikes must be strong and have a wide impact on the population of that nation,"
it says. "Four targets must be simultaneously hit in any of those nations so
that the government there knows that we are serious."

The disclosure of the threat to the London landmark follows a claim last year by
bin Laden's estranged wife Sabiha that her former husband planned a televised
suicide that would trigger attacks on Big Ben, the Eiffel Tower and the Capitol
building in Washington.

Mohammed Afroz, a 28-year-old Indian arrested in Bombay in December on suspicion
of al-Qaeda membership, also claimed that Big Ben and Tower Bridge were targets.
Afroz, who had been learning to fly jumbo jets in Britain, fled to India after
September 11 and was arrested after a tip-off by the FBI.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           February 03, 2002, Sunday

Harassed locals give Games cold shoulder Simon Hart hears that extensive $300
million security measures to thwart terrorist attacks are set to prompt a mass
exodus

BYLINE: By Simon Hart

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 690 words

John Amaechi is the only British player to make the grade in America's National
Basketball Association. He is also, so he reckons, the only British resident of
Salt Lake City. Yesterday his team, Utah Jazz, played their last home game at
the downtown Delta Center before contractors move in to convert it into an ice
rink in time for the start of the Winter Olympics on Friday. But Amaechi has no
plans to watch the assorted skaters, skiers and sliders descending on his city.
He is getting out. Fast.

"I believe you'll see an exodus of people leaving the city in the days before
the Games," he says. "I can understand that. I won't be here. I'm going to
Phoenix for a holiday. I'll be gone before the opening ceremony and I won't be
back until the Games are over."

The 31-year-old Mancunian prefers the quiet life and the fuss surrounding the
Olympics leaves him cold. It's not so much the fear of a terrorist attack that
bothers him, more the hassle of road blocks, big crowds and all the hype. But he
admits the massive security operation going on in the city is starting to get to
him.

"I've never liked walking down the street where there are people with guns," he
says. "I'm aware that in America there are people with guns everywhere, but I
don't enjoy it. I understand why they're doing it here. Is it overkill?
Probably. But maybe it's necessary just for people's peace of mind."

Unfortunately, peace of mind is in short supply in Salt Lake City as Olympic
chiefs gear up for the biggest international event on American soil following
the atrocities of Sept 11. Even the Mormons, well-versed in the art of dealing
with hostile strangers, are taking no chances. Metal detectors are due to be
installed tomorrow on the gates of their headquarters in Temple Square.

Elsewhere, the security operation is being cranked up. At a cost of $300
million, some 16,000 police and military officers will stand guard over the
Games - roughly six officials for every Olympic competitor.

Athletes and spectators will have to pass through 950 metal detectors and be
watched by hundreds of CCTV cameras, which will be linked to an intelligence
centre in Washington. At the E Center, the venue of the ice hockey competition,
a sophisticated FaceTrac system will scan the face of every spectator and
cross-check it against a database of known criminals and terrorists.

Behind the scenes, the Secret Service will have sniper and assault teams at the
ready and specialised units will monitor for biological and chemical threats.

Meanwhile, private aircraft will be forced to land at four 'gateway' airports
where they will be searched before being allowed to continue to Salt Lake City.
Even commercial flights in and out of the city will be grounded during the
opening and closing ceremonies.

And should the unthinkable happen, hundreds of doctors, nurses and
epidemiologists will swing into action. Clinics at the athletes' village and the
10 Olympic venues have been stockpiled with antibiotics to deal with any germ
warfare attack.

But the people of Salt Lake City are still nervous. Stephen Pace, an economic
analyst, lives about 1,000 metres from the Olympic medals plaza in the city
centre where more than 100,000 people are expected to gather nightly for music
and pageantry during the 17 days of the Games. After Sept 11, he rang his
insurers to check whether he would be covered for an attack, and did not like
the reply. "They told me that although they paid out on the World Trade Center,
they did not think a terrorist attack in Salt Lake City could in any sense be a
surprise," he says. "They said they would not honour any claims for attacks in
the city.

"I've been put at risk without being given a choice about it. If the bad guys
are going to do anything, this is the place to do it. Basically, everybody that
Bush put together in a coalition against Bin Laden will be represented here.

"There's a lot of showbusiness security going on right now. I'm not sure why, in
the dead of winter, you need people in camouflage green suits other than to make
them look like Rambo. It's hard to trust the security plan."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            February 3, 2002, Sunday

TV: IS THIS THE CHILLING RESULT OF A TERROR ATTACK WITH SMALLPOX?

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 157 words


YUK! It doesn't look pretty, but then smallpox doesn't. This chilling and
frighteningly realistic film examines what would happen if a bioterrorist
carrying one of the world's most lethal viruses attacked a busy city.

Commissioned before the recent anthrax outbreaks in America, the programme has
taken on a new significance after September 11. It's filmed as a docu-drama,
with actors improvising their reactions instead of being given lines.

It is a well-researched and accurate portrayal of what would really happen if
smallpox broke out. The truly terrifying thing is that a single act of terrorism
can lead to the death of 60 million people.

Smallpox 2002 follows in the tradition of dramas like Threads and the
controversial 60's film The War Game, which recorded a nuclear attack on Britain
and was deemed so controversial it was banned for more than 20 years.

Smallpox 2002: Silent Weapon

BBC2 9pm Tuesday

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                February 3, 2002

You'll never get out alive' knife attack terror.

BYLINE: Rachel Sills

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 307 words



A FARNWORTH mother subjected another woman to a horrifying knife attack after
claiming her neighbours wanted to kill her.

Debra Shaw, aged 39, of Brentwood Drive, Farnworth, plunged a kitchen knife into
Gail Burke's eye saying: "You'll never get out alive."

She was sporting a "blank and evil expression" as she continued her assault in
the victim's home, stabbing and slashing her former friend up to seven times.

Mrs Burke suffered a wound to her eye socket but suffered no lasting injuries,
Manchester's Minshull Street Crown Court was told.

The incident happened when Shaw brought her young son Aaron to visit Mrs Burke's
home in Argyle Avenue, Walkden.

Mr Alaric Bassano, prosecuting, said: "She complained that neighbours were
following her, wanted to kill her, and that she had obtained a gun."

Shaw, however, did not have a gun, but had a claw hammer, saying she needed it
"for protection".

Mrs Burke asked Shaw to leave but she refused, then turned on the victim's
16-year-old son Gavin, grabbing a knife and holding it to his neck.

Gavin managed to break free and fled outside with his mother, but Shaw then
locked them both out in the street.

Mr Bassano said Mrs Burke got back into her house to find Shaw in the kitchen.

"She had a blank and evil expression and was holding a kitchen knife by her
side," added the prosecutor.

"She said: 'I'm going to use this, I'm going to kill you, you're not going to
get out alive.' She raised the knife and deliberately stabbed Gail Burke in her
left eye."

Shaw admitted wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm after her not
guilty plea to attempted murder was accepted.

She was ordered to be detained in a hospital for psychiatric treatment after the
court heard Shaw has a mental illness, and is now on anti-depressants and other
medication.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  $%Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland ireland

                             February 4, 2002 2002

Terrorist attacks make 2001 a year of extremes extremes

SECTION: Pg. 8 8

LENGTH: 309 words words


Six months of 15 per cent growth followed by massive economic downturn and the
"traumatic effects" of terrorism made 2001 a "a game of two halves" for Kuoni.

Unveiling the operator's annual long-haul report, UK managing director Sue Biggs
said: "The first half was cracking, demand was voracious and we could not get
enough capacity."

Carryings at June 30 were 15 per cent up on the previous year, on top of 12 per
cent growth in 2000.  2000.

Among the star performers were India, which was 70 per cent up on the previous
year, and Dubai, which had posted a 37 per cent increase.

Sales of activity holidays - particularly diving and safaris - were also up on
the same period in 2000.

But Ms Biggs said the attack on Colombo airport in Sri Lanka last July sparked a
downturn in aviation long before September 11.

"We saw routes and staff cut at airlines," she said.

Deep vein thrombosis was the next challenge to hit long-haul travel, followed by
the terrorist attacks in the US.

Ms Biggs said business reduced to nothing for the three weeks following
September 11, and then returned to only half Kuoni's normal levels as people
chose not to fly at all or only to short-haul destinations.

Hong Kong, Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore had high levels of cancellations
and ended the year about 10 per cent down.

Sri Lanka managed to hold on to third place, but Ms Biggs warned future growth
could be stemmed by limited air capacity.

The US dropped one position and Ms Biggs urged partners to work on special
offers to ensure its return in 2002.

She dubbed St Lucia "the most disappointing performer" and warned the trend
would continue without investment to improve the island's image.

Kenya and Mauritius showed growth of eight per cent, with Australia bookings 30
per cent up in the "post-Olympic glow".



glow".

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 2002

LANGUAGE: English english

PUB-TYPE: Magazine magazine

                     Copyright 2002 CMP Information Ltd ltd

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            February 4, 2002, Monday

BACOUNTSTHECOST OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Graeme Evans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 245 words


BRITISH AIRWAYS today showed the impact of the September 11 terrorist attacks by
unveiling pre-tax losses of pounds 160million for the third quarter of the year.

However, the figures from BA were better than expected, with operating losses
for the period coming in at pounds 187million, compared with the pounds
225million that many City experts had been predicting.

Chief executive Rod Eddington said: "We have made real progress in managing our
costs but British Airways still faces a number of considerable challenges, some
of which were apparent before the terrorist attacks on the USA."

He said that those challenges would be addressed in a review of the company's
future size and shape, due to be unveiled next week.

BA is thought to be preparing for further extensive job cuts and will also
reduce its in-flight service on short-haul flights to compete with low-cost
rivals.

Reports suggest BA's payroll could shrink by 16,000 over five years, from the
start of the current financial year.

Today's pre-tax loss for the three months to December 31 compares with a profit
of pounds 65million a year earlier. The operating profit last time was pounds
80million.

Pre-tax losses for the first nine months of BA's financial year are running at
pounds 115million, compared with a profit of pounds 215million a year earlier.

Since September 11, BA has announced plans to slash 5,200 jobs, on top of 1,800
announced earlier in the year.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 05, 2002, Tuesday

John Lewis issues profits warning Terrorist attack blamed as store sales fall
pounds 30m short of target

BYLINE: By Kate Rankine Deputy City Editor

SECTION: Pg. 36

LENGTH: 398 words

JOHN Lewis Partnership, the department stores and Waitrose supermarket group
beloved by the middle classes, yesterday issued a profits warning, blaming
disappointing sales in London and the South East after the September 11
terrorist attacks.

Deputy chairman David Young warned that sales at its 26 department stores fell
pounds 30m short of target, and as a result, it will fail to match last year's
profits of pounds 150m before tax and paying the partners' bonus.

This will be the fourth successive year of declining profits for the partnership
- profits peaked at pounds 250m in 1998 - and it could mean that the 54,000
partners will see their annual bonus cut again.

Last year, its employees received a 10pc bonus, equal to just over five weeks'
pay, after profits fell by 23pc to pounds 150m. This year's bonus, covering the
year ending January 2002, will be agreed towards the end of this month and
announced when the annual figures are unveiled on March 7.

Last night, there was speculation the falling profits might rekindle the
demutualisation debate, which caused strife for the business in 1999. However,
those inside John Lewis insist that it is no longer a big issue.

Yesterday's profits warning came as a surprise to analysts who look at the
partnership's figures for clues about consumer spending.

One said: "I don't think this warning is foreshadowing a huge fall in consumer
confidence, but rather that the problems are specific to John Lewis. They spent
a lot of money refurbishing the Oxford Street store, and had probably built a
big lift into their sales estimate for when the work finished in the autumn.
That didn't happen." Two days after the attacks, chairman Sir Stuart Hampson
said that better-than-expected first half trading meant the retailer was likely
to match last year's profits, despite heavy internet investment.

Yesterday, Mr Young said in a statement: "Although there is still a lot of work
to do on the figures, it is now, I am afraid, quite clear that we will fall
short of our ambition of matching at the pre-tax level the profit of pounds 150m
achieved in 2000-01."

Sales at its department stores missed its internal target of growing by 9.4pc
for the 26 weeks to January 26, and instead increased by 6.2pc over that period.
However, Waitrose beat its internal estimate of increasing sales by 4.5pc and
produced a 6.2pc uplift.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                February 5, 2002

THE amount of cash demanded from Lloyd's Names since the New York terrorist
attacks smashed through the GBP 2 billion barrier today after the insurer called
on its 2490 members for a further GBP 564 million

SECTION: Pg. 38

LENGTH: 63 words



* THE amount of cash demanded from Lloyd's Names since the New York terrorist
attacks smashed through the GBP 2 billion barrier today after the insurer called
on its 2490 members for a further GBP 564 million. It is the third cash call
made since the attacks of 11 September, though Lloyd's said only about half of
the latest amount related to the events in New York.


LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                February 5, 2002

Toddler's terror in sledgehammer attack on house

BYLINE: By John Kerr

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 303 words


A TODDLER was showered with broken glass when thugs smashed the window of his
parents' bedroom with a sledgehammer.

Connor McRae, 3, was sleeping in bed with his dad when both windows of the
downstairs bedroom were smashed at 3.45am.

Stephen, 31, woke to find his son's pillow covered in shards of broken glass.

Mr McRae, of Penilee, Glasgow, said: "I was terrified when I heard the first
window smash.

"Connor wasn't moving and I presumed he must have been hit.

"Seconds later the top window was also smashed. There was glass everywhere.

"I picked up Connor, looked on the bed - and there was a foot-long piece of
glass that could have killed either of us.

"They must have used something like a sledgehammer to break through the double
-glazing.

"We were both extremely lucky."

He and wife Donna believe the attack on Sunday was carried out by a couple who
had fallen out with their family. And they are living in fear of further
incidents.

The day after the attack, Mr McRae found several bricks dumped in his garden.

He said: "I saw the man dash away, then seconds later he left in a waiting car.

"Our car was broken into recently by the same man.

"We called the police and ever since we've been subjected to threatening
behaviour."

Mr McRae added: "It's chilling to think the people who carried out this attack
knew we would be sleeping and that Connor often sleeps with us.

"There are six children aged between three and 14 in the house and any one of
them could have been injured.

"Two days later we were still finding tiny shards of glass lying around."

Connor's mum Donna, 32, who was sleeping upstairs when the thugs struck, said:
"We're all terrified of a repeat attack. We're on our guard day and night."

Police are investigating the attack.

LOAD-DATE: February 06, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: WINDOW TERROR: Donna McRae with three-year-old Connor Picture: Nick
Ponty;ATTACKED: the McRaes' home in Penilee, Glasgow

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                February 5, 2002

AS THE BBC SHOWS A HARD-HITTING DRAMA-DOCUMENTARY WITH A DOOMSDAY SCENARIO. . .;
COULD BRITAIN SURVIVE A BIOLOGICAL TERROR ATTACK?

BYLINE: MARK URBAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1152 words


HOW real is the prospect of a bio-terrorist attack that could kill hundreds of
thousands of people?

Many experts think it is not only possible but that some group or rogue state
will soon try it.

Tonight, BBC2 will screen Smallpox 2002 - a fictionalised documentary of a
future doomsday. In this programme, a horrendous global outbreak of the disease
begins on April 9, 2002, after a terrorist deliberately infects himself and
wanders through the New York crowd, passing the disease to others. The disease
spreads across the globe: millions are infected, of whom a third die. To add to
its verisimilitude, real biological warfare and public health experts appear
alongside a cast of actors.

Having seen the film, I feel it is bound to cause deep concern.

There have always been sceptics on the bio-terrorism issue and in years past I
counted myself among them. But the Oklahoma bombing, the 1995 nerve gas attack
in Tokyo and of course 9/11, as the Americans call their recent catastrophe,
have all provided convincing evidence that there is a new breed of fanatic out
there - people who want to kill on the largest possible scale in pursuit of some
apocalyptic objective.

It matters not a jot to this type of terrorist cult who the dead are, nor do
they bother with old-fashioned stuff such as claims of responsibility or issuing
attainable political demands. Because of this, some groups are known to have
sought weapons of mass destruction - Osama Bin Laden freely said in an interview
four years ago that it was his religious duty to try to do so.

SO THIS type of attack now seems scarily plausible.

Chemical and nuclear weapons are easier to trace back to their point of origin.
The bio-weapon is very different, so much so that US investigators are still
uncertain about the perpetrators of last autumn's anthrax outbreak that killed
five. Anthrax is not so easy to use.

There are some very nasty viruses that have been the subject of biological
warfare experiments:

Venezuelan bovine encephalitis, ebola, Marburg disease - the list makes one
shudder. Each of these infections may be highly potent but its potential for
weaponisation is thankfully limited by some feature of its pathology.

Smallpox is different. Not only can it be spread in the air but its 17-day
incubation period could allow an enormous wave of infection to spread before the
first victim fell ill.

From then on it is a grisly business involving high fever and pus-filled
blisters all over the body. It is fatal in 30 per cent of cases. Following the
break-up of the Soviet Union nobody is quite sure what happened to smallpox
samples that were held in the country's laboratories. The director of one lab in
Siberia has recently said that since he cannot be completely sure that all his
smallpox samples came through the Nineties safely, he would advise that everyone
in the world should be vaccinated against the disease. Have a nice day.

Some experts I've discussed this issue with recently point out the agenda of
many bio-terror specialists. The US has given millions to former Soviet bio labs
to try to secure their samples and know-how. Perhaps the Siberian lab director
just wants a few million more? There's a drug company agenda, too, of course.

They are now busily producing millions of batches of vaccine against the disease
for the US and other governments (including Britain).

The security elites in Washington or London are now so concerned about the
potential for bio-terror that they don't care about these various agendas any
more, they just want to know where to send the cheques.

Indeed, today, George Bush is due to announce a $ 11billion anti-bio-terror
budget.

This spending spree does not necessarily buy us peace of mind.

Hundreds of millions of doses of smallpox vaccine may be stockpiled around the
world by the time some terrorist fanatics attack - with a weaponised ebola. A
big problem with biology and viruses is that they're evolving all the time.
What's worse, some of the weapons research of the past was designed to help them
along, by crossing various strains or trying to breed in resistance to drugs.

In planning some kind of defence against this possible apocalypse, the biggest
obstacle will probably not be found in the lab petri dish but in the minds of
millions of ordinary people.

How would societies react if initial evidence of a possible smallpox outbreak
caused whole cities to be confined indoors under quarantine until the incubation
period had passed?

When faced with this dilemma in the BBC programme, the experts dither for a
couple of days.

Meanwhile the virus is spreading, not just in New York but across America and
the globe as infected New Yorkers innocently travel.

Any possible bio-terror outbreak could require decisions on massive defensive
measures to be taken in a few hours. The reaction would take huge political
courage: implications for the economy, tourism and of admitting an outbreak
would be enormous, let alone the fear of public disorder. And what if a
misdiagnosis leads to massive but unnecessary quarantine measures? No politician
would survive the public anger.

IF WE have learnt one thing from the US anthrax attack, it is that even a rather
ineffective episode of bio-terrorism can send hundreds of thousands reaching for
the phone, popping antibiotics and panic-buying food and essential supplies.
Perhaps, though, this is some sort of hopeful sign. It means at least that we
have had the first jab in the course that will make us aware of the potential of
bio-terror.

Tonight's programme will play its role in creating a new climate for debate,
too. People will have to move beyond their initial dread of this subject if they
are to accept the security or quarantine measures required in a real emergency.
In the meantime, we have to put our trust in those producing the vaccines and
thinking how to stop the unthinkable.

Smallpox 2002 is on BBC2 tonight at 9pm. Mark Urban is diplomatic editor of BBC
Newsnight.

Timetable of disaster This is how the terror unfolds in the BBC's gripping
Smallpox 2002

Day 1: Terrorist spreads smallpox virus in New York.

Day 13: President announces that New York is in grip of smallpox epidemic.

Day 18: Cases reported in Delhi, Tokyo, Karachi, Moscow and London, caused by
New Yorkers who didn't know they were infected, flying across the world.

Day 21: Reports of vaccine shortage in UK cause panic. Infrastructure starts to
collapse.

Day 31: Thirty countries fighting epidemics. Breakdown in law and order. Global
financial chaos.

Day 75: One million cases so far in US; 200,000 dying every week in Third World.
Populations flee cities.

Day 91: Epidemic contained in New York as number of new cases starts to fall. In
all, 60 million people worldwide die and there are still new outbreaks two years
later.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                February 5, 2002

Firm forced under by terrorist attack.

BYLINE: Jim Jack

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 396 words


A century-old textile firm has been forced to go into receivership because of
the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Robert Downs has placed Thornton-based weavers Downs, Coulter & Co into
administrative receivership with the loss of up to 45 jobs.

The firm was started by his great-grandfather John Downs in 1893 and employed
300 people in its heyday with an annual turnover of GBP 12 million.

Mr Downs said like many textile firms it had been struggling to cope with the
strength of the pound and competition from cheaper imports but the economic
downturn after the terror attacks in the US last year had proved to be the final
blow.

"Things were becoming difficult prior to September 11 but afterwards the US
market just dried up," said Mr Downs, of Ilkley.

"It's amazing how it can happen so quickly - up until 1998, when we employed 120
people, we were making reasonable profits, but the last two years have been very
difficult.

"We had to scale down the workforce and now we've given most of the remaining
staff redundancy payments as well.

"Some of them have been with us for 20 or 30 years, and although everybody had
seen it coming it didn't make it any easier telling them."

The company produces cloth for furniture and clothing and occupies an 80,000 sq
ft mills and office complex in the heart of Thornton.

At one time it ran three mills, in Thornton, Wilsden and Chorley, Lanca-shire,
with its head office in Little Germany until the 1970s.

The business dealt mainly within the UK until ten years ago when it started to
increase its export business to try to survive increasing competition.

"We were successful for a while, with 60 per cent of our turnover coming from
Europe," said Mr Downs.

"But things got difficult when the continental countries' currencies decreased
against the pound, and we turned to the American market which offered a lot of
opportunity and had a stronger currency.

"We built that up to 25 per cent of our sales, but again things turned difficult
- and then September 11 happened."

A 20-strong workforce is still helping the company trade while it is being run
by receivers Deloitte & Touche.

Angus Martin, a partner in the company, said: "We are searching for a buyer and
have made it known that the business is up for sale. But the textile market is
depressed and it's going to be difficult."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                February 5, 2002

Terror attack on bus driver

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

BYLINE: BY PETER LAZENBY

LENGTH: 271 words


A BUS driver was kicked and punched as he was robbed in front of passengers.

The attack happened at 10.10 last night on the Arriva 127 service which left
Ossett bus station and was in Chickenley Lane at Chickenley in Dewsbury.

Police said three white men on the bus were being "distinctly loud" when one of
them approached the 61-year-old male driver asking to be dropped at home.

The man then grabbed the driver around the neck and demanded his cash box.

"The driver stopped the bus and opened the doors. The man then pushed something
into the driver's neck though no weapon was seen," said a West Yorkshire police
spokeswoman.

"He then kicked and punched the driver before escaping with an amount of cash.

"The driver was shaken up by what happened but did not need hospital treatment."

Police said it was not known what weapon had been pushed against the driver's
neck.

"He felt something but did not see what it was," said the spokeswoman.

Police said other passengers were on the bus during the incident and they
particularly want to trace a woman who got off the bus at Springstone Avenue,
and a man who disembarked at the Flying Horse stop.

Descriptions of the three men were as follows.

Baseball

The assailant was 20 to 25, broadly built, 5ft11in, with fair hair in a crew-cut
style. He was wearing a round-neck grey pullover with dark piping around the
neck.

The other two men were of the same age and build and about 6ft.

One had dark hair thinning on top and was wearing a long-sleeved pale blue short
and faded jeans.

The other wore a black baseball cap and red cord jacket.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          February 6, 2002, Wednesday

ANDROMEDA FEELS STRAIN;
 SCI-FI BOOKSHOP CLOSES AS TRADE IS HIT BY US TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Chris Morley VISITORS: Gerry Anderson and Terry Pratchett; WORLDWIDE
REPUTATION:; Roger Peyton with a selection of books in the shop's heyday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 408 words


THE world's oldest and biggest sci-fi bookshop has closed after nearly three
decades in Birmingham following the Twin Towers terror attacks which cut off
trade from its US fans.

Andromeda, whose landmark city centre store played host to the most famous
science fiction writers around the globe, also fell foul of the IRA's bombing
attempt in Birmingham which kept customers away.

The shop, in Suffolk Street, finally shut its doors last week and the business
is set to be formally wound up next Wednesday with the loss of five jobs.

Founders and current directors Roger Peyton and Rod Milner will seek to put it
into voluntary liquidation at a creditors' meeting in Aldridge.

The company, called after the star system bearing the Greek goddess's name,
began in 1971 with the pair selling books from a pounds 1.50-a-week rented shop
in Old Hill, Cradley Heath.

They set up Andromeda in Birmingham's Summer Row before moving to its present
site just over ten years ago, and latterly added an Internet ordering service.

It was a dedicated sci-fi lovers' home and rejected more populist and
commercially promising lines such as selling superhero comics or Star Wars
merchandise. In November it welcomed the world's biggest-selling writer Terry
Prachett, author of Discworld, to Birmingham and in the past has seen
appearances by other big name authors such as William Gibson and Iain Banks.

Thunderbirds and Captain Scarlett creator Gerry Anderson was also a visitor.

Aldridge-based insolvency expert AJ Watkin & Co is handling the convening of the
creditors' meeting.

Case manager Bob Ecclestone said: 'It has a worldwide reputation and did a fair
bit of business in the States.

'Unfortunately, the business has been declining over the last couple of years
but a few things have come together to hit trade.'

He said the events of September 11 had been a significant factor in the decision
to pull the plug, but the shop was faced with relocating because of impending
development in the area.

The removal of bus stops from outside the premises had also hit the passing
trade.

Mr Ecclestone said: 'We are hoping we are able to sell the business to someone
whowould carry it on in some form with the services Andromeda has provided over
the last 30-odd years.

'We have talked in a very initial stage to three or four different people but it
is too early to say if anything will come out from this.'

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          February 6, 2002, Wednesday

CABBIE RELIVES ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 203 words


A WARWICKSHIRE cabbie with 40 years in the job was back on the road yesterday,
just three days after being beaten up by two passengers.

The 64-year-old driver, who asked not to be named, is nursing three broken ribs
and a head wound after being punched and kicked by two young men he drove from
Leamington to Coventry.

The cabbie, who works for Arrow Taxis, picked up the men from the rank opposite
Leamington police station just after 1am on Saturday.

They told him they wanted to go to Stoke in Coventry.

The driver said: "They paid me the full fare up front - we have to do that these
days because you get so many people trying to run off.

"They were quite respectable, well-dressed, and were not drunk, so when they
attacked me it was completely out of the blue."

The pair, both white and in their late teens or early 20s, asked to stop in
Bolingbroke Road, where they got out. But one opened the driver's door and began
to attack him.

He said: "He just started raining punches into the side of my head. I could not
see, there was so much blood pouring down my face."

The driver refused to hand over any money, and the thugs fled empty-handed.
Police have appealed for witnesses.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          February 6, 2002, Wednesday

ASBESTOS CLAIMS AND TERRORIST ATTACKS WILL WIPE-OUT R&SA PROFITS

BYLINE: Bill Gleeson Business Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 561 words


THE mounting cost of insurance claims arising from asbestos related illnesses
will help wipe out Royal & SunAlliance's entire trading profit for 2001.

In a trading statement yesterday, the Liverpool-based group said it has
increased provisions for asbestos related claims by pounds 371m. This, together
with other write-offs, including pounds 215m already announced as the cost of
the terrorist attacks, means the company will show no profit when it unveils its
full-year results later this month.

Fears have been mounting in the industry about the eventual scale of asbestos
related losses since Swissbased industrial group ABB warned last week that it
was facing higher claims from former workers. Some estimates put the total
liability facing the insurance industry at more than pounds 50bn.

With claims arising on policies that can date back as far as the 1940s, there
are concerns that the industry does not yet understand the full hit from
asbestos illnesses.

A spokesman for R&SA said: "Over the past year there has been a second wave of
claims with companies that distributed or installed asbestos products." The
first wave of claims came from victims that mined and manufactured asbestos.
These struck insurers in the mid-1990s.

R&SA also used its announcement to dampen down talk of a pounds 1bn rights issue
to help finance the company's growth in the general insurance market.

"We feel that the measures we outlined in November to make additional capital
available, plus the quota share agreement announced today, means that we have
enough capital, " the spokesman said.

The quota scheme will see the company cede 10pc of its existing insurance book
to reinsurers, allowing it to free up capital for new business.

"We do not foresee any need to go to the market for additional capital.

"Our current trading is very positive.

We have seen very strong improvement in rates and our position. We are very
strong in commercial business which has seen some double digit and even triple
digit growth and we feel that this very favourable market will continue for
several years, " the spokesman said.

However the company said nothing about the fate of its Liverpool based life and
pensions business, which hangs in the balance as the company reviews it.

R&SA decided last year that it had too much capital tied-up in its life business
to the detriment of its general insurance side.

A firm of actuaries, Tillinghast Towers Perrin, completed a report last July,
but a decision on what action to take has been delayed as a result of the
uncertainties affecting the insurance market after September's terrorist
attacks. Options include selling the life side or securitising future profits
from existing life policies.

The spokesman said: "The work continues. We have not given a date but we do
expect that as soon as we can. We would want to see progress during the first
half of 2002."

The spokesman also played down reports that the company's exposure to guaranteed
annuity payments is second only to Equitable Life's.

He said: "We have a large provision for guaranteed annuities. The way they
(Equitable) have dealt with them is different. We have put up full provisions
for those annuities over the last four or five years. As far as we are
concerned, we have correctly reserved for those annuities."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 6, 2002, Wednesday

RYANAIR PROFITS SOAR AS BAA COUNTS COST OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Michael Harrison Business Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 391 words


RYANAIR, the low-cost Irish airline, yesterday took advantage of a record
-breaking rise in third-quarter profits and passenger numbers to tap the market
for up to pounds 117m to help fund its recent purchase of 100 new Boeing jets.

Profits for the October to December period rose by 34 per cent to EUR32.95m
(pounds 20.1m) while passenger numbers were up 30 per cent as the no-frills
carrier responded to the events of 11 September with an unprecedented fare
promotion.

The sharp increase in Ryanair's profits is in stark contrast to the rising
losses and falling passenger numbers being reported by full-service airlines.
British Airways, which this week reported a pounds 189m third-quarter loss,
yesterday reported a 7 per cent decline in traffic in January.

Meanwhile, BAA, the airports operator which runs Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted,
reported a 20 per cent fall in third-quarter profits to pounds 103m after a 10
per cent decline in traffic at its seven UK airports.

Earnings for the October to December period fell from pounds 130m to pounds 103m
as the downturn in air travel, particularly on transatlantic routes, led to a 10
per cent drop in passenger numbers.

The Ryanair fares promotion reduced yields by 10 per cent but it still grew
operating margins by two percentage points. The shares fell 34.5p to 381p.

Ryanair is placing up to 30 million new shares at a price of about EUR6.50 each.
The offer will be restricted to investors in the UK, Ireland and Continental
Europe, where Ryanair is attempting to broaden its shareholder base. As part of
the strategy, Ryanair has also decided to ban the purchase of further shares in
the company by non-EU nationals from midnight tomorrow.

Mike Hodgkinson, BAA's chief executive, said that despite 11 September, the
company was confident that air travel growth would return in the long-term.
However, he said it was not possible to predict the exact course of recovery.

Passenger numbers were down by 6 per cent in December compared with 12 per cent
in October and a further small improvement is expected when the January figures
appear.

For the nine-month period to the end of September, profits before exceptional
items were down by 5 per cent to pounds 441m while passenger numbers across
BAA's UK network were 3 per cent lower at 95.7 million.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                          February 6, 2002, Wednesday

DEADLY DISEASE;
 ANALYSIS: SURVIVORS OF THE 1962 SOUTH WALES SMALLPOX OUTBREAK HAVE HELPED TO
PAINT A TERRIFYING PORTRAIT OF HOW THE UK WOULD COPE WITH A BIO-TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: By Sasha Mansworth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 886 words


IN Maerdy in the Rhondda, people crossed the road when they saw Marion and
Malcolm Jones approaching.

As survivors of the last recorded smallpox outbreak in 1962, the couple were
warned what to expect of society before they left the isolation wards of Penrhys
Hospital.

But despite their deep facial scars and lack of hair, not everyone treated the
21-year-olds as lepers.

"Some people were marvellous, but some were frightened, " explains Marion, now a
62-year-old grandmother living in Edmondston. "If you saw us you would have been
afraid. We had no hair and we had a face full of scars."

The BBC docu-drama Smallpox 2002 - Silent Weapon, screened last night, drew on
the experiences of survivors of the deadly virus and their doctors in South
Wales.

Film-makers also recruited the cooperation of the world's leading experts in
bio-terrorism, smallpox epidemiology and emergency planning. With their
consultation and six months of research, they put together a detailed prediction
of how the authorities would respond in the event of a bio-terror attack.

Smallpox 2002 - Silent Weapon painted a devastating picture of Britain in the
grip of an attack which claimed 60 million victims worldwide. Mass graves were
prepared for victims around Britain, soldiers forced families who had had
contact with the virus into vans, and armed guards stood outside schools which
had been turned into quarantine centres.

Commissioned before the recent anthrax outbreaks in America, the docu-drama has
taken on a new significance in a world under the constant threat of terrorism.

Marion's scars took two years to heal, but the memories of the spring of 1962
when seven members of her family caught and survived the killer disease are
still fresh.

She caught smallpox from her neighbour's daughter Margaret Mansfield, who gave
birth to a stillborn child and later died. In the following months, Malcolm,
Marion's parents and her four brothers and sisters were all hospitalised. They
spent three and a half months in isolation wards in Penrhys Hospital.

Luckily, Marion's two-year-old son Anthony escaped the disease and went to stay
with his grandmother.

"I was in and out of a coma and my husband was worse, " Marion remembers. "We
had the same symptoms - a blister effect all over our bodies and swelling. You
couldn't describe it as being in pain as you weren't yourself. It was more
itchy, like chicken pox but 10 times as worse.

We were lucky - eight of us went into hospital and eight came out."

Not only did Marion have to face social isolation when she came out of hospital,
but she discovered that the authorities had burned her furniture. "But they had
left a line of baby clothes up in the kitchen, so I took them out into the
garden and burned them."

Marion received a compensation cheque of just pounds 60 from the council -
pounds 32 of which she owed to a store for her furniture.

"In Wales, the feeling was that people who caught smallpox had been ostracised
at the time, " says the docu-drama's assistant producer Colette Flight.

"There were five outbreaks in the UK - including South Wales.

Pakistani travellers carried the virus as there was an outbreak in Pakistan. One
went to Cardiff and somehow infected people in the Rhondda."

A Ministry of Health report reveals there was a smallpox epidemic in Karachi
between November 1961 and February 1962. Of the five Pakistani travellers who
entered Britain carrying the virus, two died.

One of the survivors was taken ill in Cardiff on January 13, 1962.

In the next few months, 46 people in South Wales caught smallpox and 19 died. Dr
Donald Foster was medical officer for Pontypridd at the time of the outbreak.

"There was a lot of worry - people turned up in large groups as they felt safer
if vaccinated, " says the 78-yearold, who now lives in Radyr, Cardiff.

"Around 900,000 people were vaccinated in South Wales during the spring of 1962.
There is no treatment - you either get better or die. A lot of people died."

He added: "Smallpox has become a hot topic. It doesn't exist in the wild, but
there are some stocks of the virus in laboratories. It is easily spread - so if
terrorists get hold of it, it's a potent weapon."

VIEWS ON THE STREET WE took to the streets of Cardiff armed with a picture of a
young victim stricken with smallpox.

Lorraine Russell, 32, of Treforest, says: "The picture is disgusting and it's
really frightening to think you could die from smallpox .

"It's worrying that there could be a natural outbreak.

But I don't believe an attack could ever happen in this country. There is more
likely to be an attack using nuclear weapons.

"The anthrax scare in the US was never proved to be the widespread lethal weapon
it was meant to be."

Ronald Whitehead, 58, Cyncoed, Cardiff, says: "I'd never have thought you'd end
up looking like you'd had a severe attack of acne if you'd contracted smallpox.

"I thought it was extinct as a disease, and when it came to biological warfare
they would send over something that sounded a bit nastier.

"But looking at the picture it doesn't look like it'd be pleasant - and I always
thought it was similar to chicken pox and wasn't enough to kill you.

"It's all a bit frightening, to be honest."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                February 7, 2002

Mum in plea on terror attack

SECTION: CRIME: RAPE/INDECENT, Pg.3

LENGTH: 265 words


A LLANELLI mother whose 13-year-old daughter was attacked is calling for
witnesses to come forward.

The teenager is suffering nightmares after the incident, which took place in
Mill Lane on Thursday, January 17, atabout 7pm.

A man approached the youngster from behind, put a hand over her mouth and pinned
her against the wall.

He asked her name, her address and if she had any money or a mobile.

Still holding her to the wall the man attempted to remove her trousers.

She overcame her fear and fought back, eventually breaking free from the
attacker.

He chased her down the road but she eventually arrived at the safety of her
home.

Her distraught mother is now appealing to people to help find the man who she
believes would have been bruised after the attack.

She said: She had red marks all around her waist where she had been fighting
him.

She is having nightmares about this man chasing her and I want him found.

My daughter has not been out since. It has taken all her confidence away. The
thought of walking down the same road and maybe seeing him again is terrifying
her.''

The girl fought back and screamed so her mother believes somebody must have
heard or seen something.

The attacker is described as a man in his early to mid-20s, around 6ft.

He wore a black Puffer jacket and a dark woolly Nike hat with a tick across the
front.

He had three gold rings on one hand and bad acne down both sides of his face.

The mum added: I'm begging anyone with information, anything at all, to come
forward.''

(Call Llanelli police station on 01554 772222.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 South Wales Evening Post

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                February 7, 2002

Mum in plea on terror attack

SECTION: CRIME; RAPE/INDECENT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 266 words


A LLANELLI mother whose 13-year-old daughter was attacked is calling for
witnesses to come forward.  The teenager is suffering nightmares after the
incident, which took place in Mill Lane on Thursday, January 17, at about 7pm. A
man approached the youngster from behind, put a hand over her mouth and pinned
her against the wall.

He asked her name, her address and if she had any money or a mobile.

Still holding her to the wall the man attempted to remove her trousers.

She overcame her fear and fought back, eventually breaking free from the
attacker.

He chased her down the road but she eventually arrived at the safety of her
home.

Her distraught mother is now appealing to people to help find the man who she
believes would have been bruised after the attack.

She said: "She had red marks all around her waist where she had been fighting
him.

"She is having nightmares about this man chasing her and I want him found.

"My daughter has not been out since. It has taken all her confidence away. The
thought of walking down the same road and maybe seeing him again is terrifying
her.'' The girl fought back and screamed so her mother believes somebody must
have heard or seen something.

The attacker is described as a man in his early to mid-20s, around 6ft.

He wore a black Puffer jacket and a dark woolly Nike hat with a tick across the
front.

He had three gold rings on one hand and bad acne down both sides of his face.

The mum added: "I'm begging anyone with information, anything at all, to come
forward.'' (Call Llanelli police station on 01554 772222.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 South Wales Evening Post

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                February 7, 2002

Drivers attacked in hi-jack terror.

BYLINE: Murray Walker

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 345 words



VIOLENT car-jackers rampaged through the borough during a 14-hour blitz on car
owners.

Two motorists were injured and three cars were stolen in seven incidents.

Police believe one gang was responsible for most of the raids.

The first incident was at 6.15pm on Tuesday (Jan 29) when a 32-year-old man was
pushed to the floor as he stood by his Honda Prelude in the driveway of his home
in Church Meadow, Unsworth.

Two masked men approached him from behind and threw him to the ground before
grabbing the keys to his car. However, the masked thieves were unable to start
the vehicle and the men ran off.

Forty minutes later, four masked men burst into the Village Workshops in George
Street, Prestwich, and demanded the keys to a Volvo parked outside.  The owner
was threatened by one man wielding a large spanner. The gang, all in their 20s,
drove off in the Volvo worth GBP 11,000.

At 8pm, a car-jacker threatened a motorist and a passer-by with an axe when he
was disturbed while trying to steal a BMW from Higher Ainsworth Road, Radcliffe.

The thug lashed out at the two men. The offender ran off.

An Audi worth GBP 26,000 was stolen 20 minutes later during a robbery in Dales
Lane, Whitefield. Its 28-year-old female owner was grabbed around the head and
forced to hand over the keys to the vehicle by a man.

The most violent incident happened at 7.30am on Wednesday (Jan 30) in Lowther
Road, Prestwich.

The owner of a car was dragged from his vehicle and hit several times in the
face. The attacker ran off. The motorist was taken to hospital for treatment to
facial bruising.

Fifty minutes later, the sixth raid happened in St George's Road in Unsworth. A
woman had left her vehicle with the engine running when a man jumped in to the
driver's seat and attempted to drive away.

The woman tried to grab the steering wheel and the offender ran off.

Less than two hours later, at 10am, a green Ford Explorer was stolen by two men
from a woman in Park Road.

Two other incidents occurred on Tuesday evening in the Salford area.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            February 8, 2002, Friday

MUM PUTS HOUSE ON LINE FOR REFUGEES;
 WOMAN MOURNING TERROR ATTACK VICTIM FIGHTS FOR AFGHAN FAMILY

BYLINE: Alison Dayani COMPASSION: Soraya Walton with Feriba Ahmadi and her
children Seera and Hadia Picture by Dale Martin;

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 307 words


A WOMAN whose aunt died in the September 11 terrorist attacks is putting her
house on the line in a battle to save an Afghan family from deportation.

Mother-of-two Soraya Walton is fighting to keep the Ahmadi refugee family in her
home town of Lye, near Stourbridge, until Afghanistan is stabilised.

Soraya's 68-year-old aunt Touri Bolourbhi, who lived in America, was on the
second plane that smashed into the twin towers of the World Trade Centre in New
York on September 11.

Soraya said her aunt's death had fired her humanitarian instincts to help
families like the Ahmadis, who say they fled Afghanistan after being tortured by
the Taliban.

She today revealed she is putting her semi-detached house in Longfield Road up
as surety to get father Farid Ahmadi bailed from a refugee detention centre in
Dover and reunited with his wife Feriba and children Hadia, aged six, and three
-year-old Seera.

Soraya, who is chairman of governors at the Afghan children's school of
Wollescote Primary, has the support of dozens of residents across Lye.

They are calling for a judicial review and are bombarding Home Secretary Jack
Straw with protest letters.

She said: 'I lost my aunt in the Twin Tower attacks and it made me realise the
importance of life and helping other people. If I can do one bit of good in my
life, that's enough.

'I will do whatever it takes to try and help the Ahmadis. I am putting my house
up as surety because I know they won't let me down.

'They are good people and we are treating them like criminals. They deserve the
right to justice.'

Mr and Mrs Ahmadi claim they used their life savings to flee to Britain after
being tortured by the Taliban.

The Home Office allocated them a home in Lye after they were caught trying to
enter the country in the back of a lorry in Dover.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 8, 2002

In brief: Terror hideouts attacked by US

BYLINE: Rory McCarthy, Islamabad

SECTION: International News: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 64 words


US forces stepped up air strikes against suspected Taliban and al-Qaida
hideouts, attacking Mafazatoo in Gorboz district, 12 miles from Khost, on the
eastern Afghan border.

The raids follow a Hellfire missile strike on Monday fired from a CIA drone
which is said to have killed a suspected al-Qaida chief. Other reports claim the
attack killed three innocentcivilians.


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 8, 2002, Friday

IRISH FAN STALKS S CLUB RACHEL;
 STAR'S TERROR AT ODYSSEY ATTACK

BYLINE: Alun Palmer And Maurice Fitzmaurice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 132 words


TERRIFIED S CLUB 7 star Rachel Stevens was attacked by an Irish stalker just
minutes before going on stage in Belfast, The Mirror can reveal.

The fan, believed to be in his thirties, evaded 15 security minders before
lunging at the singer in her dressing room at the Odyssey Arena last Saturday
night.

Rachel, 23, looked on in horror as the man in a white T-shirt and black suit was
wrestled away by bodyguards. But the stalker managed to escape before running
through an emergency exit.

Last night it emerged that he had sent Rachel a hand-written note when the band
performed at Dublin's Point Depot three days earlier.

The message told her her they were a couple who were being kept apart. A source
close to the band said: "Rachel and the other girls were terrified."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           February 9, 2002, Saturday

ESCAPE FROM HARSH REALITIES OF LIFE;
 PAUSE/PLAY SEIBIANT/CHWARAE: AFTER THE TERROR ATTACKS ON THE US, TV VIEWERS
HAVE OPTED FOR COMEDY PROGRAMMES FOR ESCAPISM AND COMFORT. SHERNA NOAH FINDS OUT
WHY

BYLINE: Sherna Noah

SECTION: MEDIA; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 582 words


IN the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks, pundits predicted the
rise in popularity of serious television programmes dedicated to exploring the
hard issues of the day.

Instead, we have seen viewers turning to escapist or comfort television, like
Friends and Sex and the City.

The trend is also there to see across the Atlantic. In America, Friends has
regained its position as the number one show. In the week ending January 20, it
was watched by a staggering 18.4 million households.

At home, US exports have mingled with home grown programmes like The Vicar of
Dibley and Pop Idol, to fill an emotional hole and provide the television
equivalent of a nice slab of chocolate.

Media studies lecturer Debbie Goodie says we watch comfort television to escape
from everyday realities and pressures.

"It's a release from the real world. Having seen the buildings come down and the
human suffering on September 11, we want to watch something nice and happy
that's unaffected by trauma and international politics."

That could be why the familiar and untaxing makeover and lifestyle shows, like
What Not to Wear, presented by fashionistas Trinny Woodall and Susannah
Constantine, Delia's How to Cook, gardening programme Ground Force, and even the
Antiques Roadshow are all listed in the latest BBC1 and BBC2 top ten.

Comedy however, is probably one of the most important genres of comfort
television according to Julian Linley, deputy editor of Heat magazine.

AS well as Sex and the City, Frasier and Smack the Pony are all in Channel 4's
top ten.

Linley says: "The news and footage of September 11 and the immediate aftermath
upset a lot of people. It felt as if the world was changing in a way that was
horror filled.

"Comedy shows are particularly comforting after that. The characters are so-far
not affected by big events.

Comedy provides a fantasy that people can escape from.

"In Sex and the City, bad things happen to the girls but it's things they can
cope with.

September 11 was something we couldn't control, but the problems we see on the
television are things we think we can handle.

"Comedy reaffirms our faith in the human spirit. After September 11 people are a
little less tolerant about fluff and they want genuine warmth.

That's why comedy is proving so attractive because it's got a light touch. That
Sex and the City and Friends is about a groups of friends is also very
important, " he says.

Small communities are important in comfort television in the likes of Monarch of
the Glen - one of the BBC's top ten shows.

GOODIE says this can provide personal relationships and companionships, which
may be needed after terrible events like the terrorist attacks.

"There are a lot of people who are lonely and living away from those traditional
structures which provide comfort.

"Because a lot of people don't even know their neighbours, artificial
communities provide their communities.

"They also provide a certain predictability. The outside world might be
uncertain but you always know a pint will be poured at the Queen Vic.

"Some people haven't got comfort and support around them. Post September 11,
we're looking for comfort and we can get that by feeling close to a character on
television, " she says.

Soaps are important in this respect. But it's also telling that ITV1's most
popular show - Coronation Street - is moving away from issue-based storylines to
character led ones.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COMFORT TV: Liverpool-born Kim Cattrall in Sex And The City

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           February 9, 2002, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR : SCOTS JOIN UP TO FIGHT LADEN;
 TERROR ATTACKS BOOST ARMY NUMBERS

BYLINE: Annie Brown

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 389 words


SCOTS are queuing up to join the Army in the wake of the September 11
atrocities.

The US attacks and the war against Osama bin Laden's terror networks have
inspired youngsters to enlist.

And that's good news for the forces, who have been suffering a recruitment
crisis.

Since September 11, Army applications are up 12 per cent on the same period last
year.

Numbers applying for the Navy and RAF have also increased.Army careers officer
Major Alan Baker said: "People are inspired by what they see on TV and in the
newspapers. They think, 'I could do that. I can do some good' and apply to
join."

The Army, Navy and Air Force all recorded increases in applications after the
Falklands and Gulf wars.

But the rise in youngsters who want to join up since the Twin Towers attacks is
much more pronounced. Yesterday, the number of people in Scotland who have
applied to join the Army since September 11 stood at 1850. That compares to 1650
over the same period last year.

Army chiefs are delighted. The Scottish Division is currently under quota by
350. And in total, all three Armed Forces are around 10,000 below target
manpower levels.

An Army spokeswoman said: "We have had a few people, of all ages, walking into
recruitment offices and asking to be sent out to fight. They feel patriotic. But
it is too early to say whether recruitment targets will be reached as a result
of this surge in applicants.

"The war in Afghanistan is not over yet. A counter effect could be that parents
become less keen for their children to sign up."

Professor Jim Wyllie, director of conflict studies at Aberdeen University, said:
"Conflicts tend to inspire youngsters. And this conflict coincides with rising
unemployment levels which may also contribute to the increase in the number of
people wanting to join the Armed Forces."

One teenager who applied to join the Navy after September 11 is Andrew Foster,
19, of Loanhead, Midlothian.

He said: "The idea had been at the back of my mind for a while but the fight
against terrorism has spurred me into action. I feel very patriotic."

A CLOTHES factory have created 50 jobs after landing a pounds 750,000 contract
from the Ministry of Defence. Thistle Garments, of Cumbernauld, near Glasgow,
won an order to make 28,000 camouflage suits for the Army.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 9, 2002, Saturday

SSH, DON'T SCARE THE TOURISTS;
 TERRORIST ATTACKS IN SRI LANKA HAVE FRIGHTENED AWAY FOREIGN VISITORS, AND WITH
THEM THE MONEY NEEDED TO SUPPORT VITAL CONSERVATION WORK.

BYLINE: Frank Partridge

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words


As with a fast train approaching from the distance, so with a slow herd of
elephants in the wild: you sense that something is about to happen before you
actually see it. Locomotives make the rails for miles ahead vibrate and sing;
oncoming elephants cause the ground to tremble beneath your feet. You hear the
swoosh of vegetation being disturbed and springing back into place. The air
becomes hazy with the displacement of dust.

And then they appear. Nothing - no picture book, no breathless TV documentary,
no zoo - quite prepares you for your first encounter with a family of elephants
in their natural habitat of jungle and scrubland. It's their gaff. They rule the
roost. Unhurried and stately, teasing clumps of vegetation out of the earth with
their rhythmically swaying trunks; blithely unconcerned with the presence of
humans, who nevertheless threaten their very existence. As a group of about 20
lumbered past, almost within touching distance of our four-wheel drive, I was
overwhelmed by a feeling of smallness.

It was an early February evening in Yala, a game park with all the trimmings of
eastern or southern Africa, but lying a whole ocean away in Sri Lanka. The
peculiar climate in the so-called Dry Zone of the island - no rain at all for
much of the year, but violent monsoons in the summer - has dissuaded all but a
few hundred people from settling in the region, leaving it to the animals and
birds.

One of the many unfathomable mysteries of Sri Lanka is how it manages to squeeze
so many different landscapes and weather patterns into an area no larger than
Ireland. An eight-hour drive from Colombo provides a divergence of views that
could fill a continent. The capital has the chaotic bustle of Istanbul. The
shimmering west coast beaches resemble the Caribbean. The tropical rain-forest
of the south -west I imagine to be Amazonian. The green, misty hills in the
centre of the island, where the British laid out tea plantations, could have
been transported from Ireland; while the mock Tudor and Georgian architecture of
the colonial hill towns echoes the Home Counties, circa 1958.

And finally to Yala (also known as Ruhuna National Park), in the south- east
corner of the island - a huge expanse of open grassland interspersed with
forests and lakes. The Safari Beach Hotel is the place to stay, with its cool
rooms and verandas overlooking a bird-rich lagoon, a short walk from the ocean.
Here, the decor of the Kenyan game lodge has been reproduced down to the last
detail - low thatched roofs, rush matting, primitive earthenware and
animal-print upholstery - mixed with western comforts. The uniforms of the
wardens and trackers might have been a job lot from the Masai Mara.

"Cool" and "comfort" are important words here, because even in what I took to be
the Sri Lankan winter, the days are searingly hot. You need to get up at dawn,
or wait until the late afternoon, to avoid the full rage of the sun - and catch
the sharp colours that are otherwise bleached out by the brightness. Even then,
a three -hour jeep safari across the rutted tracks leaves you dry, dusty and
desperate for a shower and drink. Back in my room, exhausted by the day's
adventures, my mobile phone bleeped with a text message from home. Parts of
Britain, a friend informed me, had been cut off by nine inches of snow. In an
instant, all aches and pains dissolved.

Yala's checklist of hoofed and feathered residents, though impressive, is not of
African proportions, because of the authorised hunting that went on in the 19th
century, and the unauthorised poaching that continues to this day. The elephant,
though revered in folklore and protected by law, is slowly being squeezed out of
existence. Tame, they play an important part in religious festivals and wedding
ceremonies. But wild (outside the protected areas) they can be a rampaging
threat to crops and flimsily constructed villages.

As man enlarges his habitat, the elephants lose theirs, and the Sri Lankan sub
-species (slightly smaller than its Indian cousin) has declined in number by 80
per cent in the last 100 years.

Leopards, too, were once plentiful at Yala, but only a small colony remains -
and they rarely venture beyond the section of the park that's closed to the
public. All but the luckiest of visitors have to take their presence on trust,
contenting themselves with photographs and paintings of the elusive cats which
adorn the walls of the hotel and zoological museum.

But there is still much to see. In a half-day's safari across the western sector
of the park, even my untutored eye picked out water buffalo, crocodiles, wild
boar, several varieties of deer, mongoose and monkey - and a vivid floorshow by
some courting peacocks, Sri Lanka's national bird.

At the museum, where tame deer wander through the grounds, a wall-chart records
the annual number of visitors since Yala was given over to conservation in 1938.
In most years, there's been a steady increase, punctuated every now and then by
a dramatic fall: 211,000 paying customers in 1995, but only 95,000 the following
year. The news archives explain why.

In January 1996, a bomb planted by Tamil terrorists in Colombo destroyed Sri
Lanka's Central Bank, with huge loss of life - one of many episodes in which the
island's 30-year internecine conflict spilled out of the no-go area of the north
and into the capital. Later that year, there was a countrywide drought, and
foreign tourists simply stopped coming. It took half a decade for the tourist
figures to recover.

Then came another setback. On 24 July last year, Tamils attacked the
international airport near Colombo, killing 20 people and destroying half of the
national airline's passenger fleet. Immediately, the Foreign Office in London
advised people against holidaying on the island; for weeks, long-haul visitors
had to change planes at Dubai or Singapore, adding hours to their journeys. Once
again, Sri Lanka had been wiped off the internationaltourist map.

I imagine they'll be chalking up the latest attendance figures at Yala about
now, and 2001 will show another downward lurch. Lower revenues will mean less to
spend on conservation, and the elephants and leopards will move another notch
towards extinction. But every new year brings optimism. Now that the focus of
international news has shifted to Afghanistan and Kashmir, Sri Lanka's civil war
has been relegated from the front pages, and even the safety-first Foreign
Office has toned down its warning to travellers. This week its website bulletin
began: "Most visits to Sri Lanka are trouble-free." Perfectly true, but like
most dispatches from Whitehall, it tells only part of the story. Most visits to
Sri Lanka are also restorative, memorable, magical, and as filled with the
thrillingly unexpected as when my path crossed with the elephants of Yala.

Travellers' Guide

Getting there:

Only Sri Lankan Airlines (020-8538 2000, www.srilankan.lk) flies from the UK.
Through discount agents, fares from Heathrow to Colombo are around pounds 500
return.

Accommodation:

Yala Safari Beach Hotel: 00 94 9447 20471.

Further information:

Sri Lanka Tourist Board, 26-27 Oxenden Street, London SW1Y 4EL (020-7930 2627).

The Foreign Office (020-7008 0232; www.fco.gov.uk) says: "The threat of
terrorist activity has diminished. But visitors should remain vigilant."

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  $%Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland ireland

                             February 11, 2002 2002

BAA profits hit by terror attacks attacks

SECTION: Pg. 3 3

LENGTH: 53 words words


BAA recorded a sharp drop in profits and passenger numbers after September 11.
Traffic at its seven UK airports, which include Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted,
fell 10 per cent in the last three months of 2001 compared with the same period
in 2000. Profits were down 21 per cent to pounds 103 million.



million.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002 2002

LANGUAGE: English english

PUB-TYPE: Magazine magazine

                     Copyright 2002 CMP Information Ltd ltd

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 11, 2002, Monday Edition 1

Terrorist attack shock now receding

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 33

LENGTH: 289 words



Britain's small and med- ium-sized manufacturers are recovering from the
economic shock of the US terrorist attacks, a survey out today shows.

While orders and output are continuing to decline, the falls are not as steep as
those seen in the immediate aftermath of September 11.

And fewer jobs are expected to be cut by small and medium-sized enterprises
[SMEs] in the coming months than before Christmas, in contrast to the picture
for the manufacturing sector as a whole.

The survey, the latest quarterly report from the Confederation of British
Industry, comes as economists believe the global economy is finally showing
signs of picking up.

Simon Bartley, chairman of the CBI's SME council, warned that the continued
falls in demand meant 39pc of firms now had less than a month's guaranteed
production.

This is the highest percentage recorded since 1988, and Mr Bartley said it
showed an improvement in worldwide demand was desperately needed.

But he added: "There is some reassurance in this survey.

"Manufacturers, particularly smaller ones, continue to face tough times with
orders and output still suffering but the rate of decline is slowing."

The CBI said 24pc of small and medium-sized firms enjoyed an increase in total
orders over the past four months.

While 39pc registered a fall, the resulting balance of minus 15pc is way ahead
of forecasts and compares with a minus 25pc balance in October.

Business confidence is also showing signs of improving despite the lingering
gloom in the recession- hit manufacturing sector.

The CBI said 13pc of SMEs were more optimistic and 40pc less so than in October,
when the balance was minus 57pc.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               February 12, 2002

FBI warns of 'imminent' terror attack

LENGTH: 394 words


THE FBI has issued an extraordinary terrorist alert asking police forces and the
public to be on the lookout for a Yemeni man and several associates who might be
plotting an imminent terrorist attack as early as today.

The agency scrambled to put out the warning after information emerged that one
or more people were involved. Officials said the intelligence, while deemed
credible, was not specific about possible targets.

One possible attacker was identified as Fawaz Yahya al-Rabeei, a Yemeni national
born in Saudi Arabia in 1979. The warning also listed about a dozen associates
of al-Rabeei.

The bureau planned to put pictures and information on a website to help
Americans identify the possible perpetrators.

"Recent information indicates a planned attack may occurred in the United States
or against US interests on or around February 12, 2002. One or more operatives
may be involved in the attack," the alert to 18,000 law enforcement agencies
said.

The alert asked police "to stop and detain" any of the named individuals in
alert and that all "should be considered extremely dangerous".

Law enforcement officials said the alert was prompted by recent information from
interviews of detainees in Afghanistan and Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where several
al-Qaida operatives are being held.

Law enforcement officials said there was no evidence that al-Rabeei had entered
the United States. The alert did not say whether the attack was planned or
involved Osama bin Laden's al Qaida network.

Before Monday, FBI and Homeland Security officials had issued three general
alerts urging all Americans to be on the lookout for possible terror activities.

The last was issued on December 3 and was supposed to last through the holidays.
It has since been extended through the Winter Olympics and is supposed to expire
around March 11.

In addition, the FBI has issued numerous narrower alerts to specific industries
when uncorroborated information about threats to their facilities emerges. In
the last month, such alerts went to nuclear power plant operators and to
operators of Internet sites cautioning about possible threats.

The warning, issued in the US at around 9pm last night (0200 GMT today) was
organised to ensure that police, news media and the public learned about them at
the same time, officials said.


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           February 12, 2002, Tuesday

AMERICANS BRACED AFTER TERROR ALERT;
 FBI WARNS OF ATTACK PLOT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 248 words


THIS is the face of terrorist Fawaz Yahya al-Rabeei, who the FBI fears is
plotting a major attack as early as today.

The bureau issued an extraordinary terrorist alert asking police forces and the
public to be on the lookout for the Yemeni and his associates.

It scrambled to put out the warning after information emerged that one or more
people were involved.

Agents said the intelligence, while deemed credible, was not specific about
possible targets.

One possible attacker was identified as al-Rabeei, a Yemeni born in Saudi Arabia
in 1979. The warning also listed about a dozen associates.

The FBI planned to put photos and information on a website to help Americans
identify the possible perpetrators.

'Recent information indicates a planned attack may occurred in the United States
or against US interests on or around February 12, 2002.

One or more operatives may be involved in the attack,' the alert to 18,000 law
enforcement agencies said.

The alert asked police 'to stop and detain' any of the named individuals in
alert and that all 'should be considered extremely dangerous.'

Law enforcement officials said the alert was prompted by recent information from
interviews of detainees in Afghanistan and at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where al
Qaida operatives are being held.

Law enforcement officials said there was no evidence that al-Rabeei had entered
the US. The alert did not say whether the attack was planned or involved al
Qaida.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 12, 2002, Tuesday

'I looked out of the window and saw this nuclear cloud' On September 11, Rudolph
Giuliani went from a political zero to a world hero. In his first British press
interview since the terrorist attacks on America, the former mayor of New York
tells Alice Thomson how he coped through that dreadful day - and how it changed
his life

BYLINE: Interview by ALICE THOMSON

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 3665 words

Rudy is late. He has gone to see his tailor about a suit to wear for tea with
the Queen. But I don't care how long I have to wait: Rudy the Rude is now Rudy
the Rock.

Time magazine recently voted him Person of the Year and prime ministers now
queue up to be taken on his guided tour of New York. He's been suggested for the
Nobel peace prize; as the new director of the CIA; as even a future vice
president or president. This week, he is in London to receive an honorary
knighthood and advise Tony Blair on ways of combating violent crime.

Thousands of baby boys (and girls) across America have been christened Rudolph
in his honour. As I sit in his office on 7th Avenue, two sackfuls of letters
arrive - along with a crate of cigars from a senator - to join the tributes
expressing gratitude for his strength, kindness, frankness and inspirational
qualities.

The transition from zero to hero took place on September 11 when the mayor of
New York stumbled out of the wreckage, covered in white dust and looking as
though he had risen from the grave. He was calm and practical, comforting the
lost and insisting that there should be no reprisals against Muslims. "We're
going to come out of this stronger than before," he promised New Yorkers.

Before his city collapsed in ash, Mayor Giuliani was seen as a lame duck. He had
pulled out of the Senate race against Hillary Clinton because of his prostate
cancer, a bitter divorce battle with his second wife and the controversial
police shooting of an unarmed black man. But, within hours of the collapse of
the two towers, he had become America's Golden Eagle.

"It's weird getting used to being loved," Giuliani says, laughing. "My scowl has
turned into a smile. I'm becoming soft."

He wasn't soft on September 11. When the city seemed about to fall, he was there
to catch it. Norman Mailer told The Daily Telegraph last week: "I tell you,
whatever that guy's got, it's good stuff."

He looks embarrassed. "I'm not brave. I still get flashbacks. Every time I think
about it, there is a different memory. Maybe the one that keeps recurring is of
a man who jumped from the 101st floor [of the World Trade Centre]. He hurled
himself out of the window and came down 100 stories, right in front of me.
That's the first time I stopped.

"Up until then, I had handled hundreds of emergencies. I thought there wasn't
anything I hadn't seen. I had been mayor for seven-and-three-quarter years and
US Attorney of Law. I'd fought the Mafia, drugs, murders and terrorism. But I
realised in that second that America had changed for ever, and there was no one
I could turn to."

The day had started quietly. Giuliani, forced out of his official residence by
his wife, had solved his accommodation problems by moving in with a gay couple -
another cause of controversy in the city. "It was a beautiful day, the day of
the primaries to choose my successor. I decided to skip my usual staff meeting
and have breakfast with a friend at the Peninsula Hotel. Just as we were
finishing, a police officer pulled over and said: 'There's a fire at the World
Trade Centre. A twin engine plane has hit one of the towers'."

Giuliani felt uneasy and immediately headed for the crash site. "I remember
looking up at that clear blue sky and thinking: 'No one accidentally smashes
into one of the biggest buildings in the world'. We passed St Vincent's hospital
on the way and I saw a lot of doctors and nurses on the streets, carrying
stretchers. It was like a film of Pearl Harbor - so ominous. As we were getting
very close, I could see the fire burning. All of a sudden, there was a huge
explosion."

Within 30 seconds, the Police Commissioner was on the line, saying a second
plane had hit the twin towers. "I asked whether we had air cover, and tried to
reach the White House, but there was no answer. I jumped out of the van; the
Police Commissioner and my deputy mayor were running towards me. There was
debris flying everywhere."

Was he frightened? "This isn't meant to sound brave, but I was too busy. For the
next 18 hours, I didn't go more than a minute without making a decision. I
didn't realise the danger. My police officers kept telling me to look up so I
didn't get hit, but when I saw the bodies coming down, I couldn't bear it. The
Chief Firefighter told me that he thought they could save everyone below the
fire. I knew that, in a nice way, he was saying: 'We're going to have to
sacrifice the people above'."

After nearly eight years as mayor, spearheading a policy that became known as
"zero tolerance" on the streets, Giuliani knew many of the police officers and
firemen personally. Between them, they had ensured that New York, once
considered "ungovernable", was rapidly becoming the safest city in America.
"They were my family. I shouted good luck to them. Then I saw my friend, the
priest Father Mychal Judge - walking deliberately towards the fire. I ran and
took his hand and said: 'Father, pray for us.' He said: 'I always do,' and
smiled. I never saw him again."

In the past three months, Giuliani has been to the funerals of dozens of
friends. "The closest was Beth's husband, Terry. Beth has been my assistant for
18 years, through all the Mafia and drugs busting. She's like a daughter. Terry
was a fire captain. He died. It turned out later that Beth was pregnant. It
still makes me cry."

At this point, Beth comes into the office with his coffee, and he grasps her
hand.

"Father Judge was my rock; he sent me handwritten notes, delivered personally to
get me through my problems. We used to sit for hours together in hospitals where
firefighters had been injured." He pauses. "I miss him particularly."

Having waved goodbye to Father Judge, Giuliani tried the White House again. He
got the deputy political director on the phone. "I said: 'Is it true about the
Pentagon?' He replied: 'Affirmative, we are evacuating the White House.' It was
chilling; like a movie script. How many more buildings would go up in flames?
Where would a terrorist plant a bomb? My mind turned to closing down the bridges
and tunnels and major monuments."

New York's state-of-the-art emergency centre was already under rubble by this
point. "I needed to stay at the scene, so we camped in a next-door building,
sitting on the floor."

The Vice-President was trying to get through on the telephone. "I heard this
voice saying: 'The tower is falling down.' I thought it was just the radio
tower. Then I felt the rumbling. The police officers shouted: 'Evacuate!' But I
was trying to talk to the Vice-President."

Then the phone went dead. "I looked out of the window and saw this nuclear
cloud. The front door was blocked with debris. It was like a scene from The
Wizard of Oz, objects flying past us. We ran down to the basement, but all the
exit doors were jammed. I kept thinking: 'I've got to communicate to the press
and the city.'

"When we eventually found a door, I felt a great sense of relief. I looked out
and it was all white again. I didn't hear any screaming, just a noise like wind,
a typhoon. I remember thinking that it would be better to die on the street than
trapped in a building."

He saw colleagues and friends running in both directions. "One of the deputy
police commissioners - a black belt in karate, one of the toughest guys you'll
ever meet - was covered in white. He had a wound that was red and bleeding. It
was the only colour I saw that day. I grabbed him and we embraced. Normally, he
says: 'No problem, boss.' This time, he said: 'This is awful'."

The mayor told everyone to walk north and keep walking. "I knew we had to clear
the area. I wrongly anticipated there would be hundreds of injured survivors.

"There were 30,000 people in those towers. The Police Commissioner and I made
sure we had everything covered and the evacuation was going smoothly. Then I
checked that my two children, Caroline and Andrew, were OK. They were still at
school."

Instinctively, he took charge of the crisis, knowing the right words to say.
"Well, I was the only person; I was mayor." But he could have flunked it or
cracked. He'd just recovered from cancer; he'd spent hours on the psychiatrist's
couch, trying to control his temper; he was going through a messy and very
public divorce with his second wife, Donna Hanover, and he had a new girlfriend,
Judith Nathan. How did he change into Superman?

"Training," he says. He had already spent years fighting smaller battles,
learning to be brave. A Catholic and an only child, he was the grandson of
Italian immigrants, with four uncles in the police force. At the age of two, he
was given his first pair of boxing gloves. Exceptionally bright, he eventually
left his Brooklyn neighbourhood friends behind, and went to Manhattan to read
law.

As a young prosecutor, he dazzled with his cross-examination and took no
prisoners. Then, as US attorney in New York, he took on the Mafia.

His approach to politics was the same: tough, clear-minded and candid. As mayor,
he introduced the "broken windows" approach, refusing to let criminals get away
with even the pettiest of crimes. Taxes went down, Times Square was swept clean
of porn and prostitution and the homeless were taken off the streets.

A Republican in an overwhelmingly Democratic electorate, Mayor Giuliani was
inevitably thought of as a spoilsport by some. His admirers called him "tough,
but fair", his critics: "plain mean".

What was it about his leadership in those few days following

September 11 that rekindled his love affair with New York and inspired the
world?

"I remain calm in a crisis," he says. "I get really over-excited when nothing's
happening - I let it all out. But when there is a crisis, I have this reservoir
of relaxation.

"My father told me that, in a crisis, you have to be the calmest person in the
room so you can think about all your options. As people get more terrified,
you've got to keep tranquil and decisive. Then you'll figure your way out. I
don't have to think about it any more - it's a natural instinct."

But in the aftermath, when he visited widows, went to funerals, cleared up the
debris, ran rescue missions, organised aid, tried desperately to compile an
accurate list of the dead and made sure the city services kept running - was
that instinctive?

"I knew I had to be there, not just for 24 hours, but for weeks. New York needed
me. One of the biggest things I still have to deal with is that I couldn't go to
every funeral. These were my people. When I saw the roll call of dead, I wept,
thinking of the men I hadn't been able to honour. It was my job.

"Any seriously injured police officer or fire fighter - I always visited them in
hospital. I would stay with the family, go to the wake, make sure the funeral
arrangements were made and the widow was taken care of properly. I'm Italian. As
soon as I realised that more than 300 firefighters were dead, my first thought
was: How am I going to be there to say goodbye?"

The mayor, who had made enemies of street-vendors, jaywalkers, squeegee
merchants, irresponsible dog owners, sex-shop purveyors, the Mafia, the homeless
and many liberals, black radicals and feminists, was suddenly everyone's father.
He had time for presidents and pretzel-sellers. He made people feel proud and
defiant.

"Maybe it was my religious background - I wanted to be a priest as a child. I
like looking after people. My father made me go to every wake and funeral of
every person we remotely knew to pay our respects.

"A lot of what I do is down to my father. He used to say that you need to be
with people at funerals, not weddings. At weddings, everyone is celebrating; at
funerals, they're going to be a lot more lonely. I remember how good I felt when
my father died and people came. Some people get angry seeing a politician at a
private wake, but it's worth the risk."

Throughout the months before Christmas, Giuliani made sure he never broke down
in public. "I tried not to. Sometimes, I would have to slip into the bathroom
and cry. Two months later, I would see a boy or a girl who had lost their daddy
who was a friend of mine, and it would all come back."

For weeks, he would return to his flat after midnight and chat to his two
flatmates for hours. They have stuck a sticker on his door: "Reserved, VIP". The
cushion on his bed reads: "I'd rather be playing golf". But he still hasn't had
a holiday. "My father never did." Does he think his father, a bar-owner, would
be proud of him? "He would now," he smiles.

In the media, Giuliani's instinct to run towards the burning towers was
contrasted with the flight of President Bush, who was whisked away by the
security services.

"He didn't have any choice, and I've told him that," says Giuliani. "The
President has an obligation to keep going and to survive."

Surely the mayor did, too? "I wasn't crucial. I just needed to ensure the city
could re-establish government as soon as possible. Maybe if I'd had time to
think about it, I'd have thought it would be bad for New York if I got killed -
not just for me. Recently, I've thought that if I'd stayed trapped in that
building, the city would have lost all the experts who got us through. The whole
team would have been buried, including the health commissioner. Nobody then knew
that his expertise on anthrax would be vital."

The anthrax scares must have seemed the last straw. "Not at all. We'd been
planning and preparing for that for five years - and bombs and shoot-outs, just
not planes. My biggest concern was not the disease, but managing public reaction
so that we didn't over-react. If you detect anthrax early enough, it's not
dangerous."

Now, there's the question of a World Trade Centre memorial. "I think the right
memorial has to be something that grips the imagination. It should be a soaring,
beautiful, highly informative, educational, historical monument," says the
former mayor. "It should re-live the stories and show that good can triumph over
evil."

This summer, Giuliani is going into print with a book on leadership and how to
cope in a crisis. Once, he might have been denounced for his temerity; after
all, this is the man who announced at a press conference that he was divorcing
his wife - without telling her first. But now, of course, he is also the man who
saved New York twice - once from crime and once from despair.

Apart from keeping calm in a crisis, what can he tell us about leadership? "I
know how to assemble very good people, to keep them together and train them up.
There are crucial ingredients: bravery, planning and teamwork. Bravery we talked
about; planning is all the drills we did; teamwork is about having the right
Police Commissioner, Fire Commissioner and encouraging them, supporting them and
working hard with them, taking the flak. Also, having people with a sense of
humour, who can crack a joke.

"Finally, communication. This is vital. All pretence has to stop in a crisis;
you have to be honest. On the first day, I said: 'This is too much for New York
to take at one time.' I was saying that if you saw what I saw, you're not ready
to deal with much more. I never said: 'Don't worry'."

As mayor of New York, he cut murder rates by 70 per cent, cut crime by a
quarter, forced the unemployed to flip hamburgers, cleaned up big business and
hounded the Mafia. He was hated for it.

"I thrive on controversy. I was a polarising figure. People who supported me did
so very strongly; people who opposed me hated me very strongly. They say I
'Disney-fied' New York, making it clean and safe. But I'm in the business of
saving lives."

Now, New York has changed. People suddenly seem to want a firm hand; they
appreciate the graffiti-free trains and the lowest murder rate in 25 years. They
want order.

"New York has grown spiritually," he says. "My father was a boxer - it's like
being in a boxing match with a person you don't know you can beat. You're a
little scared when they knock you down hard, but in two seconds, you get up, you
realise you can take the worst punch they can land. You've survived. I remember
saying on September 12: 'We are awake, we are alive and the sun is shining; we
are still here.' I knew that would be a source of great strength."

Osama bin Laden still hasn't been caught, though. "I have great patience. I
didn't think the battle in Afghanistan would be over so quickly. The immediate
objective of crushing al Qa'eda and reducing their capacity has been reached.
But eliminating terrorism, that still has a long way to go. It's going to take
years and patience to root them out."

Giuliani retired at New Year, but he had already laid out plans in the event of
another terrorist attack. "We have to assume that it is going to happen - not
just here, but in the rest of the world. I took a lot of world leaders around
Ground Zero, from Russia, Britain, France and Germany. They'd talk about their
worries and responsibilities. I could always sense what was going through their
minds: they were thinking that this could easily have happened to them.

"I could see that with Tony Blair, especially - the identification. In their
faces, they were thinking about the biggest building in their city and watching
it collapse."

September 11 has changed Giuliani, too. "It's put everything in its place: the
bickering, the pettiness of politics. I'm not less ambitious; I just want to do
the right thing. It's difficult to face death: your own, someone close to you,
or thousands of people's deaths. You either shrivel up or you go on."

He lowers his voice, and looks embarrassed. "Winston Churchill is my great hero,
but I never used to tell people that. I modelled myself on him. He helped me a
lot before, during and after.

"I read his biographies as a student and young man. Even then, I considered him
one of the most talented figures of the 20th century. I also thought about him a
lot when I went for mayor back in 1993, the way he had revived the spirit of the
British people when it was down, and I used that for what I had to do.

"New York was floundering under too much crime and dirt. I knew the press
thought it was over-dramatising the situation, to compare it to Britain during
the war. Britain went through a lot worse, but I always use history as a guide.

"I used Churchill to teach me how to reinvigorate the spirit of a dying nation,
and after the attack, I'd talk to him. During the worst days of the Battle of
Britain, Churchill never stepped out of Downing Street and said: 'I don't know
what to do', or, 'I'm lost'. He walked out with a direction, a purpose, even if
he had to fake it."

During the recent crisis, Giuliani read Lord Jenkins's new biography of
Churchill. "What Giuliani succeeded in doing is what Churchill succeeded in
doing in the dreadful summer of 1940," Lord Jenkins says. "He managed to create
an illusion that we were bound to win."

The only time Giuliani relaxed was when he watched his son play football on
Saturday mornings. "I spent so much of my time building a new family for the
widows and orphans from scratch, I hardly saw my own children. They were
amazing.

"Everyone else just wanted to be with their family, and they couldn't. But I've
talked to their friends, and they say they're pleased with what I've done. That
makes me so proud."

His girlfriend, Judith - whose photograph sits next to him by the sofa - has
been constantly by his side since September 11. He doesn't yet know if they'll
marry. "She's far more than a girlfriend - she's my companion. All I can say is
that we're very much in love, incredibly in love. I have a relationship which is
three years old. It's very wonderful and exciting."

A trained nurse, she came to Ground Zero with him every day and helped put the
family centre together. "She was caring and compassionate and got me through.
You need to have love. A lot of people found that after September 11. So many
babies will be born in June. One man told me he'd named his cat Rudy - I didn't
have the heart to say I'm allergic to them."

His doctor was the other person who wanted to keep a close eye on Giuliani after
September 11. He thought the stress might have been too much for a man who had
just gone through radiotherapy.

"It's bizarre," says Giuliani, "but when he finally managed to force me to stop
and take a secret test, I was healthier than before. Real stress suits me. I'm
completely in the clear - my blood pressure is lower than ever. I feel half my
56 years."

Meanwhile, Hollywood directors are queueing up to make a film about him. "I'd
love that; not to play myself, but to have a bit part. I adore acting. I've
played the Godfather, the Beast in Beauty and the Beast. I'm on stage whenever I
can be."

A year ago, when it looked as though his political career was coming to an end,
he spent more time dressing up for pantomimes - or at the divorce lawyer's -
than on the race for the Senate. His heart wasn't in it and, after he pulled
out, his Democrat rival Hillary Clinton had an easy ride. He has never been
interested in accumulating personal wealth; it was difficult to know what he
would do next.

"I had deep psychological questions to answer and a disease to fight. I had to
get better. My father died of prostate cancer. It wasn't going to get me. Before
the cancer, I'd never taken a day off work sick. While mayor, I still kept up
with my radiation treatment, but it was difficult. I kept falling asleep."

Now, he is ready for the next challenge. But giving speeches and advising on
other people's dramas is never going to be enough, however lucrative that may
be.

"I would love to go back, do one final job. I never duck challenges. They keep
me alive.

"You know what I'm looking forward to most in London, apart from meeting the
Queen? Prime Minister's Questions. I'd do anything to be on it. I don't even
understand half the issues, but it's so dramatic. You have to focus, focus,
focus." He laughs. "Maybe I should go into politics in England."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               February 12, 2002

US on alert for terror attack 'within hours'

BYLINE: James Langton

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 447 words



AMERICA is under an extraordinary terrorist alert today as the FBI warned that a
Yemeni man and his associates could be planning an attack within hours.

The agency scrambled to issue the warning late last night after learning that
terrorists could be planning to strike within 24 hours.

It identified the ringleader as Fawaz Yahya al Rabeeri, also known as Furquan,
who is a Yemeni born in Saudi Arabia. Nearly a dozen others were identified as
his accomplices.

Photographs of 12 men were posted on the FBI's website, which also names four
others.

FBI agents warned 18,000 law enforcement agencies across the country to begin
searching for the men, saying: "Recent information indicates a planned attack
may occur in the United States on or around 12 February. One or more operative
may be involved in the attack.''

The alert calls on police to "stop and detain" any of the named suspects and
cautions that all should be considered "extremely dangerous".

It also tightens security along the Canadian and Mexican borders. All but one of
the suspects, a Tunisian, are believed to be from Saudi Arabia or Yemen.

The warning is understood to be the result of information passed on during the
interrogation of al Qaeda and Taliban suspects in Afghanistan and at the Camp
X-Ray military prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. American military officials say
prisoners have been increasingly cooperative in recent days.

Following what they call "credible information" intelligence experts believe
remnants of Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda network are ready to attempt a revenge
attack after the war in Afghanistan and the downfall of the Taliban.

According to NBC television, one prisoner in Cuba told investigators that a man
he knew in Afghanistan had a relative involved in planning the attack.

Although the Winter Olympic Games are taking place in Salt Lake City, Utah, this
week, the FBI says it does not believe they are the target, although it cannot
yet identify any others.

Nor is it known if al Rabeeri or the rest of those named have been able to enter
the United States.

"We are hoping that people can keep their eyes and ears open," an FBI spokesman
said.

The alert calls on all possible terrorist targets in the US and abroad to be on
guard. The latest warning is the fourth since the terrorist attacks of 11
September but is the first to name suspects and a specific date.

The last warning was issued on 3 December and was recently extended through the
Winter Olympics.

The FBI has also previously issued alerts for specific types of targets,
including nuclear power stations, dams, monuments and drinking water reservoirs.


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TERROR SUSPECT: FAWAZ YAHYA AL RABEERI

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               February 12, 2002

US on alert for terror attack 'within hours'

BYLINE: James Langton

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 447 words



AMERICA is under an extraordinary terrorist alert today as the FBI warned that a
Yemeni man and his associates could be planning an attack within hours.

The agency scrambled to issue the warning late last night after learning that
terrorists could be planning to strike within 24 hours.

It identified the ringleader as Fawaz Yahya al Rabeeri, also known as Furquan,
who is a Yemeni born in Saudi Arabia. Nearly a dozen others were identified as
his accomplices.

Photographs of 12 men were posted on the FBI's website, which also names four
others.

FBI agents warned 18,000 law enforcement agencies across the country to begin
searching for the men, saying: "Recent information indicates a planned attack
may occur in the United States on or around 12 February. One or more operative
may be involved in the attack.''

The alert calls on police to "stop and detain" any of the named suspects and
cautions that all should be considered "extremely dangerous".

It also tightens security along the Canadian and Mexican borders. All but one of
the suspects, a Tunisian, are believed to be from Saudi Arabia or Yemen.

The warning is understood to be the result of information passed on during the
interrogation of al Qaeda and Taliban suspects in Afghanistan and at the Camp
X-Ray military prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. American military officials say
prisoners have been increasingly cooperative in recent days.

Following what they call "credible information" intelligence experts believe
remnants of Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda network are ready to attempt a revenge
attack after the war in Afghanistan and the downfall of the Taliban.

According to NBC television, one prisoner in Cuba told investigators that a man
he knew in Afghanistan had a relative involved in planning the attack.

Although the Winter Olympic Games are taking place in Salt Lake City, Utah, this
week, the FBI says it does not believe they are the target, although it cannot
yet identify any others.

Nor is it known if al Rabeeri or the rest of those named have been able to enter
the United States.

"We are hoping that people can keep their eyes and ears open," an FBI spokesman
said.

The alert calls on all possible terrorist targets in the US and abroad to be on
guard. The latest warning is the fourth since the terrorist attacks of 11
September but is the first to name suspects and a specific date.

The last warning was issued on 3 December and was recently extended through the
Winter Olympics.

The FBI has also previously issued alerts for specific types of targets,
including nuclear power stations, dams, monuments and drinking water reservoirs.


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TERROR SUSPECT: FAWAZ YAHYA AL RABEERI

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 12, 2002, Tuesday Edition 1

US terror attack warning

BYLINE: By the Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 159 words







The fbi has warned that a terrorist attack could take place today in the US or
against Americans in Yemen.

Investigators have distributed photographs of the men believed to be involved
with police under orders to detain them immediately.

The warning identified one as Fawaz Yahya al-Rabeei, 22, a Yemeni with
Western-looking features.

The FBI considered the information "credible," but it was not specific about
possible targets.

Officials said they did not know whether al-Rabeei was in the US and could not
even be sure he was still alive.

The warning came after interviews with detainees in Afghanistan and Cuba, where
some al-Qaida operatives are being held. The FBI's alert listed about a dozen
associates of al-Rabeei, from Saudi Arabia and Yemen and warned they "should be
considered dangerous."

They did not say whether the attack involved the al-Qaida network.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           February 12, 2002, Tuesday

FBI WARNS OF TERROR ATTACK;
 PHOTOGRAPHS RELEASED OF YEMENI SUSPECTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 311 words


THE FBI has warned of a possible terrorist attack as early as today in the US or
against Americans in Yemen, and investigators rushed to distribute photographs
of the men believed to be involved.

Police are under orders to detain any of them immediately.

The warning identified one possible attacker as Fawaz Yahya al-Rabeei, 22, a
Yemeni with Western-looking features.

The FBI considered the information "credible", but it was not specific about
possible targets.

Officials said they did not know whether al-Rabeei was in the US and could not
even be sure he was still alive.

The warning, issued last night, came after interviews with detainees in
Afghanistan and Cuba, where some al-Qaida operatives are being held. The FBI's
alert listed about a dozen associates of al-Rabeei, most from Saudi Arabia and
Yemen. One associate may be from Tunisia.

The bureau published the alert and photographs of al-Rabeei and his associates
on its public website, www. fbi. gov, to help the public identify the possible
perpetrators.

The alert, sent to 18,000 law enforcement agencies, warned that "recent
information indicates a planned attack may occur in the United States or against
US interests in the country of Yemen on or around February 12, 2002, and one or
more operatives may be involved in the attack".

The FBI said all the individuals named in the alert "should be considered
extremely dangerous".

The warning was issued on the fourth night of the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake
City where security has been at the forefront.

They urged that all locations in the US and abroad with Americans to be on
guard.

The alert did not say whether the attack was planned by or involved Osama bin
Laden's alQaida network.

Before yesterday, US security officials had issued three general alerts urging
all Americans to be cautious.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 12, 2002, Tuesday

TERRORISTS FREED IN JAIL ATTACK

BYLINE: Alexandra Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 117 words

HIGHLIGHT: STRIKE: Israeli F-16 jets blast a jail holding Palestinian militants
in Gaza yesterday in revenge for a rocket attack


HUNDREDS of Palestinians stormed a jail in the West Bank yesterday, freeing
terrorist prisoners.

Seventeen members of Hamas and Islamic Jihad were released as a 500-strong mob
pushed past prison guards.

The attack followed a day of violence in Gaza where at least 37 Palestinians
were injured after Israeli jets fired six missiles at the city's security HQ.

Israel said the air strikes were in retaliation for the use of two new Qassam-2
rockets by Hamas on Sunday. Israeli Defence Minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer said:
"We have to take measures which can hurt the innocent."

Palestinian Ahmed Qureia said: "These attacks prove Israel is not interested in
quiet and stability."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          February 13, 2002, Wednesday

FBI WARN OF NEW GLOBAL TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 220 words


The US was placed on full terror alert after the FBI gave specific warning of a
possible attack yesterday and even named the likely perpetrators.

The Winter Olympics site in Salt Lake City, already protected by pounds 125
million defences, has always been regarded as a likely terrorist target.

The FBI said the attack could take place in the United States, or against
Americans in Yemen on or around February 12.

Investigators rushed to distribute photographs of men believed to be involved.

Police nationwide were under orders to arrest any of them on sight.

The warning identified one possible attacker as Fawaz Yahya al-Rabeei, a light
-skinned, 22-year-old from Yemen with Western-looking features. The FBI
considered the information 'credible,' but it was not specific about possible
targets and was not corroborated by other sources.

Officials acknowledged they did not know whether al-Rabeei was in the United
States and could not be sure even that he was still alive.

Officials said they decided to issue the warning last night out of caution.

The warning came after interviews with detainees in Afghanistan and Cuba, where
some al Qaida operatives are being held, officials said. The FBI's alert listed
about a dozen associates of al-Rabeei, most from Saudi Arabia and Yemen.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          February 13, 2002, Wednesday

U.S. MOVE ON 13 MOST WANTED;
 AMERICA ISSUES ALERT FOR FULL-SCALE TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 547 words


AMERICA was on full-scale alert for a terrorist attack last night after a
nationwide hunt was launched for a Yemeni suspect and his comrades.

The FBI issued the extraordinary warning after receiving "credible intelligence"
about imminent attacks directly on the US or American interests abroad.

They named Fawaz Yahya al Rabeei, a Yemeni national born in Saudi Arabia, as
having possible terrorist links and being a ringleader of the plotters.

The 23-year-old uses several aliases - and the FBI confessed they did not even
know if he was in the US. They also have no clue as to his current whereabouts.

But US Attorney General John Ashcroft called on "all Americans to be on the
highest state of alert".

Al-Rabeei's name came from the interrogation of a detainee at Camp X-ray in Cuba
- where 254 captured Taliban and al-Qaeda fighters are being held and
systematically questioned.

His photograph and mugshots of 12 other alleged plotters were beamed around the
world to FBI and secret service agents yesterday. Four others are also wanted.

Al-Rabeei's aliases include Furqan or Furqan the Chechen and he is believed to
be travelling on a Yemeni passport. The other suspected terrorists are Yemeni,
but two may be Saudi Arabian.

The latest alert is the fourth since the September 11 attacks on New York and
Washington, but this one has been the most specific.

The warning sent to 18,000 law agencies across the US says: "Recent information
indicates a planned attack may occur in the United State or against US interests
on or around February 12.

"One or more operatives may be involved in the attack."

The terror threat saw a tightening of the unprecedented pounds 200million
security cordon around the Winter Olympics at Salt Lake City.

Meanwhile, a British-based pilot suspected by the FBI of being the "lead
instructor" of the September 11 suicide hijackers has been freed on bail.

Lotfi Raissi was yesterday released from prison after the US government failed
to prove he had any terrorist links.

The 27-year-old was granted bail after charges against him were reduced to a
charge of falsifying an application for a US pilot's licence.

Family and friends clapped as he walked free clutching his French wife Sonia's
hand.

Sonia, an airline worker for Air France, said: "From the beginning we said Lotfi
has nothing to do with all this. At last, justice has been done."

Soon after September 11, Algerian-born Raissi was arrested at his home in
Colnbrook, Berkshire, near Heathrow Airport.

He was held in London's top-security Belmarsh Prison for five months, accused of
training terrorist Hani Hanjou to fly a hijacked airliner into the Pentagon in
Washington DC.

Judge Tim Workman said at the 90-minute hearing at Belmarsh Magistrates' Court:
"I am satisfied that there is no likelihood of terrorism charges being preferred
against Mr Raissi in the near future."

The US still insists that Raissi is a suspect in the September 11 investigation.
They maintain he is an important member of al-Qaeda.

At earlier hearings, it was suggested that Raissi had spent time at a flying
school in Arizona with Hanjou. There are also claims he had spent time at
another aviation school with other suspected terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 13, 2002, Wednesday

Pilot held over terrorist attacks is freed

BYLINE: By Sean O'Neill

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 661 words

THE FBI hunt for the terrorist masterminds behind the September 11 attacks
suffered a severe setback yesterday when a British judge released an Algerian
pilot once accused of training the suicide hijackers.

Lotfi Raissi, who was held in custody for five months, was freed on bail after
District Judge Tim Workman said the American government could not substantiate
his alleged links to terrorism and had no plans to charge him with terrorist
offences.

Raissi, 27, who has consistently denied any terrorist involvement - telling The
Daily Telegraph from prison that he was "an innocent person" - held his head in
his hands and sobbed as bail was set at pounds 10,000.

Minutes later, he walked from Belmarsh magistrates' court, south-east London,
with his arms around his mother, Raeba, and his French wife, Sonia.

"From the beginning we said Lotfi had nothing to do with all this," said Mrs
Raissi, 25. "We have said it again and again and again. At least justice has
been done today. We have been waiting for this for five months. The FBI should
say sorry for what they have done to him."

Richard Egan, Raissi's solicitor, said his client was "delighted" to be reunited
with his family.

"He maintains his innocence of any involvement in the September 11 atrocities
and he is pleased that the US government finally recognises that there is no
basis for seeking his extradition for that matter."

Raissi is still facing extradition to America on charges of falsifying an
application for a pilot's licence by failing to declare knee surgery on a tennis
injury and not declaring a theft conviction.

Judge Workman, before whom Raissi has appeared six times since his arrest, had
previously criticised the "tenuous" nature of the evidence linking him to
terrorism.

"On each occasion the prosecution have sought a remand in custody, informing me
that these charges were holding charges and that far more serious offences
linking him with the events of September 11 would be preferred," said the judge.

"Inevitably the investigation into these events is a long and painstaking one
and it is right that all steps must be taken to bring the perpetrators to
justice. It is not for me to decide whether the American authorities have
behaved discreditably, as the defence maintains.

"However, I am satisfied that there is no likelihood of terrorist charges being
preferred against Mr Raissi in the near future. I am also satisfied that the
links previously put before this court which were thought to connect the
defendant to others in the terrorist organisation can no longer be
substantiated."

In addition to the surety, the judge ordered that Raissi surrender his passport,
that he does not apply for international travel documents and that he resides at
an address supplied to the court.

Hugo Keith, for Raissi, told the court that there had been "no foundation" for
many of the allegations made against Raissi and that the American authorities
had behaved "disgracefully" in withholding vital evidence from the defence.

"Every objection to bail has turned out on closer examination to be without
foundation," said Mr Keith. "The real tragedy of the case is that by the time Mr
Raissi's lawyers have been able to demonstrate that, he has spent further months
in custody separated from his young wife and family and in fear of his life.

"The CPS has twisted and turned to justify its objection to bail. This cannot go
on. He is not a fundamentalist. His wife is a white Catholic. He should be on
bail."

James Lewis, for the US government, opposed bail but said that terrorist charges
were not likely to be brought against Raissi.

Mr Lewis said the FBI inquiry into September 11 still concerned Raissi and there
was a danger he would abscond rather than answer the less serious charges.

Raissi's lawyers maintained, however, that he was "confident" of being cleared
of all charges. He was remanded to appear before Bow Street magistrates on March
28.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 13, 2002

Terror attack 'suspect' freed after five months;
U.S. fails to produce extradition evidence linking pilot to September 11

BYLINE: Michael Seamark

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 913 words


A PILOT who was accused of training the September 11 hijackers walked free from
a British court yesterday after the U.S.

Government failed to produce any evidence against him.

Algerian-born Lotfi Raissi was arrested ten days after the attacks and had spent
five months in top- security Belmarsh jail facing extradition.

In a series of court hearings, lawyers representing the U.S.

government had alleged that he was a key member of Osama Bin Laden's terror
network and had particularly close links with Hani Hanjour, the fanatic who
crashed an American Airlines jet into the Pentagon.

There was said to be ' correspondence, video footage and telecommunications
evidence' against him.

Raissi, 27, from Colnbrook, Berkshire, was said to have ' considerable funds at
his disposal' and to be 'someone with both means and motive to escape'.

But yesterday District Judge Timothy Workman told Belmarsh Magistrates Court:
'I'm satisfied there's no likelihood of terrorism charges being preferred
against Mr Raissi in the near future.' Raissi, who has continually protested his
innocence, wept when the charges against him were read out during the 90-minute
hearing.

But he showed no emotion when he was granted GBP 10,000 conditional bail.

Minutes later he emerged from the court clutching the hand of his French wife
Sonia, who said: 'At last justice has been done.' Raissi refused to comment, but
his brother Mohamed said: 'The FBI said to the world that he was a big terrorist
and they have to now say to the world that this man is innocent.

'They've destroyed his life, his future and his dream.' The pilot still faces
the threat of extradition on what were originally 'holding charges' of making
false statements in an application for a U.S.

pilot's licence.

But Judge Workman rejected a plea not to grant bail from prosecutor James Lewis,
representing the U.S. government, who insisted that Raissi was still a suspect.

The judge said that Raissi had now appeared before him six times and on each
occasion the court had been told that far more serious charges were to be
brought against him.

The pilot's lawyer, Hugo Keith, said he would not have been denied bail if he
faced the same charges in the UK.

He added: 'He is left to wonder why he had been left in custody for five months.

'Every objection to bail put up by the U.S. government has turned out, on
investigation, to have no foundation. The Americans now seem unwilling to
withdraw from their initial position and accept that, on this occasion, they
pursued the wrong person.

'Every further day he spends in custody is an affront to justice.' The bail
decision is a major embarrassment for U.S. authorianties trying to bring those
involved in the September 11 atrocity to justice.

The FBI had claimed that Raissi knew and helped train Hani Hanjour and three
other Al Qaeda pilots during trips to the U.S. last June and July.

But in a brief media interview after his arrest he insisted: 'I am innocent
person who has been wrongly linked to a terrorist organisation.

'They found in me all the ingredients for a target: Algerian, Moslem and a
student of flying in America.' He said of Hanjour: ' I don't know him. I never
saw him in my life. This story is a pack of lies. I've never met him.'

Raissi's wife and brother were arrested at the same time, but later released
without charge.

His 25-year- old wife said last year: 'If Lotfi was an extremist would he be
likely to marry a French woman from a Catholic family who worked as a dancer?'
Yesterday she said: 'From the beginning we said Lotfi has nothing to do with all
this. We've said it again and again.

'We've been waiting five months and my message to the FBI is "You arrested him
for terrorism so why do you want to extradite him for these ridiculous, minor
charges?"

'They should drop the charges and say sorry.' Last night Raissi and his wife
were celebrating privately. The family are considering whether to sue the Home
Office and police for false imprisonment.

The pilot is still due to appear before Bow Street magistrates in London on
March 28 for a further extradition hearing on the two minor charges of
falsifying an application for a U.S. pilot's licence by not disclosing a theft
conviction and knee injury.

His solicitor, Richard Egan, said he was confident the charges would be
dismissed.

Even if Raissi were extradited on those charges, the terms of legal agreements
between the U.S. and Britain mean he could not be questioned or charged over
other offences.

m.seamark@dailymail.co.uk

THE CASE THAT NEVER WAS

Lotfi Raissi was arrested on September 21.

Over the five months he has spent in jail, the FBI alleged that he was: 'Lead
instructor' to four suicide hijackers Linked to Al Qaeda terrorist organisation
Went to same flying schools as hijackers Caught on video travelling with
Pentagon pilot Hani Hanjour (later found to be Raissi and a cousin) Made several
trips to the United States, including Arizona where suicide pilots trained
Linked by 'active correspondence' and 'telecommunications evidence' to the
September 11 plot Removed pages from his pilot's logbook

THEN YESTERDAY

After six court appearances, the FBI had still to offer any evidence and Raissi
was freed on bail.

District judge Timothy Workman said: 'I'm satisfied there's no likelihood of
terrorism charges being preferred against Mr Raissi in the near future.'


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               February 13, 2002

US PUT ON TERROR ALERT FOR 'IMMINENT' ATTACK

BYLINE: From Toby Moore in New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 178 words


AMERICA was on red alert yesterday for an imminent terrorist attack as the FBI
named a Saudi-born suspect as the ringleader.

He is Fawaz Yahya alRabeei, a 23-year-old Yemeni. The FBI's warning also listed
16 of his alleged associates.

It triggered a day of alerts as bus stations, including one in Manhattan, and
other public places closed while suspect packages were investigated. In contrast
to previous alerts, with no names or places attached, the latest was chillingly
precise.

"Recent information indicates a planned attack may occur in the US or against
its interests on or around February 12, 2002, " the FBI said. "One or more
operatives will be involved."

Security was stepped up at the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City and at nuclear
plants, water supply sites and government offices.

The alert followed intelligence from a prisoner at Camp X-Ray in Cuba.

Two more British prisoners have been moved to Camp X-Ray.

Jamal Udeen, 35, of Manchester, and Ruhal Ahmed, 20, of Tipton, West Midlands,
bring the British total to five.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 13, 2002, Wednesday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: FBI HUNTS YEMENI GANG AFTER WARNING OF IMMINENT
ATTACK ON AMERICA;
 CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe In Washington Farwaz Yahya al-Rabeei: Information from
prisoner

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 476 words


A HUNT was under way last night for a gang led by a Yemeni believed to be
planning a terror attack against the United States, which was expected as early
as yesterday.

The FBI received information that Fawaz Yahya al-Rabeei and his associates could
launch an attack in America or against US targets in Yemen. The alert - made on
the basis of information from Taliban and al-Qa'ida prisoners at Guantanamo Bay
and in Afghanistan - was the most specific of the four that have been issued
since 11 September.

Amid the heightened alert, a man was arrested in New York after falsely
informing police in the city's biggest bus station that he had a bomb, forcing
officers to close the Port Authority terminal during morning rush-hour.

The alert has again focused attention on Yemen - the original home of Osama bin
Laden's family. In 2000, two al-Qa'ida suicide bombers blew a hole in the USS
Cole while it was docked at Aden, killing 17 American sailors. It is believed
that 17 Yemenis are among the prisoners being held at Guantanamo Bay.

Since the attacks of 11 September, the Yemeni government has been vocal in its
support for America's campaign against terrorism. In December Yemen said it had
launched its own hunt for extremists linked to Mr bin Laden.

While it did not mention specific targets, the FBI said in its alert: "Recent
information indicates a planned attack may occur in the United States or against
US interests in the country of Yemen on or around February 12, 2002."

One intelligence source said: "A detainee passed second-hand information about a
possible threat to US interests, but he was unclear whether it was in the United
States or in Yemen." It is understood that interrogators then went back to the
original source and questioned him.

The FBI said one or more operatives may be involved in the planned strike.

In addition to naming Mr al-Rabeei, 22, as the suspected ringleader, the FBI
also listed 16 associates. Many of their photographs were posted on the FBI
website. Mr al-Rabeei is said to use more than a dozen aliases and carry a
number of passports.

In Yemen, officials said they were not seriously worried by the threat of
possible action. One official said: "We consider these threats as nothing else
but threats. But we are always cautious and alert, we take into account anything
even if it is not serious."

The official Saba news agency quoted an unidentified security official as saying
Yemen had received information from America and Britain on "the possibility of a
person called Fawaz Yahya al-Rabeei entering Yemen from Afghanistan and carrying
out sabotage acts against US interests".

Authorities in Yemen detained a brother of Mr al-Rabeei yesterday. One official
said: "He will be questioned about where his brother is and to see if he has any
useful information."

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          February 13, 2002, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: AMERICA IN ATTACK WARNING

BYLINE: Mark Ellis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 92 words

HIGHLIGHT: Ahmad Albidani; Samir Said Al-Maktawi; Mustafa Al-Ansari; Shuhour; Al
-Sabri; Issam Al-Makhlafi; Ahmad Albidani; Bashir Ali Al-Sharari; Bassam; Al
-Nahdi; Alyan Ali Al-Wa'eli; Abdulaziz Bin Otash; Omar Al-Hubishi;; Abdulrab Al
-Sayfi; HUNT: Rabeei


AMERICA was on alert for a full-scale attack last night after a nationwide hunt
was launched for a Yemeni terror suspect and his 16 comrades.

The FBI issued an extraordinary terrorist alert after getting "credible
intelligence" about imminent attacks.

They named Fawaz Yahya al Rabeei, 23, a Yemeni born in Saudi Arabia, as
ringleader. His photo and mugshots of 12 other alleged plotters were beamed
around the world

US Attorney General John Ashcroft called on "all Americans to be on the highest
state of alert" after the warning.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               February 13, 2002

jobs misery for airline workers
 Terror attack forces aerospace firm to shed staff

BYLINE: By Nick Parry

SECTION: BUSINESS: COMPANIES, Pg.1

LENGTH: 302 words


UP to 90 more losses have been announced at Llanelli aerospace company CF Taylor
leading workers to fear for the long-term future of the plant.

Staff say they have been told another 70 to 90 posts are to go on top of the 130
redundancies announced shortly after the September 11 atrocity.

The airline industry has been hit badly by the fall out of the terrorist attack
on the World Trade Center.

The Dafen factory makes kitchen galleys and interior furnishings for most of the
world's airlines.

One worker who would not be named said: Morale is very very low.

They are talking about bringing people from the offices back to the shop floor
to replace those that are going.

Three or four petitions have gone around the shop floor because people are not
happy.

There is a lack of work in the industry throughout the world.

We are wondering just what hope there is for the future.''

CF Taylor does not comment on job losses or gains.

But parent company B/E Aerospace yesterday issued a press release on its global
position.

President and chief executive Robert Khoury said: Our cost reduction actions are
on track.''

The company expects improved performance in the second half of the year, he
added.

Weak

B/E Aerospace's primary customers, the world's airlines, have experienced
difficult operating conditions due to the aftermath of the September 11 attacks
and a weak economy,'' said Mr Khoury .

In October B/E announced plans to reduce costs to levels consistent with lower
projected demand by closing five facilities and reducing the workforce by about
1,000 people.

B/E Aerospace expects approximately break even net earnings for the second half
of the year ending February 23, 2002, excluding previously announced changes and
transition costs associated with facility consolidations.''

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 South Wales Evening Post

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                           February 14, 2002 Thursday

Vital role in terror attack

BYLINE: CHRIS WATSON

LENGTH: 343 words


FIREFIGHTERS in Burton and South Derbyshire have been asked to play a vital role
in the event of a biological terrorist attack.

The Government has asked fire services to take responsibility for the "mass
decontamination" of the public if the threat of an attack becomes reality.  A
report on the threat of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN)
terrorism has been published in the light of the September 11 atrocities in
America and resulting anthrax scares around the world. The "memorandum of
understanding" (MOH) has been sent to fire authorities across the country
requesting "front line" assistance.

The document was drawn up by the Civil Contingencies Committees organised by the
Cabinet Office and chaired by ministers. The committee identified that in the
event of a significant CBRN incident, the "mass decontamination" of casualties
would require fire service personnel and equipment. Following discussions
between the Fire Service Inspectorate, the Department for Transport, Local
Government and the Regions (DTLR) and the Department of Health (DOH), the MOH
was agreed. Chief fire officer for Derbyshire Bernie Cahill said: "If the
biological threats following September 11 are repeated in this country, we will
have no option but to take the situation seriously. "In such an event, there is
likely to be a very large number of people who face contamination, and the
Government is committed to put something in place." Mr Cahill said the fire
authority was pushing for Government money to help fund CBRN operations.
Assistant chief fire officer for Staffordshire Peter Dartford said: "This is a
new dimension for us in dealing with contamination. "We already have a chemical
incident unit based at Burton Fire Station to deal with firefighters who may
have been contaminated while doing their job, but now we are widening these
procedures to cover members of the public. "It is important to stress that there
is still a low risk of this type of terrorism happening in the area, but if the
worst does happen, we will be ready for it."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2002 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 14, 2002, Thursday

Arafat can halt terror attacks, says Straw

BYLINE: Michael Binyon in Jerusalem

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 641 words


Yassir Arafat is perfectly capable of reining in Palestinian violence and must
do more to stop terrorism in the occupied territories, Jack Straw said here
yesterday.

The Foreign Secretary compared the bombings in Israel with that carried out by
the Real IRA in Omagh, but noted that they were occurring on an almost daily
basis.

Firmly siding with the demands of Ariel Sharon, the Israeli Prime Minister, that
the Palestinian leader should order a halt to suicide bombings and other
terrorist acts, Mr Straw said that Mr Arafat had already shown that he could
switch violence on and off whenever he chose. The periods of calm in 1996 and
more recently before the murder of Israel's Tourism Minister showed that the
Palestinian Authority could curb terrorism.

"We are clear that the first step that has to be taken is an end to violence,"
Mr Straw said. "That means clamping down on terrorism that comes from the
occupied territories. That is the message I shall give to Chairman Arafat. He is
capable of delivering."

Mr Straw was speaking before meeting the Palestinian leader in the house in
Ramallah in which he has been confined for two months. Mr Straw said that he did
not understand, "as a minister and as a human being", how the Israelis could
live in the present situation without being profoundly affected. Terrorism was
on a far greater scale than anything Britain had experienced.

He also aligned himself with Mr Sharon and Washington in holding the Palestinian
Authority responsible for trying to smuggle in arms on board the ship Karine A
-an issue with which he said that he would also confront Mr Arafat.

Mr Arafat insisted after meeting Mr Straw that he was fully committed to the
"peace of the brave" that he had signed with Yitzhak Rabin, and he wanted to
follow up on this peace to bring stability to the whole area. He also insisted
that he was doing all he could to stop violence -and he looked to America,
Europe, Russia and the United Nations to "stop the tragedy".

Mr Straw said that he was personally committed to a viable Palestinian state.
But "as a friend of the Palestinians" he urged Mr Arafat to take further steps
to stop the suicide bombings that had brought a new dimension to terror.

Their meeting last night came after Israeli reports of an extraordinary fracas
in Ramallah, when Mr Arafat reportedly struck out at Jibril Rajoub, the
Palestinian leader favoured by the Israelis, and pointed a pistol at him,
screaming: "He wants to replace me." The row, according to Israeli intelligence
sources cited in press reports, broke out on Monday over disagreements on steps
advocated by Mr Rajoub and other senior Palestinians to calm the intifada.

Spurious moderate communiques in the name of the militant al-Aqsa Martyrs
Brigade were apparently put out about a meeting last week of Fatah's
revolutionary council, infuriating Mr Arafat. There were reports that Mr Rajoub
was under arrest in Ramallah and had tendered his resignation.

Earlier yesterday Mr Straw telephoned Mr Sharon, who is ill with flu at his
farm, wishing him a speedy recovery, passing on best wishes from Tony Blair and
confirming an invitation to Britain, which the Israeli leader is likely to
accept shortly. Mr Straw also underlined Britain's determination not to allow
any divergence from Washington in European Union policy on the Middle East.

"We stay engaged with the United States and have a common approach with the
United States. If the international community allows itself to be diverted, that
will make the path of peace much more difficult," he said. He refused to endorse
the French proposal for a Palestinian referendum to reconfirm Mr Arafat's
authority, and sidestepped any condemnation of Israel's fresh raids in Gaza,
which killed five Palestinians.

Leading article, page 23


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 14, 2002

Single airbase 'could lead to terror attack'

BYLINE: Barry Leighton

SECTION: News :Other :War, Pg.11

LENGTH: 339 words


CLOSING RAF Lyneham would leave the country vulnerable to a devastating
terrorist attack, a hard-hitting report claimed last night.

Transferring the Hercules fleet from the Wiltshire base to Brize Norton, in
Oxford, would be "potentially disastrous", opponents claim.

It would mean all the RAF's transporter and tanker aircraft were located on one
site - making them an easy target for terrorists, the report said.

Such a move was branded as "irresponsible and foolhardy" by a group fighting to
save RAF Lyneham, which is one of the West's largest military bases.

Its report to Defence Minister Geoff Hoon said: "This would mean that a single
and tempting target would be afforded to any potential enemy, either state or
terrorist. The entire airlift capability of the RAF could be wiped out in one
catastrophic incident.

"The type of attack could be by aircraft, long-range missile or - as we have
seen most recently - by terrorist action.

"As a result the operational effectiveness of the British forces deployed
worldwide would be jeopardised."

It said that an attack on both Lyneham and Brize Norton - where the transporter
and tanker fleet are based - would be much harder to mount than on a single
site. The document is a draft submission to the Defence Secretary by the new
Save RAF Lyneham Group, fronted by North Wiltshire MP James Gray.

Its report was drawn up with the help of top brass. It is being sent to the
Minister as a result of growing concerns that RAF Lyneham, where 2,700 military
personnel work alongside 750 civilian staff, will be sold for housing and the
Hercules fleet transferred to Brize Norton.

The fears were sparked by a strategic review into where the new A400M military
transport plane will be based. Hundreds of petition sheets have been circulated
in North Wiltshire in the fight to save the base, which contributes around
18million a year into the local economy.

Do you have a story for Barry Leighton? Ring 01793-524440 or email
B.Leighton@bepp. co. uk

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 15, 2002

Terror attack fears over the Chameleon;Suspect may be organising al Qaeda
sleeper cells

BYLINE: Ian Bruce Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 751 words


A Saudi-born Palestinian who was omitted from the FBI's "most wanted" list after
September 11 is believed to be organising the al Qaeda network's sleeper cells
for a new wave of terror attacks against America and the West.

Abu Zubaydah, 30, has been identified by US intelligence as the organiser behind
thwarted attempts to blow up the American embassies in Paris and Sarajevo last
October.

He is also tied in to the abortive "millennium" plot to bomb Los Angeles
International airport on December 31, 1999.

Nicknamed the Chameleon, Zubaydah is tall and light-skinned, speaks English and
changes his appearance frequently. He has a string of aliases backed by false
passports and visas, and can pass for a European. FBI sources say he is the only
one of the top al Qaeda officials to have travelled widely beyond Afghanistan
and Pakistan to work with the organisation's cells and allied terror groups
worldwide.

Zubaydah was sentenced to death in absentia by Jordanian authorities last year
for his part in organising attacks on tourist sites, but has not, until now,
appeared on FBI or US Justice Department warrants.

Information gained in Afghanistan and from interrogation of prisoners at
Guantanamo Bay in Cuba, place the elusive and relatively unknown militant as
high as number four in the al Qaeda hierarchy, behind Osama bin Laden, Mohammed
Atef, the mastermind of the Twin Towers attacks and Ayman al-Zawahiri, an
Egyptian doctor with a long track record in terrorism.

Ahmed Ressam, an Algerian convicted in connection with the New Year's Eve plot
in Los Angeles, has testified that Zubaydah was the man in charge of bin Laden's
Afghan training camps, and of screening and selecting volunteers for al Qaeda
from the thousands of Arabs, Chechens and Pakistanis who flocked to the banner
of militant Islam.

The FBI says he may be the single most important target after bin Laden himself,
since his role as network co-ordinator means he probably knows the identities
and assignments of most al Qaeda operatives in Europe and America.

Born to a wealthy Palestinian family living in Riyadh, the Saudi capital, his
full name is Zayn al-Abidin Muhammed Hussein Abu Zubaydah. He may have lived and
worked in the Gaza Strip for several years, but has no known connection with
Palestinian terrorist groups such as Hamas or Islamic Jihad.

His links with bin Laden stretch back a decade, and witnesses place him in the
northern Pakistani city of Peshawar in the 1990s, operating from an al Qaeda
compound known as the House of Martyrs.

The compound was a front for screening volunteers before passing them on for
training in the Afghan camps near Khost and Zhawar Killi.

He also briefed the successful candidates afterwards as they dispersed
throughout Europe, the US, North Africa and Arabia to join established cells or
set up new ones.

US intelligence agencies believe he was at bin Laden's side immediately after
September 11, and then probably escaped via long-established routes through
Pakistan to rally and prepare the network elsewhere for a second wave of strikes
against American interests.

The CIA is understood to have photographs of Zubaydah, but none has yet been
released. Sources say his frequent changes of identity and appearance could
render the pictures irrelevant.

His satellite telephone number was found in the memory of a cellphone of the man
accused of being the ringleader of the plot against the US embassy in Sarajevo,
and his name was given to French investigators questioning suspects in the
foiled Paris bombing.

A source said: "Zubaydah, despite his relative youth, is emerging as perhaps the
key player still at large.

"He knows where the terrorist sleepers are hiding and, more importantly, who
they are. He may be the only one in the al Qaeda network who does."

Of the 25 senior al Qaeda leaders identified by the FBI, three are in custody,
and three or four, including Mohammed Atef, are believed to have died in US
bombing raids. The rest remain at large.

An alert over nine white Valentine teddy bears that could be packed with
explosives was issued by the FBI yesterday as Americans celebrated Valentine's
Day.

The Los Angeles section of the FBI appealed for public help in finding a man,
described as being possibly of Arab descent, who bought propane canisters, air
gun pellets and nine white 20in-high Valentine bears from a Wal-Mart store in
Stevenson Ranch, north of Los Angeles, last month.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 15, 2002, Friday Edition 1

Us terror attacks hit BAe but then provide lucrative work

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 32

LENGTH: 409 words







Aerospace and defence giant BAe Systems, which has slashed hundreds of jobs
since September 11, hopes to take off again by next year.

BAe, the UK's biggest aerospace and defence group, has been badly hit by the
fall in orders from commercial aviation after the terror attacks on the United
States.

But its earnings, announced yesterday, were near the top end of market
expectations.

The group cut 1,700 jobs when it scrapped its regional jets business last
autumn.

Yesterday it reported a drop of nearly two-thirds in bottom-line profits, from
179m in 2000 to 70m, after restructuring charges.

But sales improved in its defence business, from 12.19bn to 13.14bn, while
operating profits rose from 189m to 423m.

The group, which employs more than 100,000 people globally, posted a 24.5pc rise
in earnings per share before exceptionals and goodwill amortisation to 23.4p.

BAe does not expect growth this year. But in 2003 it expects an "improved
performance from defence activities.

"And a maintained position at Airbus can be expected to result in a resumption
of growth," it said in a statement.

Looking further ahead, it said: "The existing order book will deliver good
growth in defence activity, while prospects for Airbus remain excellent over the
medium term."

Altogether 101 out of 375 Airbus orders were cancelled after September 11.

Group turnover, which strips out sales from joint ventures, slipped from 9.65bn
to 9.04bn. The restructuring will cost BAe 400m, 370m of which drove down the
bottom-line pre-tax profits in the year to December 31.

Overall, though, chairman Sir Richard Evans is pleased with the "robust"
results.

Describing 2001 as transitional, he said: "Despite difficult markets, we have
delivered on our plans and we have reshaped our commercial aerospace activities
to remove risk and focus on the future growth we see in the commercial jet
market.

"We have also brought about a fundamental shift in our defence business to
reflect the growing emphasis on systems and the importance of the US markets."
US defence annual budgets could top 100bn over the next few years under the
"anti-terrorism" policies of President Bush and BAe is the fifth largest
military supplier to the Pentagon.

Some 28pc of defence revenues in 2001 came to BAe from the US in 2001 and
significant growth has followed the start of the war in Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               February 15, 2002

America thanks Watford for support after terrorist attacks.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 127 words



AMERICA has thanked the people of Watford for their messages of support
following the terrorist attacks on September 11.

A condolence book set up at Watford Town Hall in the wake of the tragedy was
sent to the US Embassy in London at the end of last year.

In a letter to Watford mayor Sybil Tuckwood US Ambassador William Farish
expressed his thanks to all those who contributed.

He wrote: "Thank you from the bottom of my heart for your kind message of
comfort and support following the terrorist attacks in the United States on
September 11.

"The magnificent outpouring of sympathy in Britain has deeply moved all
Americans. Your message will strengthen our resolve to fight the forces of
terrorism and hatred."

February 14, 2002 13:41

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 16, 2002

Bush holds firm on N Korea as he heads east: Washington rebukes French attack on
terror strategy

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 655 words


President George Bush will peer into the eastern end of the "axis of evil" next
Wednesday when he arrives in the demilitarised zone separating North and South
Korea. White House aides said yesterday that widespread anxiety over growing
tensions in the region would not make him tone down his rhetoric.

With the president due to leave for Asia today, the White House echoed a
distinction made by the secretary of state, Colin Powell, suggesting that one
member of the "axis of evil", Iraq, was more evil than the others: Iran and
North Korea.

But the president's national security team believes that taking a tougher line
with Tehran and Pyongyang will prove effective in curbing their weapons sales to
terrorist groups.

The president will face a sceptical audience on his six-day tour of Asia,
postponed from last Autumn as a result of the September 11 attacks. The Japanese
defence minister, Gen Nakatani, said: "I think North Korea is not on an equal
footing with Iran and Iraq because it has no links with al-Qaida or the
Taliban."

But the US national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, said there was clear
evidence that North Korea had been selling ballistic missile technology to an
array of states and groups that Washington considers threats. She refused to
provide names but said: "We believe the North is exporting to just about anybody
who will buy . . . The North Koreans have been known to go around with glossy
brochures about their ballistic missiles."

James Kelly, assistant secretary of state for Asian and Pacific affairs, told
Congress yesterday the US is prepared to undertake "serious discussions" with
North Korea on a broad agenda that includes "verifiable constraints on its
missile programmes, a ban on its missile exports, and a less threatening
conventional military posture".

The South Korean government is unlikely to criticise Mr Bush's remarks openly,
but officials in Seoul have expressed anxiety that the denunciation of Pyongyang
as part of Mr Bush's "axis of evil" had undermined the "sunshine" policy of
dialogue with the north that President Kim Dae Jung has made his trademark
policy.

The US president inflicted damage on Mr Kim's standing last year when he
abandoned Bill Clinton's policy of engagement with North Korea while Mr Kim was
in Washington.

A White House official argued yesterday that the president's stern words might
help the South Korean leader, arguing that they would push Pyongyang into making
more serious concessions in negotiations with Seoul. "They know it's Kim's last
year in office, and the time to talk is now, because whoever comes after is not
going to be so understanding," the official said.

The hawks in the US administration are in a mood of supreme confidence following
the Afghan war. One of the leading hardliners, Richard Perle, a Pentagon
adviser, struck out at America's critics in the EU, such as Chris Patten,
telling the Sun newspaper that the EU commissioner was "patronising" and
"unelected".

He also attacked the UN, which he said had behaved in relation to Iraq exactly
as its impotent predecessor, the League of Nations, did with Hitler's Germany in
the 1930s.

In Washington, meanwhile, the administration took steps to counter European
criticism of its policies. The state department yesterday said the French
ambassador, Francois Bujon, had been called in to discuss critical remarks made
recently by the country's foreign minister, Hubert Vedrine.

French officials denied the talks at the state department were out of the
ordinary, but Reuters quoted an official as saying Mr Bujon "has been called
in".

The summons comes after Mr Vedrine said US foreign policy was simplistic, and
did nothing to address the causes of terrorism. The secretary of state, Colin
Powell, ridiculed his French counterpart's reaction, saying Mr Vedrine was
"getting the vapours".

Leader comment, page 23


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           February 18, 2002, Monday

TERROR ATTACK FOILED;
 TWO KILLED IN FAILED BID TO BLOW UP ISRAELI ARMY BASE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 245 words


TWO attackers were killed and three police and bystanders were wounded yesterday
when Israeli police foiled an attempted attack on an army base in the north of
the country.

Police commander Yaakov Raz said police stopped a suspicious vehicle at the
entrance to the training base and the driver tried to escape after raising
police suspicions.

"The police chased it and, during the chase, the vehicle activated some kind of
device and blew itself up, " Raz told Israel radio.

One attacker was killed in the blast and the other in an exchange of fire with
officers, according to the police.

Ron Kotler, a spokesman for the Magen David Adom rescue service, said three
people were wounded in the attempted attack, two seriously.

The incident took place at a training base called Mahaneh Shmonim, near Hadera,
between Tel Aviv and Haifa, not far from the line with the West Bank.

On Saturday, suicide bomber Sadek Hafeth, 18, attacked a shopping centre at a
Jewish settlement in the West Bank, killing himself and two Jewish teenagers.

Earlier yesterday, in response to that attack, Israeli helicopters fired
missiles at Palestinian buildings in the West Bank city of Nablus.

The missiles hit the headquarters of the Nablus governor, a police station, an
empty residence intended for Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat on his visits to
the city and an apartment block, witnesses said.

A resident of the apartment block was slightly injured.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WRECKED: Palestinian police in Yasser Arafat's office in Nablus after
it was hit by Israeli missiles SUICIDE: Hafeth

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           February 18, 2002, Monday

TERROR ATTACK FOILED;
 TWO KILLED IN FAILED BID TO BLOW UP ISRAELI ARMY BASE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 295 words


TWO attackers were killed and three police and bystanders were wounded yesterday
when Israeli police foiled an attempted attack on an army base in the north of
the country.

Police commander Yaakov Raz said police stopped a suspicious vehicle at the
entrance to the training base and the driver tried to escape after raising
police suspicions.

"The police chased it and, during the chase, the vehicle activated some kind of
device and blew itself up, " Raz told Israel radio.

One attacker was killed in the blast and the other in an exchange of fire with
officers, according to the police.

Ron Kotler, a spokesman for the Magen David Adom rescue service, said three
people were wounded in the attempted attack, two seriously.

The incident took place at a training base called Mahaneh Shmonim, near Hadera,
between Tel Aviv and Haifa, not far from the line with the West Bank.

A suicide bombing attack on a bus in front of the camp last November led Israeli
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to cut short a trip to the United States and return
home.

On Saturday, suicide bomber Sadek Hafeth, 18, attacked a shopping centre at a
Jewish settlement in the West Bank, killing himself and two Jewish teenagers.

Earlier yesterday, in response to that attack, Israeli helicopters fired
missiles at Palestinian buildings in the West Bank city of Nablus.

The missiles hit the headquarters of the Nablus governor, a police station, an
empty residence intended for Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat on his visits to
the city, and an apartment block, witnesses said.

A resident of the apartment block was slightly injured.

In the Gaza Strip, a Palestinian policeman who had been wounded in a clash with
Israeli soldiers, died in a hospital. __

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WRECKED: Palestinian police in Yasser Arafat's office in Nablus after
it was hit by Israeli missiles SUICIDE: Hafeth

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               February 18, 2002

Laos attacks UNHCR over terrorists;

SECTION:  Pg. 2

LENGTH: 173 words


LAOS warned yesterday that it would protest if the United Nations High
Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) granted asylum to Laotian rebels who have
carried out a bloody raids on border posts.

Laotian ambassador to Thailand Hiem Phommachanhv said: "Laos will protest
against the UNHCR if it grants asylum to those rebels."

Lawyer Preutthisit Boonton, representing the group of 28 men who stormed a
checkpoint in July 2000, handed their petitions seeking safe haven in the United
States to the UN body in Bangkok.

"If the asylum is granted, we would regard UNHCR as the one who protects
terrorists, " Mr Hiem said.

During the raid, Laotian troops killed six attackers and Thai authorities
detained 28 rebels who fled to Thailand.

The gang is being detained in a Thai prison, awaiting trial under Thai law.
Vientiane has asked for the extradition of the Laotian rebels.

"Laos considers those men as only ordinary criminals. They are not political
dissidents, so UNHCR should not grant them asylum, " Mr Hiem said.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2002

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 18, 2002, Monday

Motivations for terrorist attacks

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 139 words


From Mr Keith Fisher.

Sir, Michael Gove (Comment, February 13) writes: "poverty doesn't cause
extremism - there are no al-Qaeda terrorists in Kinshasa". His topic of
discussion slips seamlessly from terrorism to extremism, as if there were no
difference between the use of physical violence and the expression of ideas with
which one vehemently disagrees.

If, as I believe, political oppression has a role to play in the genesis of
terrorism as resistance of last resort, Gove might spare a thought for Congolese
journalists, "accused of endangering state security, a charge which is regularly
abused by the Government as a means of imprisoning and intimidating its critics
and opponents" (Amnesty International report, January 8).

Yours,

KEITH FISHER,

29 St John Street, Oxford OX1 2LH.

February 13.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 18, 2002, Monday

Motivations for terrorist attacks

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 115 words


From Mr Alan J. Day

Sir, Michael Gove does a brilliant demolition job on Chris Patten for his
Brussels-style anti-Americanism. But he perhaps ought to have been just a little
more understanding.

Poor Mr Patten doesn't have responsibility for the EU's foreign and security
policy (that's run by Javier Solana), nor for EU enlargement, trade relations or
development policy (all under other commissioners).

So the under-employed Commissioner for External Relations doesn't really have
much else to do except make speeches knocking the United States.

Yours, etc.

ALAN J. DAY,

Flat 4,

32 Grosvenor Place,

Bath BA1 6BA.

ajday@clara.net

February 13.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               February 19, 2002

Girl tells of terror as she was mugged;
 BEATEN UP: teenager was attacked for her mobile

BYLINE: Tamsin Davis

SECTION: 188, Pg.3

LENGTH: 482 words


A 14-year-old schoolgirl has spoken of her hatred for the violent mobile phone
muggers who kicked and stamped on her as she lay on the ground.

Brave Hannah Gale from Twerton curled up into a ball and prayed the brutal
beating would end as the teenage attackers laughed at her.

She was paralysed with fear as she was punched in the stomach and kicked in the
side several times before the boys stamped on her right leg.

Usually a confident and carefree girl, she is now too scared to leave the house
alone.

"I hated it, I hated them. I don't know what to think about them, " she said.

"They were boys and I don't know why they should beat up a girl. I am younger
and smaller than them, I am small for my age.

"I did fear for my life. I didn't know whether they would stop, keep going or do
it harder.

"I thought about my family and what was going to happen to me and if anyone
walking through would help. I needed help but I could not get away.

"I couldn't say anything, I was too scared to. I just lay there and took it."

Hannah, a pupil at Hayesfield School, had been walking home after meeting
friends in the city centre on Sunday.

She was in Linear Park, near Dartmouth Avenue, when the gang pounced at 5.45pm.

She had noticed them behind her and when she turned around, they smiled and she
smiled back.

She stopped to get her mobile phone out of her bag because she thought it was
ringing, but after she put it away again one of the boys came running up to ask
for the time.

Moments later, one gang member grabbed her from behind and held her while
another punched her in the stomach.

She fell to the floor and the others started kicking and stamping on her.

"They just laughed and kept hurting me, " she said.

"I thought 'Why are they doing this to me? I just want to go home'.

"I wanted to get away. My brain was telling me to move but I couldn't. I just
stayed still and hoped they would stop.

"I lost track of how many times they hit me. After they hit me once I didn't
want to feel it any more. I kept the bag over my face, I held it tight, and
curled up into a ball."

The boys were scared off before they could grab the phone after a white van
drove past beeping its horn.

Hannah is still shaken up and is having difficulty walking due to her injuries.

But her biggest fear is that it could happen to someone else.

Her mum Sue, 44, the cook at Hayesfield School's Lower Oldfield Park site, has
asked staff to warn other children using that route to be on their guard.

She said: "It is totally shocking really. I just don't know what this place is
coming to.

"I think it's terrible."

The three boys were about 16 years old. One was wearing a baseball cap with a NY
logo on the front, a black Adidas hooded top, blue jeans and trainers.

Witnesses are urged to call Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           February 19, 2002, Tuesday

BYERS RAP OVER AIR TRAFFIC CRISIS;
 TERROR ATTACK PUTS SERVICE UNDER THREAT UNDER FIRE: Stephen Byers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 276 words


THE newly privatised air traffic control service today denied it was being
pushed into bankruptcy.

Four banks - Abbey National, Barclays Capital, Halifax and Bank of America -
will reportedly threaten to foreclose their loans to the National Air Traffic
Service at its board meeting today.

And Transport Secretary Stephen Byers, who sold a 46 per cent stake in the firm
against advice from the Civil Aviation Authority, is apparently facing demands
for tens of millions of pounds to keep the firm afloat.

A Nats spokeswoman acknowledged the losses suffered in the wake of September 11,
but said the banks backed its cost cutting measures.

'There is no question of administration,' she said.

'Since September 11 we have been working with the banks to keep them fully
appraised and they are fully supportive of the steps we are taking.' But a
Transport Department spokesman was unable to say whether the banks, which
underwrote the sell-off, had demanded compensation from Mr Byers. And shadow
transport secretary Theresa May said: 'This is yet another Stephen Byers
blunder.

'Following on from problems on the railways, it now appears he is facing severe
problems in aviation.

'He has to find a plan to ensure Nats stays afloat and he has to find it fast.'

The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) warned at the time it might not survive
adverse economic conditions or a major air disaster.

Within weeks September 11 devastated the aviation industry and hit the new
company's income.

Since then Nats has cut pounds 200 million from its costs and has asked the CAA
to review its pricing formula in a bid to raise extra cash.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 19, 2002, Tuesday

US ARMY TURNS TO LLOYD'S FOR COVER AGAINST TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Katherine Griffiths

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 364 words


THE AMERICAN army has been forced into the unusual move of insuring its
international bases against terrorist attack through Lloyd's of London in
Britain because US companies have refused to take on the risk.

The multi-million pound contract covers terrorist attacks on the property of
more than 10 US military bases around the world and was placed with a number of
specialist syndicates in Lloyd's last month. The contract covers buildings but
not military equipment or loss of life and will pay out for any kind of
terrorist onslaught apart from chemical or nuclear bombs.

This is the first time the US has insured its military property with companies
which are not American. The high-risk contract has been passed to Lloyd's
because many of the country's own insurers refused to cover terrorist risks as
part of general property cover after 11 September and want the US government to
step into the breach.

In the meantime a group of Lloyd's political risk specialists have formulated
the first ever policy for US companies or state bodies to buy insurance
specifically for terrorist attacks.

One underwriter close to the US military bases deal said the project was not so
risky it could not be covered. "There are people at Lloyd's who have decades of
experience of writing political risk and we apply complex models to the
situation - it is not guesswork," he said.

The specialist terrorist policy was written by Simon Koe, of the Lloyd's broker
Humphreys Haggas Sutton, and Ben Garston, a partner of MAP syndicate.

Mr Koe said: "This shows that Lloyd's is not just a load of old duffers. It is
what Lloyd's does best - spreading the risk of writing specialist cover and
respond quickly to demand in the market."

The US government has used the new Lloyd's terrorist cover policy to insure a
number of its embassies. The policy has also been taken up by companies with
property deals in high-risk areas such as Times Square in New York, which were
put on hold when US insurers withdrew terrorist cover.

Until 11 September, terrorist cover was included in US property policies
practically free because insurers thought the risk on US soil so low.

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 19, 2002, Tuesday

FOUR HELD AFTER ROCKET IS SEIZED;
 POLICE FOIL TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Zoe Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 310 words

HIGHLIGHT: CORDONED OFF: Police and Army at scene yesterday; DEADLY: Rocket is
put on display


FOUR suspected Real IRA men were being questioned by police last night after a
rocket launcher and warhead were seized.

The hi-tech weapon was similar to one used in an attack on MI6 headquarters in
London more than a year ago.

Security forces said they had foiled "an imminent terrorist attack" after
recovering the weapons in Coalisland, Co Tyrone.

The RPG22 rocket recovered on Sunday was part of a deadly consignment smuggled
out of the Balkans.

DUP Assembly Member Paul Berry said: "This is yet another example of republican
terrorists working in collaboration with other terrorist networks across the
world.

"The Real IRA are becoming more and more powerful because of their connections
across Europe.

"I understand the former Yugoslavia has a wealth of arms which were used during
the many years of fighting in that area. It is dangerous to see the weapons now
being used in attacks by the Real IRA.

Police are anxious to recover a number of the devices which are known to be in
the possession of the Real IRA.

The find is only the second time the Russian-made weapon has been discovered in
Northern Ireland.

Dissident republicans have been linked to dealings with Croatian terrorists
since October 1999 when a number of RPG-22s were discovered on a Co Meath farm.

Further evidence of links emerged in July 2000 when a Croat boat carrying RPG
-22s was intercepted on its way to Northern Ireland.

At that time a Real IRA member living in Co Monaghan was questioned as one of
the key figures in the gun-running exercise - but he was never charged.

Army bomb experts were called to the scene of Sunday night's find yards from the
town's police station.

Assistant Chief Constable Stephen White praised his officers who came under
continued attack from youths throwing stones and bottles during the alert.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           February 22, 2002, Friday

SPECIAL REPORT: CARJACK TERROR;
 DRIVER TELLS OF VIOLENT CITY ATTACK

BYLINE: Mark Cowan PUNCHED AND SHOVED: Driver Funmi Ade was attacked in broad
daylight

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 223 words


A WOMAN driver has told how she was rammed by a team of carjackers who then
attacked her before racing away in her sports car.

Funmi Ade, a mother-of-one from Birmingham, is the latest victim of a new
crimewave on the streets of Britain which has hit scores of victims.

Although the violent crime left her 'terrified', brave Ms Ade today came forward
to warn other motorists to be on their guard.

The management consultant, in her 30s, said: 'I never thought it would happen to
me and it wasn't until things got out of hand that I realised what was going on.

'The whole thing happened in broad daylight on a busy street. I was bumped and
simply got out to exchange insurance details then I was attacked.

'Your first instinct is to struggle, I wasn't going to let them have my car.

But when the second person got out I knew it could turn nasty and was absolutely
terrified. I was punched and shoved before they snatched the keys and drove
away.'

Ms Ade's pounds 25,000 Audi TT was rammed by a silver Honda Civic carrying three
black men in the incident on Monday afternoon on Green Lane, Bordesley Green.
The Honda was thought to have been carjacked itself earlier.

Both cars were later recovered in Oliver Street, Nechells. Witnesses should call
police on 0845 1135000.

WOMEN WHO DRIVE IN FEAR: PAGE 6

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 22, 2002, Friday Edition 1

'Terror' swoops attacked

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 255 words







Police in Durham and Cleveland have rejected claims that they acted hastily in
arresting six terrorism suspects in dawn raids across the North-East in January.

The decision to arrest the men was questioned by Redcar Labour MP Vera Baird.

The men were released within four days of being seized in Darlington and the
Seaton Carew area of Cleveland by Durham and Cleveland police in an operation
dubbed Icebolt earlier this year.

It had been claimed by the Redcar MP that police acted 14 days after a "tip off"
on the suspects. Police said they had carried out "lengthy" investigations.

Mrs Baird said the case raised a serious question about their decision to act in
a way that risked huge damage to community relations. "In a very short time
people were released, suggesting that information that was poor."

Surinder Dale of Darlington's Commission for Racial Equality said: "It has
caused a lot of tension in the ethnic minority communities around Darlington.

"But the one good thing that has come out of it all is that Britain is now
discussing the matter of racial equality."

A spokesman for Durham Police said yesterday: "We feel that she [Mrs Baird] is
doing exactly what she has accused police of, that is to say making accusations
without any real evidence.

"We have been extremely careful in how we have handled this investigation, which
is still ongoing."

A Cleveland Police spokeswoman said: "Our position is that enquiries are
ongoing."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 22, 2002, Friday

RED LIGHT BEAST;
 DANGEROUS SERIAL SEX ATTACKER JAILED FOR TERRORISING HOOKERS

BYLINE: James Tait

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 291 words

HIGHLIGHT: BEAST: Monster James Walker has been caged


A SCOTS sex beast was jailed for life yesterday for a series of vicious attacks
on hookers.

James Walker had earlier been found guilty of 11 crimes including two rapes,
four indecent assaults and four offences of false imprisonment.

Walker, 57, from Edinburgh, has a criminal career going back to 1962 and 56
previous convictions - many for violence.

Judge William Taylor described the bearded, balding fiend's behaviour as "a
danger to the public, and women particularly".

During the three-week case he sacked nine barristers before defending himself,
and had refused to come into the dock to hear the case against himself.

Walker preyed on prostitutes in Plymouth to abuse them sexually and mentally.

He was trapped thanks to the so-called Ugly Mug reports compiled by a local
Harbour Centre group who acted as intermediaries with the victims and police.

Prostitutes who were victims of violence from punters could report it to an
outreach worker who logged a description of the offender.

This is circulated to the working girls to warn them of potentially dangerous
men.

Det Con Terry Jones said: "The Ugly Mug reports are superb and in this case gave
us key details of the incidents.

"Without them we would not have found so many witnesses."

The prostitutes had to give evidence at Plymouth Crown Court twice because
Walker suffered a heart attack during his first trial last summer.

One hooker said she was terrified by Walker's violence and had never encountered
anything like it in 18 years on the streets.

She said: "Rape and violence is rape and violence. It is no less frightening for
a prostitute.

"I think he is capable of killing someone - he can be a very, very frightening
man."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               February 23, 2002

Vehicles to help fire service fight terrorist attacks

BYLINE: T. Pauling

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Others; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 566 words


Tim Pauling GRAMPIAN Fire Service is to get one of three specialist rescue
vehicles being provided in Scotland following the September 11 terrorist
attacks.

The purpose-built search-and-rescue vehicles for collapsed structures are part
of a GBP 5million boost to help fire services handle large-scale emergencies.

A review of the emergency services was carried out after the terrorist attacks
on the World Trade Centre in New York and the Pentagon in Washington DC.

The extra resources will better equip brigades to handle a terrorist attack,
natural disaster or major accident. The GBP 5million will go towards: Three
purpose-built vehicles with specialist search-and-rescue equipment for collapsed
structures.

Mass decontamination facilities.

Heat-seeking cameras for pumping appliances.

Command support facilities to improve mobilisation of fire crews and equipment
in remote areas.

Heavy lifting and support equipment.

Additional protection and safety equipment for firefighters.

The Executive is also considering helicopter deployment for specially trained
crews to provide a rapid response to major incidents throughout Scotland.

The equipment will be provided to all brigades across Scotland. Some of the
specialist resources will be based at Lothian and Borders, Grampian and
Strathclyde fire brigades, but it will be ready to respond to the type of
incidents described across Scotland.

Grampian was chosen to get one of the three specialist vehicles because of the
local brigade's expertise in heavy rescue.

Grampian firemaster John Williams said the partial collapse of the
Poundstretcher building in Aberdeen's Union Street, in which a workman died last
month, demonstrated the type of incident they had to handle.

"While I am satisfied that Grampian Fire Brigade already has the necessary
vehicles and equipment to deal with any incident that we attend, these
additional resources provide a material and substantial support, not only to the
communities within the Grampian area but, potentially, elsewhere within Scotland
should they be required," he said.

The new equipment will probably be based in Aberdeen. It will be available for
use anywhere in Scotland without depleting local cover.

Deputy firemaster David Dalziel said: "What we don't want is for this
significant investment to be sitting in a garage. It will be used on a daily
basis, providing a service for people in the Grampian area.

"If it is required elsewhere in Scotland, it will not deplete our existing
resources." Justice Minister Jim Wallace announced the extra funding while
visiting a fire station in Edinburgh yesterday.

He said: "September 11 shocked us all. It also forced us to re-examine our
capability for dealing with major emergencies on a scale that had previously
been unimaginable.

"While it highlighted the commitment and dedication of the emergency services,
it also showed the potential strain on resources, resilience and readiness in
responding to natural disasters and major incidents." Mr Wallace said the Fire
Service Inspectorate had carried out a review of the fire services' ability to
deal with major incidents and what could be done to improve public safety.

"Our firefighters put their lives on the line when they respond to major
incidents," he said.

"As an Executive, we need to make sure they have the proper tools to do their
job."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 25, 2002, Monday

ARTS: 11 SEPTEMBER IN WORDS AND PICTURES;
 AS A RESPONSE TO LAST YEAR'S HORRIFIC TERRORIST ATTACK, THE NEW YORK ART WORLD
INVITED THE PUBLIC TO PUT ITS GRIEF ON SHOW.

BYLINE: Adrian Mourby Broken art: images from Reactions by Alex Steinweiss
(above) and; Liz Johnson (inset) Exit Art, New York

SECTION: Monday Review: ; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1199 words


America is uniquely fortunate in not having had its cities and civilians
targeted in time of war. The horrors of Dresden, London, Hiroshima and Cambodia
were inflicted on cultures that knew how warfare heaped suffering on innocent
civilians. It took 11 September to bring this awful reality to American soil,
and inevitably the United States is still catching up emotionally. To visit New
York at the moment is to find that extrovert city using every form of expression
to try to assimilate the shock. Postcards on sale depict the twin towers before
and after, "Wanted" posters of Osama bin Laden proliferate and the Stars and
Stripes is more in evidence than ever before.

Grief, shock and anger are also finding their outlets in art. Whereas Coventry
commemorated its blitz with a simple charred cross and the words "Father
Forgive", New York has co-opted every possible form of expression to try to make
sense of what has happened.

In the immediate aftermath of 11 September, Exit Art, a SoHo Gallery, put out a
worldwide e-mail appeal for works of art on notepaper, and received back 2,600
images from all over the States, as well as from countries as diverse as
Finland, Pakistan and China. The resulting exhibition, "Reactions", opened on 26
January and continues to the end of March. The 1,000-plus works on show are,
inevitably, a mixed bag. They range from simple written testimonials in which
the author remembers what he or she was doing on hearing the news, to satirical
images such as the photo montage by Jem Cohen and Kim Maley, which juxtaposes
Osama bin Laden and George W Bush behind a banner that reads: "Both Want War.
Both Unelected." There is a lot of imagery drawn from the World Trade Centre
itself. Frequently, twin silhouettes of the towers are torn or cut out of the
page.

Jeanette Ingberman, co-director of the exhibition, defends the self-indulgence
of some of the works on display. "I think whether or not it's art is an
irrelevant question," she insists. "There is an urge to be part of the
collective experience. We live in a country with an absence of rituals, but
there is a reason for ritual. This exhibition has become a ritual, public art as
ritual."

Part Two of Ingberman's exhibition celebrates a very particular American artform
and is presented in conjunction with DC Comics and Marvel Comics. Two "graphic
novels" depicting the events of 11 September have already been produced by the
writers and artists contracted to these houses and their original art work is
also on display at Exit Art.

Elsewhere in SoHo, the ground floor of 116 Prince Street was quickly turned over
to a photographic exhibition entitled "Here is New York: A Democracy of
Photographs". The organisers say, "'Here Is New York' is not a conventional
gallery show. It is something new, a show tailored to the nature of the event,
and to the response it has elicited. Anyone who has taken pictures relating to
the tragedy is invited to bring or FTP (send electronically) their images to the
gallery, where they will be digitally scanned, archivally printed and displayed
on the walls alongside the work of top photojournalists and other professional
photographers."

All the prints exhibited at "Here Is New York" are on sale to the public for $
25, regardless of the photographer's reputation, with profits going to charity.
A "copy" of the exhibition has now opened in Chicago and a third copy will be in
Berlin.

Further uptown, the Museum of Modern Art is offering another exhibition, this
time called "Life of the City" which brings together Big Apple images from the
museum's permanent collection, including plates by Cartier-Bresson, Edward
Steichen and Alfred Stieglitz, mounted alongside images contributed by visitors
to New York and NY residents. Again, as at Exit and 116 Prince Street, the
emphasis is on a democratic response, professionals and amateurs subsuming their
status differences in the name of grief.

One exercise that specifically hinges on the coming together of artist and
public is a stage show that has been playing the Flea Theater only a few blocks
away from the huge cavity which is all that remains of the World Trade Center.
The Guys is a two-hander that, until recently, featured the Ghostbusters team of
Sigourney Weaver and Bill Murray. Written by Anne Nelson, a professor of
journalism at Columbia, The Guys draws on her personal experience of helping a
New York fire captain write eulogies for the men he lost on 11 September. Last
October, hearing that Weaver's husband, Jim Simpson, who runs the Flea, was
looking for a play to bring audiences back downtown, Anne Nelson sent him her
cathartic two-hander. "I want to do something," says the writer (Weaver) when
Murray asks her why she has contacted him. "But this is all I know how to use.
Words."

Anne Nelson describes the play as addressing her own "crisis of marginality"
which is a view echoed by Peter Galassi at the Museum of Modern Art. "It would
have been ridiculous if regular museum staff had put on their blue jeans, gone
downtown and tried to move steel. We don't know how to do that but I feel it's
appropriate to try to reach out to the city in the aftermath of this horrible
event and important too that we do so in connection with what we're here to do."

Bill Murray stayed with the play for its first 10 performances. He admits that
his role made him sad. "I don't get the usual sort of something out of it that
you get from a performance. Usually you get a kick or a boost or something. You
feel good. I don't get anything like that... It just seems like your obligation,
so you do it."

The play, according to Anne Nelson, has changed in tone since it was first
workshopped last year. "When we first did it in December it was very, very raw.
It's become a little more elegiac after two months." Sigourney Weaver adds: "I
wouldn't call it therapy. I don't think people necessarily feel better but they
do feel. I think the theatre experience, that shared experience, is always to
some extent cathartic. There's a coming together of all our energies."

This sense of strength through unity permeates the whole city, from the
rewriting of a number of TV dramas (NYPD Blue, Ally McBeal and The West Wing) so
that each show can pay its respects, to the flowers, baseball caps, fading
photos and teddy bears that festoon the railings of St Paul's Church next to the
viewing platform that overlooks ground zero.

Inevitably not all of it is in good taste. "God Is On Our Side" proclaims one
banner outside St Paul's, a grim reminder of how two fundamentalist nations have
locked horns since 11 September. Elsewhere Paul McCartney's website is urging
people to buy "Freedom!", his under-impressive contribution to the music of 11
September "Show your American Spirit by purchasing your copy today!" we are
told. While McCartney's heart may be in the right place - proceeds from the
charity single will go to the aid of New York firefighters and police officers -
it takes more than a spontaneous emotional reaction for great art to come forth
out of tragedy. What will be the enduring artistic legacy of 11 September
remains to be seen.

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 25, 2002, Monday

TERRORISTS 'DUG HOLE FOR ATTACK ON US EMBASSY';
 CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM

BYLINE: Crispian Balmer In Rome

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 264 words


ITALIAN POLICE have found a hole recently carved into the side of a passage
under the American embassy in Rome and suspect terrorists were planning to plant
a chemical bomb there.

The news came just days after police arrested four Moroccan men in possession of
large quantities of a cyanide compound, explosive powder and maps of the water
network around the embassy, on the chic Via Veneto. Immediately after the
arrests, police and maintenance staff checked tunnels around the complex that
carry water, gas and electricity to buildings in the area and found a hole cut
into a wall next to the diplomatic mission.

The hole was not there when the narrow channels were last checked in the second
week of January. The leading Italian daily Corriere della Sera quoted
investigators as saying: "An attack by an al-Qa'ida terrorist commando on the
American embassy might have been just days, or even hours, away."

Italian security forces have been on high alert since 11 September and
Washington has warned that Italy is especially vulnerable to a terror strike.
Police have seized more than 20 terror suspects in the country over the past
five months but the arrest of the four Moroccans last Tuesday has caused most
alarm.

Scientists said the chemical compound found in their suburb apartment -
potassium ferrocyanide - was harmless in itself but could easily have been
turned into a deadly gas capable of killing large numbers of people. A police
explosives expert said there could have been many deaths if the substance had
exploded under the embassy. (Reuters)

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 25, 2002, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: IRAQ NEXT FOR ATTACK

BYLINE: Bob Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 123 words


TONY Blair will fly to the US in six weeks to plan new military strikes in the
war against terrorism.

Senior Downing Street sources confirmed last night President Bush and the PM
would hold a council of war in April.

It is expected to finalise plans to attack Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein.

The Government source said: "We made it clear that there will be phase two of
this operation."

Iraq, identified by President Bush as an "axis of evil", is believed to be
developing weapons of mass destruction.

A Labour backlash over any action is still likely.

-THE US military base at Kandahar in Afghanistan came under rocket attack
yesterday when two missiles were fired towards the city's airport. No-one was
hurt.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           February 26, 2002, Tuesday

KOFI WARNS BLAIR OVER IRAQ ATTACK;
 WAR ON TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 44 words


UNITED Nations boss Kofi Annan yesterday told Tony Blair it would be foolish to
launch an anti-terror war against Iraq.

His warning to Britain and America underlines growing global unease about plans
to extend their campaign to Iraq, Iran and North Korea.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               February 27, 2002

Suspect's attack;
 WAR ON TERROR: The latest stories from around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 111 words


NEW YORK: Jurors in New York will be shown a photograph of a prison guard maimed
by a former al-Qaida chief in what prosecutors claim was an attempt to kill him.

Prosecutors said the picture of Officer Louis Pepe's face will support their
theory that Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, 43, tried to murder him by stabbing him
through the eye and brain with a sharpened comb.

They said the picture was necessary because Salim's lawyer will argue the
stabbing was an accident. Salim, allegedly a former finance chief for Osama bin
Laden, is awaiting trial on conspiracy charges in the August 1998 bombings of
two US embassies in Africa which killed 224 people.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          February 27, 2002, Wednesday

VICTIM RELIVES ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 165 words


STUDENT Chris Spencer today relived the terrifying moment two robbers took his
mobile phone.

Mr Spencer, a second year student at Liverpool University, says he is still
shaken by the attack in Greenbank Road, Mossley Hill, last October.

Mr Spencer said: "Two lads were walking towards me. I tried to walk between them
but one hit me and knocked me down. The bloke was pretty big and he caught me on
the chin."

Mr Spencer is just one of dozens of young people who fall victim to such
robberies in Liverpool every month.

He urged others like him to report muggings to police.

Mr Spencer said: "The detectives made contact with me and a couple of days later
they took me round in an unmarked car.

"I identified my attacker and he was arrested there and then. It shows these
people do not always get away with it."

Each arrest can clear up a number of crimes. Home Office statistics show that 5%
of young men commit 60% of all the crime by people of their age.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STREET VICTIM: Chris Spencer who was beaten up by two thugs for his
mobile phone

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 27, 2002, Wednesday

Swiss Re warns of loss after terrorist attacks on US

BYLINE: James Moore

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 359 words


SWISS RE, the world's second biggest reinsurer, yesterday gave warning that
exceptionally large insurance losses in 2001, including the September 11
terrorist attacks on the US, would push the group into its first loss since
1866.

The company, founded in 1863, predicted that it would show a loss of about
SwFr200 million (Pounds 82 million) when it reports in April but said its board
would still recommend an unchanged dividend of SwFr2.50 a share.

Swiss Re also said its figures had been hit by a marked fall in investment
returns and that it made substantial losses relating to the collapse of Enron,
the US energy trading group, and tropical storm Allison.

It sought to reassure investors, however, by saying that it had enjoyed an
exceptionally strong insurance renewal season, which had seen steep rises in
prices for policies offering reduced terms.

A company spokesman said: "September 11 was unique. Not only was it the
insurance industry's largest ever loss, it also impacted several lines of
business and led to declines in capital markets which negatively affected
investment performance."

The group is involved in a legal dispute with Silverstein Group, which owned the
lease on the World Trade Centre, over how much it should pay out on policies
written to cover the building.

Silverstein believes that because two planes separately hit the building's twin
towers it can claim on its policies twice. Swiss Re argues that the event was a
single co-ordinated attack. Its current estimated exposure stands at SwF2.95
billion. Swiss Re is the latest of several Swiss financial businesses to have
found themselves in difficulties recently.

Swiss regulators are seeking urgent meetings with Swiss Life and Zurich
Financial Services to discuss their weakened financial position.

On Monday Rolf Huppi quit as Zurich's chief executive, although he will stay on
as non-executive chairman..

Swiss Re's shares closed down by just 1 per cent at SwF 146.75 after Walter
Kielholz, its chief executive, said it expected to beat its 2002 and 2003
financial targets. "The outlook is very, very positive," he said.


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          February 28, 2002, Thursday

TEENAGER TELLS OF CAR ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 325 words


A JURY was told the windscreen of a teenager's car was smashed by youths moments
before the car mowed through a crowd outside a Coventry night club.

Cinema security guard Armar Sharma told Coventry Crown Court he "accidentally"
put the VW Golf he was driving into first gear instead of reverse, causing the
car to plough through a group of clubbers outside the city centre's Zest
nightclub on March 18 last year.

Sharma, aged 19, of Trevose Avenue, Exhall, Coventry, denies three counts of
causing grievous bodily harm with intent, one of wounding with intent and
another of dangerous driving.

The court heard how Sharma ploughed into the group of black and Asian youths
shortly after his friend had been arguing with the group.

Sharma moved the Golf from outside the club to a point near the exit before
doing a U-turn and heading back towards the crowd to pick up his twin brother.

He said: "At this point I was scared out of my wits and in shock and when I came
up the road I could just see three or four headlights coming towards me.

"I stopped the car and as soon as I did the crowd came towards my car and
started attacking it.

"At this point I was very much in fear of my friends' safety and put the car in
reverse.

"I accidentally put the car in to first gear, my foot was on the accelerator
and, as I was about to take off, the windscreen got smashed."

The court heard that Armar's windscreen was smashed up to seven times by the
group who were said to have used implements to break the glass.

James Wood, prosecuting, said: "If you are saying you put it into first gear by
accident, how was it your car drove such a considerable distance without you
realising?"

Sharma said he hadn't realised immediately as he had been scared.

Two men suffered fractures to the shin and the skull, a third suffered cuts and
bruising and a woman suffered a broken thigh in the incident.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          February 28, 2002, Thursday

TERROR ATTACKS KILL ECONOMY

BYLINE: Clinton Manning

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 154 words


THE UK economy came to a standstill after the September 11 attacks, figures
revealed yesterday.

The statistics showed there was zero growth over the year - the first time in a
decade that's happened.

But the terrorist attacks weren't the only reason for the slump, according to
business and union leaders.

Sir Ken Jackson, of the manufacturing union Amicus, blamed the Government's
"dithering" over the euro.

He said: "Manufacturing has been in meltdown for the past two years. We were
already expecting another 150,000 manufacturing jobs to go this year.

"The longer the Government dithers over the euro, the more jobs will go."

CBI director Andy Scott said: "Even though there are some signs of the downturn
having reached the bottom, manufacturing firms are still cutting prices to the
bone to try to hold on to business."

Financial experts said interest rates were now unlikely to rise.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 28, 2002

20 years for waiter who plotted terror attacks

BYLINE: Susie Boniface;David Williams

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 305 words


A FORMER waiter was jailed for 20 years yesterday for planning a wave of terror
attacks across Britain with home-made bombs.

Moinul Abedin's deadly intentions were thwarted by MI5 surveillance.

Mr Justice Hughes told the 27-yearold his terror plot could have killed
thousands of people had it not been 'nipped in the bud'.

The Bangladeshi, who worked at an Indian restaurant, had stockpiled large
quantities of home-made explosives at a house in Sparkbrook, Birmingham.

The judge said: 'At the very least you would have caused immense risk to
people's lives together with panic, fear and public anxiety.' The jury at
Birmingham Crown Court took eight hours at the end of a six-week trial to find
Abedin guilty.

A second man, Dr Faisal Mostafa, 38, from Stockport, was cleared of all charges.

The two men were arrested after a huge undercover surveillance operation which
was launched following a tip-off.

Abedin was found hiding in the attic of a house in Sparkbrook. Chemicals used to
make the explosive HTMD, which is commonly used by terrorists, were found there.

A handbook on bomb-making was also discovered, together with a computer disk and
files containing instructions from the Mujahideen Explosives Handbook and
Guerilla's Arsenal: Advanced Techniques for Making Explosives and Time Delay
Bombs.

The computer material contained detailed information on how to make and use
detonators and other explosives from readily-available household materials.

The raw ingredients for HTMD were found in bulk at business unit rented by
Abedin under an alias in Tyseley, Birmingham.

Police say there is no evidence linking him to Osama Bin Laden's terror network.

The targets for attack are unknown but officers say sufficient ingredients were
found to make several substantial bombs.


LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 1, 2002, Friday

BELEAGUERED ECONOMY GRINDS TO A HALT AFTER TERROR ATTACKS;
 BUT UPTURN IS EXPECTED, SAYS BANK OF ENGLAND GOVERNOR

BYLINE: Graeme Evans Business Correspondent

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 412 words


BRITAIN'S battered economy failed to grow for the first time in nearly ten years
following the September 11 terrorist attacks, it emerged yesterday.

Official data showed GDP growth ground to a halt during the fourth quarter of
last year, remaining unchanged on the previous three-month period.

That is the weakest quarter-on-quarter movement since the last decline in GDP
when Britain was emerging from recession in the middle of 1992.

The figure was issued after the Office for National Statistics (ONS) revised its
estimate for fourth quarter GDP from the 0.2pc pencilled in last month.

Economists said the decline from third quarter growth of 05pc was sharper than
expected, although it did not impact on long-term prospects.

Investec chief economist Philip Shaw said: "The figure is a surprise but nothing
to panic about. We still see economic growth in the first quarter of this year."

He added that the figure further reduced the need for the Bank of England to
raise interest rates in an effort to stop the economy overheating.

The latest data from the ONS also revised year-on-year growth for the fourth
quarter down to 1.7pc from 1.9pc. Apart from the second quarter of 1999, that
was the weakest figure since the start of 1993.

However, the GDP figure for the whole of 2001 remained at 2.4pc - above the
Chancellor Gordon Brown's PreBudget forecast of 2.25pc.

In contrast to a healthier services sector, the volume of output in production
industries fell by 2.1pc in the fourth quarter and included a 1.7pc fall in the
rate for manufacturing.

The ONS said manufacturing output was now 5.6pc weaker than the same quarter a
year earlier - the biggest decline since 1991.

Business investment also fell by 3.2pc during the quarter, with the drop most
pronounced in the machinery and equipment sectors.

HSBC economist John Butler said: "The two-speed economy lives on and clearly
illustrates who were the winners and losers."

An expected gradual improvement in the US economy will have a positive impact
across the world, the Governor of the Bank of England predicted.

Sir Edward George agreed with comments by Federal Reserve chairman Alan
Greenspan that the recession in the United States, which has had an impact in
this country, was over.

"We anticipate the US economy picking up quite strongly by the end of the year,
and that will have an impact on the world economy which is positive, " said Sir
Edward.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RECESSION OVER: Governor of the Bank of England, Sir Edward George sees
the economy picking up strongly

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 1, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: PARAS ARE ATTACKED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 61 words


BRITISH paratroopers have again come under fire in Kabul, it emerged yesterday.

A lone gunmen fired at an observation post manned by eight British troops, who
returned fire.

No one was injured, but a bullet hit the roof.

It is the third attack in two months, but Captain Graham Dunlop vowed: "We have
a job to do and we will continue to do it."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 March 2, 2002

Blair in terrorist package alert; ATTACK: Prime Minister sent caustic soda
through post

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 28 words


ANTI-TERRORIST officers were today hunting Scottish nationalist extremists who
sent an aromatherapy oil bottle containing caustic soda to Prime Minister Tony
Blair.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 2, 2002, Saturday

ACID ATTACK ON BLAIRS;
 TERROR PACKAGE SENT TO NO 10

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 45 words


DEADLY nitric acid has been posted to No 10 in a terrorist attack, it emerged
last night.

The package was addressed to Cherie Blair. More were sent to a Scots woman MP
and 14 other women MPs. The Scottish Liberation Army claimed responsibility
early today.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 3, 2002

BRITAIN PUT ON RED ALERT AFTER SCOTTISH TERRORISTS LAUNCH A CHEMICAL ATTACK ON
DOWNING STREET SECURITY IS TIGHTENED AROUND CHERIE AS HUGE HUNT STARTS FOR
SCOTTISH 'REBEL ARMY'; WHO'S NEXT?

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Julia Hartley-Brewer and Meg Milne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 4

LENGTH: 604 words


MI5 anti-terrorist officers have launched a nationwide hunt for the "tartan
terrorists" who sent toxic chemicals to Cherie Blair.

The poisonous package containing aromatherapy oils laced with caustic soda was
addressed to Mrs Blair personally at 10 Downing Street by a member of an extreme
Scottish nationalist group.

Police are trying to trace up to 14 toxic parcels sent by the group to other
leading public figures and have warned Ministers, MPs and their staff to be on
high alert.

Special Branch officers are expected to tighten security around Mrs Blair
following the terrifying discovery on Friday. She was told about the package as
she accompanied her husband at the Commonwealth summit in Australia.

Security was also stepped up around Prince William, who is studying at St
Andrews University. He was the target of a hoax anthrax threat last year.

Scotland Yard confirmed yesterday that they had received a phone call from a man
claiming to be from the Scottish National Liberation Army warning that 16
packages had been sent.

One package was received by a Scottish politician's assistant at her home
address.

It has since been destroyed, as has the one sent to Mrs Blair.

The assistant worked in the constituency office of Liberal Democrat MSP Mike
Rumbles in Banchory, Aberdeenshire.

She had already opened the envelope when she was warned about the toxic
substance by English-born Mr Rumbles.

He said: "I am extremely angry at this quite despicable act. Luckily, I managed
to warn her before she opened the bottle.

"She could have been seriously injured and is very shocked about what has
happened."

A third parcel is believed to have been delivered to Commons Speaker Michael
Martin, MP for Glasgow Springburn.

But last night most of the 16 packages remained unaccounted for.

Metropolitan Police officers held emergency talks with representatives from the
main political parties in England and Scotland in an effort to ensure that all
possible recipients are alerted.

Officers ruled out the Real IRA and international terror groups as suspects but
are investigating whether the packages could be the work of a lone individual.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of Scotland Yard's AntiTerrorist
Branch, said:

"Public safety is a prime issue and as such we had no hesitation in issuing a
warning around these packages. This is a criminal act intended to cause harm."

More envelopes are expected to be found tomorrow morning when staff return to
work in Government and constituency offices.

The padded brown envelopes, posted at the Glasgow Mail Centre, contain bottles
of liquid claiming to be aromatherapy eucalyptus oil.

A leaflet with the bottles claims they are complimentary samples to be used as
an aromatic skin lotion.

But they were filled with sodium hydroxide - commonly known as caustic soda - an
alkali which burns the skin.

It can cause permanent scarring or blindness if it comes into contact with eyes.

Scotland Yard described the fake oil and the accompanying instructions on their
use as "cynically dangerous".

The seal on the two bottles recovered by officers had been broken, causing
leakage.

A spokesman said: "We are urging people who may receive a package through the
post in suspicious circumstances containing a liquid substance to contact 999
immediately."

Last night former SNP leader Alex Salmond warned that the publicity surrounding
the packages could spark "copycat" attacks.

He said: "People should be extremely careful about giving the oxygen of
publicity to people like this."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 3, 2002

BRITAIN PUT ON RED ALERT AFTER SCOTTISH TERRORISTS LAUNCH A CHEMICAL ATTACK ON
DOWNING STREET; WHO'S NEXT?

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Meg Milne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 2

LENGTH: 475 words


SECURITY has been stepped up around the Prime Minister's wife, Cherie Blair,
following the terrifying discovery that she was the target of terrorists.

Security has also been stepped up around Prince William, who is studying at St
Andrews University, and was the victim of a hoax anthrax threat last year.

Police are trying to trace up to 14 toxic parcels sent to leading public
figures, and have warned Government Ministers, MPs and their staff to be on a
state of high alert.

The poisonous package containing aromatherapy oils laced with caustic soda was
addressed to Mrs Blair personally at 10 Downing Street by a member of an extreme
Scottish nationalist group.

She was told about the discovery of the package as she accompanied the Prime
Minister at the Commonwealth summit in Australia.

Scotland Yard confirmed yesterday that they had received a phone call from a man
claiming to be from the Scottish National Liberation Army warning that 16
packages had been sent to leading public figures. A second package was sent to a
Scottish politician's assistant at her home address. Both packages have since
been destroyed. A third parcel is believed to have been delivered to Commons
Speaker Michael Martin, MP for Glasgow Springburn.

Officers have ruled out the Real IRA and international terror groups as
suspects, but are investigating whether the packages could be the work of a lone
individual.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist
Branch, said: "Public safety is a prime issue. This is a criminal act."

More envelopes are expected to be found tomorrow morning when staff return to
work in Government and constituency offices in Scotland and England.

The padded brown envelopes, which were posted at the Glasgow Mail Centre,
contain bottles of liquid claiming to be aromatherapy eucalyptus oil.

But they were filled with sodium hydroxide, commonly known as caustic soda,
which burns the skin and can cause permanent scarring or blindness. Scotland
Yard described the fake oil and the accompanying instructions as "cynically
dangerous".

A spokesman said: "Officers from the Metropolitan Police were alerted following
a telephone warning from an anonymous man claiming to be from the Scottish
National Liberation Army. We are urging people who may receive a package through
the post in suspicious circumstances containing a liquid substance to contact
999 immediately. This is especially applicable to members of political parties
and their staff."

The second confirmed package was sent to the home of an assistant working in
Liberal Democrat MSP Mike Rumbles' constituency office in Banchory,
Aberdeenshire. She had already opened the envelope when she was warned about the
toxic substance by Mr Rumbles.

He said: "I am angry at this quite despicable act."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 3, 2002

FINANCIAL EXPRESS SHOWDOWN WITH TREASURY AFTER INSURERS TURN BACK ON INDUSTRIES
UNDER THREAT; TOP FIRMS DEMAND TERROR ATTACK COVER

BYLINE: By James Robinson

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 453 words


INSIDE A POWERFUL delegation of business leaders will meet a Treasury minister
on Tuesday to w arn they face ruin because insurance companies are refusing to
provide cover against terrorist attacks.

The businessmen will plead w ith Chancellor Gordon Brown's team to make the
Government act as the insurer of last resort, j ust as John Major's
administration did following the IRA's devastating bombings in the City of
London. They will warn that billions of pounds of investment into Britain is at
risk unless urgent action is taken.

The delegation includes Jeremy Newsum, chief executive of the Duke of
Westminster's property company Grosvenor Estate Holdings. The Duke owns huge
swathes of real estate in London's West End.

Among the companies represented are Lattice, formerly part of British Gas -
which owns the country's gas network - and V inci, the French construction group
involved in the construction of the Channel Tunnel rail link that will run to
London and w hich also owns hundreds of car parks across the UK.

Some of the businesses are now uninsured against terrorist attacks because
insurers are refusing to provide cover against certain types of action,
including attempts to bring business to a halt by sabotaging the water supply,
hijacking computer systems or damaging property.

Selfridges, which has a flagship store on London's Oxford Street, has raised
similar concerns.

The companies want the Government to provide cover against these types of
terrorist acts. But insurers are refusing to provide cover at any price because
they say the risk of such action is far greater following September 11.

The companies will meet Ruth Kelly, Economic Secretary to the Treasury. They
will be accompanied by representatives from the Confederation of British
Industry.

The other industry bodies that will attend are the British Retail Consortium,
whose members include Tesco, Dixons and Boots, the British Property Federation
and the Association of British Insurers.

The Government already acts as an insurer of last resort against terrorist
attacks caused by fire or explosion. It set up an insurance company, Pool Re,
following the IRA bomb attack on the City of London's Baltic Exchange in 1992.

After the attack, insurers refused to provide cover for damage in excess of GBP
100,000 caused by terrorist bombs.

The businesses are demanding Pool Re is expanded to cover other types of
terrorist action but the Treasury is reluctant to do so because it could cost
taxpayers billions of pounds.

Many policies expire at the end of the financial year on March 31.

The ABI asked the Treasury to solve the problem by March 1.

That deadline expired on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 March 4, 2002

Terror attack MSP vows to stay open

BYLINE: billdoult

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 463 words


A NORTH-EAST MSP vowed today he would remain "open" to his constituents despite
attempts to maim one of his workers.  Mike Rumbles, Aberdeenshire West and
Kincardine's Liberal Democrat member, insisted he would not allow Scottish
National Liberation Army attackers who sent toxic material through the post, to
destroy the democratic process.

Mr Rumbles' unpaid assistant Margaret Ashcroft received a package claiming to be
aromatherapy oil but containing highly-dangerous vials of caustic soda.

Similar packages were sent to Tony Blair's wife Cherie and several other
parliamentarians.

The SNLA was founded by a Glaswegian former soldier who has already been
imprisoned for previous activities.

Mrs Ashcroft received the package at her home in Banchory and now Scotland
Yard's Anti Terrorist Squad are trying to track down those behind it.

Today Mr Rumbles confirmed that his staff and volunteers were being given
special instructions on handling mail and dealing with visitors to their
constituency offices.

But he insisted that he would not allow such an attack to destroy the open
approach that Scottish politicians pursued with the public.

English-born Mr Rumbles claimed that his office had been targeted because he was
regarded as an interloper.

The MSP said that he was astonished by this racist attack, especially as he had
for years regarded himself as an adopted Scot and his sons and extended family
were all Scottish.

He added those behind the cowardly attacks must not be allowed to succeed.

"We live in an open society and politicians, especially those in the Scottish
Parliament, pride ourselves on being open and approachable to our constituents -
and I'm going to do all I can to ensure that that does not change." Warnings
about the attacks first came on Friday in an anonymous call to a Sunday
newspaper when someone claiming to be from the Scottish National Liberation Army
claimed that 16 packages had been sent out.

The package to Mrs Blair had been intercepted by security measures in London and
some of the other packages were believed to have been thrown away.

Meanwhile, former SNP leader Alex Salmond has criticised the way in which the
postal attack was given publicity through photographs and other details given to
the media.

Alex Salmond was responding to the coverage of the packages containing toxic
substances.

Mr Salmond, leader of the SNP Westminster group, has written to Metropolitan
Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens, asking who took the decision to publish a
photograph of one of the padded envelopes which contained bottles purporting to
hold eucalyptus oil, but containing highly corrosive sodium hydroxide.

He feared those responsible would only feed off the publicity given to their
actions.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 March 4, 2002

Tartan terror warning after toxic mail attacks;
 BLAIR TARGETED: police fear more packages could be in today's post

BYLINE: PA News reporters

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 329 words


POLITICIANS and their staff were today being urged to check their mail amid
fears that further packages containing toxic substances may have been posted by
the so-called "tartan terrorists" responsible for sending them to Cherie Blair
and a Scottish politician's assistant.

The Prime Minister's wife, Cherie, and an assistant of English-born MSP Mike
Rumbles were sent packages containing bottles purporting to hold eucalyptus oil
but containing highly corrosive sodium hydroxide, otherwise known as caustic
soda.

The substance can cause permanent scarring if it comes into contact with skin,
and was sent in padded envelopes by a group, or possibly an individual, calling
themselves the Scottish National Liberation Army (SNLA).

Police have warned members of the public and high profile figures to be wary of
suspicious mail delivered today, after the group claimed a total of16 packages
had been sent when it tipped off the Glasgow office of the News of the World on
Friday.

Two other public figures, reported by the Sunday newspaper to be a government
minister and another MP, have also received suspicious packages, similar to the
first two, which were discarded before police could analyse their contents.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said:

"We have had two confirmed cases and a further two which we are investigating.

"It wasn't publicly known until Friday and I believe that these two last cases
did not emerge at first because the packages were discarded.

"They didn't think it was anything suspicious until they saw the publicity on
Friday. Our inquiries are still continuing. We are advising the public to be
aware but most specifically those who are in political or high-profile posts not
to open anything that seems suspicious."

Anyone coming into contact with the contents of the packages is advised to seek
immediate medical attention, remove any contaminated clothing and place the
affected area under cold running water.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 March 4, 2002

Tartan terror warning after toxic mail attacks;
 BLAIR TARGETED: police fear more packages could be in today's post

BYLINE: PA News reporters

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 329 words


POLITICIANS and their staff were today being urged to check their mail amid
fears that further packages containing toxic substances may have been posted by
the so-called "tartan terrorists" responsible for sending them to Cherie Blair
and a Scottish politician's assistant.

The Prime Minister's wife, Cherie, and an assistant of English-born MSP Mike
Rumbles were sent packages containing bottles purporting to hold eucalyptus oil
but containing highly corrosive sodium hydroxide, otherwise known as caustic
soda.

The substance can cause permanent scarring if it comes into contact with skin,
and was sent in padded envelopes by a group, or possibly an individual, calling
themselves the Scottish National Liberation Army (SNLA).

Police have warned members of the public and high profile figures to be wary of
suspicious mail delivered today, after the group claimed a total of16 packages
had been sent when it tipped off the Glasgow office of the News of the World on
Friday.

Two other public figures, reported by the Sunday newspaper to be a government
minister and another MP, have also received suspicious packages, similar to the
first two, which were discarded before police could analyse their contents.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said:

"We have had two confirmed cases and a further two which we are investigating.

"It wasn't publicly known until Friday and I believe that these two last cases
did not emerge at first because the packages were discarded.

"They didn't think it was anything suspicious until they saw the publicity on
Friday. Our inquiries are still continuing. We are advising the public to be
aware but most specifically those who are in political or high-profile posts not
to open anything that seems suspicious."

Anyone coming into contact with the contents of the packages is advised to seek
immediate medical attention, remove any contaminated clothing and place the
affected area under cold running water.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             March 4, 2002, Monday

STORE BOSS TELLS OF ARSON ATTACK TERROR;
 PETROL CAN FOUND NEAR WRECKED STOCKROOM

BYLINE: Hayley Cuthbertson, Crime Reporter 'LUCKY TO BE ALIVE': Mumtaz Khan says
it will take months to repair the damage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 370 words


A SHOPKEEPER was lucky to escape with his life after arsonists used petrol to
set fire to his store in Coventry.

Mumtaz Khan, who runs the family-owned general store and off-licence at the
corner of Heath Crescent and Gun Lane, in Stoke Heath, was working in the shop
when the fire broke out at about 7.30pm yesterday.

A passer-by managed to lead him to safety through choking smoke, and then
dialled 999 for him.

Today, Mr Khan was back at the shop, which is co-owned with his son Akaz, to
survey the wreckage of the stock and the extensive smoke damage.

He said: "It happened so quickly - less than two minutes and the flames were
everywhere. I am OK, but a bit shaken."

He estimates it will take months to get the shop cleaned and ready for business
again. The storage area where the blaze started is gutted.

The family has owned the business for less than six months, and he said the fire
is a real blow.

But Mr Khan said: "Business comes and goes but your life is the most important
thing. I am very lucky."

Firefighters believe petrol was used to start a blaze in a storage area adjacent
to the shop.

Station Officer Danny Moynihan, from Radford Road fire station, said: "The
storage area was packed with stock for the shop, tyres and clothing, and the
fire took hold very quickly, spreading into the shop itself.

"He is very lucky indeed to have escaped without injury, but his stock has been
destroyed and his livelihood has been put in danger."

He said it appeared that three separate fires had been started. An empty petrol
can was also discovered near the ruins of the storage area.

Extra firefighters had to be called in as reinforcements, with a crew of 20
there at the height of the blaze.

They brought the fire under control within half an hour, but remained until the
early hours today to make the premises safe.

Police are investigating the incident as arson. It is believed some youths were
seen running away shortly before the fire took hold.

Two people were led to safety after a fire took hold in a block of flats in
Willenhall early yesterday.

Arsonists are being blamed for setting fire to three bins in two bin rooms in
Dunsmore Avenue.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             March 5, 2002, Tuesday

CHILDREN HURT IN PLAY AREA ATTACK TERROR SCENES: Palestinian policemen among the
rubble of a building in Bethlehem wrecked by Israeli warplanes, and (inset)
police bomb squad officers search the restaurant in Tel Aviv where three
Israelis were killed and 31 wounded.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 168 words


CLASHES between Israelis and Palestinians threatened to escalate further today
after a night of violence that ended with a suicide bombing, a roadside shooting
and a bomb attack on a school playground.

Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's policy of tough military action to contain
Palestinian extremists appeared to be having little effect, amid widening
Israeli disillusionment with his efforts to win security.

In the central Israeli town of Afula today, a suicide bomber killed himself and
an Israeli when he blew himself up on a bus. Eleven people were wounded.

Earlier, a gunman burst into an all-night Tel Aviv restaurant, firing wildly
with an automatic rifle and stabbing diners with a knife. Three Israelis were
killed and 31 injured before he was shot dead.

In Jerusalem, seven students and a teacher were injured when a bomb went off in
the playground of an Arab secondary school.

A previously unknown group of Jewish extremists is said to have claimed
responsibility.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 5, 2002, Tuesday

HOW TERROR ATTACKS HAVE TAKEN THEIR TOLL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 133 words


THE attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon have cost North East Wales
nearly 400 jobs.

Trefn Engineering at Llay - a big sub-contractor for Airbus - last Christmas
announced it would shed 124 of its 400 strong workforce after pounds 8m in lost
orders. Negotiations and changes in work practices saved about 30 but a further
12 job cuts followed.

Airbus, at Broughton, agreed about 200 job losses - mainly through natural
wastage - and significant work practice changes and overtime ban, to cope with
the downturn in business. On the brighter side the A380 superjumbo which will
create 1,700 jobs is going ahead.

Precision Engineering at Pentre on Deeside this year announced 31 job cuts from
its 128 workforce as a direct result of lost business thanks to September 11.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            March 05, 2002, Tuesday

'She asked me how to stop the plane' US Solicitor General Ted Olson's wife,
Barbara, was the first victim of the September 11 terrorist attacks to be named.
He tells Toby Harnden of her bravery during her final call from the hijacked
plane - and of his determination to fight back

BYLINE: By Toby Harnden

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1746 words

A little over two months after his wife was killed on September 11, Ted Olson,
the Solicitor General of the United States, received a photograph from the US
Air Force. It showed a laser-guided missile before it was launched from a strike
aircraft against a Taliban target in Afghanistan. The name Barbara Olson had
been chalked on the side of the weapon in her memory.

"It looked like a 500lb bomb," says Ted Olson, his grief-racked face creasing
into a smile for the first time in nearly an hour. "She would have liked that.
Barbara was a warrior, so she would have wanted to fight back. And she would
have applauded the people who did go and fight back."

Karl Rove, President Bush's chief political strategist, has described Barbara, a
writer, lawyer and political commentator, as "Ted's departed Spitfire". Apart
from the Clintons, she and her husband were probably America's most combative
couple - he in the courtroom and she on the talk shows, America's 21st-century
court of public opinion. The couple liked to joke that they were at the heart of
what Hillary Clinton - the subject of Barbara's excoriating biography Hell to
Pay - famously described as a "vast, right-wing conspiracy".

Their beautiful colonial-style mansion in Great Falls, Virginia, was the venue
for huge parties at which the conservative intelligentsia would gather. The
Olsons were wine connoisseurs and would often travel to California to replenish
their cellar.

She always drove a Jaguar; he preferred a Mercedes, after years of favouring
Porsches. They shared a love of poetry, Shakespeare and the opera and were keen
collectors of modern art. He named their first Australian Shepherd dog Maggie,
after Lady Thatcher. She called the second one Reagan, after the president her
husband had represented during the Iran-Contra hearings in the 1980s.

They were married in 1996, he for the third time and she for the second, but
they seemed more like high-school sweethearts. Throughout the working day, they
would speak on what they called the "bat phone". Each would turn down dinner
invitations if the other was not included.

Today, Ted looks wretched; his eyes begin to redden and he occasionally wipes
away a tear as he talks. He returned to work six days after September 11 and has
been putting in 80-hour weeks ever since, leaving home each morning at 5.30am.
Among the issues he has championed has been new anti-terrorist legislation.

He has rationalised his wife's death, but still seems unable to accept she is
gone. "You see a blonde woman walking through a crowd, or you see something that
reminds you of that person, the way a person turns their head, or their shoes -
Barbara wore these very flashy, high-heeled shoes - things like that," he says.
"I get reminded of her in scores of ways every day, in something I see or
something that flashes through my mind."

We are sitting in the office of the Solicitor General on the fifth floor of the
Justice Department building in Washington. One wall is lined with leather-bound
volumes of Supreme Court arguments. An ancient, well-thumbed copy of the US
constitution is propped up on Olson's reassuringly untidy desk.

This is the man who argued in the Supreme Court for the winning side in the Bush
versus Gore case that decided the presidential election in 2000. As a result,
Olson's Democratic opponents in the Senate came close to blocking his nomination
as the Bush administration's chief courtroom advocate. Soon, he will be
defending Vice President Dick Cheney's refusal to hand over documents to
Congress as part of the investigation into the Enron scandal, and he will have
to do so without his staunchest ally.

In their 11 years together, the Olsons seemed indivisible, as well as
formidable. "Everybody identified us as 'Barbara and Ted'," he says. "It wasn't
'Ted' and 'Barbara' separately. It was a love affair, and a deep, abiding
friendship. It was a partnership in every sense of the word."

The final time I saw them together was last summer, at a small dinner on Capitol
Hill. Olson had just won his nomination fight and gave us an update on the
partisan struggle that was shaping up in Congress. "We are at war," I remember
him saying, as his wife nodded vigorously in agreement.

A few weeks later, I interviewed Barbara and three other conservative women
about the new mood in Washington. A loose comment of hers - that President Bill
Clinton's late mother had been "a bar-fly" who had allowed herself to be used by
men - was noticed by the Washington Post and Democrats rushed to castigate her
for being cruel and unfeeling. Many people would have blamed the journalist for
misquoting her or tried to wriggle out some other way, but Barbara Olson didn't.

"Barbara's reaction was, 'I did say it'," says Ted. "She would never duck
responsibility. It was a hurtful thing and she wished she hadn't said it. She
thought the right thing to do was to make a forthright, unequivocal, direct
apology, so she did. That's the kind of thing that I respect. She didn't try to
soften it. She would not run away from the consequences of her actions."

It was her last newspaper interview. On September 11, American Airlines Flight
77 plunged into the Pentagon with Barbara Olson on board. It was Ted Olson's
61st birthday that day and Barbara had delayed flying to Los Angeles so they
could celebrate over dinner the night before.

That morning, a nightmare began to unfold in the room where we are now sitting.
"Someone rushed in and told me what had happened. I went into the other room,
where there's a television," Olson says. "It went through my mind, 'My God,
maybe - Barbara's on an airplane, and two airplanes have been crashed', you
know."

Then his secretary told him that Barbara was on the line. "My first reaction
when I heard she was on the phone was relief, because I knew that she wasn't on
one of those two airplanes." But Barbara then explained calmly that she had been
herded to the back of the Boeing 757 she was on, along with the other
passengers.

"She had had trouble getting through, because she wasn't using her cellphone,
she was using the phone in the passengers' seats," says Olson. "I guess she
didn't have her purse, because she was calling collect, and she was trying to
get through to the Department of Justice, which is never very easy."

He was able to tell her about the World Trade Centre attacks before the line
went dead, then he called his departmental command centre to let them know
another plane had been hijacked. The phone rang again and it was Barbara.

"She wanted to know, 'What can I tell the pilot? What can I do? How can I stop
this?' I tried to find out where she thought she was - I wanted to know where
the airplane was and what direction it was going in, because I thought that was
the first step to being able to do something.

"We both tried to reassure one another that everything was going to be OK, she
was still alive, the plane was still up in the air. But I think she knew that it
wasn't going to be OK and I knew it wasn't going to be OK."

They were able to have "personal exchanges", he says, before they were cut off
in mid-conversation. "It just stopped. It could be the impact, although I think
she would have There's no point in speculating."

As soon as he heard a plane had crashed at the Pentagon, he says, "I knew it was
her". Olson's voice, which his wife once described as a "rich, rumbling, sort of
makes-your-ribs-vibrate" sound, begins to scratch like tired feet wading through
gravel. It drops to a whisper and he fetches a glass of water.

He returns and explains that his wife's last moments were typical of her. "It
was a deeply embedded part of Barbara's character that she would not have stood
by and done nothing. She was engaged in living. She would not accept that things
could be done to her without her doing something about it. She was passionate.
She was brave. She was involved."

He remained in the office for several hours, telephoning friends and family to
let them know Barbara was dead. "There was no point in trying to go home," he
says. "The streets were jammed with people trying to move, and no one was
moving. So I stayed here until about two o'clock."

Soon, Barbara Olson became the first victim of the attacks to be named on
television. She was also the most famous person to die that day.

That afternoon, friends began to gather at the Olsons' house. Ken Starr, the
independent counsel who nearly removed president Bill Clinton from office,
manned the telephone. Among those who rang to offer their condolences were the
two busiest men in America - Mr Bush, who called from Air Force One, and Mayor
Rudolph Giuliani of New York.

Finally, at 1am, Olson went upstairs to bed. On his pillow he found a note his
wife had left less than 20 hours earlier. "I love you," it said. "When you read
this, I will be thinking of you and I will be back on Friday."

Olson compares her defiance at the end of her life with that of the heroes of
Flight 93, which crashed in Pennsylvania. "Barbara didn't have as much warning,
and I don't think she had as many resources," he says. "But it would have been
entirely within her character to take action herself."

By killing Barbara Olson, the terrorists incurred the wrath of America, from the
White House to the scores of thousands of ordinary people who turned her
posthumously published The Final Days, about the controversial end of the
Clinton presidency, into a best-seller.

During a recent visit to Florida, when Mr Bush was asked by schoolchildren in
Orlando how he had felt on September 11, he told them: "I knew that when I got
all of the facts that we were under attack, there would be hell to pay for
attacking America." His use of the title of Barbara Olson's first book was no
accident.

"9/11 has stiffened the resolve of people in this country, and Barbara was
quintessentially American," says Olson. "She was Texan. She was a ballet dancer.
She worked in the movie industry. She went to a Catholic college and to a Jewish
law school. She was a lawyer. She worked as a government investigator,
best-selling author, television commentator. And she was only 45. She was
successful because of something about the culture of this country."

Suddenly, the Solicitor General, who has been slumped in his chair, sits bolt
upright. "We are going to fight back," he says, deliberately. "We are not going
to quit. We are not going to stop. We are not going to forget."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 5, 2002

Suicide gun attack avenges killing of terror chief 's family

BYLINE: Matthew Kalman

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 533 words


A SUICIDE gunman launched a revenge attack in a Tel Aviv restaurant early today.

He shot dead three people and wounded 16 after a day in which the Israelis
killed the wife and three children of a Palestinian terror chief.

The gunman was shot and killed by a policeman after launching his raid with an
M-16 rifle on an all-night restaurant called Mifgash Hastek on a main street in
Tel Aviv.

Police commander Yossi Sedbon said: 'He also apparently tried to throw a
grenade, but it did not explode.' Israel had earlier been warned to expect
revenge attacks after at least 19 Palestinians died in Israeli strikes on the
West Bank and Gaza.

Warplanes also targeted Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's headquarters in
Bethlehem, but there were no casualties. Israeli prime minister Ariel Sharon
ordered his army to step up pressure after a weekend of attacks by Palestinians
left 22 Israelis dead.

Yesterday an Israeli tank shell hit a car, killing the wife and three children
of Hussein Abu Kweik, a leader of the Hamas terror organisation.

Bushra Abu Kweik, 38, her daughters aged 14 and 13 and ten-year-old son were
pulled from the wreckage but doctors were unable to save them.

Two children travelling in a nearby car were also killed.

Israel apologised for what it said was a 'mistake', but Abu Kweik said his
family had been martyred.

He added: 'Despite the catastrophe I say to Sharon and to his filthy gang that
our determination will not be weakened and we will keep steadfast in our land.'
Palestinian officials said the Israelis were trying to assassinate Abu Kweik,
and Hamas spiritual leader Sheikh Ahmed Yassin vowed revenge for the incident.

'It is a Zionist crime,' he said.

'Israel shoulders the responsibility and will pay a heavy price for its
aggression.' Israeli defence minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer expressed 'regret
over the loss of civilian Palestinian lives as a result of Israeli tank fire'.

He added: 'The shooting was directed at a vehicle carrying armed Palestinians.
An adjacent vehicle carrying civilians was hit by mistake.

'It is the principled policy of the Israeli Defence Force and the security
forces not to hit innocent civilians.' In another incident, a Palestinian doctor
was killed when Israeli troops opened fire on an ambulance. The director of the
Red Crescent in Jenin, Dr Saliman Halil, died when troops at a roadblock shot at
the ambulance in which he was travelling to treat gunshot victims.

The army said the soldiers opened fire when the ambulance tried to run them
over.

The soldiers also said that there was an explosion after they shot at the
vehicle, and one soldier was wounded.

Israel says Palestinian ambulances have sometimes been used to carry Molotov
cocktails, weapons and suicide bombers and must be searched at roadblocks.

The spiralling violence yesterday, with strikes in Ramallah, Jenin and the Gaza
Strip town of Rafah, came as Israel responded to a weekend of attacks on
soldiers and civilians.

Mr Sharon said Israeli troops would carry out further raids on Palestinian
refugee camps as part of a plan for 'continuous military pressure' on the
Palestinian Authority.


LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 6, 2002

In brief: US terror attack dogs honoured

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 47 words


Britain's animal VCs were yesterday presented to two guide dogs who led their
owners to safety after the terrorist attack on the World Trade Centre in New
York and a search and rescue dog representing the 300 who searched the debris.
The PDSA ceremony was near the site.


LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 7, 2002

PASSENGERS FACE PAYING FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS; FLIGHT PRICES ARE SET TO SOAR

BYLINE: By Victoria Fletcher Consumer Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 381 words


PASSENGERS could be forced to foot a multi-million pound bill to revamp
Britain's key airports after the September 11 terrorist attacks in the US.

Airlines may raise ticket prices as a way of passing on the cost for
improvements to airport shopping centres and departure lounges.

The British Airports Authority, which runs Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted, has
been hit badly by the fall-off in passenger numbers since the attacks.

Yesterday the Civil Aviation Authority recommended that extra money could be
raised by getting airlines to pay more to land and park their planes.

But this sum could be passed on to customers when it is introduced in April next
year, with some ticket prices rising by GBP 2. The plan has angered airlines. A
spokesman for British Airways said: "We believe these charges are very high and
are over-generous to the company that operates the airports. We cannot rule out
that this fee will not be passed on to customers but we may try and absorb some
of the costs ourselves."

Virgin said: "BAA will just build more shops at airports and we shall have no
choice but to pass on the airport charge increases to our passengers."

For the BAA, fewer passengers has meant that less is spent in airport shops.
Airlines have also paid less in landing fees because they are charged on the
number of passengers.

The CAA believes airlines could pay more towards the upkeep of airports. "These
costs would help to encourage airports to invest in facilities and make them a
better airport for passengers to use, " said a spokesman. As a result of the
terror attacks, he said the CAA had to revise its costs, which could "either
rise or fall before next April depending on how well passenger numbers recover".

It is thought the increase might help to fund the GBP 2.5billion phase one of
Terminal 5 at Heathrow.

Airlines using Heathrow already pay far less than carriers at major competitor
airports such as Amsterdam, Frankfurt and Charles de Gaulle in Paris.

Charges at Heathrow would rise by GBP 2 a passenger, by GBP 1 at Gatwick and by
GBP 1.70 at Stansted.

Prices at Manchester would stay the same.

With more than 100 million passengers passing through these airports, the BAA
would raise an extra GBP 180million a year.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 March 7, 2002

Afghan rebels regroup
US INTELLIGENCE has detected al-Qaida operatives communicating with one another
in Pakistan, with an eye toward as they regroup for terrorist attacks against
Western interests in Afghanistan and elsewhere, say American

BYLINE: by Dixon Phil (Sentinel)

SECTION: AGENCY:PA:OTHER, Pg.4

LENGTH: 308 words


Afghan rebels regroup

US INTELLIGENCE has detected al-Qaida operatives communicating with one another
in Pakistan, as they regroup for terrorist attacks against Western interests ,
say American officials.

These operatives, and some Taliban allies, are operating in small groups on the
Pakistani side of the Pakistan-Afghan border.

They probably number in the hundreds, the official said, speaking on condition
of anonymity.

Many fled the US bombing but are planning to regroup.

"Its unclear who might be leading the effort," the official said. A number of
senior al-Qaida and Taliban leaders, including Osama bin Laden and Mullah Omar,
remain at large.

Unidentified government officials hinted that news of al-Qaidas regrouping in
Pakistan came from intercepted e -mails and other Internet traffic.

Attorney General John Ashcroft declined to discuss the e-mails during a news
conference.

"I can just say that we use every tool and weapon in our arsenal to disrupt them
and to learn about and prevent terrorist attacks and the activities of our
enemies," he said.

Meanwhile, fighting raged for a fifth day as the United States deployed hundreds
of reinforcements and gathered 5,000 Afghan troops for an offensive aimed at
finishing off al-Qaida.

The US-led coalition mounted punishing, round -the-clock airstrikes yesterday
above the rugged terrain in eastern Afghanistan and some US officers predicted
the operation could be wrapped up in days.

In Kabul, five peacekeepers two Germans and three Danes were killed in an
explosion while trying to defuse anti-aircraft missiles.

The Pentagon said opposition fighters were still putting up stiff resistance
after five days of battle, some of it above 10,000 feet in snow-covered
mountains.

As fighter jets and bombers hit targets, more attack helicopters were called in.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2002 The Sentinel

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            March 9, 2002, Saturday

ARENA TOWER TO SHRINK AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Paul Dale

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 535 words


Developers are poised to sign an agreement to build the main phase of the pounds
450 million Arena Central offices and leisure development in the centre of
Birmingham.

But the project, first unveiled two years ago as one of Britain's tallest
buildings, is likely to shrink in size.

Miller Developments, the construction company behind the scheme, say the
September 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York made tall
buildings less marketable.

Precise details of what the Arena Central tower will now look like are expected
to be released by Birmingham City Council at the MIPIM property fair in Cannes
next week.

The complex, to be built on a 14-acre site next to the former Central TV studios
in Broad Street, was to have reached more than 700 feet, with 50 storeys, a
hotel and rooftop restaurant. It would have been the second tallest building in
the UK - second only to a planned new skyscraper in London.

Paul Spooner, director of economic development for Birmingham, said the new
-look Arena Central would be a 'stunning, iconic building', but would probably
not dominate the skyline.

Mr Spooner said: 'The initial reaction after September 11 was that tall
buildings around the world could be vulnerable to terrorist attack.

'I am not saying the tower will not be part of the planned development, but it
is unlikely to be part of it. It will be a serious landmark building designed
for specific occupiers. It will create business and new jobs for Birmingham.'

Mr Spooner has played a leading role in a council-led thinktank on tall
buildings since last year's terrorist attacks. The group, advised by American
experts, is rethinking proposals to develop a Chicago-style skyline in
Birmingham.

The decision to reduce the height of Arena Central is likely to have
implications for the planned redevelopment of Paradise Circus, where the council
said it wanted to build towering skyscrapers. 'We would like to develop
Birmingham's skyline, but it is no longer a question of the height of the
building, but the quality of accommodation provided,' Mr Spooner said.

'The market has moved on since the plans were unveiled two years ago and
Miller's are set to come up with a scheme that fits today's market.

'We are going for a smaller building which will allow existing companies to
expand and new companies to develop.

'We are hoping to attract major financial and business service companies to the
city, something Birmingham is already well known for.'

Plans two years ago envisaged the tower topped by a telecommunications mast
making the building 232 metres high.

Martin Field, managing director for Arena Central at Hampton Trust, the
promoter, said: 'The World Trade Centre had huge implications for development
and we have been thinking those through.

'The building will be iconic, but in design rather than height.'

Mr Field said it was impossible to be certain, even if developers and the
council signed an agreement to build Arena Central, what the finished product
would look like.

The design of the tower could not be finalised until the Government reached a
decision on future planning regulations for tall buildings.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 9, 2002, Saturday

END OF A DREAM;
 TERROR ATTACKS END PLANS FOR 50-STOREY SUPERTOWER ARTIST'S IMPRESSION How the
new building might have looked if the tower block plan had gone ahead; IMPACT: A
hijackled plane slams into the; Pentagon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 301 words


PLANS to build one of Britain's tallest towers in the centre of Birmingham have
been shelved amid fears it could be a target for terrorism, it was revealed
today.

Proposals for the 50-storey skyscraper, known as Arena Central, were revealed
two years ago, but since September 11 planners have thought again about the
multi-million pound project.

The 800ft tower, due to be built on a 7.5 acre site near the city's Centenary
Square, would have been among the tallest buildings in the UK - second to a
planned new skyscraper in London.

Birmingham City Council, private partners Hampton Trust and Miller Developments,
are still proposing to build on the city centre site but it will be a smaller
development costing pounds 450 million. The city council's head of economic
development, Paul Spooner, said: 'The initial reaction after September 11 was
that tall buildings around the world could be vulnerable to terrorist attack,'
he said.

'I'm not saying the tower will not be part of the planned development, but it's
unlikely to be part of it.

'We'd like to develop Birmingham's skyline, but it's no longer a question of the
height of the building, but the quality of accommodation provided.

'Initial plans for a grand development always look good on paper but they are
sometimes difficult to deliver. The market has moved on since the plans were
unveiled two years ago and Miller's are set to come up with a scheme that fits
today's market.'

Martin Field, managing director for Arena Central at Hampton Trust, the
promoter, said: 'The building will be iconic, but in design rather than height.'

He added that architects and developers in the UK were rethinking building
design after the September 11 attacks. The aim now was to provide a multiplicity
of escape routes.'

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 9, 2002, Saturday

AIR TRAVEL RECOVERS FROM TERROR ATTACKS ON US

BYLINE: Michael Harrison

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 287 words


AIR TRAVEL has recovered from the effects of 11 September according to figures
released yesterday showing that passenger numbers through BAA's seven UK
airports rose fractionally in February.

This is the first time that traffic levels have risen in the past six months and
demonstrates that the airline industry has recovered a lot more quickly from the
terrorist attacks on the US than it did from the Gulf war in 1991. Then, it took
10 months for passenger numbers to start to grow again.

The recovery in traffic is largely due to the rapid growth of the no- frills
airlines and heavy price-cutting on long-haul routes by full-service airlines,
particularly on North Atlantic services.

BAA said that it handled a total of 8.2 million passengers in February - a 0.3
per cent rise on the same month a year earlier. After the start of the Gulf war
in January, 1991, it took until the following October for traffic levels to
begin to rise again.

One of the biggest increases last month was recorded at Stansted, home to three
budget airlines, where passenger numbers rose by 16 per cent compared with
February, 2001.

Domestic passenger numbers grew by 3.4 per cent and short-haul European traffic
was up by 0.5 per cent. Although traffic on the North Atlantic was down by 7.7
per cent, this was a huge improvement on the 31 per cent decline experienced
last October, the first full month after the attacks. Other long-haul traffic
was down by 1.4 per cent, compared with a decline of 16 per cent last October.

The biggest area of growth last month was on routes from the UK to Ireland where
a fare war and the launch of additional services helped produce a 14.6 per cent
increase in passengers.

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 March 9, 2002

A day of tribute to victims of the terror Sentinel Reporter
AMERICA is preparing for a day of emotion on Monday as it marks six months since
the September 11 terror attacks.
US President George W Bush is to lead the nation in remembrance on Monday as

BYLINE: by Gregory Jackie (Sentinel)

SECTION: AGENCY:PA:NEWS, Pg.4

LENGTH: 378 words


A day of tribute to victims of the terror

BY Sentinel Reporter

AMERICA is preparing for a day of emotion on Monday as it marks six months since
the September 11 terror attacks.

US President George W Bush is to lead the nation in remembrance on Monday as it
pays tribute to the more than 3,000 victims of the September 11 attacks.

And at the site of the World Trade Centre, a poignant ceremony will see the
first memorial to the 2,830 who died at the twin towers inaugurated six months
to the minute since the first hijacked plane struck.

New York mayor Michael Bloomberg will lead the

service of commemoration which will be attended by many of those who lost

oved ones in the attack

and will include a moment

of reflection at 8.45 am local time (1.45 pm GMT), the minute the first hijacked
plane struck.

The new memorial uses the remains of a massive sculpture which once stood in the
plaza between the twin towers.

The Sphere, by sculptor Fritz Koenig, was a steel and bronze monument aimed at
fostering world peace, which miraculously survived the collapse.

Although it was left with a gash in its centre, it was structurally intact and
has now been relocated to Battery Park, just south of the site of the twin
towers.

It will be unveiled during the multi-denominational service on a new plinth and
is the first permanent memorial to the dead.

And at dusk on Monday, twin lights which mark the place where the towers used to
stand by projecting a beam into the sky, will be officially switched on.

They will shine over Manhattan until mid-April, shortly before the clean-up of
the World Trade Centre is due to be completed.

Workers have reached bedrock on much of the site and have finally started
tackling the six-storey debris pile that marks the bottom of the south tower,
the second to be hit and the first to collapse.

Already four police officers bodies have been found and recovery workers expect
many more human remains to be found in it, although it is still believed that up
to 2,000 families will never be given back the body of their loved ones.

In Washington, Mr Bush will host more than 1,300 people on the South Lawn of the
White House at a ceremony beginning at 9.45am, the same time as a hijacked plane
hit the Pentagon.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2002 The Sentinel

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 March 9, 2002

A day of tribute to Sept 11 victims Sentinel Reporter
AMERICA is preparing for a day of emotion on Monday as it marks six months since
the September 11 terror attacks.
US President George W Bush is to lead the nation in remembrance on Monday as it

BYLINE: by Gregory Jackie (Sentinel)

SECTION: AGENCY:PA:NEWS, Pg.4

LENGTH: 374 words


A day of tribute to Sept 11 victims

BY Sentinel Reporter

AMERICA is preparing for a day of emotion on Monday as it marks six months since
the September 11 terror attacks.

US President George W Bush is to lead the nation in remembrance on Monday as it
pays tribute to the more than 3,000 victims of the September 11 attacks.

And at the site of the World Trade Center, a poignant ceremony will see the
first memorial to the 2,830 who died at the twin towers inaugurated six months
to the minute since the first hijacked plane struck.

New York mayor Michael Bloomberg will lead the

service of commemoration which will be attended by many of those who lost

oved ones in the attack

and will include a moment

of reflection at 8.45 am local time (1.45 pm GMT), the minute the first hijacked
plane struck.

The new memorial uses the remains of a massive sculpture which once stood in the
plaza between the twin towers.

Meanwhile two British families have told how their grief is still raw six months
after they lost loved ones in the terror attacks.

Graham Berkeley and Richard Dawson both became victims of terrorism on September
11. Their parents were preparing to mark six months since their deaths in
private and told how they were still haunted by their loss.

Grahams parents Charles and Pauline Berkeley said the loss of their son, an IT
consultant who was on board the second hijacked plane to be flown into the World
Trade Center, still haunts them.

Mrs Berkeley, of Crocus Drive, Sutton Park, Shrewsbury, said: It hasnt got any
easier as time goes on. We will never forget it.

Helen Dawson, whose son Richard was taking part in a technology conference on
the 106th floor of the second tower to be hit while on a business trip to New
York, said the pain has not faded.

We are coping, getting on with our lives. We still think about him all the time,
said the 51-year-old bank worker from Southampton, where her son also worked as
a product manager for communications giant Thales Contact Solutions.

As with the majority of the World Trade Center victims, his body has not been
recovered.

When we went to Ground Zero for the memorial service, we found it very helpful
in terms of mourning Graham, said Mrs Berkeley.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2002 The Sentinel

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            March 9, 2002, Saturday

THE DAY THE WORLD CHANGED - FOR A WHILE;
 SEPTEMBER 11 MARKED THE WORST TERRORIST ATTACK IN HISTORY AND LEFT THE WEST IN
FEAR AND DREAD AND THE URGE TO CARRY ON AS IF NOTHING HAPPENED

BYLINE: Rhodri Clark

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 2524 words


SIX months ago the world looked on in horror as four passenger airliners were
hijacked by terrorists and deliberately crashed in America, causing thousands of
deaths and bringing down the World Trade Center in New York.

The events of that dark day, we were told repeatedly, would alter the lives of
people across the world.

Civil aviation entered the biggest crisis in its history, with thousands of
workers losing their jobs and the collapse of some long-established carriers.

The tone of political debate changed.

Priority switched from domestic issues in Britain and the US to the urgent task
of rooting out the terrorist threat, through consensus instead of conflict and
contradiction.

Perhaps the most pervasive outcome of the attacks on September 11 was the fear
they engendered among people across the US and Europe.

If terrorists had managed to outwit the FBI and other security regimes, what
were the chances they could do the same - with or without the use of airliners -
elsewhere?

Bio-terrorism was highlighted as a likely weapon in the terrorists' arsenal, and
the rash of real and fake anthrax powder sent in sinister packages through the
ordinary postal service heightened concerns that terrorists were gaining the
upper hand.

But many of the changes in our lives after September 11 have proved to be short
-lived.

Millions of people are now booking their holiday flights as usual, without a
thought for the possibility of hijack or suicide bombing. The threatened
economic meltdown has yet to take hold.

The war against Osama bin Laden and his comrades in Afghanistan has fallen off
the mainstream news agenda in Britain for days on end. In Westminster the
politicians have been trading blows over the health service, the euro, and
Labour's spin-doctors.

People no longer tremble as they take the lifts to offices in skyscrapers or the
escalators down to underground metro stations.

The fear of biochemical attacks has receded with the end of the US anthrax
attacks and the likelihood that the packages were unconnected with the September
11 attacks.

Superficially, the world may not appear to have changed substantially. But
perhaps we are wrong not to be afraid.

The conflict between India and Pakistan continues to worsen, increasing the
threat of a nuclear attack.

The global terrorist network which pulled off the attacks last September may not
have been as dependent on the Taleban and AlQaeda as was claimed last autumn.

Other extremists may be waiting in the wings for states to relax their guard.

Although the ugly events of September 11 may seem a fairly distant memory by
now, it is still too early to judge whether that day really did change the world
forever.

The Air Industry

FOR the general masses, the most tangible knock-on effect from the attacks on
September 11 occurred in air travel.

For the people who continued to travel after the attacks, airport security
became noticeably tighter with longer check-in times.

The horrifying pictures of airliners crashing into the twin towers in New York
deterred so many from flying that civil aviation was plunged into crisis. Within
a week, Seattle-based aircraft maker Boeing announced up to 30,000 job losses.

Wales was not immune from the effects of the crisis. British Airways announced a
massive scaling back of its activities, with reduced maintenance requirements at
its facilities in South Wales.

Airbus's A380 superjumbo, currently in development, also suffered a setback as
airlines reconsidered their future fleet requirements.

In Flintshire, recruitment of extra workers to build the A380 wings was scaled
down.

There is no doubt that civil aviation will never be the same again. But the
attacks of September 11 were probably the straw that broke the camel's back - or
even a flimsy excuse in some cases - rather than the cause of the industry's
troubles.

Many observers believe Boeing could not have decided on such far-reaching
restructuring in so short a time - which was on the cards anyway because of
inevitable changes in the airliner market.

The two US airlines whose planes were hijacked on September 11 laid off workers
in the autumn and have now restored their schedules - but not their workforces -
to approximately their original levels.

Similarly, the terror attacks probably only hastened the demise of the Belgian
and Swiss national airlines at a time when flagcarriers are looking increasingly
anachronistic in a world dominated by global business.

Many important markets - such as the growth areas of Asia - saw little or no
impact on business, and budget airlines flying out of British airports have seen
their revenue increase since the terrorist attacks.

The present turmoil in aviation is largely the product of an inevitable
collision between outmoded business practices and harsh new realities.

That turmoil may last for years to come, and until it ends it may be difficult
for anyone to make an objective assessment of the true influence of September 11
on civil aviation.

Tourism

AS if to demonstrate the truth of the old adage "Every cloud has a silver
lining", the events of September 11 have created new opportunities in tourism.

Ground Zero, the site of the wreckage in New York, has become a "must see" for
visitors.

In Wales many tourism operators noticed a surge in bookings last autumn,
indicating that 2002 could be a bumper year.

People who would previously have flown hundreds of thousands of miles for a long
weekend were now looking at places they could reach without the hassle of
tighter airport security or the fear of hijacking.

The other side of the coin for British tourism is the simultaneous loss of
American holidaymakers.

For Wales, however, the exchange is generating a net gain because American
tourists were generally more interested in London and Stratford-upon-Avon than
in Cardiff or Snowdonia.

But since consumers are regaining their confidence in long-haul air travel, any
bonanza for Welsh tourism is unlikely to last long.

"Make hay while the sun shines" is perhaps another saying our tourism industry
ought to bear in mind.

Pacifism

THE shattered remains of the World Trade Centre horrified pacifists and
reinforced their belief that violence succeeds only in breeding more violence.

Opposition to the American bombing of Afghanistan was growing into a significant
movement when the Taleban regime collapsed, the television camera crews went
elsewhere and public anger subsided.

For a while after the US attacks there was an uneasy peace in the Middle East,
as the Palestinian and Israeli leaders waited to see how the world's political
map had changed.

But today the violence in the region is as bad as ever.

Last month the hands of the Doomsday Clock were moved forward for the first time
in four years.

The symbolic clock was created by scientists at the University of Chicago in
1947 and reflects the perceived risk of humanity being wiped out by nuclear war.

The decision to advance the hands by two minutes reflects an assessment that the
risk is greater now than 20 years ago.

Among the new risks are the stand-off between India and Pakistan, both of which
have nuclear weapons, and President Bush's decision to abandon the anti
-ballistic missile treaty, which was seen as keeping check on the former USSR's
nuclear arsenal.

Whether the fragile relationship between India and Pakistan has been worsened by
the terrorist attacks and its fallout is debatable.

The Pakistani leadership has risked alienating its own people by its pro
-western actions, a stance which if anything ought to have endeared it to
India's leaders.

Despite the strenuous efforts of the alliance against terrorism since September
11, world peace still seems a long way off.

America

PRESIDENT George W Bush underwent a dramatic transformation after the attacks.

Previously he seemed to be going out of his way to antagonise other countries.

In his first few months in office he managed to tear up the anti-ballistic
missile treaty and withdraw the US from the Kyoto agreement on climate change.

He woke a different man from the nightmare of September 11.

Instead of rushing into reprisals, as many feared, he took his time to gain the
support of countries across the world.

He capitalised on sympathy for the US to build a strong coalition in favour of
rooting out Al-Qaeda.

That coalition remains strong, with armed forces from numerous countries
involved in last week's encircling of mountain strongholds in eastern
Afghanistan.

President Bush's domestic popularity soared after September 11, washing away
predictions that his controversial election win would hamper his presidency.

But many of his new friends abroad may be dismayed that Bush seems to have
reverted to his original form with his decision last week to impose tariffs on
imported steel.

Terrorism and trade are like chalk and cheese, but the goodwill which cements
the coalition against terror cannot be taken for granted.

Tony Blair

PRIME Minister Tony Blair rushed into believing that world politics were changed
forever by the events of September 11.

He embarked on a tour of foreign countries whose support was needed for the war
on terror, and for a while his tireless work for the cause looked impressive
indeed.

But he seemed not to notice when domestic politics returned to the fore.

While he continued to make foreign visits, opposition MPs and opposition
newspapers demanded to know why he was not taking control of pressing issues
like hospitals and railways.

Terrorism

CAN a single act of terrorism change the nature of terrorism? The answer is
probably yes, especially if that act is on such a scale as the horrendous
attacks of September 11.

Security systems around the world have been tightened in response to the
atrocities.

Airports have been fortified - although some alarming lapses have been uncovered
- and intelligence is flowing between security agencies around the world in
response to the organisations involved in the US attacks.

Arrests by police in various European countries have sent out the message that
there is nowhere for terrorists to hide.

Terrorists, however, are locked in an arms race with the security authorities.

They are guaranteed to find ways around the latest barriers.

Suicide attacks - against which it is exceptionally difficult to guard - have
shifted from being a method of last resort to a mainstream tactic, as
Palestinian attacks have demonstrated in recent months.

The deaths of the hijackers on September 11 may even have glorified this option.

Although the threat of biochemical terrorism is understood and half expected,
systems to prevent it may be under-developed because it has been used so rarely.

That was demonstrated by the ease with which an anthrax mailer was able to kill
people in the US when fear of terrorism was at its height last autumn.

While so many eyes are focused on airport security, terrorists may be studying
the potential of germs and other tactics.

They are just as determined to stay ahead of the game as the security services
are.

tacks of September 11 - were finally dashed when both parties tried to make
political capital from the case of a woman who was left unwashed after being
admitted to hospital.

The Economy

TALK of World War III after the atrocities on September 11 was expected to have
had a profound impact on the global economy.

The US economy was decelerating before the attacks and it was predicted that
consumers there and in Europe would lack the confidence to spend money on
anything but the essentials.

The biggest setback so far, though, has been unconnected with the terrorist
attacks.

The massive American energy corporation Enron went into bankruptcy in December,
raising questions about the role of company directors and their auditors.

In Britain the pound has remained largely unchanged against the euro, house
prices are buoyant after the odd wobble and Christmas passed in the usual orgy
of consumerism.

Perhaps this illustrates the difficulty of economic forecasting after a massive
and unprecedented event.

The expected negative pressures may have been counterbalanced by a surge of
patriotism or self-belief in the US, and wars are guaranteed to create
employment.

Q&A Iraq

QWhat's up with Iraq these days then?

AHaven't you heard? Saddam is holding up the western end of the axis of evil.

Iran's in the middle and North Korea's perched at the eastern end.

QSounds a bit belligerent, a phrase like that.

AEspecially when it's coming from President George W Bush.

QOh, right. Dubya wants to pick a fight then does he?

ASeems so. This dates back to 1998 when the United Nations weapons inspectors
pulled out of Iraq. They'd been there in the years after the Gulf War making
sure Saddam was breaking up his weapons of mass destruction.

QAnd now the American President thinks Saddam has been very naughty?

AAnd if he doesn't let the weapons inspectors in again, there will be big
trouble.

QSo President Bush is going to finish what his dad didn't?

A. Under the somewhat flawed logic that Iraq was culpable regarding September
11, the President and the hawks in his Government think the US public are in the
mood.

QAnd are they right?

AProbably. But few in Europe are keen, principally because there's no published
evidence that shows even a tenuous link between Saddam and the events in New
York and Washington.

QBut never let the facts get in the way of a good war.

AQuite.

QSo what's on the agenda next?

APressure at the UN from the United States to build a context, if not a pretext,
for action against Iraq. In Britain we can expect a slow-burn of stories and
debates softening us up for participation.

QWill it work?

AConspiracy theorists say Labour MPs are getting a free vote on fox hunting to
give them a taste for blood and to put them in the mood to back the Prime
Minister in any debate for military action against Iraq.

QAre they so easily bought?

ADoubt it. But if there's going to be a war then, right or wrong, Parliament
traditionally supports our boys.

QAnd if MPs don't?

AWell, unpatriotic will be the politest word that will be used by Government
spin doctors against miscreants.

QAnd what does Saddam think?

AHe's only going to be relevant if the US decides action is not a foregone
conclusion. But a team of Iraqi diplomats are at the UN asking questions about
what exactly the US would regard as compliance with inspections.

QAnd presumably they'll say something about the millions of ordinary Iraqis who
have died following Western sanctions imposed since the Gulf War a decade ago?

APresumably. And no one will listen as usual, except maybe to say that all
Saddam has to do is give up power and go and live a hermit's life in the desert.

Do Say: Get Jo Moore back so she can get ready to bury some more bad news.

Don't Say: Dubya or quits?

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STORM BEFORE THE STROLL: Two remarkably contrasting pictures of; Park
Row in downtown Manhattan which encapsulate the horrific devastation of
September 11 after the collapse of the Twin Towers and the relative calm which
has returned to New York six months after the terrorist attacks which claimed
thousands of innocent lives TRANSFORMATION: George Bush WORLD TOUR:; Tony Blair
IMPACT: These recently-released pictures from a Pentagon surveillance camera
shows the building before the plane crashed into it and seconds later the
fireball

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             March 11, 2002, Monday

TERROR ATTACKS - SIX MONTHS ON: SEPTEMBER 11 - WAS IT THE DAY THAT CHANGED OUR
LIVES?

BYLINE: Noreen Barr

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32,33

LENGTH: 1032 words

HIGHLIGHT: THEN: crowds flee along Park Row in New York, chased by a cloud of
dust and debris from the collapse of one of the World Trade Centre towers;; NOW:
pedestrians walk on Park Row near the site of the World Trade Centre;;
DEVASTATION: smoke billows from the two World Trade Centre towers after hijacked
aeroplanes crashed into each tower, in New York on September 11,; 2001; STRIKE:
the Pentagon - headquarters of the US defence forces - in; Washington, DC, was
also attacked; GROUND ZERO: lower Manhattan, where the; Twin Towers once stood;
TRAGEDY: firefighters carry the flag-draped remains of a victim from the debris


At the time it appeared that no one could question the long term impact of
September 11 on worldwide economics and politics. But what has been the lasting
emotional effect? NOREEN BARR looks at some of the powerful images of the
terrorist attacks and assesses how they have changed our outlook.
  THE day that two hijacked passenger planes plunged into the World Trade Centre
in New York is imprinted on our memory.

On September 11, it seemed as though the world had stopped. Around the world,
people watched their television screens in horror as the Twin Towers exploded
into flames, as people jumped from high windows in a desperate bid to survive,
as the towers collapsed.

Six months on, the cries of 'Oh, my God!' still echo in our heads. The scenes of
near apocalyptic devastation in the aftermath of the attack, when the towers
were reduced to dust, cannot be forgotten.

In all, 2,937 people died in the terror strikes in America that shook us to our
core. Some 225 of them died when another airliner, filled with jet fuel, slammed
into the Pentagon.

At the time, it was hard to believe that these atrocities had really happened.
The headlines told us September 11 was a day that changed the world.

Today, the fires have been extinguished and the choking dust has gone.

The place where the Twin Towers stood is a gaping hole in the horizon and Ground
Zero has taken on the appearance of an orderly building site - with workers in
orange jackets directing construction traffic, cranes moving steel beams, skips
filling with debris.

But the pictures of what happened there have lost none of their power to
horrify.

Ron Bracey, a clinical psychologist in West Sussex who specialises in social
anxiety, says: "Unlike lots of other events that have happened, I don't think
people have become habituated to seeing pictures of the Twin Towers being hit by
the aircraft.

"People are habituated to pictures of violence but this is completely different.
It's almost unbelievable. It's beyond comprehension that things like that could
intrude into ordinary people's lives so dramatically, so easily and so
catastrophically."

The events of September 11, he says, remain shocking partly because the people
who died in the twin towers were office workers doing their jobs.

"I think people empathise with that. All these people were trying to do was
work. They weren't trained soldiers, they weren't prepared to chase danger.

"What they were doing was ordinary, mundane - just go to work and earn money and
enjoy life. Then, out of the blue, literally, this happened."

The rest of us have been left with a feeling of, "There, but for the grace of
God go I", Bracey believes: "What these pictures represent is that ultimate kind
of sense that we are mortal and can be compromised at any time."

This realisation has changed many people's outlook on life. Post-September 11,
Bracey says, many of us have been less inhibited and more prone to live for the
moment.

This showed itself in the spending spree that took place in the run up to
Christmas, when consumers had a sense of 'let's spend money now, because who
knows what the future might bring'.

This reaction is linked to a deeper anxiety about our safety. Although Bracey
believes fears that Britain might be attacked next - which took hold immediately
after September 11 - have quietened, he says many people are worried now about
the state of global relations.

There are fears, he says, about the appearance of a "massive chasm" between many
people living in countries like Pakistan, India, Iraq, Saudi Arabia or Palestine
and the western world.

Referring to the possibility that American President George W Bush may decide to
attack Saddam Hussein, he states: "If that happens, it becomes really worrying.
At the back of people's minds, is the fact that a lot of these countries have
nuclear devices."

Denise Knowles, a Relate counsellor and agony aunt, says the images of September
11 still affect her deeply.

Describing her reaction when she saw a television programme about the tragedy a
few days ago, she says: "I sat there overwhelmed with the tragedy and horror,
just as much as I had on the day it happened.

"For me, it was a huge thing. I didn't lose anybody. My only connection with the
Twin Towers was standing on the top of them when I visited New York five or six
years ago. But watching it again, there was a sense of loss in me."

She says she has noticed a lasting change in people's relationships - including
her own - in the wake of the tragedy, which has occurred because people are more
aware of their mortality.

"For me, I know when I get in the car and go off in the morning, or when my
husband goes off, I always try to give him a kiss and wave goodbye. The taking
for granted, I think, has gone out of the relationship."

The Relate centre in Northamptonshire, where Knowles works, has been busy ever
since September 11, and she believes people are now questioning their
relationships and wondering how deep they really are.

She says: "What it has left us all with is this extra thoughtfulness."

Knowles also feels the impact of the terrorist attacks will affect people's
outlook for a long time to come.

However, Professor Alex Gardner, a chartered psychologist and psychotherapist
based in Glasgow, says it is impossible to generalise about how individuals will
react to images of September 11 now.

People go through different stages of grief, he says, beginning with denial,
then moving through anger and resentment. Eventually they usually reach a state
of being reconciled with a traumatic event, even though they still vividly
remember it.

He says: "With individual grief, there are so many variations about how long
people hold onto things and how long they take to go through the various
stages."

For some people, then, these pictures may still provoke disbelief, others may
feel anger or fear for the world and still others will want to improve their
relationships with those nearest to them.

But many people, when they think about it, still believe that September 11 was
indeed a day that changed their lives.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 11, 2002

MORE CARNAGE ON WAY WARN PALESTINIANS AS ISRAEL REELS FROM ATTACKS; NEW TERROR
THREAT

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 536 words


A PALESTINIAN terror group yesterday warned of further suicide attacks at the
end of the bloodiest week of the 18-month uprising.

The day after 13 Israelis, including a baby, were killed and more than 100 were
injured in two attacks, Palestinian militant group Hamas said more would come.

The escalation of violence in the Middle East will be high on the agenda at
today's top-level security talks at Downing Street between Tony Blair and US
Vice President Dick Cheney.

A survivor of Saturday's suicide bombing that killed 11 Israelis at the Moment
cafe, right opposite Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's residence in Jerusalem, told
yesterday of the carnage.

Eran Schechter said: "I never saw anything so horrible in all my life. People
were screaming. The explosion itself felt like an atomic bomb, there were people
lying all over the floor - mostly completely unconscious."

Claiming responsibility for the terror act, Hamas said that the cafe blast was
"the beginning of retaliatory activities for Sharon's war on the refugee camps".

As the grieving families began to bury their dead, Sharon said: "We are in a
war. All of us must stay united and make every effort to stand up to this wave
of terror."

The Moment cafe was believed to be safe with increased security in recent weeks.
Yet the bomber, named as Fuad Horani, managed to walk to the front door
separating the cafe terrace and restaurant before pulling the cord to unleash
his charge. Two of the dead were Uri Felics and Danit Dagan, who were due to
marry next month.

Earlier on Saturday two gunmen opened fire and threw handgrenades into the lobby
of a hotel at the Netanya holiday resort, popular with Britons, killing two,
including a baby, and injuring at least 30.

The gunmen, members of the AlAqsa Martyrs Brigade, were killed by police,
bringing Saturday's death toll to 16 including the suicide bomber. Israeli
helicopter gunships responded with attacks on Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's
seaside offices in Gaza City, early yesterday. Later helicopter gunships fired
at least four missiles at a Palestinian security headquarters in the northern
Gaza Strip. No casualties were reported.

And in an apparent assassination attempt, Israel launched a missile strike on a
car, said to belong to Al-Aqsa leader Abdel Karim Awes, in a refugee camp close
to the West Bank town of Ramallah.

Almost 180 people - 112 Palestinians and 55 Israelis - have been killed in the
violence of the past week. In the latest incident a Palestinian gunman opened
fire in the southern Israeli port city of Ashdod last night, wounding a
13year-old boy. The attacker was seized after his gun jammed.

Last night American, European and Arab leaders frantically tried to stop the
violence. Foreign Secretary Jack Straw held conference calls with US Secretary
of State Colin Powell, Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, and EU colleagues.

Meanwhile, Sharon has hinted that tanks surrounding Yasser Arafat's headquarters
could soon pull out. He said Arafat had met Israel's terms for ending the siege
in the town of Ramallah by arresting the suspected killers of cabinet minister
Rehavam Zeevi, who was murdered last October.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                 March 11, 2002

Victims of terrorist attacks remembered

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.6

LENGTH: 499 words


AMERICA was preparing for a day of emotion today as it marked six months since
the September 11 terror attacks.

US President George Bush was to lead the nation in remembrance as it paid
tribute to the lives of more than 3,000 victims of the September 11 attacks.

And at the site of the World Trade Centre, a poignant ceremony was seeing the
first memorial to the 2,830 who died at the twin towers inaugurated six months
to the minute since the first hijacked plane struck.

New York mayor Michael Bloomberg was leading the service of commemoration which
was being attended by many of those who lost loved ones in the attack and was to
include a moment of reflection at 8.45 am local time (1.45 pm GMT), the minute
the first hijacked plane struck.

The new memorial uses the remains of a massive sculpture which once stood in the
plaza between the twin towers.

The Sphere, by sculptor Fritz Koenig, was a 45,000 steel and bronze monument
aimed at fostering world peace, which miraculously survived the collapse.

Although it was left with a gash in its centre, it was structurally intact and
has now been relocated to Battery Park, just south of the site of the twin
towers. It was being unveiled during the multi -denominational service on a new
plinth and is the first permanent memorial to the dead.

And at dusk today twin lights, which mark the place where the towers used to
stand by projecting a beam into the sky, were being officially switched on.

They will shine over Manhattan until mid-April, shortly before the clean -up of
the World Trade Centre is due to be completed.

Workers have reached bedrock on much of the site and have finally started
tackling the six-storey debris pile that marks the bottom of the south tower,
the second to be hit and the first to collapse.

In Washington, Mr Bush was hosting more than 1,300 people on the South Lawn of
the White House at a ceremony beginning at 9.45am, the same time as a hijacked
plane hit the Pentagon.

Family members of those who lost their lives at the Pentagon and World Trade
Centre as well as on board United Flight 93, which crashed into afield in
Pennsylvania, were to attend, alongside members of Congress.

Britain's ambassador to Washington, Sir Christopher Meyer, is expected to be at
the White House, along with diplomats from 150 countries, and top brass from the
American military and the countries involved in its campaign in Afghanistan.

Mr Bush was due to speak of America's ongoing sorrow over the terror attacks,
and its response to them.

The Pentagon was to keep its commemoration low-key, and work was not stopping on
the rebuilding effort of the part of the massive building destroyed by the
hijacked plane.

But 50 mayors, representing each of the states, were leaving a total of 184
floral tributes, representing each victim of the Pentagon attack.

Work has gone so quickly at the Pentagon that commanders expect to have workers
back at their desks by September, a year since the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 The Gloucester Citizen

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                 March 11, 2002

Victims of terrorist attacks remembered

SECTION: AGENCY; AGENCY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 19 words


AMERICA was preparing for a day of emotion today as it marked six months since
the September 11 terror attacks.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: paul 2 P3

                     Copyright 2002 The Gloucester Citizen

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 11, 2002, Monday

IN A NEW YORK STATE OF MIND;
 IT'S BEEN SIX MONTHS SINCE THE TERRORIST ATTACKS OF 11 SEPTEMBER. DAVID
USBORNE, WHO LIVES IN THE CITY, CONSIDERS HOW THAT DAY CHANGED PEOPLE'S LIVES -
AND WHETHER THOSE CHANGES WILL LAST

BYLINE: David Usborne A worker at ground zero, top; flags at the Staten Island
ferry terminal, left; a platform offers a view of the site, right Jack Hill

SECTION: Monday Review; ; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1430 words


Visitors to New York are almost disappointed. "Everything seems pretty normal to
me," one colleague noted recently after a few hours in town. He was right, in a
way. Six months after the felling of the twin towers by the mad pilots of
al-Qa'ida, the city has got its bustle back. Broadway is filling with new shows,
and the air will soon turn warm again. But things are not the same really. Just
look deeply into our eyes.

The souls of every New Yorker - if not every American - were bruised for ever by
what happened on that Tuesday. We will carry the weight of it for the rest of
our lives. It is a corrosion of innocence that dulls the spirit. We all have to
keep going, of course; make a living, survive, seek pleasure. But we are not the
people we were before.

Maybe, however, we thought we would be more altered by the experience than we
are. Most of us made resolutions when we went to bed - those of us who were safe
- on the evening of 11 September. We would take less for granted. We would be
nicer to one another. We would enjoy life more, because it could end so soon.
But the majority of us have mostly fallen back on old ways.

At this time of remembrance, we ask questions. How much did 9/11 change us? Have
our priorities been altered a lot, or not at all? Is America as a nation
different? Was it made fiercer or more compassionate? How long will these
effects last?

These are not easy things to pin down. Some people took personal decisions in
the wake of 9/11 that changed the course of their lives. I did, even. So did my
friend, who rushed to marry the man she had lived with for years, because she
was suddenly afraid. And then there are the things we did collectively. There
was a rush to buy flags. Other items that people stormed the stores for were
guns, Bibles, self-help manuals and anti-anxiety drugs. And people stampeded to
worship, too.

The flags have mostly gone from the sides of tower blocks in the city. I hope
that fewer of us will need chemicals and herbs to sleep. Meanwhile, the
predictions of church leaders that the impact of 9/11 would nudge America into a
new time of godliness have not been borne out. Most recent polls say that about
40 per cent of adult Americans now say they attend religious services weekly,
about the same level as before last September.

But enough people still haven't forgotten at least one of their resolutions.
Organisations connected in some way to servicing others, especially the under
-privileged, are still seeing a surge in attendance and support. Applications to
the Boys & Girls Club of America have doubled since 9/11. The New Teacher
Project, a national programme that trains professionals in mid-life to teach in
troubled schools, has seen enrolment leap by 30 per cent. And while congregation
numbers have settled back, divinity schools have would-be students beating on
their doors. Applications to the Colgate Rochester Crozer Divinity School in
upstate New York are up by 40 per cent.

For many, a career change has been the main consequence of 9/11. No one did it
more publicly or in a brighter spotlight than Gerald Levin, the retiring head of
AOL Time Warner. Ever since the murder in New York of his grown-up son in 1997,
Mr Levin had been thinking of abandoning his position of immense power to take
up a new life focusing on himself and on philanthropic causes. But it was 9/11
that finally made him do it. "I want to put the poetry back in my life," he
said.

Ann Chamberlain, a partner in Manhattan at the global personnel management firm
Buck Consultants, has seen many of her corporate clients lose top executives for
reasons associated with 9/11. "What we have seen is many very talented people
reassessing things. Maybe they were, prior to those events of September, but
that became an aspect of their final decisions," she explains. Those who have
taken the plunge are often either taking sabbaticals to have time to think, or
applying to work for charity groups.

After working at Chamberlain's company since 1973, Marsha Mandel, 50, a
principal consulting actuary, made up her mind soon after 9/11 that she wanted
to change her life radically, and announced she would resign this month. "Life
is pretty short, and time is running out," she explains now. "If I am ever going
to do anything different with my life, the time is now." She wants to be out of
doors but was turned down when she applied to be a postwoman. Now she is
thinking of applying to work at the Bronx Zoo or another park close to where she
lives in New Jersey.

Others, meanwhile, have been driven to make changes of location. Americans have
been drawn back to their own families. Employees are no longer so willing to be
placed in cities distant from home. The old logic that home was always only a
short flight away - at most, six hours from coast to coast - has lost some of
its power since 9/11. Six hours seems a long time when thousands of lives can be
extinguished in seconds. And fewer of us enjoy flying now.

And so it is that one of my friends, Eric Ayaso, is leaving New York later this
month to be with his family, who are not even in this country but in the
Philippines. A month ago, Eric, 35, woke up with blood leaking from his nose,
mouth and eyes. The medical scare, caused by high blood pressure, convinced him
it was time to leave. But 9/11 had a lot to do with it, too. "After 9/11, it was
an emotional roller-coaster for me," he recalls. "I absolutely went through
depression after it happened, but I just dealt with it in my own way. But it
isn't over yet. Every day you hear on the news of other terrorist threats." Eric
expects to stay and rest in Manila for six months. He will come back to the US,
but not to New York.

Affairs of the heart were altered by 9/11 as well. The Houston Chronicle
reported late last year that dismissals in divorce cases in the city had "sky
-rocketed" in the aftermath of the tragedy. My friends Joanna Coles, who is
British and an editor at New York magazine, and Peter Godwin, the author of
Mukiwa, his memoir about growing up in Zimbabwe, suddenly got married. When City
Hall opened for business again at the end of October, they joined a long line of
couples waiting to be joined in a civil ceremony. After six years together they
had one child, and Joanna was one month away from delivering their second.

"At the time there was the talk of nuclear bombs and dirty bombs being dropped
on New York and it made us feel we had to get everything in order, legally, in
case it happened. We got married with an American flag in the room," says
Joanna, 39, looking back. "It was our little vote towards the future. We wanted
to be married in New York because that is where it all happened."

For them, spotting how 9/11 altered their lives is not difficult. And the
various nationwide trends have also been fairly easy to identify. The Los
Angeles Times found in a poll taken in November that 25 per cent of respondents
said that the experience of that Tuesday had transformed their lives for the
better. An internet questionnaire compiled by Stanford University, answered by
7,000 people, found large numbers re-examining priorities. "What were we
preoccupied with before?" asks David Spiegel, a psychiatrist at Stanford.
"Mostly making money and the sex life of the former president. Now both of those
seem trivial."

The same Los Angeles Times poll also revealed how those early responses start to
fade with time. Only 13 per cent of those surveyed said they were more involved
with their community than before 9/11. That was down from a peak of 20 per cent
in a poll taken by the newspaper immediately after the attacks. Thomas
Pyszczynski, a psychologist who has co-authored a forthcoming book entitled In
the Wake of 9/11: The Psychology of Terror in the 21st Century, acknowledges
that these trends emerged but does not see them enduring. "It will have that
effect until people start forgetting about the attacks and the threats and go
about their daily lives," he says.

If he is correct, that will be a relief and it will also be a pity. It means the
sounds of sirens will no longer scare us in New York at night and the lingering
sense of insecurity will slowly go away. But the good consequences of 9/11 - if
that does not sound obscene - would be gone, too. The impulse to draw closer to
one another and to emphasise positive sentiments such as hope, gratitude and
kindness over the baser ones of hate and greed would be lost too.

But that deep-down bruise on our souls will be there for ever.

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 March 11, 2002

Castro attacks US 'war on terrorism';

BYLINE: by Our Foreign Desk

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 360 words


CUBAN President Fidel Castro lambasted the US-led "war on terrorism" as
hypocritical at the weekend and said that Washington should ask forgiveness for
four decades of hostile actions since the 1959 Cuban revolution.

"The government of the US should ask Cuba for forgiveness for the thousands of
acts of aggression, sabotage and terMr Castro was speaking at a ceremony to
honor the mothers and wives of five Cubans jailed in Florida for working to
undermine antiCuban forces based in the US.

"Our heroes will have to be freed. The enormous injustice committed against them
will be known by the whole world - men who defended their people from death by
seeking information on terrorism, " he said of the five.

Three of the five alleged members of "The Wasp Network" spy ring received life
sentences from a Miami court late last year, while the other two were imprisoned
for 15 and 19 years respectively.

Mr Castro said that Washington's self-declared war on terrorism was two-faced.

"The US government will never have the moral authority to combat terrorism while
it continues to use such practices against nations like Cuba and to support
massive, repugnant and brutal massacres like those carried out by its ally
Israel against the Palestinian people.

"It should renounce its policy of world domination, stop intervening in other
countries, respect UN authority and comply with international treaties it has
signed, " Mr Castro said.

The US list of seven nations which it alleged were sponsoring terrorism was "the
height of arrogance, " he added.

"They have the cynicism to mention Cuba among those countries, when thousands of
Cubans have died as victims of terrorism from the US and not one US citizen has
suffered the least scratch nor has one screw even been affected by any action of
such a nature by Cuba."

Mr Castro said that Cuba was owed an apology for the US trade embargo on Cuba,
the banning of food and medicine by which were "acts of genocide."

He also listed violence allegedly planned by US-based Cubans, including a 1976
bomb that killed 73 people on a Cuban plane and 1997 blasts at tourist sites.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                                 March 11, 2002

Memorial to victim of terrorist attack.

BYLINE: Graeme Massie (author email graeme.massie@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 279 words

DATELINE: Southampton



THE family of a Hampshire man killed in the September 11 New York atrocity will
erect a memorial stone in his honour.

Richard Dawson, 32, was killed when the World Trade Center collapsed.

Six months after the devastation his mother has spoken of still being haunted by
her loss.

Richard, of Canton Street, Southampton, was a product manager for communications
giant Thales Con-tact Solutions.

He was taking part in a technology conference on the 106th floor of the second
tower to be hit while on a business trip to New York.

His mother, Helen Dawson, 51, says the pain has still not faded.

"We are coping, getting on with our lives. We still think about him all the
time."

They are planning to erect a memorial stone to Mr Dawson at the graveyard where
his father is buried.

As with the majority of the World Trade Center victims, his body has not been
recovered.

Mrs Dawson, who works at a South-ampton bank and lives in Bourne-mouth, added:
"We have had a memorial service.

"All his friends came, but we will also be putting a memorial stone in the
cemetery."

Mrs Dawson and other members of the family paid an emotional trip to the site
where her son died shortly after the attacks.

"It was something we had to do," she said.

"We only went for a few days.

"There were too many people wandering about, too many sightseers.

"We just went there and couldn't wait to get away from the place, to be honest."

Mrs Dawson offered her backing to the US-led military campaign in Afghanistan.

She said: "It had to be done, we have to stop these people.

"We cannot allow the minority to rule the majority. I am very much in support of
that."



LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 March 12, 2002

US firemen in Scots tribute to the dead;World Trade Centre heroes remembered six
months after terror attacks

BYLINE: By James Hastings

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 499 words


FIREFIGHTERS who helped in the Ground Zero rescue operation paid tribute to
their fallen colleagues in a moving Glasgow ceremony.

The Americans were in the city as the US marked six months since the September
11 atrocities.

Nearly 350 New York firefighters were killed when the World Trade Centre towers
collapsed.

The US delegation of 11 attended a conference on safety issues in the wake of
the tragedy.

During their visit to Scotland, they visited the tree planted in the Botanic
Gardens by Scots firefighters in memory of colleagues who lost their lives in
New York.

Boston fireman Stephen Foley worked at Ground Zero in the days after the attack,
helping put out the flames and recover bodies.

He said: "All we wanted to do was get down there and help. As a firefighter, you
work close with your buddies and when you lose them, you feel a great pain.

"It's been great talking with the Strathclyde firefighters. Even though they
were thousands of miles away at the time, they felt our sorrow.

"The hospitality we've received has been amazing. Everyone's so kind."

Gordon Hartschuh said the visit to Glasgow had been a "special moment".

He added: "What happened in New York touched all of us in a different way. We'd
just like to say thanks on behalf of America."

Murray Loflin, a battalion chief from Virginia, lost six friends in New York and
worked at the Pentagon in Washington after it was hit by another hijacked jet.

He said: "This visit and the sympathy and love of the people of Glasgow means so
much to us all."

The 11 men and women were attending a two-day safety conference at Strathclyde
Fire Brigade's HQ in Hamilton.

David Kennedy, Strathclyde's depute fire master, praised the visitors.

He said: "They're a great bunch of men and women."

Meanwhile, in New York, two pillars of light soared skywards from beside Ground
Zero in a moving tribute to mark six months since September 11.

Relatives of some of the thousands killed stood and watched as America The
Beautiful was played.

Valerie Webb, 12, activated 88 powerful searchlights arranged to simulate the
twin towers. Her father, policeman Nathaniel Webb, still has not been found in
the ruins nearby.

"The lights will reach up to the skies and into heaven, near where the heroes
are now," said Arthur Leahy, holding a picture of his policeman brother James
Leahy, who died in the twin towers.

The ethereal Tribute of Light memorial was designed to help ease the pain felt
across the US. It will shine every night until April 13.

The lighting capped a day of tributes across the US. President George Bush
offered words of resolve at a White House ceremony attended by 100 ambassadors,
victims' relatives and members of Congress.

"History will know that day not only as a day of tragedy, but as a day of
decision when the civilised world was stirred to anger and to action," Bush
said.

He called on nations to support the fight against terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: HAT TRICK: Murray Loflin, left, of Virginia and Stephen Foley, from
Ohio, try out Scottish head gear at Maryhill Fire Station;AFTERMATH: firemen at
Ground Zero

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 12, 2002

September 11: six months on: Silence and tears under a clear blue sky: In simple
ceremonies across the city, New York remembers terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman in New York

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 722 words


Right on cue, New York delivered another clear blue day - perhaps not quite as
famously cloudless as September 11, but still the kind of sparkling, late-winter
morning that made it possible to believe, standing on the banks of the Hudson
river near Ground Zero, that the glittering water beneath was not some of the
most polluted in the world.

It was bitterly cold, too: the relatives filed in clutching photographs of the
dead and cups of Starbucks coffee with equally firm grasps as they gathered
early yesterday morning for a 600-strong ceremony of remembrance in Battery
Park, just south-west of where the World Trade Centre once stood.

A police officer sang the Star-Spangled Banner from a flag-draped podium; a
gaggle of city dignitaries, Senator Hillary Clinton among them, shivered in
their seats. And then it was 8.46am - six months to the minute since the first
hijacked aeroplane hit the south tower - and downtown Manhattan fell silent,
except for the ringing of church bells. A few people wept. A second silence, at
9.03, was timed in memory of the second impact.

The mayor, Michael Bloomberg, read a statement from President George Bush, and
spoke of the value of free trade. "We have to go on and we will go on. We cannot
let our guard down ever again," he said. But there was a detached, rambling
quality to his remarks which served only to underline the sense of relief when
his predecessor, Rudy Giuliani, rose from his plastic folding chair to address
the crowd.

"This was the worst violation of America in our history, and in the moments that
it was taking place and thereafter for some time, I wondered: Could we endure?
Could we get through it? Then I realised that we had won the war against
terrorism on that first day," he said, to applause from the audience.

"We're now winning the battles, but we had won the war, because of their
bravery, their strength, their unwillingness to retreat in the face of the worst
attack that we as Americans had ever seen."

Behind him stood Fritz Koenig's 1971 sculpture in steel and bronze, The Sphere,
formerly located in the fountain at the World Trade Centre. Visibly damaged by
the collapsing towers, it was rededicated yesterday, New York governor George
Pataki said in a speech, because, "like New York, it has been unearthed to
provide new purpose".

But most relatives found it hard to sound so upbeat. "They haven't found her
body, so there's no closure, and it just gets harder and harder," said Lucy
Hindle, whose niece Lucy Fishman was killed on September 11. Alison Adams, from
Brooklyn, whose husband Patrick Adams was working as a security officer on the
81st floor of the second tower, did not have welcome news for her. "I try to be
happy, I try to stay hopeful, but when the detectives just arrived at my door
and told me they'd found him, that was worse than seeing the towers fall down,"
she said.

Many of the bereaved went on to a lunch at the Hilton hotel - "just to help them
get through the day," said Diana Baumert-Moyik, of the Widows' and Victims'
Families Association. Then, yesterday evening, they were due to board boats made
available by the Circle Line, whose vessels normally circumnavigate Manhattan
island packed with tourists. After dusk, from a vantage point on the Hudson,
they planned to observe the switching on of the Tribute in Light, two 40ft-wide
beams casting a ghostly after-image of the towers high into the New York sky.

Frank Signorelli, a firefighter with Ladder 84 on Staten Island, did not go to
the Hilton. Instead, he remained in his seat in Battery Park, staring straight
ahead from between his wide-brimmed hat and his prodigious walrus moustache.
"Six months - it's just a date. You have to go through the motions, but it
doesn't feel any different. You forget about it for a moment, and then you
remember it all again. In the daytime, in the middle of the night. At least I
get to hug my kids. Who is there to hug Marty Egan's kids?"

A two-hour television documentary screened on Sunday night, the source of much
controversy in the city, had reopened the wounds, he said, because it contained
footage of firefighters inside the lobbies of the towers moments before they
died. "It was pretty tastefully done," Mr Signorelli said, and sighed. "But it's
history, you know?"


LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 March 12, 2002

Masked men in home terror attack.

BYLINE: Nikki Masters

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 176 words



POLICE are hunting two masked men who subjected a 63-year-old man to a terror
attack in his home before escaping in his car parked outside.

The raiders knocked on the door of a house in Heyes Lane, Timperley, and forced
their way inside when the occupant answered, threatening him with a knife.

The victim was then bound and his head covered while the offenders stole items
from the house including the victim's car, a blue Mitsubishi Galant which has
not yet been recovered.

The two men are described as being in their late teens to early 20s, 5'8 to 5'9
tall of slight build and wearing dark clothing.  Both were wearing shiny helmets
with masks underneath.

The victim was taken to Wythenshawe hospital for treatment to a hand injury and
was detained overnight.

Police believe that the two men may have called at other houses in the area
earlier.

Anyone who thinks they may have seen these men or has any information about this
incident is asked to contact the CID at Altrincham on 0161 856 7525 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 13, 2002

Blind panic;
Victim of terror attack may lose her guide dog

SECTION: Pg. 41

LENGTH: 392 words


A BLIND woman who is too frightened to go out after thugs attacked her could
lose her guide dog.

It has been taken away because she cannot exercise it.

Police are backing Elsie Boodle's appeal for a home where she would feel safe
taking her dog Clinton for walks but housing officials say that would be
breaking the rules.

Under town hall regulations, 57-year-old Mrs Boodle is too young to be allocated
the bungalow she wants in a safer neighbourhood.

But after police wrote to Stockport Council's housing department supporting her,
officials agreed to hold a special meeting to reconsider.

She is desperate to move from the town's Edgeley area to be near her daughter
five miles away in Marple. Under council rules, she will not be eligible for a
bungalow until she is 60.

Last month Mrs Boodle, who is completely blind, opened her door to two men who
barged in and threatened to kill Clinton if she did not hand over all her money.

She is too upset to talk about the incident, but her daughter Susan Williamson
said: 'Since the attack she's too scared to take the dog out. She needs to be
near us so we can look after her.

'The dog centre has been brilliant, but I am disgusted by the council. If this
is not sorted out soon my mother will become a recluse.

'Clinton will be taken off her because there are 60 people waiting for dogs.

If she had a bungalow she could just open the back door for the dog.'

Stockport Police community safety officer Marie Brown said: 'After having gone
through what Mrs Boodle went through, losing her dog is adding insult to
injury.' Last night, a spokesman for the Guide Dog Centre in Bolton said: 'We
have not placed any deadline and said we will wait as long as it takes for Mrs
Boodle to move, then we will work with her until she feels comfortable going out
with the dog. We have been really saddened by what has happened and want to
support her.' A Stockport Council official said: 'At the moment there are no
empty properties in the area she requires, but we have organised an emergency
housing panel so that she can be given priority.

'That should pave the way for a fairly quick move.' Bungalows are in such short
supply that they are reserved for the over-60s.

'But at the special housing panel that could very possibly be overridden,' said
the spokesman.


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ELSIE BOODLE: TRAPPED IN HER HOME

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      March 13, 2002, Wednesday Edition 1

FMD and terrorist attacks still reverberate

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 32

LENGTH: 491 words







While the effects of September 11 and, more relevantly, the foot-and- mouth
crisis continue to have an effect on our economy at both a regional and national
level, what impact has been made on commercial activity in the market towns of
the region?

Towns such as Alnwick, Bishop Auckland, Chester- le-Street, Hexham and Morpeth
are seeing increased residential development as the demand from commuters
continues to flourish.

Worryingly, however, the demand for retail and business space has not increased
on a pro-rata basis.

Hexham, for example, has lost many of its traditional retailers as they struggle
to compete with major brands.

The development of out-of- town supermarkets in particular has forced many local
operators out of business.

Supermarkets are able to offer lower prices and the convenience of doing
shopping in one place where parking is not normally an issue.

Similarly, Morpeth has found that the development of out-of-town schemes along
the A1 has given little impetus for commercial development within the town.

Rents in Hexham and Morpeth had started to return to the levels that had been
achieved at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s but the events of September 11
and the foot-and-mouth crisis have led to more uncertainty.

Farmers' disposable income has decreased significantly and concern about the
future has meant a reigning in on expenditure.

This has a knock on effect to local traders.

Also, tourism has declined since September and it could take some time for the
situation to improve.

Picturesque market towns such as Alnwick, for example, rely on tourists to boost
their local economies and help them through the barren winter months.

The extra income has not been available following the events of last year and
many local traders have struggled, while the nationwide brands are big enough to
cope with the loss of income.

There are signs that retailer demand is picking up with more requirements for
representation particularly from newer retail ventures. These are replacing some
of the traditional high street names and as there are few voids in the prime
parts of these towns, rents should hold up.

There has been a recognition that the towns can no longer rely on their
traditional local trade so they are also adapting to survive.

As the population expands work has started on improving leisure facilities.
Investment is being focused in bars and restaurants to serve the growing
population and this is also an opportunity to bring redundant buildings back
into use.

There is resilience in these market towns and the events of last year are just
another blip in their ongoing evolution. I'm sure that they will come through
the problems and while there are limited prospects for strong rental growth in
the short term, if the towns continue to adapt to the changing markets their
long-term future will be secure.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           March 13, 2002, Wednesday

I'M WORRIED BIN LADEN WILL DROP A NUCLEAR BOMB ON US;
 THE EVENTS OF SEPTEMBER 11 AFFECTED CHILDREN MORE THAN WE MAY KNOW. PETRA MANN
SPOKE TO YOUNGSTERS ABOUT FALL-OUT FROM THE TERROR ATTACKS.

BYLINE: Petra Mann

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 666 words


PAUL IRELAND is worried.

He's worried about global terrorism.

At just 12 years old, it's a fear he shares with other Year 8s at Gateacre
community comprehensive.

Before September 11, these children didn't give terrorism much thought.

Today, they say it's the thing they fear most.

They fear nuclear bombs and the American and British military response to the
horrific events in New York.

The findings have shocked one childcare expert, who would have expected things
like personal popularity to top the list of things most children are concerned
with.

Paul, of Childwall, said: "It's my main fear. I think about terrorism quite a
lot.

"I'm worried someone like bin Laden will get his hands on a nuclear bomb and
drop it on us.

"Some countries sell them and he's got loads of money, because he's from a rich
family.

"He could easily get one and let it off somewhere other than Britain and we'd
get the radiation. I don't want to die."

Like millions of other children around the world, Paul's classmate James Jones,
12, of Halewood, watched the suicide attacks on TV.

He said: "Watching the plane go into the two towers was horrible. I knew there
were people inside dying - I hated it."

Dr Jenny Peel, principal lecturer in education at Liverpool John Moores
university, is surprised the group cited terrorism as their primary fear.

Dr Peel said: "Among this age group, I'd have expected personal image or
popularity to be top of the list - not terrorism.

"Certainly, 10 years ago a group of 12-13 year-olds would not be worrying about
global events.

"Clearly, we are witnessing youngsters reacting to world events which the media
blasts into their living rooms.

"Kids have access to a lot more information today. They are constantly digesting
what they see and hear to make sense of their world."

Pupils also question Britain's role in the aftermath of September 11.

Luke Mills, 13, of Childwall, said:

"The Americans were right to go to war in Afghanistan, but I don't think Tony
Blair should have got us involved.

"America didn't even really need us - they're a superpower and have loads of
weapons and soldiers.

"George Bush has massive satellites in the sky and can see what's going on
everywhere.

"But now we have even more terrorists against us."

Classmate Michael O'Donovan, 12, of Woolton, agrees.

He said: "Bin Laden or one of his men could still attack us. It's really
worrying. If they can do it to the Americans, they can do it to us.

"Bin Laden still hasn't been caught and I don't think he ever will be."

Hannah Durham, 12, of Belle Vale, fears bin Laden's status has increased with
some people since September 11.

"He's become a big hero to some people - but really he's just a coward.

"But if they do catch him, he'll just become an even bigger hero.

"I don't know whether we should have helped the Americans in Afghanistan. It
means the terrorists have an excuse to come and batter us."

Dr Peel is concerned about how the media portrays global conflict and how it
could affect children.

She said: "It's vital the media does not reflect what's happening in an overly
simplistic fashion.

"My fear is children this age may look at the situation purely in racial terms.

"That could lead to social divide in this country."

Jenny Higgins, 13, of Netherley, also has strong views on the subject.

She said: "There was no need for bin Laden to do what he did to the Americans.

"All those people dying was terrible - I hated seeing it on the television and
in newspapers.

"It makes me scared there are people like that in the world, who could do such
bad things."

Vicky Wootton, 12 , of Woolton, said: "Watching the television when the planes
smashed into the two buildings in New York was really horrible.

"It was like something out of a film.

"I hate thinking about the people who were inside.

"I hope it never happens here but I suppose it could."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNCERTAIN FUTURE: Paul Ireland, Vicky Wooton and Michael O'Donovan of
Gateacre comprehensive TWIN FEARS: The youngsters worry about nuclear weapons
and the military response to the New York Twin Towers attacks

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           March 13, 2002, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: THE NIGHTMARE: WORLD IN CHAOS;
 BEST SELLING AUTHOR AND TERRORISM EXPERT WARNS OF THE DANGER IN ATTACKING IRAQ

BYLINE: Simon Reeve

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1021 words

HIGHLIGHT: TARGET: America wants to topple Saddam


ALTHOUGH an American attack on Iraq now looks increasingly likely, few in
Washington or London seem to be publicly considering the nightmarish events that
could be unleashed.

Colin Powell, the US Secretary of State, has said America wants a "regime
change" in Baghdad while Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, proclaimed yesterday
that Iraq poses a "severe threat" to world security.

The first steps of a prolonged guerrilla campaign by Western special forces or
an invasion by up to 200,000 American troops will probably come in May when the
UN Security Council is due to renew sanctions against Iraq.

At that time, say defence officials, the US will demand that Iraq immediately
allow UN weapons inspectors back.

If Iraq refuses, President Bush will claim he is justified in launching attacks.
But the consequences could be dire.

The danger is not from the 424,000 Iraqi army, which is poorly equipped and has
low morale.

What keeps planners in the Pentagon awake at night are the weapons of mass
destruction - nuclear, chemical and biological - which US spies fear Iraq has
been developing for several years.

America is turning its sights on Iraq partly because it fears Saddam has stocks
of WMD and partly because he might supply them to terrorist followers of men
such as Osama bin Laden.

If they got their hands on a small nuclear device they would have no hesitation
in detonating it in Washington or London.

Lacking evidence of who was responsible, the US and Britain would be unable to
retaliate.

The Bush administration claims it wants to stop Iraq providing WMD to terrorists
but it may already be too late.

The US was warned several years ago that Iraqi agents were forging links with
bin Laden and his al-Qaeda terrorist organisation. Many Western and Arab
intelligence officials believe Iraq has provided advice, training and financial
aid for attacks on Western targets.

In recent years bin Laden has begun citing Western sanctions on Iraq and the
suffering of its children as justification for his anti-Western campaign.

Some "hawks" in Washington, including Deputy Secretary of Defence Paul
Wolfowitz, believe Iraq was involved in the attacks of September 11.

For the last six months US spies have been paying particular attention to a
suburb of Baghdad where they believe Iraq ran a terrorist training camp and a
biological weapons programme.

Defectors claim terrorists were trained in assassination and hijacking using an
old Boeing 707 there. Western spies also suggest Iraq trained bin Laden's men to
use WMD. In 1998 Saddam's son Uday is thought to have agreed with bin Laden's
lieutenants that top al-Qaeda operatives would form a joint strike force with
members of Iraqi intelligence unit 999.

Some Western experts believe they may already have smuggled "sleeper" agents and
WMD into Western capitals for doomsday attacks if Saddam's regime is threatened
or toppled by an American invasion.

Even without such apocalyptic revenge strikes the full effects of an attack on
Baghdad could be devastating for the Middle East and the world.

King Abdullah of Jordan and Bashar al-Assad, the Syrian President, have both
stated their opposition to attacking Iraq.

An attack will foster further anti-Western and particularly anti-American
sentiment around the globe, destabilise the pro-Western governments of Turkey,
Jordan and Egypt and possibly cause the collapse of the regime in Saudi Arabia.

It will also harden attitudes among Palestinians and Israelis.

Palestinians have been one of the few groups to benefit from Saddam's
generosity. He pays up to pounds 17,000 to families of suicide bombers and
pounds 3,000 to people whose homes are demolished by Israel.

Militants would interpret an attack on Iraq as further evidence of American bias
against Arabs and probably redouble their attacks on Israel.

At the same time Saddam will try to launch improved Scud missiles at Israel, as
he did when the Gulf War started to go badly - which nearly resulted in the
collapse of the anti-Iraq coalition. Nobody really knows the full extent of
Iraq's military capability. However a UN report last year suggested it is
capable of putting WMD into missiles.

Western spies agree Iraq can probably drop chemical or biological weapons on
Israel - and Israeli military insiders say they would almost certainly respond
with nuclear weapons.

In Iran, hardliners already furious at being included in Bush's simplistic "axis
of evil" speech fear America could turn on them after attacking Iraq.

They are bound to violently oppose the presence of American soldiers on the soil
of their neighbour and will increase support for such groups as the Tehran based
Supreme Command of the Islamic Revolution in Iraq.

Around 65 per cent of the Iraqi people are from the Shiite branch of Islam,
although most top jobs are taken by Sunni Muslims.

If Saddam is toppled it may be hard for the US to prevent him being replaced by
a militant Shiite government which would support Iran and still seek WMD.

The tragic irony is that the US wants to keep Saddam's regime and secular style
of government but just get rid of him as leader.

Most of the Iraqi people and probably most of the army do not support Saddam.
But numerous attempts to assassinate him have failed - so the most powerful
nation on earth may now go to war to remove a single dictator.

In doing so the world may be pushed into recession, with Gulf states increasing
the price of oil in protest and consumer and economic confidence dropping
through the floor.

Nobody in Washington or London seems willing to contemplate the full
repercussions of an attack or what might happen if - as after the Gulf War -
they fail to unseat Saddam.

It is also possible he could go into hiding and evade capture if US forces
invade. After all, the Americans in Afghanistan have failed to find senior al
-Qaeda, including bin Laden.

SIMON Reeve's The New Jackals: Ramzi Yousef Osama bin Laden and The Future of
Terrorism, is published in paperback by Andre Deutsch at pounds 7.99

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            March 14, 2002, Thursday

COPTHORNE PROFITS HIT HARD BY TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Cheryl Cole

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 515 words


Upmarket hotels group Millennium & Copthorne saw profits plunge nearly 60 per
cent in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11.

The owners of Birmingham's four star Copthorne hotel said occupancy levels in
its three open New York sites 'were the worst seen in recent years.'

Occupancy levels across the group's 32 American hotels fell by ten per cent and
the group had to slash room rates to stop them sliding further.

The Millennium Hilton in New York was damaged by the the collapse of the Twin
Towers and remains closed for the forseeable future. It four New York hotels,
when all open, account for around a fifth of group profits.

In the year to December 31, Millennium said pre-tax profits more than halved
from pounds 129.1 million to pounds 54.2 million, largely in line with
expectations, and the company's chief executive John Wilson remained optimistic
about prospects for this year.

He said the international group, which operates 91 upmarket hotels in Europe,
the United States, Asia and Australasia had seen signs of recovery in its
markets in recent months, especially in key areas such as the US and London.

'We have seen an encouraging start to 2002. We are certainly in recovery mode.
However, it is still very difficult to judge the rate and pace of that recovery.

He added: 'We are seeing significant volume improvement in New York and some
improvement in London, although our rates in both markets remain under pressure.

'But, we will make more profit this year than last year.'

Mr Wilson said he had seen enough recovery at his US outlets to rehire 100
staff, laid off following the terrorist attacks.

Millennium & Copthorne cut 500 jobs as part of 'vigorous cost measures' in the
wake of the attacks.

The group, 52 per cent owned by Singapore property firm City Developments, added
that occupancy at its three open New York hotels had risen 11 percentage points
to 78 per cent in the first two months of 2002, while in London occupancy levels
were currently running at over 80 per cent.

The news sent the shares up eight per cent to 331p, despite sales falling to
pounds 594.6 million in the year, from pounds 690.9 million in 2000.

In the US, occupancy levels slippedto 58.8 per cent from 67.8 per cent a year
earlier, with the figure for New York down ten percentage points to 73.3 per
cent.

The group, which has five of its 17 UK hotels in London, said properties in the
capital were particularly hard hit, with occupancy levels down to 80.4 per cent
from 85.7 per cent a year earlier.

However, Millennium & Copthorne singled out its hotels in Birmingham, Glasgow
and Newcastle for praise as regional locations generally performed better.

Hotels at Gatwick and nearby Effingham Park experienced a fall in revenues
because of their dependence on airline passengers and crew. In Asia, Millennium
& Copthorne blamed challenging trading conditions in the second half for pushing
occupancy rates down to 62.5 per cent from 68.9 per cent last time.

The total dividend was maintained at 12 1 /2p.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 14, 2002, Thursday

Sotheby's counts terror attack cost

BYLINE: Jon Ashworth

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 277 words


SOTHEBY'S, the international auction house, admitted yesterday that the US
terror attacks cost it $ 32 million (Pounds 22.7 million) in lost business.

The fall left Sotheby's nursing a $ 400,000 loss in the fourth quarter. But the
company appears to be emerging from the scandals that have dogged it in the past
two years. The fourth quarter loss compares with a loss of $ 6.5 million in the
same period in 2000, when the firm was hit hard by legal and restructuring
charges.

Alfred Taubman, former chairman of Sotheby's, is to be sentenced on April 2 for
conspiring with Christie's to fix commissions on auction sales. He is expected
to sell his controlling stake in the auction house, which carries about 63 per
cent of the voting stock.

Sotheby's also disclosed that it paid $ 20 million in bonuses last year to
dissuade key staff from leaving. In the previous year, it paid out $ 3.4 million
in bonuses. The payments were intended to help to hold the business together
amid the uncertainties about the price-fixing case.

The firm recorded a net loss of $ 41.7 million in the year to December 31,
compared with a loss of $ 189.7 million in 2000. Total revenues slipped from $
397.89 million to $ 336.2 million.

Bill Ruprecht, Sotheby's president and chief executive, said he was confident
about prospects. He said: "We do expect a return to profitability on the
operating income line in 2002, despite the residual burdens of both retention
costs and higher than historic interest costs."

Sotheby's has also revised its commission structure in what some will see as an
attempt to distance it further from that of Christie's.


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Burnley Express & News

                                 March 15, 2002

Teenager's terror as pit bull attacks horse

SOURCE: Burnley Express & News

LENGTH: 332 words


By BARRY AYRTON

A HORSE and teen-aged rider were lucky to escape ending up in the canal after a
vicious attack by a dog.

A pit bull terrier clamped its jaws on the horse's muzzle as its horrified rider
screamed for help.

I was terrified. I was shouting and screaming for someone to help me get the dog
off, said 15-year-old Holly Preston.

My horse was rearing and bucking and spinning.

There was blood everywhere.

The savage attack happened on the towpath alongside the canal in the Barden Lane
area of Burnley on Sunday afternoon.

Holly, of Deerplay Close, Burnley - a pupil at Mansfield High School in
Brierfield - was out riding with her friend, Lindsay Atkinson.

She said two dogs - a black pit bull and a collie-type - began annoying the
horses before the pit bull suddenly attacked.

One of the horse's legs went down the canal bank. I dread to think what would
have happened if it had been a younger or less experienced rider, said Holly,
who has been riding since the age of four.

Sam, her 12-year-old mount, was left distressed and bleeding with three puncture
wounds from the dog's teeth and a rip in his muzzle.

He is now back at his stable at the Royle Equestrian Centre in Burnley but Holly
said it could be some time before he fully recovered from his wounds and it was
not known how he would react psychologically to the attack.

It is a shame as he is such a placid and lovable character, said Holly who
reported the attack to Burnley police.

She said a man who appeared said the dog belonged to his son, before making off.

She said a woman at the other side of the canal said the dogs were mental and -
if she knew the owner - appealed to the woman to contact the police.

She said Sam had given the dog a hard kick and the animal might have needed
treatment by a vet.

As a pit bull, this dog should have been muzzled in public.

This was a vicious attack and if it happens again the consequences could be even
worse, said Holly.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             March 15, 2002, Friday

ANTHRAX-ATTACKS FINGER POINTED AT CIA;
 TERRORISM: SENIOR US SCIENTIST CLAIMS SPY AGENCY MAY BE TO BLAME FOR DEATHS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 256 words


AN American expert last night claimed last autumn's deadly anthrax attacks may
have been the result of CIA research which went disastrously wrong.

Barbara Rosenberg, director of the Federation of American Scientists' Chemical
and Biological Weapons Program, claimed on BBC's Newsnight programme that the
spy agency had commissioned a theoretical study four years ago on the likely
impact of anthrax being sent through the mail.

And she alleges the spy agency may also have ordered a separate "field trial"
whose knowledge could have been used by whoever was responsible for the anthrax
attacks.

She told the programme, "Some very expert field person would have been given
this job and it would have been left to him to decide exactly how to carry it
out.

"The result might have been a project gone badly awry if he decided to use it
for his own purposes and target the media and the Senate for his own motives as
not intended by the government project."

Dr Rosenberg said the person who carried out the anthrax attacks had knowledge
both of the law and of the practicalities of the detective work it would need
for him to be caught.

Five people died and 13 were infected when anthrax-laced letters were sent to
two prominent politicians and a series of media outlets.

Among the dead were British-born picture editor Bob Stevens, 63, who inhaled the
deadly spores while working at American Media Incorporated in Boca Raton,
Florida.

Dr Rosenberg has said the FBI had known of a suspect since October.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 16, 2002, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: FURY OF THE HEROES: GRENADE ATTACK HITS US EMBASSY

BYLINE: Andy Lines In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 148 words


THE American Embassy in Yemen was rocked by a terrorist blast last night.

A lone attacker threw a grenade into the grounds and was about to hurl another
when he was overpowered.

His strike in the capital Sanaa came 48 hours after all Americans in the country
were told they could be targets.

They were warned to avoid certain areas, shops, hotels and restaurants.

The embassy attack was launched one day after US vice president Dick Cheney
visited Sanaa. He was so concerned for his safety that he refused to visit the
embassy.

No one was injured by the 25-year-old man's attack.

He struck at dusk as he strolled past the building.

President Bush is considering sending troops to Yemen because he believes it is
a haven for al-Qaeda thugs fleeing Afghanistan.

Americans have been warned to check their cars to make sure they haven't been
tampered with.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 16, 2002, Saturday

Scottish attack on 'industrial terrorists'

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 217 words


A UNION leader yesterday accused big international companies who move production
around the world of industrial "terrorism", citing firms like Motorola which
last year shut its Bathgate plant with the loss of more than 3,000 jobs.

The attack came from Jimmy Elsby, assistant general secretary of the Transport
and General Workers' Union (TGWU), in a speech in Glasgow where he was sharing a
platform with Scottish First Minister Jack McConnell.

His remarks followed public criticism of Tony Blair by TUC general secretary
John Monks, who took the Prime Minister to task over moves to block EU
employment legislation.

Mr Elsby told conference of the promise in the 1980s of new "sunrise industries"
like computers and telecommunications for creating jobs to replace those lost
with the decline of smoke-stack industries. "They forgot to mention that the new
jobs might also be quite short-lived," he said.

"It looks as though the sunrise industries themselves are sinking gently in the
West.

Mr Elsby said successive governments had "bent over backwards" to accommodate
the wishes of Japanese car makers and mobile phone and computer chip
manufacturers in the US and Germany.

"What we are seeing now is not so much inward investment as industrial
terrorism," he said.


LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 17, 2002

IRISH TERROR ATTACK RULED OUT AFTER SEVEN ARE INJURED IN DRAMATIC PLUNGE; RAF
COPTER CRASH HORROR

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 321 words


SEVEN people were injured, two seriously, when an RAF helicopter crashed into a
mountain in the heart of Northern Ireland's "bandit country" yesterday.

The Puma aircraft, with three crew and six passengers on board, broke in two
after spinning out of control and crash-landing on the side of Slieve Gullion in
South Armagh.

It was carrying troops and two civilian contractors to an Army watchtower
overlooking the village of Jonesborough, close to the Irish border, when it
appeared to spin out of control. The tail and rotor blades broke off.

Two of the victims were trapped in the mangled wreckage for almost two hours
before being cut free. In all, five military personnel and two civilian workmen
were airlifted to nearby Daisy Hill Hospital in Newry, Co Down, suffering from
spinal, back and head injuries.

A hospital spokesman said two of the victims were in a serious condition and may
be transferred to specialist units in Belfast.

Army chiefs were quick to rule out any terrorist involvement, blaming the
"catastrophic" accident on mechanical failure.

Despite this, a major security operation was mounted to protect military
accident investigators as they examined the wreckage.

Sinn Fein campaigners have been calling for the removal of the Army look-out
posts, which see up to 20 helicopter flights a day, and intelligence reports
have warned of a high risk of terrorist activity in the area, which is still a
hotbed of militant republicanism.

The bombs used in the attacks on Omagh and London's Canary Wharf were assembled
in South Armagh, which is home to a number of known terrorist activists. Despite
the Provisional IRA ceasefire, almost all troop movement in South Armagh is
conducted by helicopter.

The Real IRA is a strong presence in the area and security chiefs believe it is
still too dangerous for police or troops to move by road for fear of ambushes or
landmines.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 17, 2002, Sunday

Pensioner terrorised by ALF acid attack Macer Hall reports on an elderly
shareholder who refuses to give in to Animal Liberation Front threats

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 900 words

A 76-YEAR-OLD grandmother has become the latest victim of anti-vivisection
activists in their campaign against Huntingdon Life Sciences, the controversial
animal testing laboratory.

Acid was poured on Jean Hall's car last week and offensive graffiti daubed on
the walls of her house, because she owns HLS shares, bought as part of a
personal equity plan portfolio.

The attacks follow a two-year campaign against Mrs Hall, who lives with her
82-year-old husband, Ronald, in Hampton, west London. She has received letters
saying, "You're next" and "You know the expression 'You ain't seen nothing yet'.
Just remember it. Like we are remembering you."

Mrs Hall, who has four children and six grandchildren, said that she will not be
intimidated by the "cowardly" assailants, and sharply criticised banks and
financial institutions that had withdrawn their support for HLS in the face of
similar harassment.

"Sneaking round under the cover of darkness like cowards and daubing the house
with paint isn't going to make me change my mind," she said. "I am disgusted
that people could behave in such a way."

Mrs Hall is refusing to sell her 300 shares in HLS: "I am in favour of research
on animals. My husband has had two hip replacements: it wouldn't have been
possible if the procedure hadn't been tested on monkeys first.

"Nobody likes the thought of animals being hurt but if it's a matter of two or
three animals undergoing tests to save the lives of thousands of people, that,
to me, is right. This is just hooliganism."

Not all HLS investors share Mrs Hall's defiance, however: hundreds pulled out
after threats, and the Royal Bank of Scotland decided not to renew a pounds 22.6
million loan to the company that it inherited when it bought NatWest two years
ago.

Mrs Hall said: "I thought they were being craven. These people threaten to set
off one or two bombs and the banks withdraw financial backing. How do they think
people managed in the Second World War? Bombs were raining down and people
carried on as usual."

HLS has been attacked by anti-vivisectionists for more than 20 years for testing
products on animals for the pharmaceutical industry.

The campaign became increasingly aggressive after a 1997 Channel 4 documentary
featured film taken inside the laboratory. HLS staff were assaulted by masked
thugs and their cars were firebombed.

Then, in a new tactic, protesters began to target investors, ranging from City
banks to individual shareholders. Many faced protests and threats at their homes
after their names and addresses, listed in company reports, were published on
the internet by Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (Shac), a group dedicated to
closing down the company.

Mrs Hall bought her shares about four years ago. She was unaware of the animal
experiments and had chosen to invest in the company after assessing its
financial prospects.

Two years later she, like many other HLS shareholders, began to receive hate
mail. One handwritten note posted through her letterbox said: "You are involved
in animal torture and cruelty. Stop now or you're next."

A typewritten letter said: "You are an evil, old, perverted *head who needs to
be intimidated.

"Sleep well, if you can. You'll need tablets soon. Tough old pensioner, are you?
We'll see about that."

Soon after, posters displaying photographs of apparently mutilated animals
appeared on trees in the street. The posters were headlined with Mrs Hall's name
and bore the message: "The person above holds shares in Huntingdon Life Sciences
who experiment on animals including cats, dogs, monkeys, rabbits, birds and
guinea pigs."

Last week, the intimidation campaign turned even nastier. The Halls awoke to
find puddles of acid eating away at the paintwork on their Peugeot saloon.
Bright red graffiti had appeared on the whitewashed walls of the detached house
saying: "HLS scum" and "puppy killer" beside the letters "ALF", the initials of
the Animal Liberation Front.

"It took me over four and half hours to scrape the mess off the car," said Mrs
Hall, who is unwilling to pay the pounds 2,500 estimated for the respray of the
car. "I don't think it is worth doing, because you never know when these idiots
are going to come back. I won't mind driving around in a piebald car."

Within hours of the attack, details of the vandalism were published on the Shac
website along with the warning: "These attacks will continue against anyone with
financial interest in Huntingdon Life Science. For the animals. ALF."

Two other homes in nearby Hayes, Middlesex, suffered similar vandalism attacks
on the same night. One victim was not even a shareholder in HLS.

Parminder Sohal had owned a stake of about pounds 1,000 in the company last year
but declined to continue his investment even when ownership of HLS was
transferred to the United States, where shareholders with less than a five per
cent stake can remain anonymous.

"I can't believe they would do this to someone who is not even connected to the
company any more," said Mr Sohal, a 30-year-old British Airways office worker.
Acid was poured over his car and slogans were sprayed on the walls of his home.

"This is not even my house, it belongs to my parents. I am worried for my
family, for my two-year-old baby. They say they are animal lovers but they
clearly do not care about human beings. This is no way to look after animal
welfare."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 18, 2002

Britons hurt in 'Al Qaeda death attack';
Five killed as terrorists toss grenades among worshippers in church

BYLINE: Richard Shears

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 501 words


SEVEN Britons were among dozens injured in a hand grenade attack in a Pakistan
Christian church yesterday which left five people dead.

Two men, believed to be Al Qaeda sympathisers, ran down the aisle tossing the
devices among worshippers.

The wife and daughter of a senior U.S. official were among those killed in the
brazen attack in the heavilyguarded diplomatic quarter of the capital,
Islamabad.

Up to 70 worshippers had gathered for Sunday sermon at the church, the
Protestant International Church, which is only half a mile from the American
Embassy.

The service had been under way for 10 minutes when an explosion at the back
brought it to a halt. The terrorists then ran down the aisle and began tossing
the grenades.

Worshippers dived under pews and some hid behind a piano. Aid agency worker Nick
Parham, 36, from Wandsworth, South London, said: 'One had a belt on with a whole
load of what looked like British Army smoke grenades or home-made grenades. He
had one in his hand. At that point I hit the deck.' Charity worker Ian
McClelland, 39, from Edinburgh, suffered a gashed head. But a man directly
behind him suffered the full force of one of the grenades and was killed.

Mr McClelland said: 'I heard a loud bang, looked round and saw a man lobbing
grenades.

'As the second bomb went off I threw myself to the floor. There was blood coming
out of the back of my head. As I was lying there waiting to see if a bomb was
going to land on us I shot off a quick prayer.' Last night, the dead Americans
were named as Barbara Green, wife of diplomat Milton Green, and their teenage
daughter Kristen, a student.

Mr Green, who worked in the embassy's computer section, suffered serious leg
injuries. Also killed were a Pakistani, an Afghan and another churchgoer who,
according to a hospital spokesman, was ' virtually blown to pieces'.

The attack has been blamed on Al Qaeda sympathisers or hardline Islamic groups
opposed to Pakistani president Pervez Musharraf's support for the U.S.led war on
terror.

Another Briton, Kate Michael, 42, was last night 'stable' in Islamabad's
Al-Shifa Hospital with head injuries and a broken arm.

Other British victims included a 13-year-old girl and a family of four,
including a 21-year-old woman who suffered two broken arms. She left hospital
after treatment. In all, about 45 people were injured and doctors were battling
to save at least nine who were 'critical'.

Police were last night trying to find out whether the attackers had died in the
church or were among the injured, but it was suspected that they had escaped.

Police sealed off the church, but broken glass, splintered wood and bloodstains
covered the front steps outside.

President Bush said the attack was an act of murder. Foreign Secretary Jack
Straw called it 'a serious outrage'.

The church is in a heavilyguarded diplomatic enclave where the undersides of
vehicles entering the area are examined by police with mirrors on poles.


LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 18, 2002, Monday

US DIPLOMAT'S WIFE AND CHILD AMONG FIVE KILLED IN TERROR ATTACK ON CHURCH

BYLINE: James Palmer

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 453 words


GEORGE BUSH, the US President, expressed outrage after unknown terrorists hurled
grenades into a Protestant church in the Pakistani capital, Islamabad,
yesterday, killing five people, including an American woman and her daughter.

The attack on the church in the heart of the diplomatic enclave injured five
British expatriates, including a family of four, although none were critically
hurt. Several other foreign nationals among the 45 wounded were said to be in a
serious condition.

The fifth Briton, who is the wife of an American, is due to stay in hospital for
two or three nights, the Foreign Office said.

The other worshippers killed were a Pakistani, an Afghan and an unknown person,
who officials said may be an assailant, raising speculation he was on a suicide
mission.

Mr Bush condemned the raid, carried out by up to three people, as a "terrorist
attack". He denounced the "acts of murder that cannot be tolerated by any person
of conscience nor justified by any cause".

He pledged to work with the Pakistani government to find those responsible in
the wake of the execution of another US citizen in Pakistan, the Wall Street
Journal reporter Daniel Pearl. A US grand jury has indicted the British-born
Said Omar Sheikh over the kidnapping and murder, and has called on Pakistan to
extradite him.

Yesterday, survivors spoke of deafening blasts, smoke and chaos as parents
screamed for children and worshippers hid under chairs and behind pillars.

Though no group claimed the attack, suspicions fell on hardline Islamic groups
opposed to the Pakistani President, General Pervez Musharraf's support for Mr
Bush's war on terror. Hundreds of activists have been detained in Pakistan in
recent months and seven militant groups have been banned, but some Americans say
General Musharraf is not doing enough.

Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican and former Navy pilot, said
yesterday: "It's clear that he does not have control over parts of his country
and elements of his society and he's got a long way to go. The question is
whether it was carried out by some deranged person who has been affected by this
tremendous influx of hatred toward the United States ... or is it part of an
overall plan to kill Americans?"

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, offered his condolences to the families of
the victims and said the incident was a "serious outrage, particularly because
it took place within what we thought was the well-protected diplomatic enclave".

The attack was the second on Christians in Pakistan since the war on terrorism
began. In October, gunmen killed 15 Christians and a Muslim in an attack on a
church in Bahawalpur.

Further report, page 13

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 18, 2002, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: SHORT: I'LL QUIT IF WE ATTACK IRAQ

BYLINE: Paul Gilfeather

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 488 words


Blind military action against Iraq doesn't deal with the problem. With the state
of the Middle East, the terrible suffering of both the Israeli and Palestinian
people, with the anger there is in the Arab world, to open up a military flank
on Iraq would be very unwise - CLARE SHORT YESTERDAY.
  CABINET rebel Clare Short yesterday threatened to quit if Britain joined a US
strike on Iraq without UN backing.

Warning that military action would be "very unwise", she said: "I've got lots of
bottom lines. I don't expect the Government to breach them, but if they did I
would. That's what you should be like in politics."

Her threat came as Home Secretary David Blunkett refused to deny reports that he
warned of civil disorder if war with Iraq went ahead.

In a third blow to Tony Blair's plans to join President Bush's crusade, military
chiefs warned that Britain's overstretched armed forces could not cope with
another offensive so soon after the Afghan conflict.

International Development Secretary Ms Short said air strikes against Saddam
Hussein would need UN backing and her continued role in Government depended on
that.

The minister told BBC1: "Blind military action against Iraq doesn't deal with
the problem. The best thing is to get the UN inspectors back in.

"With the state of the Middle East, the terrible suffering of both the Israeli
and Palestinian people, with the anger in the Arab world, to open up a military
flank on Iraq would be very unwise. We should face up to how serious this is."

Asked whether she would quit if Britain backed unilateral action by the US, Ms
Short said: "Of course there are conditions in which I would not be able to
support action. But I do not expect them to be proposed."

She then told how she would quit if the Government breached her "bottom lines".

Mr Blunkett is reported to have warned Mr Blair that riots could break out on
the streets of Britain if war was waged on Baghdad as he briefed Cabinet on the
domestic consequences of joining a US strike. Yesterday he said: "Nobody has
denied that there was a discussion. It was sensible and intelligent. All
contributed.

"I'm not confirming the extremely helpful colleague who decided he would
tell...what I said."

The US is said to be demanding 25,000 British troops for an invasion.

But it is now looking increasingly unlikely that Mr Blair can back Mr Bush while
members of his own Government protest so aggressively.

The Premier is already under huge pressure from his party to pull back from
military action.

More than 100 MPs have signed a Commons motion declaring "deep unease" at any
such move. Commons Leader Robin Cook is also believed to be in the opposing
camp.

Yesterday military chiefs told Mr Blair any war against Saddam was certain to
fail. MoD sources said there was little chance the West could overthrow the
tyrant without having a leader in waiting.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 18, 2002, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACKS HIT ZINNI PUSH FOR CEASEFIRE

BYLINE: Alexandra Williams In Jerusalem

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 241 words

HIGHLIGHT: BLASTED: The bus


US envoy Anthony Zinni vowed to carry on his Middle East peace mission yesterday
despite a suicide bombing, fighting in Bethlehem and a shooting spree near Tel
Aviv.

The bomber ran up to the bus at a busy intersection in north Jerusalem yesterday
and blew himself up.

Amazingly only the bomber died but nine people were slightly injured.

Passerby student Gil Lazaroff, 22, said: "What hope is there of sorting out
peace when we keep getting attacked like this?"

A spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said: "Israel has offered a
ceasefire, pulled back most of its forces in good faith, and this seems to be
the answer Israel is receiving." Mr Zinni yesterday held talks with Israeli
President Moshe Katsav and later Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.

Zinni said: "These attacks will not deter my efforts to continue to work to
bring the Israeli-Palestinian confrontation to an end."

A 16-year-old girl was also shot dead and 15 others hurt when a Palestinian
opened fire near a school and in a shop at Kfar Saba. Police shot him dead.

Israeli tanks yesterday moved to within 200 yards of the sacred Church of the
Nativity in Bethlehem. Shots were fired and a Palestinian militiaman was killed.

But there was confusion after Sharon announced a meeting between Israel and
Palestine. The Palestinians said they would not attend until troops pulled out
of a Palestinian-ruled location known as Area A.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                                 March 18, 2002

US terrorist attacks hit insurer.

BYLINE: Business reporter (author email mford@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 229 words

DATELINE: Hampshire



Zurich Financial Services, which has its UK headquarters in Hampshire, is
warning of a GBP 197m net loss ($ 387m) for 2001 as a result of the September 11
terrorist attacks in New York.

And as a consequence, dividends are expected to be halved when the full company
results are announced on March 21.

The figures are worse than had been forecast in December and are in the main due
to Zurich being hit for $ 706 million in insurance claims as a direct result of
the New York atrocity.

In addition, higher than expected claims, increased charges for specific
exposures such as asbestos and lower results from discontinued operations
adversely affected net income and normalised results.

The company was also hit by reduced life insurance and asset management results.

This all led to normalised net income only reaching $ 348 during the year, which
was less than half of the $ 700m to $ 900m that had been predicted at the end of
2001.

This is the fourth in a series of warnings about poor trading for Zurich.

Taking these developments into account, the board of the company are proposing
to reduce the gross dividend to eight per cent per registered share compared
with 17.5 per cent last year.

This proposal will be put to what is expected to be a stormy shareholders'
meeting of the Swiss-based integrated financial services provider on May 16.


LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 19, 2002

Hero of church terror attack was saved by his open Bible

BYLINE: Ken Banks

SECTION: Pg. 39

LENGTH: 586 words


A STAND-IN preacher was saved by his Bible in Sunday's terrorist attack which
left five people dead in the Pakistan International Church.

And last night oil worker Griff Jones, whose family home is in Ellon,
Aberdeenshire, was hailed as a hero for his rescue work in the aftermath of the
horror.

Mr Jones, 36, a drilling manager, had agreed to stints in the pulpit when the
church, in the country's capital city of Islamabad had no minister. He was in
the middle of his sermon on Sunday when two men, believed to be Al Qaeda
sympathisers, ran down the aisle lobbing hand grenades into the 70-strong
congregation.

As the explosions ripped through the building worshippers dived under pews and
some sought protection behind a piano.

One grenade exploded 5ft from Mr Jones who was looking down at his Bible.

The blast sent it flying into his face where it, along with the pulpit
structure, shielded him from the worst of the flying debris.

He suffered a head wound but despite that he managed to rescue his wife Amanda,
35, and daughters, Johanna, 13, and Lowri, nine, who were injured by shrapnel.

And after getting them safely out of the building he went back in to the carnage
to help other injured people before he collapsed.

As well as the five dead, 45 people were injured, including six other Britons.
One, a 42-year-old woman, was the only victim still in hospital last night.

Speaking yesterday from Islamabad, Mr Jones said: 'We are all fine and
recovering and doing well. Yes, I was protected by the Bible and the pulpit, but
the church is a wreck.

'The injured were well cared for in hospital, but I really cannot talk about it
any more.' Those who died included the wife and daughter of an American
diplomat, a Pakistani and an Afghan. A fifth person, still to be identified, may
be one of the two attackers.

Mr Jones, who is manager of an oil drilling company in Islamabad, relived his
ordeal in a telephone call yesterday to a friend, the Rev Dominic Smart of
Gilcomstoun South Church, Aberdeen, where the Wounded: Johanna, 13 Jones family
has worshipped. Mr Smart said: 'They are very shocked.

Griff phoned me on his way to hospital. He was preaching and looking at his
notes when the attackers walked in to the church. The first he knew of what was
happening was the first explosion, about 5ft away.

'It's something of a miraculous escape for him. After getting his family out he
returned to the church but eventually keeled over.' 'Griff is quiet and gentle
with a strong sense of responsibility it's typical of him to help.

It could have been a lot worse apparently as some of the grenades did not
explode.' The attack has been condemned by Foreign Secretary Jack Straw and U.S.
President George Bush, who vowed to catch the killers.

Yesterday, Pakistan put troops and police on high alert after the attack, in the
diplomatic quarter of Islamabad.

FBI agents, who have been called in, will be considering whether the attack may
be linked to the terror group that kidnapped and murdered Wall Street Journal
reporter Daniel Pearl in Pakistan.

The U. S . State Department warned yesterday that additional terrorist attacks
against U.S.

interests may be imminent including restaurants, schools, clubs and other places
where Americans congregate.

The department said it had no information on targets, timing or how the attacks
may be carried out.

It warned that terrorist activities may include suicide attacks and kidnapping.


LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: WOUNDED: LOWRI, AGED NINE HERO: GRIFF JONES WAS PREACHING

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 March 19, 2002

EX IN ATTACK TERROR

LENGTH: 85 words


    A SPURNED boyfriend attacked his ex and her sister then bombarded her with
calls and letters while in jail.

    George Muirhead, 30, was dumped by Marianne Brown, 27, after he headbutted a
woman at a party.

    He then broke into her house in Stenhousemuir and grabbed her. Muirhead was
given bail on condition he didn't contact Marianne. Within days he attacked her
sister Sharon, 30.

    Muirhead, a prisoner at Barlinnie, admitted assaults. Sentence was deferred
at the High Court in Edinburgh.


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2002 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           March 20, 2002, Wednesday

GOVERNMENT AIDE IS SHOT DEAD IN 'TERRORIST' ATTACK

BYLINE: Frances Kennedy In Rome

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 423 words


A CONSULTANT to the Italian Labour Minister was shot dead as he cycled home last
night in what police said was a political murder.

Marco Biagi, 52, an adviser to Roberto Maroni, was attacked by two gunmen on a
motorbike or scooter close to his home in cental Bologna. They fired four shots,
two of which hit him. He was married, with two children.

Mr Biagi had also been a consultant to Romano Prodi and previous centre- left
governments.

His assassination, which evokes bloody memories of Italy's terrorist years in
the Seventies and Eighties, comes during a period of social tensions over
controversial labour reforms and just days before a huge union rally in Rome.

The method of the killing and the victim, a little-known but influential policy
adviser, recall the assassination in 1999 of Massimo D'Antona, a consultant to
the Labour Minister in the centre-left government.

The Interior Minister, Claudio Scajola, interrupted his trip to the United
States and was due to address parliament today on the killing.

The crime comes as the government and trade unions are at loggerheads over the
reform of article 18 of the Workers Statute, under which employees who were
fired without "just cause" must be rehired. Plans to remove this protection for
workers, or in some cases substitute it with a financial pay-off, have provoked
widespread opposition among workers, trade unions and the opposition.

Mr Biagi, who taught labour law at Modena University, was one of the authors of
the much-criticised reform, which he defended as necessary for Italy to catch up
with other European economies.

According to newspaper accounts, a recent report by the secret services had
identified those working on labour reforms as possible targets.

The Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi, said "a sense of responsibility obliges
everyone to interrupt the chain of hate and lies", a reference to the climate of
social tension. Mr Berlusconi said the killing "fills all Italians with pain".
He added: "Terrorism has shown yet again ... that it poses a danger that needs
to be fought with all our power."

According to left-wing analysts, the Berlusconi government is hoping to divide
the three trade union confederations, CGIL, CISL and UIL. The CGIL, the most
left-wing of the three, has called a general strike in April, and the other two
- after initial hesitation - are preparing to join in. The CGIL has organised a
demonstration on Saturday in Rome in which more than a million people are
expected to take part.

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           March 20, 2002, Wednesday

BOXING CHAMP PAT'S HEART ATTACK TERROR;
 RING HERO, 37, MISSES BASH TO MARK CAREER

BYLINE: Graham Tibbetts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 453 words

HIGHLIGHT: FIGHT HERO: Clinton, right, beat Isidro Perez to claim world crown at
Kelvin Hall; SUPPORT: Clinton's former manager Tommy Gilmour, left, and with son
Sean, above; A BELTER: Star Pat won European and World titles


BOXING legend Pat Clinton is battling back to fitness after suffering a heart
attack.

The former world champion was forced to miss a surprise bash to celebrate his
career when he was rushed to hospital with chest pains and vomiting.

He is currently undergoing a series of tests in a bid to speed up his
recuperation.

The attack forced Pat, 37, to miss out on Monday night's dinner to mark the 10th
anniversary of his world title triumph.

Last night his mum, Sadie, said he was recovering, but added: "This has given
him a fright."

The former flyweight from Croy, near Glasgow, is now employed as a salesman for
a gas company.

He was working when the chest pains struck and he was immediately rushed to
Monklands General Hospital.

Pat's dad Billy, himself a Scottish professional boxing champion, died of a
heart attack in 1980 and his mum has recently had heart surgery.

Sadie, 69, said: "We are really worried because there is a bit of a history of
heart trouble in the family."

But she said that Pat appeared to be on the mend.

Sadie added: "He's able to sit up in bed and speak to visitors, but the doctors
won't let him out until they are confident he has recovered sufficiently.

"We don't know when that will be.

"He was very much down in the dumps after he was admitted, but he has cheered up
a bit now.

"Patrick was very bright yesterday, but he's that kind of boy - very cheery."

She said Pat had vowed to give up smoking in the wake of his illness.

The ring legend's partner Christine Hay, who works in a bank in Glasgow, has
been to see him every day in hospital.

The popular boxer, who has five brothers and four sisters, has also been visited
regularly by family and friends.

Sadie said: "He's a good natured lad and has lots of pals . They have all been
rallying round. He's also had visits from workmates."

Pat became the first Scottish boxer to win the European flyweight title in 66
years when he beat Italian Salvatore Fanni in Sardinia.

But his finest hour came in 1992 when he outfought the mighty Mexican Isidro
Perez for the WBO world crown in front of a massive Croy contingent at the
Kelvin Hall, Glasgow.

It earned him a place alongside Scots kings of the ring such as Jim Watt and Ken
Buchanan.

His former promoter and manager Tommy Gilmour had planned Monday night's
surprise bash at St Andrews Sporting Club in Glasgow, where Pat made his pro
debut.

Tommy said last night: "I managed to get word through to say that Pat would not
be able to make it.

"We'd been hoping he would be there and we had the champagne and cake ready, but
unfortunately it wasn't to be.We all hope that Pat will be out of hospital soon"

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 March 20, 2002

Terror attack victim's body yet to be found.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 227 words



Six months after the New York terror attacks the body of Hendon victim
Christopher Newton-Carter has still to be found.

His brother Mark, 50, said: "His body has not been found as far as we know. We
are having to cope as a family but it's like it happened yesterday to be honest
with you. We were a very close-knit family and we cannot get used to it."

Christopher, 52, assured his family he was safe moments before a terrorist plane
ploughed into the World Trade Centre below where he worked on September 11, last
year.

He spoke with Mark on the telephone after the first plane smashed into the north
tower opposite where he worked. He was desperate for his 86-year-old mother
Linda, of Parson Street, Hendon, to know he was safe.

However, the terrorists' second plane then hit the south tower below where
Christopher was based on the 104th floor. He was still on the telephone to Mark
who was watching the drama unfold on television. However, Christopher suddenly
told him he was going to get out because the building was swaying and put the
phone down.

Mondaymarked the six month anniversary of the strikes on the World Trade Centre
and Pentagon. "We're trying to get on with things and didn't get together as a
family yesterday," said Mark. "We held a memorial service for my brother one
month after the attack."

March 13, 2002 19:00

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 March 21, 2002

Terrorists in car bomb attack on eve of George Bush visit

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 201 words


AT LEAST six people were killed and 30 injured today by a car bomb outside the
US embassy in Lima, the Peruvian capital, officials said.

The blast comes three days ahead of a visit by US President George Bush.

At least four bodies could be seen in the rubble, including a boy wearing roller
skates.

Interior Minister Fernando Rospigliosi said the blast killed two policemen and
four other people. A US official said no American citizens were hurt.

Bush is due to arrive in Lima on Saturday to meet Peruvian President Alejandro
Toledo and leaders from Colombia, Bolivia and Ecuador.

The blast happened at 10.45 pm yesterday (3.45am GMT today), in an affluent
neighbourhood of late-night restaurants, cinemas and shops.

Deputy fire commander Juan Piperis said there were unconfirmed reports of nine
dead. He said 30 to 40 people had been injured and taken to a nearby hospital.
He estimated about 66 lbs of explosives had been used in the attack.

Bush's planned trip to Lima "has activated terrorist groups of diverse origins
that are trying to intimidate us just as they tried to intimidate the United
States", Rospigliosi said.

"But they are not going to intimidate us."

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             March 22, 2002, Friday

Terror attack hits Spurs backer

SECTION: Pg. 36

LENGTH: 90 words

ENIC, the entertainment group which owns 29.9pc of Tottenham Hotspur football
club, has announced interim pre-tax profits of pounds 1m, down from pounds 30.1m
last year. The 97pc slump came despite the club, which is chaired by Enic
managing director Daniel Levy, increasing profits from pounds 900,000 to pounds
2.9m. Group turnover fell from pounds 29.9m to pounds 13.9m.

Chairman Stephen Davidson said trading at its Warner Bros stores and WB
restaurant had been badly affected by September's terrorist activities.
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 22, 2002

Red Brigades terrorists praise twin tower attack

BYLINE: Chris Starrs

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 512 words


AN offshoot of Italy's Red Brigades terrorist group yesterday praised the
September 11 attacks as a model of effective terrorism as it claimed
responsibility for murdering a government adviser working on union reforms.

However, the Red Brigades for the Building of the Fighting Communist Party made
no attempt to link itself to the al Qaeda network blamed for the US attacks, nor
did Italian officials.

The claim, made at the start of a 26-page document, written in turgid political
prose, which was e-mailed to a news agency, came a day after Claudio Scajola,
the Italian interior minister, blamed the Red Brigades for the murder of
Professor Marco Biagi.

The 52-year-old university professor was the second economist working on union
reform - a bitterly contested issue in Italy - to be gunned down in three years
and the same group has now claimed responsibility for both killings. He was shot
on Tuesday night outside his home in Bologna by two men on a motorbike.

Professor Biagi had advocated loosening Italy's employment market, one of the
most rigid in Europe. A moderate, he had advised the centre-left when it was in
power and then the conservative government, which took over last year.

Following Professor Biagi's murder, Silvio Berlusconi, the Italian prime
minister, vowed to push ahead with the reforms.

The document, which was sent to an Italian news agency and posted on the
internet yesterday, dwelled on domestic politics, but also praised the attacks
on New York and Washington as examples of effective terrorism. The document said
it showed "how it is possible to carry out highly destructive attacks in enemy
territory, with destabilising effects, without the use of technologically
advanced weapons".

It went on to say that US policy in Afghanistan, the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict and Iraq showed the "need for the forging of alliances between anti-

imperialistic forces and revolutionary forces in the regions of Europe, the
Mediterranean and the Middle East".

Professor Biagi's murder stunned Italy and tens of thousands of people took to
the streets yesterday to protest against the violence.

Professor Biagi's security was removed after the September 11 attacks to free up
agents to work on international terrorism. Although Italian intelligence
agencies last week warned that those working on reform, especially those who
play a crucial role as experts or consultants, could become targets, Professor
Biagi's security was not restored.

A terrorist warning has also been issued in the UK. Senior detectives yesterday
warned of possible bombings on the mainland by dissident Irish republicans over
Easter.

The last suspected Real IRA bomb on the mainland was in Birmingham last year,
and senior anti-terrorist squad officers believe an attack is now "overdue".
They are especially worried about booby-trap bombs hidden in innocuous objects.

The warning follows the recent discovery of a device hidden in a traffic cone in
Northern Ireland which was intended for a member of the security forces.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 22, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: 3 DIE IN SUICIDE ATTACK

BYLINE: Mark Ellis, Foreign Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 174 words

HIGHLIGHT: CASUALTY: Shoppers try to help a boy injured in yesterday's suicide
bomb attack which killed three people; BOMBER: Mohammed Hashaika


A SUICIDE bomber killed himself and two Israelis in a busy shopping street in
Jerusalem yesterday.

Fanatic Mohammed Hashaika's head was blown off and left in the middle of the
road, his eyes closed.

Sixty people were hurt, including a small boy, many of them seriously. Last
night there were doubts that ceasefire talks between US truce negotiator General
Anthony Zinni and Israeli leader Ariel Shannon would continue today.

Palestinian President Yasser Arafat's attempts to stop the bloodshed were
condemned after it emerged that the Al Aqsa Martyr's Brigade, linked to his
Fatah movement, was responsible for the latest bombing.

But Mr Arafat promised to "put an end to such attacks" and work towards a
ceasefire. The bomber was former policeman Hashaika, 22, who was released from
jail last week after being held on suspicion of planning such an attack,
detonated a bomb under his coat.

US Secretary of State Colin Powell announced he had designated the al-Aqsa
Martyrs Brigade as a foreign terrorist organisation.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 22, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: 3 DIE IN SUICIDE ATTACK

BYLINE: Mark Ellis, Foreign Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 176 words

HIGHLIGHT: BOMBER: Mohammed Hashaika; CASUALTY: Shoppers try to help a boy
injured in yesterday's suicide bomb attack which killed three people


A SUICIDE bomber killed himself and two Israelis in a busy shopping street in
Jerusalem yesterday.

Fanatic Mohammed Hashaika's head was blown off and left in the middle of the
road, his eyes closed.

Sixty people were hurt, some of them seriously. Among them was a small boy. Last
night there were doubts that ceasefire talks between US truce negotiator General
Anthony Zinni and Israeli leader Ariel Shannon would continue today.

Palestinian President Yasser Arafat's attempts to stop the bloodshed were
condemned after it emerged that the Al Aqsa Martyr's Brigade, linked to his
Fatah movement, was responsible for the latest bombing.

But Mr Arafat promised to "put an end to such attacks" and work towards a
ceasefire. The bomber was a 22-year-old former policeman. He was released from
jail last week after being held on suspicion of planning such an attack. He
detonated the device under his coat.

US Secretary of State Colin Powell announced he had designated the al-Aqsa
Martyrs Brigade as a foreign terrorist organisation.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 22, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: 4 DIE IN SUICIDE ATTACK

BYLINE: Mark Ellis, Foreign Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 274 words

HIGHLIGHT: CASUALTY: Boy injured in yesterday's bomb attack by Hashaika, right


A SUICIDE bomber killed himself and three Israelis in a busy shopping street in
Jerusalem yesterday.

Fanatic Mohammed Hashaika's head was blown off and left in the middle of the
road, his eyes closed.

Sixty people were hurt, some of them seriously. Among them was a small boy.

Last night there were doubts that ceasefire talks between US truce negotiator
General Anthony Zinni and Israeli leader Ariel Shannon would continue today.

Palestinian President Yasser Arafat's attempts to stop the bloodshed were
condemned after it emerged that the Al Aqsa Martyr's Brigade, linked to his
Fatah movement, was responsible for the latest bombing.

Mr Arafat promised to "put an end to such attacks" and work towards a ceasefire.

But speaking before the attack, President George Bush said: "I frankly have been
disappointed in his performance. Mr Arafat must do everything in his power to
stop the violence."

The bomber was a 22-year-old former policeman. He was released from jail last
week after being held on suspicion of planning such an attack. He detonated the
device, packed with nails and screws, under his coat causing carnage in the
heart of Jerusalem.

US Secretary of State Colin Powell announced he had designated the al-Aqsa
Martyrs Brigade as a foreign terrorist organisation.

In another flashpoint yesterday Israeli troops in a tank were reported to have
opened fire on the Rafah refugee camp in the southern Gaza Strip, critically
wounding a four-year-old Palestinian.

The latest attack came a day after a Palestinian bomber blew himself up on a
bus, killing seven people, including four soldiers.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 March 23, 2002

Families in terror after petrol- bomb attacks

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Sally Cope

LENGTH: 391 words


COMMUNITY leaders and police in Bradford appealed for calm last night after
terrifying petrol bomb attacks were launched on homes in an Asian area of the
city.

Families in six houses in West Bowling were targeted in the attacks in the early
hours of yesterday. The front doors of houses in Parkside Road and Woodroyd Road
were damaged by fire and a petrol bomb was thrown through an upstairs window in
nearby Parsonage Road.

Victims, including the father of an eight- month- old baby, battled to put out
the fires with the help of the fire brigade, and all managed to escape serious
injury.

Last night, police investigating the attacks appealed for calm and said they
were not anticipating any further similar incidents.

Det Sgt Chris Walker, of Bradford South CID, said: At the moment we are keeping
an open mind as to the motive for these attacks and we are examining closed
circuit TV footage taken from properties in the area to help us in our
inquiries.

We believe these were targeted attacks and we would like to reassure people that
we do not expect there to be any further instances.

Bowling Labour councillor Mukhtar Ali echoed appeals from the police for local
people to remain calm and not to seek reprisals.

He said: We have got to make sure that people do not take the law into their own
hands. I am sure that the police will deal with the matter as quickly as
possible.

I hope this incident will not be a reason for other people to try and break the
law. If we can keep calm and let the police do their work, I am sure they will
resolve this.

One man, who did not want to be named, told how he was forced to dive to safety
from his car when he spotted the suspect walking towards him in Woodroyd Road.

He came towards me and threw petrol at the car, shouting, I'm going to kill
you'. Then he set fire to it and I jumped out just in time. I was in fear of my
life.

Another said only the sound of breaking glass as missiles were thrown at
neighbouring windows had awoken him and enabled him to act to put out the fire
before it engulfed his house.

A woman from another house which was attacked said: I am terrified to go to
sleep.

We have lived here for 15 years and we didn't know something like this could
happen.

If the same thing happens again and the house catches fire, how will we get out?

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                 March 24, 2002

Check travel cover over terror attacks

BYLINE: Sally Hamilton

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 199 words


TRAVELLERS worried about terror attacks on holiday or business trips are being
urged to check the small print of their insurance.

Many insurers are struggling to find underwriters willing to cover policyholders
against terrorism and are being forced to change their terms.

American Express has recently written to cardholders who receive free accident
cover to alert them to changes. It says it will not cover any injury or death
caused by 'the actual, alleged or threatened discharge, dispersal, seepage,
migration, escape, release of or exposure to any hazardous biological, chemical,
nuclear or radioactive material, gas, matter or contamination'.

American Express says the clause is being introduced into many insurers' travel
policies.

The Association of British Insurers says: 'It is a varied picture.

Some of the larger insurers are managing to negotiate cover with underwriters
but other companies are unable to offer it.

'Those concerned about this risk should check any policy they have taken out or
are considering buying.' Direct Travel Insurance and Norwich Union are among
insurers that automatically cover terrorist risk.

Skiing cover Page 52


LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Wigan Evening Post

                                 March 25, 2002

Chisel attack terror

SOURCE: Wigan Evening Post

BYLINE: By David Taylor

LENGTH: 229 words


A disabled man was attacked in his home by carjackers as his children slept
upstairs.

Two thugs battered Dennis Bygrave, 48, with what is believed to be a chisel and
kicked and punched him before stealing his specially-adapted Mercedes.

The attackers struck when Mr Bygrave answered a knock at the door of his home in
Rose Hill Terrace, Atherton, near Wigan.

The two men forced their way into the house and one started to punch and kick
him while the other repeatedly shouted: Give me the keys, Give me the keys. The
attack, shortly after 11pm on Friday night, left him with severe bruising.

Mr Bygrave said: I heard a knock on the side window and thought it was my
15-year-old son coming home, so when there was a knock on the back door I just
presumed it was him.

As soon as I opened the door this chap started laying into me. He hit me across
the face with a metal bar; I didn't think he was ever going to stop.Fearing for
the safety of his three children upstairs he handed the keys over.

His car, a red Mercedes, registration number W68 FCB, was bought with
compensation he received after being involved in an accident with a lorry in
1992 which left him so badly injured he is incapable of working.

One of the thugs was white, 6ft 2in, aged about 40 and was wearing a blue shirt.
His accomplice was white, 5ft 9in, of slim build and in his 20s.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 26, 2002, Tuesday

DINERS' ARSON TERROR;
 JAIL AFTER FIREWORK ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 196 words


TWO men who took part in a firework attack on a Muslim-owned restaurant in the
centre of West Bromwich weeks after September 11 have been jailed for three
months.

Recorder Rex Tedd QC told the men yesterday they carried out the attack on the
Shalimar restaurant 'at a time when there was genuine public fear of violence
and terrorism'.

Terrified staff and customers at the High Street restaurant threw themselves to
the floor when the giant roman candle exploded after being thrown into the
premises.

The firework was the kind used at public displays. It exploded seven times. 'It
is hardly surprising that a waiter had it in mind that the restaurant might have
been singled out because it was owned and run by Muslims,' added the Recorder at
Wolverhampton Crown Court.

Akmal Alam (21), of High Street, West Bromwich, and Mamon Uddin (18), of
Kingsley Street, Walsall, both admitted common assault.

Alam was sent to prison and Uddin to a young offenders' institution, both for
three months. Patrick Darby, prosecuting, told the court Alam gave the firework
to Uddin who used to work at the restaurant but was dismissed because of his
'bad attitude'.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 March 26, 2002

US terror attacks cost airport GBP 20m

BYLINE: By Kevin Feddy

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 501 words



MORE than GBP 20m will be wiped off Manchester Airport's annual profits by the
impact of September 11, it emerged today. But bosses are confident they have
turned the corner.  Since the terror attacks on New York and Washington, the
airport has carried 600,000 fewer passengers than expected.  Many flights were
cancelled in the immediate aftermath, while several airlines suspended services,
reduced frequencies or used smaller jets because demand plummeted.  Services to
Heathrow and Gatwick were hit because fewer passengers were connecting to
US-bound and other long-haul flights.  The current financial year ends on Sunday
and results published next month will show income has fallen by GBP 400,000 a
week since September 11. As well as the fall in passenger numbers, cargo figures
have slumped.  A senior source said there had been only minimal impact from the
growth of low-cost airlines at other airports, such as easyJet at Liverpool John
Lennon.

"There are not many directly competing routes, so there has been only a marginal
effect," said the source. But easyJet is soon to launch a twice-daily flights
from Liverpool to Paris Charles de Galle, which will put pressure on Manchester.
Pre-tax profits for the year were forecast at the start to reach GBP 39m, but
are now expected to be about GBP 17m.

"It was always going to be a challenging year as we are still feeling the
effects of the abolition of duty-free sales for people travelling within the EU,
and have reduced our charges to airlines by two and a half per cent," said the
insider.  "But after September 11, the fear of terrorism meant we saw
transAtlantic and other long-haul passenger numbers fall by about 35 per cent,
although the figures are now stabilising. Charter numbers held up after the
attacks, as people who had booked holidays went on them, but, since then, the
charter market has been shaky. Summer bookings are down substantially, by about
15 or 20 per cent.

"It seems many people are planning to drive across to the Continent, while
others are simply waiting for late bargains. There are some great deals around,
but there is a risk that tour operators will reduce capacity.  "The next year
will be tough, but we are expecting it to be one of recovery. We have done
better than some airports - passengers numbers are now picking up and business
people are flying again." Some airlines are reinstating services suspended after
September 11, including Air Canada to Toronto and Malaysian Airlines to Kuala
Lumpur.  Before the attacks, passenger growth was running at seven per cent and
the airport was on course to handle 20 million passengers this year.

Profits were also running ahead of forecasts.  Since then, however, major
expansion schemes have been frozen.  It is thought no job losses have resulted
directly from the impact of September 11, but the airport is embroiled in a
dispute with security staff who have staged a series of strikes over plans to
axe 150 posts and cut wages.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Manchester Evening News

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 26, 2002, Tuesday

STAR IN VANDAL TERROR;
 HEARTS HERO ATTACKED

BYLINE: Scott Hussey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 182 words

HIGHLIGHT: ATTACK: Severin


HEARTS star Scott Severin had his pounds 30,000 BMW trashed by an angry Hibs fan
after the striker scored in the last Edinburgh derby.

The yob threw bricks through the windows of the car and scratched the paintwork
with his keys.

He also hurled abuse at the 23-year-old Scotland star as he relaxed inside his
Edinburgh home with his fiancee in the early hours of the morning.

The sickening incident happened just hours after the tough-tackling midfielder
scored a crucial equaliser in Hearts' 2-1 victory over Hibs in a derby two
weekends ago.

Severin said yesterday: "It is sad some people will stoop so low.

"After all, it was only a game of football.

"I heard a bang and thought at first it was someone running over the top of the
car.

"I went out to have a look and didn't see anybody but there were three bricks
which had been put through the back windscreen.

"It's the first time something like this has happened to me in around six years
at Hearts."

Hearts spokesman Douglas Dalgleish said: "This was clearly the action of a
mindless individual."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 March 27, 2002

Bedroom attack terror for OAP, 82.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 333 words



AN 82-year-old man was battered with a piece of wood by a burglar as he lay in
bed.

Eric Hodgkinson desperately tried to telephone for help when he was attacked by
the intruder at his Bromley Cross home.

He was knocked out of bed by the thief who then held a screwdriver to his throat
and demanded cash.

Mr Hodgkinson, who suffers from problems with his hips, tried to fight back but
the robber hit him repeatedly in the face.

He was left on the floor as the thief ransacked his bedroom.

He was eventually able to raise the alarm by banging on the floor to alert his
80-year-old wife Marjorie who was watching television downstairs.

Mr Hodgkinson is the latest victim in a spate of attacks on pensioners
throughout Bolton.

When Mrs Hodgkinson went upstairs to see what her husband wanted, she was also
confronted by the robber.

He escaped with cash and a ladies Rotary watch on a gold bracelet with a white
face.

Mr Hodgkinson was taken to the Royal Bolton Hospital suffering from cuts and
bruises.

Recovering in bed at his home today he said: "This man needs to be caught as
soon as possible.

"I was in bed because I didn't feel very well when this head popped round the
door and I saw a man armed with a screwdriver and a piece of wood.

"I went to grab the telephone and he went berserk, hitting me in the face."

His shocked wife said: "It is disgusting that someone could come into out home
and threaten us. I am still very shaken."

Det Con Paula Schofield, of Astley Bridge CID, said: "It was a despicable and
cowardly attack against an elderly couple in their own home.

"We would advise people to make sure they doors are locked, even if you are
inside the house because it won't stop people from sneaking in."

The robber was white, aged between 19 and 25 years, 5ft 8in, slim build, clean
shaven with black hair swept back.

Anyone with information is asked to call Astley Bridge CID on 0161 856 5640 or
Crimestoppers on free phone 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 March 27, 2002

Preparing for terror attack.

BYLINE: David Higgerson

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 190 words



HOW to prepare for a terrorist attack on Blackburn is set to be considered by
council bosses as they bid to shake-up their emergency planning service.

Blackburn with Darwen Council is set to take control of its own disaster
preparations from next April after councillors decided to stop buying the
service from Lancashire County Council.

Until now, county hall bosses working at a secret location on the outskirts of
Preston have taken responsibility for preparing for major incidents and
co-ordinating the response.

Now, four years after becoming a unitary authority, members of Blackburn with
Darwen Council's executive committee has backed a recommendation that they
should take control of the service themselves.

As well as responding to incidents, the council will have to draw up a series of
'what if' scenarios so they will be able to respond immediately to any incident.

The Lancashire County Council emergency planning team helped co-ordinate all the
various agencies involved in the aftermath of the Burnley riots.

Extra staff and consultants will be employed to run Blackburn with Darwen's new
service.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 March 28, 2002

Jail blocks knife ban despite terror attack

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Kate O'Hara

LENGTH: 444 words


LeSS than 24 hours after a judge expressed dismay that a dangerous prisoner who
took a female warder hostage had been allowed to keep a knife in his cell, the
prison yesterday confirmed it was still handing out craft knives to inmates as
privileges.

Paul Ledlie was already serving life for attacks on women when he took the woman
hostage for 13 hours at Wakefield Jail, last April, and threatened to rape her.

Passing a further life sentence on Ledlie at Leeds Crown Court on Tuesday, Judge
Paul Hoffman said: To let a man known to be dangerous keep a knife in his room
beggars belief.

But despite the judge's comments, the prison last night remained defiant and
said it had no plans to change its policy.

Governor John Slater refused to comment on the terrifying incident, but an
acting deputy governor - who would not give his name - said there were no plans
to stop inmates having plastic craft knives in their cells.

He said: Prisoners are allowed to have hobbies. The governor has no comment to
make about the case, the judge is entitled to say whatever he wants to.

But we do have hobby knives because the prisoners do partake in hobbies and
that's an end of it.

He added: Things don't change - prisoners are allowed to have privileges.

Wakefield's decision was backed-up by the Prison Service, which said there were
no plans to ban the plastic craft knives.

Last night the vice chairman of the Prison Officers Association, Steve Gillan,
described the policy as absolutely outrageous.

Mr Gillan added: We fully condemn the Prison Service for their attitude towards
this very serious matter, bearing in mind the judge's comments.

The health and safety of our staff is paramount to us and the whole issue of
craft knives is one we will now be seeking to raise with the Prison Department.

Ledlie, jailed for life in 1993 after a series of horrific sex attacks on six
pensioners in London - which saw him nicknamed the Southall Stalker - had tried
to hold another officer hostage at a prison in Cambridgeshire earlier in his
sentence.

During the incident at Wakefield, he pushed the terrified warden into his cell
and closed the door. The woman, who had ten years experience working on the
wing, feared for her life during the ordeal and has been on long-term sick leave
since.

He told her: I don't want to hurt you but I can see your jugular vein.

Over the next 13 hours he made lewd and threatening remarks and tried to
persuade her to get onto his bed.

She was released at 8.30am the following day, after negotiators were brought in.

A Prison Service spokeswoman said the knives issued do undergo security checks.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             March 29, 2002, Friday

POST TRAUMA STRESS HITS NEW YORKERS;
 100,000 SUFFERING AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 356 words

HIGHLIGHT: SUSPECT: Zacarias Moussaoui


MORE than 100,000 New Yorkers suffered post traumatic stress disorder in the
weeks following the September 11 terror attacks, a report published yesterday
said.

Nearly one in 10 people living in the lower third of Manhattan reported major
depression they believed was linked to the World Trade Centre atrocity, the
study by the New York Academy of Medicine found.

Many had trouble sleeping and, when they did, repeatedly dreamt about the
disaster.

"This was not a matter of 'have you had a nightmare?' This was, 'You've had
nightmares night after night after night'," said Dr Sandro Galea, who compiled
the first major study of the psychological impact of the attacks.

"New Yorkers together went through severe trauma. There are tremendous mental
-health needs."

One in five people living in the immediate neighbourhood of Ground Zero suffered
from post traumatic stress disorder.

Symptoms included flashbacks or nightmares in which they relived the terror they
experienced during the attack.

Many of the 1,000 people from Manhattan surveyed had seen the disaster in person
and had suffered panic attacks during or after the planes hit the towers.

One in four said they suffered from insomnia and were easily startled by loud
noises, while nearly one in five said they were having more difficulty
concentrating than usual.

Sonny Goldstein, whose daughter Monica was killed in the attack, said he relives
the attack every day through memories, dreams and television.

"It's always on the news, on every programme, even the Academy Awards," he said.

Calls to mental health helpline Lifenet, which averaged 3,000 per month before
September 11, have steadily increased since the attacks, and set a record of
6,600 in January.

Meanwhile, the suspected 20th hijacker in the September 11 attacks will face the
death penalty if convicted after the US government yesterday pledged to protect
the "rights of victims".

Zacarias Moussaoui, who lived in south London for much of the last decade, is
accused of being a member of al Qaida and conspiring to hijack planes and fly
them into tall buildings.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 29, 2002, Friday

Celtic to play terrorist attacks benefit match

SECTION: Sport

LENGTH: 42 words


Celtic confirmed last night that talks were taking place over plans for a
fund-raising match against a high-profile team, possibly AC Milan, at Giants
Stadium, just outside New York, in aid of the victims of the September 11
terrorist attacks.


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 29, 2002, Friday

Tourists in Italy defy terror attack warning

BYLINE: Richard Owen in Florence

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 277 words


BRITISH and American tourists turned out in their thousands to enjoy the spring
sunshine of Florence, Verona, Venice, Milan and Rome yesterday in defiance of
warnings from Washington of a possible terrorist attack over Easter.

The Italian authorities said that they were taking the warning "with the utmost
seriousness" and the British Embassy in Rome urged British visitors to be
particularly vigilant.

The Fizgerald family from Hammersmith, West London -Edward, a lawyer, his wife
Rebecca, a writer, and their daughters Blanche, 11, Atalanta, 10, and Honour, 6
- said that they were "quite undeterred". "We heard there was an alert, but we
get those in London over the IRA," Mr Fitzgerald said. Honour said that she
intended to "have fun in Italy anyway".

Elisabeth Hill and Roxanne Hoek, students from Colorado and New York, said they
were going from Florence to Venice "terrorists or no terrorists".

The US State Department warned its citizens that "a possible threat exists in
the cities of Venice, Florence, Milan and Verona" and later added Rome. It said
that the threat was from unnamed extremist groups, with an attack most likely on
Easter Sunday. Achille Sera, chief of police in Florence, said that the threat
was "Middle Eastern in origin".

Italian officials said that the most likely targets in the four other cities
named were the Uffizi Gallery, the cathedral and the Accademia gallery in
Florence; the cathedral, the Basilica of St Ambrose and the church of Santa
Maria delle Grazie in Milan; the Doge's Palace, the Rialto Bridge and the
Guggenheim Museum in Venice; and the Arena and "Juliet's House" in Verona.


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 March 30, 2002

Italy clashes with US over terrorist attack warning;

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 220 words


ITALIAN and United States officials were involved in a major row yesterday over
the alleged dangers of terrorist attacks.

Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi tried to reassure the public after a warning by
the United States that extremists might launch an Easter Sunday attack in four
Italian cities.

He said that there was no cause for alarm.

Italian authorities were infuriated when the US embassy in Rome unexpectedly
released a warning late on Wednesday.

This said US citizens could be targeted in "terrorist actions" in Venice,
Florence, Milan or Verona on Sunday.

The original tip-off that a strike might be imminent had come from the Italian
secret services.

However, officials in Italy had not intended to make the news public, preferring
instead to boost security discreetly before the busy holiday weekend.

Following the US statement, political leaders moved quickly to allay the fears
of the millions of tourists who traditionally head to Italy's art cities over
Easter.

A senior Italian government adviser was shot dead last week by an extremist
left-wing guerilla group in a crime which is believed to have been motivated by
domestic politics.

In previous terrorist incidents, it has been shown that right-wing forces
withing the Italian security services were involved.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 31, 2002

VATICAN ALERT AS US WARNS OF TERROR ATTACK ON POPE TODAY

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Gordon Thomas and Yvonne Ridley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 525 words


AMERICAN intelligence services have warned that Arab fanatics may be planning a
terrorist attack on the Pope today at his traditional Easter appearance in St
Peter's Square.

The ailing pontiff, who still has bullet fragments in his body following an
assassination attempt in May 1981, may be especially vulnerable because he is
too frail to wear a bullet-proof jacket.

"The security is a nightmare but we have received very strong intelligence from
the US State Department which says it has information His Holiness Pope John
Paul is in danger, " said a source close to the Italian intelligence service,
DIGOS.

There had been speculation that the 81-year-old Pope could miss Easter Sunday
mass for the first time in his 24-year tenure because of a painful knee
condition, but the Vatican insisted last night he would attend as usual.

American intelligence officers have revealed that a number of cities in Italy
could be targeted over the Easter weekend, including the historic American
Church in Florence and other Christian sites. Other high-profile European
targets include the Tower of London and the Eiffel Tower in Paris.

"There is credible intelligence that Hamas leaders in the Bekka Valley, Lebanon,
have triggered dormant cell units in Europe to launch a series of terrorist
strikes, " added the source.

British intelligence operatives based in the Middle East have reported a
"heightening of activity" in the region, which could suggest terrorists are
planning an Easter spectacular.

A source close to MI6 told the Sunday Express: "This all stems from total
frustration arising in Beirut and this frustration could be taken out on several
high-profile Westerners. There are some who think this is 'shoestring'
terrorism, designed to get all the Western security and emergency services on a
permanent high-alert.

"The outcome is that we all become fatigued and that is when security lapses
happen. It's almost a war of nerves."

Last month the Sunday Express revealed that Britain's security forces were
bracing themselves for the UK's first suicide bomber.

The head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad, David Veness, admitted that
there was little anyone could do to prevent such an attack.

He also said that the threat of biological and chemical attacks had to be taken
seriously. His fears have been reinforced by a secret MI6 report submitted last
week which revealed that Czech authorities have admitted that a "substantial
number of vials containing deadly bacteria" had gone missing.

The Sunday Express has now learned that other European intelligence agencies are
investigating claims that a Hamas cell has acquired potentially deadly
bio-materials from two of the former Soviet labs in Prague - the Military
Institute for Microbiology and the Techonin Institute.

Hamas is the Arab group which claimed responsibility for the Jewish Passover
attack in which 18 people died and 120 guests were wounded by a suicide bomber
in Israel.

"All the intelligence which is being collated now tends to suggest this is going
to be a dreadful Easter, " said the British intelligence source.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             April 2, 2002, Tuesday

ISRAELI GRIP TIGHTENS ON WEST BANK ACCUSED: Yasser Arafat (left) saId by Israeli
prime minister Ariel; Sharon to be heading a coalition of terror; ATTACK FORCE:
A convoy of; Israeli armoured personnel carriers head down a road south of the
West Bank town of Ramallah

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 320 words


ISRAELI forces attacked Palestinian security headquarters near Ramallah and
headed into Bethlehem early today, signalling an intensification of an offensive
the Israelis say is aimed at stamping out terrorism.

Israeli forces attacked the headquarters of Palestinian Preventive Security
outside Ramallah, firing tank shells and machine guns, Palestinian officials
said. They said Palestinian security chief Jibril Rajoub had given orders to the
400 men inside to resist.

Palestinian officials said that Israeli soldiers used 60 Palestinian civilians
as a human shield in front of the tanks before the assault. The Israeli Army
denied the claim.

Foreign Minister Shimon Peres told the US network MS-NBC: "We are in the
territories for three or four weeks. We don't intend to occupy the places."

Israeli tanks moved into Bethlehem from two directions, witnesses said, heading
toward the centre of town, where the Church of the Nativity marks the
traditional birthplace of Jesus.

Earlier, outside Bethlehem, an Israeli soldier was shot and killed by a
Palestinian sniper, the military said. Troops also moved into the nearby
villages of Al Khader and Beit Jalla.

In Beit Jalla, Israeli forces imposed a curfew and occupied buildings commanding
the high ground over Bethlehem. Six foreign protesters, including four Britons,
were injured, none seriously, when an Israeli soldier fired into the ground in
front of them as they marched in Beit Jalla. Near central Jerusalem yesterday,
an Israeli soldier stopped a suspicious car, and the driver detonated an
explosive, killing them both.

Later, Palestinians opened fire on an Israeli car in the West Bank, wounding
three members of a family. Israeli soldiers fired back, killing one of the
gunmen.

Ramallah remained under tight Israeli control, and Israeli tanks and troops
maintained their siege around Palestinian Yasser Arafat's office.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 April 3, 2002

Fury at probation for terror attack

BYLINE: groberts

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 408 words


A YOUNG city student woman today relived the terrifying moment a crazed drunk
put a knife to her throat.  Debbie Baird was getting into her car in Huntly town
square when Andrew Morrison, 49, attacked her.

The hysterical woman managed to get into her car and lock the door before
phoning police on a mobile.

At Aberdeen Sheriff Court yesterday, Morrison - who was on probation at the time
of the attack - was put on probation for 12 months.

Debbie, a Robert Gordon University student in Aberdeen, today blasted the
sentence.

She said: "He put me through hell and he's back on the streets. I have to live
with what he did and he hasn't even been punished." The young woman, now 21,
said she still trembles when she remembers the cruel attack.

"I was getting into my car when he crept up behind me. He mumbled something and
I just tried to ignore him - then he took out a huge knife from his pocket and
put it to my throat.

"I just froze and it was like oh my God, what's going to happen to me?  "I don't
know how but I got free of him and jumped in the car and locked the door.

"Then he started jabbing the window with the knife - the sound of it "chinking"
on the glass was horrible.

"By this time I had crawled across into the passenger seat and I was shaking and
crying and screaming.

"I grabbed my mobile phone and dialled 999 - then he just put the knife back in
his pocket and sauntered off - it was terrifying." At the court yesterday,
Morrison, of 92 George Street, Huntly, appeared for sentence.

He previously admitted assaulting the woman and pulling a knife on her.

He was also facing a charge alleging he possessed an offensive weapon, a
butterfly knife, on the same day.

His not guilty plea was previously accepted.

His agent, Les Green said Morrison had a lifestyle which revolved around
drinking, and it was acknowledged that routine had to be broken.

Sheriff Alexander Jessop noted Morrison was already on probation for 18 months.

He put him on probation again for 12 months and both orders should end around
the same time.

But Debbie was stunned by the sentence.

"I thought he was going to jail - I can't believe it.

"I have to live with this, knowing what he put me through - he put a knife to my
throat and he gets probation?" Her mum, Irene, 41, added: "We were all hoping he
would be going to jail but it seems this is just the way the system works these
days. It's a disgrace."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           April 03, 2002, Wednesday

Dornier falls victim to US terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 192 words

FAIRCHILD Dornier, the German-American aeroplane maker, became the largest
aerospace casualty of the September 11 terrorist attacks in America when it
filed for insolvency after failing to find new strategic partners.

Managing director Lou Harrington said yesterday the group, which makes small
jets and parts for all Airbus models, is now working on a plan to pave the way
for the transition to a partnership with a new investor.

The company employs around 4,300 people in Germany and the United States. The
German government, stung by criticism over the recent collapse of building
company Phillip Holzmann, said it would help efforts to keep the firm running.

However, economics minister Werner Meuller, with an apparent eye on the
September general election, said it was up to the Bavarian regional government
to offer help first. The region is led by the conservative challenger for
chancellor.

Reports said the move to file for insolvency came after a break-up of talks with
Boeing. The US aerospace giant might still be interested in a partnership,
because insolvency would suspend Fairchild payments on its debt.
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 April 3, 2002

Victim of knife maniac recalls street terror attack

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Alexandra Wood

LENGTH: 755 words


A VICTIM of a knife maniac who ran amok in a Yorkshire city and killed a man
last night recalled the chilling moment when two blades were plunged into his
back.

Robert Findlay was with a neighbour a few yards from his mother's home in Astley
Street, Hull, when he felt a thud on his shoulder as the man plunged both blades
in at the same time.

Mr Findlay said yesterday: All I saw was two knives - I couldn't take my eyes
away from them - they must have been eight to nine inches long and maybe an
inch- and-a-half across, lifted up in the air.

For one second I was thinking about what happened, the next I was trying to get
my key into the door.''

In the meantime the madman, who had the two knives tucked into his belt, tried
to stab neighbour Dave Simpson - and having failed, was chasing him up the road.

Mr Simpson, a postman, looked round, realised he wasn't being pursued and
decided to follow the man to warn anyone else from straying into his path.

After rushing into his house to pick up his mobile phone he followed the man,
talking to the police all the time.

At one point in De La Pole Avenue, the knifeman pulled the knives out of the
belt and tried to stab Mr Simpson again.

But Mr Simpson said yesterday, that despite the massive risks he had taken, he
would do it all again.

I was about half a pace behind Robert. All I saw was two knives going into
Robert's back and then he turned on me, with the knives in the air above his
head stabbing down at me. But I avoided him and ran as fast as I could.''

Mr Simpson spent the next 15 minutes following the knifeman.

He said: I did stop a few people. I just didn't want to see him doing any more
harm - but unfortunately he did.

I feel in a state of shock now, a nervous wreck. But if something similar
happened I would do it all again.''

Mr Findlay, who needed three pints of blood at hospital, also managed to call
the emergency services and was rushed first to Hull Royal Infirmary and then to
Castle Hill Hospital. Although the school janitor, who comes from Glenrothes in
Fife, had two-inch deep wounds, no organs were affected and he did not suffer
internal bleeding.

Yesterday, back home with his wife Margaret, he said: I feel like one of the
luckiest guys alive. I am just shocked and stunned, but I don't suppose I will
ever found out why he did it.

What he's done is a terrible thing - he has tried to destroy so many lives.''

Mr Findlay and Mr Simpson had been returning from the Halfway House pub, as had
another couple who were also attacked but suffered only minor injuries.

By strange coincidence Mr Findlay knew John Wright, who was killed in De La Pole
Avenue minutes later after being stabbed in the head and back.

Mr Wright, known to his friends as Jack, was returning home from the New Walton
Club, in Walton Street. He died on the way to hospital having suffered multiple
stab wounds.

His wife Judith described him yesterday as an adventurous, lively man, with many
friends and interests.

Mrs Wright said the 55-year-old former prison officer would be a great loss to
his family and friends''.

Born in Cottingham, Mr Wright worked for 18 years at Pentonville Prison in
London, and had returned to Hull 12 years ago after retiring on grounds of ill
health.

He had an adventurous early life following an apprenticeship as a coach painter
for East Yorkshire Coaches.

He joined the Merchant Navy, and lived for a short while in Canada before
marrying.

A good snooker player, he had passed on some of his skills to snooker
professional Peter Ebdon, and they still kept in touch.

Another couple told yesterday how they had been confronted by the man in De La
Pole Avenue moments before Mr Wright was fatally stabbed. Stacey Wainman and her
boyfriend David Sargeant said they had backed off swiftly after the man made a
sexual remark to her - and they noticed a big carving knife in his belt.

Moments later they heard a commotion in the street and went out to see Mr Wright
lying in the street in a pool of blood.

Humberside Police said yesterday another victim who was stabbed near the eye,
needing six stitches, had been released from hospital.

The couple who were attacked in Spring Bank West also left hospital after
treatment. The 32-year-old woman had suffered cuts and bruising to her hands and
arms, while a 38-year-old man was hit on the head.

Police have been given a further 24-hour extension to question a 20-year-old man
who was arrested on Sunday on suspicion of murder.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            April 4, 2002, Thursday

BUS YOBS IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 129 words


TRAVEL company Arriva is urging people to report vandalism after a bus was
targeted by yobs.

A bus travelling in the Garston area was left with damaged windows on Easter
Monday after a group of vandals attacked the vehicle.

The youths also left passengers terrified when they started shouting and
swearing on the bus at around 4.30pm.

Derek Bowes, of Arriva north west, said: "A large group of youths caused a
disturbance to other customers and then vandalised the windows of the bus. "At
Arriva north west we place paramount importance on the safety of our customers
and employees and would urge anybody with information to make a statement.

"Arriva north west is working with the police to apprehend those responsible and
will seek to prosecute."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            April 4, 2002, Thursday

MARK TAKES HIS DOG FOR A 20,000-MILE RUN;
 FUND-RAISING: COMMANDO AND HIS HUSKY WILL CRISS-CROSS AMERICA AND CANADA TO
HELP VICTIMS OF THE TERROR ATTACKS LAST YEAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 481 words


A COMMANDO is limbering up for an incredible 20,000-mile run around America and
Canada in tribute to those killed in the September 11 terrorism attacks.

Mark Llewhellin, 28, will be accompanied on the run, taking in 48 states and six
Canadian provinces, by his two-year-old pet dog Hope.

The Siberian husky is being fitted with special leather shoes to protect her
paws on the marathon which aims to raise thousands of pounds in sponsorship
money for the relatives of the twin towers victims.

Mr Llewhellin, of Haverfordwest, who served with the Seven Commando Battery in
the Royal Artillery is training for next September's event by running three
miles a day, increasing to nine miles a day and finally 24 miles in the weeks
leading up to the charity run.

He said, "As well as raising money for the families of victims I hope to make
some money to help children suffering from life-threatening illnesses.

"I'm taking Hope with me so she can meet some of the children in hospitals I
will be stopping at along the way. I am in the middle of building up a team of
people who will be able to help me raise the cash.

Mr Llewhellin is no stranger to lung-bursting events having already broken the
100km treadmill world record. He has also run 1,600 miles in 60 days from
Colorado to California in the USA.

During the run Mark and his dog will run the equivalent of five marathons a
week. It is expected to take more than two years to complete.

He said, "I wanted a dog who would be up to the challenge and Hope is one of the
best training dogs I have ever had. She outruns me every time and is always
hungry for more.

"I will probably run through 40 pairs of trainers in the course of the run and I
want to make sure Hope's paws stay in top condition by having special covers
made for her.

"I am already very fit because of the training I had in the army so it is not as
if I am starting from scratch.

"I take Hope down to a local beach and train with her there. She loves it.

"I had already planned to do this run before the September 11 attacks but
nothing definite was in place so now I have decided to dedicate it to victims.
After seeing the images on television moments after the planes hit the twin
towers and the Pentagon, I knew I had to do something for all the people
affected."

The only two states not included in the run will be Hawaii and Alaska because
they represent the extremes in terms of temperature and weather.

Mark said, "Hope will be screaming past me in the northern states where she will
be in an environment she will excel in and love. But she does start to flag in
the hot weather so Hope will probably spend some of the run in an air
-conditioned car.

"The route we will follow takes the shape of the American flag and we will be
running back and fore across the nation taking in virtually every state."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ONE MAN AND HIS DOG: Hope the Siberian husky who will be running;
20,000 miles, criss-crossing the United States with her owner Mark; Llewhellin

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester mercury

                                 April 5, 2002

lending their voices: Tjinder Singh and Ben Ayres, of Leicester chart-toppers
Cornershop under attack: The September 11 terror strike on New York charity
album: Moby

BYLINE: A. Khan

SECTION: News; Ents; Music; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 453 words


helping: city band Cornershop on September 11 charity album Pop stars in tribute
to victims of terror by Amrin Khan Leicester band Cornershop are among artists
who have contributed songs to a charity album in aid of September 11 victims.

The group were asked by the New York paper the Village Voice to send in a song
for the album.

The song, called Returning from the Wreckage, was put forward by the band and
was one of 18 tracks selected for the compilation album called Love Songs For
New York.

Chris Sharp, from the band's record label, Beggars Banquet, said the band, led
by singer and songwriter Tjinder Singh and guitarist Ben Ayres, are a big hit in
the USA with fans and critics alike.

He said: "Their profile in America is very good and they have a lot of fans over
there. They sold around 200,000 copies of their last album there." He added the
track was not written specifically about the tragic events of September 11 and
featured on the B-side of their single Lessons Learned from Rocky I to Rocky
III.

A spokeswoman for the band said: "The band thought the track was appropriate to
use, as it was a track which doesn't appear on the album and it has an air of
hope about it, lyrically and musically." The simple lyrics are: When the door
comes open and the light comes in...

Ain't going to give in (repeated several times) Turning from the wreckage Ain't
going to give in (repeated several times) Light comes streaming Resist it Resist
it (repeated several times) Other artists who have contributed to the CD include
rocker Andrew WK, dance-meister Moby and hip hop pioneer Afrika Bambaataa.

A spokeswoman for the Village Voice newspaper said thousands of artists had
responded to an ad asking for songs to be sent in and all the songs went through
a selection process to make the final cut.

She said: "The selection was done by a panel chosen from within the newspaper,
but panellists were not told who the stars were, so Moby and Cornershop earned
their place on the final list on merit." Cornershop, now based in London, formed
in Leicester in 1991 and had a No 1 single with Brimful of Asha in 1998.

The catchy tune about Bollywood film star Asha Bhosle went to straight to the
top of the charts and rocketed the band to international stardom.

The track was remixed by Norman Cook, aka Fatboy Slim, free of charge because he
liked the tune so much.

Cornershop went on to support Oasis on a tour of America following their smash
hit.

Love Songs for New York is released in America this week, but it is not expected
to be released in Britain.

However, it can be ordered online at the address below.

All the proceeds will be donated to The September 11 Fund.


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: 120941-5

                        Copyright 2002 Leicester mercury

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 5, 2002, Friday

Terror attack insurance

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 88 words


European insurers have launched a new company to cover commercial properties
against terrorist attack. Allianz, Zurich Financial Services, Swiss Re, XL
Capital, Scor and Hannover Re will take shareholdings in the new venture, called
Special Risk Insurance and Reinsurance Luxembourg (SRIR). The company will begin
underwriting in the second quarter of 2002, providing limited cover for physical
loss or damage to insured properties. In Britain terrorism cover is provided by
Pool Re, a Government-backed mutual.


LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 6, 2002

SNIPERS POISED FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: By John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 229 words


SCOTLAND Yard launched a massive security operation to guard the Royal family
and VIPs at the yesterday's ceremonial procession.

Streets around St James's Palace, The Mall, Buckingham Palace and Westminster
Abbey were extensively searched for explosive devices.

Snipers with high-powered rifles took up position on the roofs while police
helicopters hovered and boats patrolled the River Thames.

Senior officers said there was no specific intelligence to suggest a terrorist
attack. But the Anti-Terrorist Branch is acutely aware that the Real IRA is
plotting another wave of attacks on the mainland.

With Prime Minister Tony Blair, former premier Margaret Thatcher, opposition
leader Iain Duncan Smith and senior ministers in Westminster Hall, Scotland Yard
was taking no chances. Bodyguards lined up behind the Royal Family, their Glock
pistols discreetly hidden.

Police chiefs say Britain remains under threat from Osama Bin Laden's Al Qaeda
network and fanatics bent on punishing Britain for invading Afghanistan.
Bodyguards and police were also ordered to memorise the faces of known stalkers.
Some deranged men still blame senior Royals for the death of Princess Diana in
1997. The security operation will be repeated at the funeral on Tuesday.
Security at Westminster Hall will include mourners going through airport-style
security machines.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 6, 2002, Saturday

VACCINE FEAR OVER TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Pat Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 211 words


THOUSANDS of people could die of diseases such as smallpox because the state has
no way of distributing vaccines after a biological attack, it was warned
yesterday.

The Irish Medical Organisation said Ireland is ill-prepared to deal with an
outbreak - despite having 600,000 doses of smallpox vaccine ready.

IMO said there were no trained staff to administer the inoculation which can be
fatal if not given properly.

IMO public health expert Dr Joe Barry called on the government to launch an
emergency plan similar to the one adopted for foot and mouth.

He said: "Ireland is vulnerable. We are talking about the health of humans, not
sheep."

It has also been revealed that the population could be virtually wiped out by an
attack in Europe or the US.

But Dr Darina O'Flanagan, Director of the National Disease Surveillance Centre,
said there are no plans to vaccinate the population in advance.

She added: "We secured 600,000 doses against a lot of competition from other
countries and we were lucky to be able to get it."

Public health staff, GPs and A&E nurses are to receive guidelines on recognising
an outbreak of dangerous toxins - anthrax, smallpox, plague, botulism, turalemia
and viral fevers such as ebola or marburg.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                 April 10, 2002

OAPs terrorised by air gun attack; Vandals fire rifle as pensioners play bingo

BYLINE: Phil Harrison

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 474 words


ELDERLY residents had a lucky escape when vandals targeted their housing complex
with an air rifle.  Although nobody was injured in the attack, those responsible
have been condemned after they shattered a window just inches from where some
pensioners were sitting and playing bingo.

More than 30 residents were gathered in the community room of Cantley Close
sheltered housing complex in Shelton Lock for their weekly session of bingo when
the attack took place just after 8pm on Monday.

The complex is owned by Walbrook Housing Association.

Pensioners described how they were playing bingo when they heard a loud,
firecracker-like bang before noticing that one of the windows had been
shattered.

The specially-toughened glass did not shatter completely.

Residents and staff were shaken by the incident, particularly as they say that
those responsible could clearly see the pensioners sitting by the targeted
window.

Warden Christine Lindsey (47) said that many residents in the room at the time
were shocked by what had happened.

"We have no idea why anybody would do this - it's terrible," she said.

"They clearly knew what they were doing because the curtains were open and the
lights were on, so they would have seen that people were sitting next to the
window.

"They weren't to know that the window was made from toughened glass and wouldn't
shower people with glass." The complex was opened by Walbrook Housing
Association 16 years ago and currently houses 80 elderly and disabled residents.

One resident, Elsie Cook (86), was sitting by the window when it was hit. She
described hearing an "almighty bang".

"It was like a small explosion. I looked up and saw that the window was
shattered. We were lucky that it didn't break and fall all over us," she said.

"When you think of what could have happened, we were quite lucky." The residents
said that they had had no trouble with vandalism prior to this attack.

However, there were two similar incidents at a neighbouring residential complex
for elderly people in Weston Park Avenue, also owned by Walbrook Housing
Association, in February and November last year.

No-one was injured in those incidents.

Deputy warden and caretaker Christine Goddard (39), who is responsible for
residents living in Weston Park Avenue, said: "Some of the residents will
obviously feel a bit vulnerable after what has happened.

"It's such a callous attack because they could clearly see who they were aiming
at." A spokeswoman for Derby police said that the incident was being
investigated, although it was not clear at this stage whether or not all the
attacks were linked.

%Anyone with information is asked to call police on Derby 290100 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

l PANE LESS: The toughened glass in the window was shattered but did not break
up.


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: NARROW ESCAPE: Pensioner Elsie Cook (86) points to the window that was
targeted by vandals

                     Copyright 2002 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 April 10, 2002

Racist incidents rise in wake of US terrorist attack

BYLINE: Gregory Jackie (Sentinel)

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 2-NEWS

LENGTH: 326 words


Racist incidents rise in wake of US terrorist attack From Page One people taking
out some anger on people they perceived to be from the Moslem population and
were often mistaken.

"But the over-riding reason is we have got a lot better dealing with incidents.
We ethically record crimes and put funding in for training officers to deal with
racist incidents and awareness.

"Everybody in our organisation is undertaking two days diversity awareness
training." Figures released by Cheshire Police also show racially-aggravated
crimes rocketed between April and December by 95 per cent. Just 44 per cent of
these incidents were detected, a drop of a fifth on the previous year.

Cheshire Police spokesman Brenda Cowling said: "This is partly to do with a
greater awareness among investigating officers of what racial incidents and
racially-aggravated crimes are. However I think there is evidence that the
minority communities around the country have felt more vulnerable as a result of
what happened on September 11. As a result of that they are more willing to come
forward to us when they believe incidents have happened because of racist
aggravation." North Staffordshire Racial Equality Council leader Mohammed Tufail
believes attacks on asylum seekers and refugees in the current political climate
has also impacted on the figures.

A new system of reporting racist incidents through a partnership approach has
led to a 750 per cent increase in reports of incidents to them. Mr Tufail said:
"There has been a massive increase, but are the increases purely down to
reporting or is there an increase in incidents across the board." Mohammed
Khalid, general secretary of the Pakistani Kashmiri Youth Forum said: "We say
September 11 has a lot to do with this and I would blame the media for that,
which has shown Sept 11 as a Moslem thing, and that only Moslems can do it and
inspired the indigenous population to say Moslems are extremists."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 April 10, 2002

Racist incidents rise in wake of US terrorist attack From Page One people taking
out some anger on people they perceived to be from the Moslem population and
were often mistaken.
"But the over-riding reason is we have got a lot better dealing with

BYLINE: by Gregory Jackie (Sentinel)

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER:Others, Pg.2

LENGTH: 249 words


Racist incidents rise in wake of US terrorist attack

From Page One

people taking out some anger on people they perceived to be from the Moslem
population and were often mistaken.

"But the over-riding reason is we have got a lot better dealing with incidents.
We ethically record crimes and put funding in for training officers to deal with
racist incidents and awareness.

"Everybody in our organisation is undertaking two days diversity awareness
training."

Figures released by Cheshire Police also show racially-aggravated crimes
rocketed between April and December by 95 per cent. Just 44 per cent of these
incidents were detected, a drop of a fifth on the previous year.

Cheshire Police spokesman Brenda Cowling said: "This is partly to do with a
greater awareness among investigating officers of what racial incidents and
racially-aggravated crimes are. However I think there is evidence that the
minority communities around the country have felt more vulnerable as a result of
what happened on September 11. As a result of that they are more willing to come
forward to us when they believe incidents have happened because of racist
aggravation." North Staffordshire Racial Equality Council leader Mohammed Tufail
believes attacks on asylum seekers and refugees in the current political climate
has also impacted on the figures.

A new system of reporting racist incidents through a partnership approach has
led to a 750 per cent increase in reports of incidents to them.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2002 The Sentinel

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 April 10, 2002

Racist incidents rise in wake of US terrorist attack From Page One people taking
out some anger on people they perceived to be from the Moslem population and
were often mistaken.
"But the over-riding reason is we have got a lot better dealing with

BYLINE: by Gregory Jackie (Sentinel)

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER:Others, Pg.2

LENGTH: 327 words


Racist incidents rise in wake of US terrorist attack

From Page One

people taking out some anger on people they perceived to be from the Moslem
population and were often mistaken.

"But the over-riding reason is we have got a lot better dealing with incidents.
We ethically record crimes and put funding in for training officers to deal with
racist incidents and awareness.

"Everybody in our organisation is undertaking two days diversity awareness
training."

Figures released by Cheshire Police also show racially-aggravated crimes
rocketed between April and December by 95 per cent. Just 44 per cent of these
incidents were detected, a drop of a fifth on the previous year.

Cheshire Police spokesman Brenda Cowling said: "This is partly to do with a
greater awareness among investigating officers of what racial incidents and
racially-aggravated crimes are. However I think there is evidence that the
minority communities around the country have felt more vulnerable as a result of
what happened on September 11. As a result of that they are more willing to come
forward to us when they believe incidents have happened because of racist
aggravation." North Staffordshire Racial Equality Council leader Mohammed Tufail
believes attacks on asylum seekers and refugees in the current political climate
has also impacted on the figures.

A new system of reporting racist incidents through a partnership approach has
led to a 750 per cent increase in reports of incidents to them. Mr Tufail said:
"There has been a massive increase, but are the increases purely down to
reporting or is there an increase in incidents across the board."

Mohammed Khalid, general secretary of the Pakistani Kashmiri Youth Forum said:
"We say September 11 has a lot to do with this and I would blame the media for
that, which has shown Sept 11 as a Moslem thing, and that only Moslems can do it
and inspired the indigenous population to say Moslems are extremists."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2002 The Sentinel

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 11, 2002, Thursday

TERROR ATTACKS TAKE LLOYD'S LOSSES TO POUNDS 3BN

BYLINE: Katherine Griffiths

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 489 words


LLOYD'S OF London, the historic insurance market, yesterday announced a massive
annual loss and said it had doubled its provisions for bad debt on reinsurance
cover.

Lloyd's revealed the gloomy news as it broke with the tradition of announcing
results three years in arrears. Instead it said it was being "open and
transparent" by publishing figures for 2001, which included its largest- ever
loss from a single event - the 11 September terrorist attacks.

Lloyd's said the 2001 loss would be around pounds 3.11bn, including a pounds
1.98bn hit from the attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon.

This was slightly up on a previous estimate by Lloyd's that the devastation in
the United States would wrack up liabilities of pounds 1.9bn. Other losses from
last year included the sinking of the Petrobras oil rig off Brazil and the Tamil
Tiger attacks on Sri Lanka's national airline.

The loss for 2001 was the second biggest in the history of Lloyd's. Its largest
12-month loss was in 1990, when the society was hit by asbestosis claims and
Hurricane Hugo. The loss was pounds 2.4bn, but that would have been far higher
if it had been calculated on an annualised basis.

The catastrophes of last year scuppered hopes by Lloyd's of breaking even or
even making a small profit in 2001 after five years of heavy losses.

Lloyd's conceded that it would not be able to claim on all of its reinsurance,
and has doubled provisions for reinsurance bad debts for 2001 to pounds 1bn.

Lloyd's would not disclose how many of its own syndicates affected by 11
September had reinsured their cover with other Lloyd's vehicles.

The worst examples of this practice in the early 1990s ended up in "spirals",
where some syndicates ended up reinsuring themselves. But Andrew Moss, Lloyd's
finance director, insisted there were no spirals and was confident reinsurance
within Lloyd's would be paid.

Stephen Searby, insurance analyst at Standard & Poor's, said: "Bad debt
provisions have been increased because Lloyd's is coming down harder on
syndicates which in the past have under cooked their reinsurance provisions and
because of a handful of reinsurance failures recently."

Nick Prettejohn, chief executive of Lloyd's, said the outlook for the society
was "very positive" as it has taken advantage of rising insurance premiums. For
2002 Lloyd's has attracted pounds 12.2bn of financial backing which is its
largest ever.

The 300-year-old society has embarked recently on radical reforms to try to make
it more competitive in the global insurance and reinsurance market.

As well as moving to annual accounting, Lloyd's wants to scrap the practice of
names underwriting on an unlimited liability basis.

Mr Prettejohn said: "Our record is still unacceptable and we have to introduce
fundamental change to address that." The changes will be voted on at an
extraordinary general meeting in September.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 April 12, 2002

Terrorist attack scare;
 news from Britain and around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 80 words


LONDON: Police may have foiled plans for a terrorist attack in London, it
emerged today.

The scare began at 8pm on Tuesday, the day ofthe Queen Mother's funeral, when an
officer stopped a car near London Bridge.

He spoke to the driver who then sped off.

Later, the car, which had Northern Ireland plates, was found abandoned in nearby
Mincing Lane.

The area around the blue-grey Ford Granada was sealed off as police carried out
a controlled explosion.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             April 12, 2002, Friday

MORE PEOPLE FLYING AGAIN AFTER U.S. TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 101 words


AIRPORTS operator BAA yesterday showed that a further improvement in the number
of people flying after September 11.

The group, which operates seven UK airports including Heathrow and Gatwick,
reported a second consecutive month of increased passenger numbers in March.

During the month, it handled just over 10.1m passengers - 3.4pc higher than the
same month the previous year and up from February's reported figure of 8.2m.

BAA said that March's figures were buoyed by an earlier Easter than last year,
and added that, if this effect was stripped out, passenger numbers grew by about
1pc.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HEATHROW: One of several airports owned by BAA to pick up more
passengers

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 April 13, 2002

Anger over vandal attacks by children;
 TEARAWAY TERRORS: yobs aged as young as six

BYLINE: Tamsin Davis Crime reporter

SECTION: News, Pg.3

LENGTH: 288 words


ABUSIVE children - some as young as six - are making life a misery for residents
who they are bombarding with missiles.

Breeze blocks, horseshoes and a football covered in excrement have been hurled
at the windows of homes in Weston High Street.

One man's conservatory has been smashed after a horseshoe was thrown and a
neighbour, who challenged the youngsters about their behaviour, had stones
thrown at her.

Pilot Nigel Smithers, 35, said the trouble started about a month ago and had
escalated in the last couple of days.

After clearing up the broken glass, he began installing a wire mesh over his
conservatory to guard against further attacks. Five horseshoes have landed in
his garden so far.

"The kids are openly throwing stones at windows and they've been told to stop.

"A breeze block has been thrown.

If that came over, it could kill someone."

"There are two who are about six years old and the ringleaders are slightly
older.

"There's nothing you can do. We can't sit in our gardens for fear something will
come sailing over."

He believes the onslaught began after some bushes were trimmed back, exposing
the gardens which back on to the Southlands estate.

Although there is a 15ft wall at the back and a prickly hedge, the tearaways are
able to throw objects over while standing behind the hedge.

Mr Smithers is meeting ward councillor Tim Bullamore to discuss whether a higher
fence can be erected to deter the young yobs.

Local beat manager Pc Stuart Peard is hoping to identify the culprits.

Sgt Bob Allard, of Bath police, said: "The local beat manager is aware of the
problem and will be attempting to speak to the locals to see if it can be
resolved."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            April 13, 2002, Saturday

POLICE TELL OF TERROR ATTACK SCARE AT ROYAL FUNERAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 412 words


Police may have foiled plans for a terrorist attack in London, it emerged
yesterday.

The scare began at 8pm on Tuesday, the day of the Queen Mother's funeral, when
an officer stopped a car near London Bridge. He spoke to the driver who then
sped off.

Later, the car - which had Northern Ireland plates - was found abandoned in
nearby Mincing Lane, north of the River Thames.

The driver and passenger had disappeared and the area around the blue-grey Ford
Granada was sealed off as police carried out a controlled explosion.

They are believed to have found empty fertilizer bags in the car.

Det Chief Insp Steve Eastwood, of City of London Police, said: 'It is very early
days in this investigation and it is essential that the occupants of the vehicle
come forward and assist with our inquiries.

'Also, I would ask anyone who has seen the vehicle or owned the vehicle to get
in touch with us.

'We are interested in speaking to anyone who saw the vehicle on Tuesday night or
saw the occupants leaving the car at Mincing Lane or in the vicinity.'

He urged those people to call the Anti-Terrorist Squad Hotline on 0800 789321.

The car had a grey interior, rear spoiler and slight damage to the front
driver's side bumper and had the registration number IDZ 4669, he said. The
driver was believed to be in his late twenties with short dark brown hair,
stubble and slightly protruding ears.

He was wearing a dark shirt or a polo shirt with a zip-up front and a light
-coloured top with a hooped or stripped pattern near the shoulders.

The front seat passenger was a woman with tied back light brown or fair hair.

She was wearing a dark V-neck top which may have motifs on the front just below
each shoulder.

Senior anti-terrorism detectives have been warning of the possibility of a
mainland attack by dissident Irish republican groups for some time.

Last month they revealed they believed an attack was 'overdue'.

The last suspected Real IRA attack on the mainland was in Birmingham on November
3 last year and there have been eight attacks in all since June 1, 2000.

Fertilizer car bombs exploded outside the BBC Television Centre in Shepherd's
Bush, west London, on March 3, and in Ealing, west London, on August 3 last
year.

Dissident Irish republicans were also accused of trying to wreck the Queen
Mother's birthday pageant in 2000 after an explosive device was found at Ealing
Broadway station in west London.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 April 13, 2002

Terror attack foiled

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 80 words


LONDON: Police may have foiled plans for a terrorist attack, it emerged
yesterday.

The scare began at 8pm on Tuesday, the day of the Queen Mother's funeral, when
an officer stopped a car near London Bridge.

He spoke to the driver who then sped off.

Later, the car - which had Nor thern Ireland plates - was found in nearby
Mincing Lane, just nor th of the River Thames. The driver and passenger had
disappeared and empty fer tilizer bags were found in the car.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 13, 2002

Pilot given 3 years for 'terror attack';
A month after September 11, flyer 'buzzed' airport tower in helicopter

BYLINE: Susie Boniface

SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 544 words



A BUSINESSMAN who caused panic when he buzzed an airport control tower in a
helicopter was jailed for three years yesterday over what the judge called
'practically an act of terrorism'.

Shaun Lees 'snapped' after a row with the airport authorities, flying his hired
aircraft towards the 50ft high building just a month after the September 11
attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York.

Terrified air traffic controllers who fled as Lees approached while 'ranting
incoherently' over the radio said they 'honestly thought' they were about to
die.

One is so traumatised he may never be able to return to his job, Warwick Crown
Court was told.

The court heard that Lees, 41, who runs his own electrical engineering business,
had been banned from landing at Coventry Airport because his medical certificate
had expired, invalidating his private pilot's licence.

Five weeks later, on October 12 last year, he was spotted by airport director
Peter Jackson touching down and asking to refuel in a Bell Ranger helicopter he
had hired for the day.

Mr Jackson told him to leave, but after taking off Lees blocked the runway,
narrowly avoiding a collision with a Cessna light aircraft.

He then began circling the control tower and staff told Mr Jackson that Lees was
on the radio demanding to speak to him.

The court heard that he had said, 'You are going to see the very worst of my
flying,' and that he could 'see the whites of Mr Jackson's eyes'.

Mr Jackson said: 'He stopped the helicopter about 30ft away from the visual
control room in the tower and was hovering, and then said something over the
radio to the effect of "I've had enough, I can't take it". Listening to that I
detected a total change of tone. I shouted to evacuate the tower. At that
moment, I thought we had a serious problem.

'I honestly thought that if he put the helicopter into the tower, we would not
make it down.' Instead Lees landed on the other side of the airport, damaging an
aerial used to guide aircraft, before fleeing on foot to a nearby air club. He
was arrested by police and the airport was closed for an hour.

Lees, who lives in a GBP 130,000 detached home at Nuneaton, Warwickshire,
admitted breaking 'practically every civil aviation regulation in the book'.

He claimed he had corrected the 'oversight' on his medical certificate and saw
no reason to be banned from the airport.

Graham Cliff, defending, said the clash between Lees and Mr Jackson had caused
his client to snap. 'It caused him to do something he would not have dreamed of
in a month of Sundays.

'To say the timing of his protest was bad is an understatement. He realises that
more than anybody else.' He added: 'While there may have been a perception that
people were in danger, no one was.' But Judge Marten Coates said the incident
had 'clear parallels' to the events of September 11.

'There was a feeling in the country at large and in the world at large of what
had gone on a month before. I have got to pass a custodial sentence on you,' he
said.

Lees admitted endangering the safe operation of Coventry Airport and damaging a
monitoring aerial.

A charge of recklessly causing an aircraft to endanger people was ordered to lie
on the file.


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SHAUN LEES: HE 'SNAPPED' A BELL RANGER HELICOPTER: LEES HAD HIRED HIS
FOR THE DAY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 April 13, 2002

PILOT JAILED FOR 'TERROR' ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 51 words


A HELICOPTER pilot who almost crashed into an airport's control tower in a
"September 11-style terror attack" was yesterday jailed for three years.

Shaun Lees, 42, of Nuneaton, admitted endangering Coventry Airport staff.
Warwick Crown Court heard he was angry at being refused permission to land.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 Express Newspapers

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 April 13, 2002

Police foil terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 80 words


POLICE believe they may have foiled plans for a terrorist attack in London.

The scare began at 8pm on Tuesday, the day of the Queen Mother's funeral, when
an officer stopped a car near London Bridge.

Later, the car - which had Northern Ireland plates - was found abandoned just
north of the River Thames.

Police sealed off the area around the car as they carried out a controlled
explosion.

They are believed to have found empty fertiliser bags in the vehicle.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            April 13, 2002, Saturday

POSSIBLE TERRORIST ATTACK FOILED;
 LONDON: POLICE STOP CAR ON DAY OF QUEEN MOTHER'S FUNERAL

BYLINE: Nick Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 420 words


POLICE may have foiled plans for a terrorist attack in London, it emerged
yesterday.

The scare began at 8pm on Tuesday, the day of the Queen Mother's funeral, when
an officer stopped a car near London Bridge.

He spoke to the driver who then sped off.

Later, the car - which had Northern Ireland plates - was found abandoned in
nearby Mincing Lane, just north of the River Thames.

The driver and passenger had disappeared and the area around the blue-grey Ford
Granada was sealed off as police carried out a controlled explosion.

They are believed to have found empty fertilizer bags in the car.

Detective Chief Inspector Steve Eastwood of City of London Police said, "It is
very early days in this investigation and it is essential that the occupants of
the vehicle come forward and assist with our inquiries.

"Also, I would ask anyone who has seen the vehicle or owned the vehicle to get
in touch with us.

"We are interested in speaking to anyone who saw the vehicle on Tuesday night or
saw the occupants leaving the car at Mincing Lane or in the vicinity."

He urged those people to call the Anti-terrorist squad hotline on 0800 789321.

The car had a grey interior, rear spoiler and slight damage to the front
driver's side bumper and had the registration number IDZ 4669, he said.

The driver was a white man, believed to be in his late 20s, with short dark
brown hair, stubble and slightly protruding ears.

He was wearing a dark shirt or a polo shirt with a zip up front and a light
coloured top with a hooped or stripped pattern near the shoulders.

The front seat passenger was a white woman with tied back light brown or fair
hair.

She was wearing a dark V-neck top which may have motifs on the front just below
each shoulder.

Senior anti-terrorism detectives have been warning of the possibility of a
mainland attack by dissident Irish republican groups for some time.

Last month they revealed they believed a terrorist attack was "overdue".

The last suspected Real IRA attack on the mainland was in Birmingham on November
3 last year and there have been eight attacks in all since June 1, 2000.

Fertilizer car bombs exploded outside the BBC Television Centre in Shepherd's
Bush, west London, on March 3, and in Ealing, west London, on August 3 last
year.

Dissident Irish republicans were also accused of trying to wreck the Queen
Mother's birthday pageant in 2000 after an explosive device was found at Ealing
Broadway station in west London.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 April 13, 2002

Pilot is jailed over airport terror attack'; Helicopter flown straight at
control tower

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 725 words


A pilot who flew a helicopter at an air traffic control tower in what appeared
to be a horrifying recreation of the September 11 terrorist attacks was
yesterday jailed for three years.

Air traffic controllers at Coventry Airport who watched Shaun Lees fly the Bell
Ranger straight towards them before pulling up just yards away honestly thought
they were about to die, Warwick Crown Court heard.

Jailing Lees, 41, from Nuneaton, Warwickshire, Judge Marten Coates told him that
what he had done was practically an act of terrorism.

The judge said Lees's actions were particularly frightening because they took
place on October 12 last year - a month and a day after the September 11
terrorist attacks on the United States.

He added: There was a feeling in the country at large and in the world at large
of what had gone on a month before.

I have got to pass a custodial sentence on you. I have a public duty to do so.
Anybody seeing those events would have no choice.

Lees, a self-employed electrical engineer of Chatsworth Drive, Nuneaton, was
jailed for endangering the safe operation of the airport, a charge which he had
admitted at a previous hearing.

He had also admitted damaging the airport's glide path monitoring aerial, which
helps aircraft land, for which he was not given any separate penalty.

Adrian Keeling, prosecuting, told the court that Lees had decided to stage a
protest against airport manager Peter Jackson, using the helicopter which he had
chartered from another airfield.

He had been banned from using Coventry Airport the month before after his
medical certificate expired, which meant he was unable to get a security pass.

But Lees's defence attributed the ban to a clash of personalities between him
and Mr Jackson.

Lees landed on the runway at Coventry as two private aircraft, one bound for the
United States and the other for Italy, were preparing to take off.

Lees had told the tower he wanted to refuel, but then said he wanted to talk to
Mr Jackson, who walked over and told him to leave or face being escorted off.

Lees took off again, but instead of leaving the airport, hovered at the
intersection of the two runways, forcing an incoming Cessna to pull up short as
it landed. At that point, said Mr Keeling, the airport was effectively shut
down.

Two aircraft due to land were forced to circle in a holding pattern - a delay
that forced the pilot of one plane to issue a low fuel warning.

Lees told the tower he wanted to talk to Mr Jackson about their dispute and
headed to the control tower, where Mr Jackson had joined around four air traffic
control staff.

Hovering close to the tower, Lees announced over the radio You are going to see
the very worst of my flying, then started to circle the tower and radar
equipment, Mr Keeling said.

When a fellow pilot and friend, Kevin Lynch, was called to try to intervene,
Lees told him: I can see the whites of Mr Jackson's eyes.

Staff described Lees making an incoherent rant as he hovered before them, but
grew alarmed when his tone changed, Mr Keeling said, adding: They detected a
change in his voice.

An emergency evacuation was ordered as Lees continued to buzz the tower, at
times pulling up just 30ft - about the length of the two rotor blades - from it.

Lees eventually landed on the glide path monitor, causing damage to the tune of
(GBP)15,000 and putting it out of action for several weeks. He was arrested as
he ran to a nearby air club.

Because of the ordeal, one experienced radar operator had since been unable to
return to work, while others had taken long sick leave absences, Mr Keeling told
the court.

Mr Jackson, a commercial pilot with 30 years of flying experience, had suffered
continuous sleepless nights since the events.

Graham Cliff defending, said the incident had shattered Lees and his family, he
had been unable to work and was receiving treatment for post-traumatic stress.

Lees had worked hard to build up his business, which had an annual turnover of
(GBP)100,000.

He had spent a lot of money training to be a pilot and was considered by fellow
flyers to be highly competent.

The problem over Lees's medical certificate, which had to be renewed every five
years, had in fact been resolved by September 11, and Lees was angry that he was
still barred from the airport.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 14, 2002

HOLIDAY ISLE BLAST 'A TERROR ATTACK'

BYLINE: By Roddy Ashworth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 193 words


TERRORISTS are now thought to have been responsible for the huge explosion
outside a synagogue in Tunisia which killed 14 people, including eight German
tourists and seriously injured a further 32.

The blast on the resort island of Djerba - when a fuel truck erupted in a
fireball, with a coachload of Germans taking much of the force - was initially
considered to be accidental.

But last night Germany's interior minister, Otto Schily, said investigations now
indicated it was a deliberate attack.

He said: "The latest information we have been getting from both inside the
country and outside have pointed increasingly to an attack."

Mr Schily said Tunisian authorities now thought the explosion was planned,
adding: "The situation on both sides is that this was more than likely a
deliberate attack."

A Frenchman, a tour guide, two Tunisians who worked at the synagogue and the
truck's driver also died in the blast.

Israel has already said it suspected the explosion outside the El Ghriba Jewish
shrine on Thursday was a terrorist attack.

Last night a German embassy spokeswoman said 19 injured Germans had been flown
home.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             April 15, 2002, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: ALLIES COME UNDER ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 144 words


ALLIED forces in Afghanistan killed "several terrorists" in fighting over the
weekend.

In one attack, a joint patrol came under fire from al-Qaeda or Taliban fighters.

US military officials said the troops called in air support from an AC-130
airborne gunship.

Spokesman Major Bryan Hilferty would not say where the clash took place, but
said there had been fatalities.

No Allied troops were injured.Rockets were also fired at a US-controlled
airstrip outside the city of Khost in south-eastern Afghanistan.

No US troops were at the base at the time.

Khost is believed to be one of the last Taliban and al-Qaeda strongholds left in
Afghanistan.

In the north of the country, thousands fled as aftershocks jolted the region
devastated by an earthquake on Friday.

At least 50 people died in the quake - 80 per cent of them children.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                             April 15, 2002, Monday

HAMMER GANG IN TERROR ATTACKS;
 FAMILY TELLS OF ORDEAL

BYLINE: Gregg Fray & Petra Mann

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 417 words


A PENSIONER and his family were attacked twice in 48 hours by a gang of teenage
yobs armed with claw hammers.

In the first attack Robert James, 68, sat trapped in his car as the boys, aged
around 13, smashed windows, showering him with glass.

Mr James confronted the yobs after he spotted them damaging cars near his home
in Norris Green.

But they turned on him and even hurled a plank of wood at his Ford Fiesta.

He said: "I was shaking like a leaf, there was nothing I could do. I had only
gone to speak to them because they had been damaging cars near my house."

Mr James caught the youngsters in nearby Cottesbrook Road and got out of his
car.

He said: "The tallest of the gang produced a claw hammer and was shouting and
swearing so I got back in my car.

"The lad walked round and smashed the windscreen.

"He smashed all the windows and I managed to get the car started.

Then another one was holding a claw hammer, I don't know if it was the same
hammer, and he threw it at me.

"I started to drive off and a big piece of wood landed on top of the car."

Mr James went to Lower Lane police station to report the crime.

Just two days after the incident, Mr James needed hospital treatment for shock
after the gang returned - this time attacking his daughter Linda Lewis and her
brother Charles, 40.

Linda had telephoned Charles after a gang gathered outside their father's house.

Mrs Lewis, 34, a mother-of-two, from Croxteth, says yobs turned on her and
Charles, a driver, with a claw hammer and bricks.

She said: "The gang punched and kicked my brother to the ground.

"When I tried to help him one of them hit me on the back of the head with a
brick.

"It was terrifying - I was really scared for us."

Minutes after witnessing the attack Robert James collapsed and was taken to
Fazakerley Hospital by ambulance where he was treated for shock.

Mrs Lewis also received treatment for a head injury.

A 12-year-old boy has been arrested in connection with the first attack and
released on police bail pending further inquiries.

Supt Alan Cooper said: "The investigation into the original incident has
progressed quickly and is ongoing.

"The second incident shows the dangers of the public taking positive action in
such circumstances.

"This unfortunately shows how incidents can escalate, and again I would urge the
public to contact police if they are faced with youth disorder."

Witnesses should telephone 0151777 4552.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAPPED IN CAR : Robert James and family were attacked twice by a
teenage gang with claw hammers Picture: TONY KENWRIGHT

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 April 16, 2002

Twin Towers terror attack spurs John's search for his Scots roots The gravestone
of John's great-grandfather John's great-grandparents John Smith and Dr Sheila
Sedgwick Gordon Lyon

BYLINE: glyon

SECTION: NEWS; PEOPLE; Appeals/campaigns; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 655 words


LOSING hundreds of colleagues in the World Trade Centre disaster made John Smith
reassess his priorities.  He had been busy trying to trace past and present
members of his family, which originates on Deeside.

But the devastating events of September 11 - when he was out of the office -
prompted him to renew his search with a new sense of urgency.

And he is now asking readers of the Press and Journal for their help.

John Smith, from St James in New York state, has an illustrious family history,
as far as he can find out.

His ancestors lived and farmed on the Abergeldie Estate near Balmoral, and his
great-grandfather, also John Smith, was personally assigned to protect Queen
Victoria when he served in the Seaforth Highlanders.

John's grandfather, Herbert Smith, was Queen Victoria's godson, an unusual
occurrence by all accounts.

These facts are just about all John knows, due to the absence of various records
which could have helped his search.

He has been visiting Scotland for a number of years and often spends time on
Deeside with local historian and friend Dr Sheila Sedgwick.

"I just love Scotland so much and I love spending time here. I have been trying
to find more information on my family for a number of years now.

"But there is very little in the way of information.

"When I was a child I asked my parents about my grandparents and an aunt told me
that my grandfather's godmother was Queen Victoria. She also told me the story
of my great-grandfather being a personal guard to Queen Victoria.

"Victoria insisted on being his godmother. Everything that I was able to
research told me that this was true.

"As I began to do more research the pieces began to come together but there came
a point where I couldn't go any further.

"All the records from the period are missing from Crathie Kirk and the
Abergeldie Estate. That's why I've had such a difficult time." He said he had
spoken to many people but no one could tell him what had become of the records.

"They are just not available. It is only the records from that period.

"I am hoping that someone will see my family name or see the photograph and make
a connection. It would be nice to find the family that I have been looking for
all this time," added John.

Another obstacle to finding out more was the unfortunate fact that John's
great-grand father died in the course of his duties at Ballater barracks in 1882
at the age of 33.

Service records were not kept for men who died during their service and this
potentially vital clue was lost.

John explained how the family ended up in America.

He said: "When my great-grandfather died suddenly my great-grandmother had to
take her children, of which my grandfather was one, to Northern Ireland then on
to the States." However, he has not forgotten his ancestry though.

"I have Scottish roots and the fact my great-grandfather served Her Majesty
makes me very proud.

"They had a difficult life and they sacrificed a lot to serve the royals and I
am proud of that." He says that ever since September 11, tracing his ancestors
and his modern-day relatives has become more important to him.

"I worked at the World Trade Centre and since that day everything has taken on a
new meaning.

"I was out of the office that day. Unfortunately 200 of my colleagues were lost.
It is hard to deal with," he said.

John's great-grandfather is buried at Tulloch, near Ballater, where his
headstone still stands. But it is not the original headstone, leading to more
intrigue for John.

He said: "I have been told that was never done unless they were held in higher
stature. I talked to a commander of the Argyll Highlanders and he thought it was
highly unusual.

"All these mystery clues and I can't put the picture together." Anyone who can
help John piece his family's interesting history together can contact him at 23
Curlin Lane, St James, NY 11780-2130, USA.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           April 17, 2002, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACKS BLAMED FOR AIR FIRM'S JOB CUTS

BYLINE: Steve Bagnall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 265 words


FIFTEEN workers have lost their jobs at a North Wales aircraft company hit hard
by last year's US terrorist attacks.

But two other jobs under threat at the Raytheon aircraft servicing centre,
Broughton, have been saved and transferred to the forthcoming ASTOR project.

The 180-strong workforce were warned weeks ago job losses were on the cards.

The workers were sent home on April 5 on "gardening leave" until April 15 on
full pay, when company chiefs decided who was to go.

Company bosses blamed the job losses on the devastating market effects following
the September 11 attacks.

Raytheon Systems corporate communications executive UK Mike Brown said:
"Initially 17 jobs were at risk and the workers were sent home on full pay until
April 15 when a decision was made and 15 were declared redundant. Two have
secured jobs with the ASTOR project.

"There is still a chance that one of the 15 who has been made redundant could be
offered a job at the ASTOR project.

"The terrorist attacks on September 11 have had a knock-on effect for us. We
have lost two of our major customers who have gone bankrupt since."

One of the workers made redundant who did not wish to be named said none of
those who had lost their jobs had been offered employment at the nearby Airbus
UK factory.

Union officials were sympathetic to Raytheon acknowledging jet owners have been
leaving their aircraft at home rather than flying them over for servicing.

Broughton will help fit radar boxes for ASTOR - Airborne stand-off radar - the
so-called spy-in-the-sky radar system.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           April 17, 2002, Wednesday

WORLD TRAVEL HOLDINGS BORROWS TO EASE CASH FLOW PROBLEM;
 AIR TRAVEL: FOLLOWING TERROR ATTACKS, FEARS OF AN AIRLINE GOING BUST HAVE LED
CREDIT CARD FIRMS TO SLOW DOWN PAYMENT TO 17 DAYS

BYLINE: James Pritchard

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 342 words


INTERNET travel agent World Travel Holdings says it is to borrow pounds 300,000
to help cover the cost of the continuing fallout from the September 11 terrorist
attacks.

The Cardiff-based company, which also supplies software and airline ticketing
services, is being squeezed in the US by the longer time credit-card companies
take to clear money paid to them.

Fears that an airline might go bust with tens of thousands of passengers
demanding fare refunds from the credit-card companies have led to delaying
payment of credits by as much as 17 days.

Before the terror attacks on the US the industry standard was about three days
and the ensuing cash flow problems have seen reserves at World Travel Holdings
dwindle.

So yesterday's borrowing of pounds 300,000 from Culver Holdings, another Cardiff
based business with close links to World Travel Holdings, is to tide it over.

The loan is at 2pc over the base rate and is repayable in four equal payments
during 2004. It is also conditional upon the sale by Culver yesterday to
investors of not less than 16m ordinary 1p shares in WTH and pounds 300,000
nominal of loan stock in Aerotech Europe Limited, a subsidiary of WTH.

The money raised by the sale of these securities is expected to be not less than
pounds 300,000 and the whole deal amounts to the refocusing of the attention of
both Culver Holdings and WTH on their efforts to rebuild their prospects in the
US.

Culver is already a substantial WTH shareholder with about 17pc of it in issued
share capital and pounds 787,378 in nominal loan stock.

World Travel Holdings also announced that it was expecting to record a pounds 9m
loss when it reports its results for the year to December 2001 in the next week
or so.

That figure comes on top of a loss of pounds 7m in 2000. But yesterday WTH
chairman, John Biles insisted that with sales in the US running well in excess
of expectations and all the provisions for goodwill now stripped out of the
accounts, the company was in good shape to move forward.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 18, 2002, Thursday

'Expect terror attacks soon'

BYLINE: Adam Sage

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1397 words


France's top terrorist catcher tells Adam Sage in Paris that he can foresee
another attack on the West in the next six months

Consider his pedigree, and you might not doubt his word. Consider his words, and
you might think that the War on Terror is in trouble.

Judge Jean-Louis Bruguiere has arrested more Islamic terrorists than any other
investigator in Europe. Most famously he is the man who brought Carlos the
Jackal to justice. He also foiled a bomb attack by Islamic fundamentalist on the
1998 World Cup and saw to it that Col Gaddafi's brother-in-law was tried (albeit
in absentia) along with five other Libyan officials for plotting an explosion
that killed 170 passengers on a DC10 over Africa in 1989. He has arrested 400
suspects in eight years.

Now he is issuing a warning: "I would be surprised if there was no important
terrorist action in Europe or North America within six months.There are too many
signs pointing in that direction. And we have the instruments to have a pretty
precise idea about this."

The "we" to whom he refers are the judicial and police officers who make up the
French anti-terrorist system. At present, they receive poor co-operation from
their equivalents in Britain and America. Bruguiere chooses his words with care,
but he plainly believes that the international community, and notably Britain,
would have been well advised to co-operate with France in its fight against
radical Islamic groups in the 1990s. The French authorities say Britain can
still take months to respond to requests for help with inquiries into Islamic
terrorist networks.

He speaks with a calmness that belies the urgency of his message. "Before
September 11, co-operation with Britain was insufficient. Since then, it is much
better, but it needs to be improved further. I would still not say that it is
excellent. It is still often slow and hazardous. It is difficult to know why it
doesn't work, but it's to do with the fact that the systems are so different."

The main problem, he says, is that inquiries are conducted by the police in
Britain, but by judicial authorities in France and most other Western countries.
The two sides find communication notoriously difficult. "We don't have a
correspondent to whom we can talk in Britain," he says.

At the heart of the French system are four investigating magistrates in a
department created in 1986 to centralise and oversee all inquiries into
terrorist cases in France. Bruguiere, 58, was a founder member of this
department, and he is now the head of it.

In 1993 he began tracking the French-based networks that were providing
logistical support for Algerian terrorists. Two years later he oversaw a rapid
and successful investigation into the Islamic cell responsible for a series of
attacks in France. And in 1996 he discovered a suspect, Ahmed Ressam, who put
him on to the trail of al-Qaeda. "We were the only country to have to fight
against Islamic terrorism in all its forms," he says. "We realised that it was
globalised and fragmented, with its centre in Pakistan and Afghanistan, and with
important relays in the UK, Germany and France." He also understood, long before
the CIA, that the main terrorist target was no longer France but North America.

Yet the US failed to take heed of the urgent and increasingly precise alerts
issued by Bruguiere and his colleagues in the years and months leading up to
September 11. "There was a huge gulf between our perception of the threat and
the perception in the countries that had become targets," he says.

Today, that gap is re-emerging. Bruguiere says: "Public opinion has relaxed
since September 11, and there is a view that it is all finished. But the threat
remains real." There is hard evidence to back this view. "The people we are
arresting show that there is a continued determination to stage terrorist
actions, and that these actions can be put together in Europe."

Bruguiere's concerns were given added weight when the Tunisian authorities
identified a French resident as the driver of a lorry that exploded, killing 15
people, including 10 German tourists, outside a synagogue in Tunisia last week.

Bruguiere says that five months after the start of the US military campaign in
Afghanistan, European-based Islamic networks are managing to maintain contact
with terrorists in that country. Fundamentalists, he says, are continuing to
travel from Europe to fight and train on Afghan soil. "We don't have exact
numbers but we know there is movement in this direction."

He will not disclose the source of this information, but it is likely to come
from French intelligence agencies; men and women who have proved far superior to
their US counterparts in the struggle against Islamic fundamentalism.

Almost all radical French-based Islamic organisations, including mosques, are
infiltrated by informers, for instance. And, for some years, all journeys to
Afghanistan, however circuitous, have been monitored. The findings are passed to
Bruguiere, who has built up an extensive vision of the Islamic terrorist
phenomenon.

He warns that the West has been lured into a false sense of security this year
by what he describes as an excessive media interest in Osama bin Laden's Afghan
headquarters. "What is al-Qaeda?" he asks. "It is a nucleus with circles around
it." This nucleus has been identified -perhaps even destroyed -but the circles
that span out across the world remain in place. "They operate without needing an
order from the centre, and they are autonomous. As a result, the threat has
become fragmented, planet-wide, and it is developing like a spider's web."

Ashort history of al-Qaeda underlines his analysis. The organisation was created
in 1998 when bin Laden merged his terror group with two other movements, the
Gama'a al-Islamiya and Islamic Jihad, he explains. Even then, it ran only some
of the terrorist training camps in Afghanistan, with the rest controlled by a
multitude of groups and nationalities.

"In 2000, all the camps came under the control of the Taleban, and the Taleban
equals bin Laden, because, at that time, al-Qaeda joined with the Taleban
military structures.

"This last phase enabled bin Laden to have the military and logistical capacity
to stage the September 11 attacks, and for that reason, it was understandable
that the Americans struck back at both bin Laden and the Taleban."

Now, however, the loose federation known as al-Qaeda is splitting again. "The
people we are arresting at the moment are not labelled al-Qaeda, although they
may have had contacts with it in the past. They don't have a label now. They are
just part of the international radical Islamic movement, driven by a visceral
hatred of the West, and especially the US, and by the determination to continue
with violent action."

Throw in a Middle East crisis that Bruguiere says is radicalising Muslim opinion
in previously moderate nations such as Morocco, as well as in European countries
such as France and Belgium, and "it all adds up to a powder keg".

So how can we prevent another catastophe? Ask the French for the solution to
almost any problem and they will invariably tell you that it is French.
Bruguiere is no exception, but in his case there is more than Gallic bravado to
back him up. "It is clear that the French fight against radical Islamic
terrorism has demonstrated a real efficiency," he says. His strategy relies
heavily on secret service reports as the launchpad for judicial inquiries that
usually begin with telephone taps or surveillance. "This is a big difference
with other countries, such as Britain, where they vigorously defend the strict
separation between intelligence-gathering and investigators."

He is too diplomatic to spell out what he means, and yet the implication is
obvious: in Britain, unlike France, the police are rarely able to act against
Islamic terrorist suspects on the basis of M15 information. He clearly thinks
they should.

There are, of course, risks attached -personal risks -for the police if they do
get involved. For many years, Bruguiere carried a .357 Magnum handgun, earning
the nickname of "le Sheriff", and his bodyguards are never far away. "It is a
heavy load to carry but you get used to it," he says. "And I am not the sort to
worry."

Contribute to Debate via comment@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 18, 2002, Thursday

Terror attacks cost WH Smith Pounds 40m

BYLINE: Sally Patten Retail Correspondent

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 492 words


WH Smith confirmed shareholders' worst fears yesterday as the books and
magazines retailer put the cost of last September's terrorist attacks at nearly
Pounds 40 million.

Despite the setback, Richard Handover, chief executive, said WH Smith remained
committed to the US, where trading at its 200 airport shops and 400 hotel
outlets suffered a sharp decline in the aftermath of the attacks.

Mr Handover said there were no plans to extend the hotel outlet closure
programme beyond the 25 stores already shut and denied that the US venture
carried unacceptably high risks.

Pointing to the recent improvement in sales in the US, he said: "This business
is not high risk. It is a growth market. There is huge potential. I see no
reason why significant recovery cannot be anticipated in our business next
year."

WH Smith took a Pounds 27 million charge against obsolete stock, fixed assets,
goodwill impairment and bad debts in its North American stores. It is understood
that about Pounds 10 million of this relates to stock writedowns -about a fifth
of the stock in the US business. In addition, the US operation recorded a Pounds
12 million operating loss in the six months to February 28.

Mr Handover said he was encouraged by the recent improvement in North American
sales. Underlying sales growth plummeted by 18 per cent in the first six months
of this financial year but since early March the rate of decline has slowed to 6
per cent.

The impact of the terrorist attacks cut the retailer's interim profits by 37 per
cent to Pounds 63 million, as sales edged up by 1 per cent to Pounds 1.6
billion. Underlying profits slipped 10 per cent to Pounds 90 million.

Mr Handover said: "These figures are very encouraging. We have robust trading in
90 per cent of the business."

Profits in the UK retail business rose by 6 per cent to Pounds 82 million, while
the newspaper distribution side saw profits rise from Pounds 12 million to
Pounds 14 million.

Mr Handover conceded that comparable sales growth in the UK declined from 6 per
cent in the first half to just 3 per cent between early March and mid April.

The fall, which WH Smith says was expected, was blamed on an "extraordinary"
Christmas and strong comparative trading figures this time last year.

Peter Jones, of Peel Hunt, the stockbroker, said: "The numbers for the current
trading period are not inspiring. WH Smith is always a company where something
is not going right."

John Ballie, of SG Securities, said: "The company is not stepping up a gear in
the UK. They cannot convert top-line growth into significant profits growth."

Analysts edged back their full-year profit forecasts from Pounds 125 million to
about Pounds 122 million, against Pounds 130 million in 2000 and Pounds 141
million the previous year.

The interim dividend was held at 6p. The shares fell 25p to 460p, compared with
a 12-month high of 564p.

Commentary, page 34


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             April 19, 2002, Friday

THIS TIME IT WAS AN ACCIDENT;
 THREE DIE IN MILAN PLANE HORROR MERCY MISSION: An Italian soldier dangles from
a helicopter, left, to inspect damage and look for survivors in the Pirelli
building, right, after the plane crashed into it.; TERROR: The New York Twin
Towers attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 170 words


INVESTIGATIONS were continuing today after a small plane crashed into a
skyscraper, killing at least three people and injuring 60.

The plane punched a hole through the 30-storey landmark Pirelli building
yesterday in Italy's financial capital, Milan, briefly rekindling fears of a
September 11-type attack.

Interior Minister Claudio Scajola said later: 'Initial reports point to an
accident'.

Air traffic controllers said the pilot had reported trouble with his landing
gear and veered off course. Millions of people across the world watched TV news
channels report details of the crash in Milan, which had eerie parallels with
the World Trade Centre atrocity.

Just as in New York on September 11, viewers saw plumes of black smoke bellowing
from a high-rise building which had a gaping wound in its side.

As in the aftermath of the al Qaida attacks, stunned onlookers and dazed
survivors were seen milling around the street staring up in disbelief at the
mangled structure of the skyscraper.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 19, 2002

HUNDREDS RESCUED FROM OFFICES, STIRRING MEMORIES OF SEPTEMBER 11 TERROR ATTACKS
ON THE TWIN TOWERS; FIVE KILLED AS PLANE FLIES INTO PACKED SKYSCRAPER

BYLINE: By Cyril Dixon and Ben Sheppard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2 3

LENGTH: 794 words


A PLANE smashed into a Milan skyscraper yesterday, killing at least five people
and injuring scores in a tragedy which revived chilling memories of September
11.

One woman leapt to her death as black smoke billowed from the 32-storey building
after the propeller-driven light aircraft ploughed into the 25th floor of
Italy's landmark Pirelli Tower.

Two women passers-by were believed to have been killed by falling debris.
Terrified eye-witness Persivale Matteo said last night: "Everybody feared it was
another terrorist attack."

Civil servant Maurizio Sala was on the 20th floor when two explosions shook the
building. "We all rushed to the window and we suddenly realised it was something
similar to the World Trade towers because thousands of pieces of paper were
flying through the air. It was the same image, " he said. Military helicopters
and jets were scrambled and security forces across the world put on alert.

But it later emerged that 67-year-old pilot Luigi Fasulo, en route from Locarno
in Switzerland to Milan's Linate airport, had put out a distress call saying his
plane's electrical system had failed.

"He wasn't able to land so he swung towards the city, something he absolutely
shouldn't have done, " said Alfredo Roma, head of Italy's civil aviation
authority.

Interior Minister Claudio Scajola confirmed: "From the information in our
possession, we believe it to have been an accident."

The tower - Italy's tallest building and the 11th tallest in the world - was
built in the 1950s by the Pirelli tyre company but now houses 2,000 local
government workers. Survivors said the death toll would have been much higher if
the plane had not struck part of the building used as a library where few people
worked.

Just as in the September 11 attacks in New York, which claimed 2,800 lives,
weeping office workers could be seen emerging clutching blood-soaked makeshift
bandages to their heads.

Fears of a copycat terror attack spread quickly because the 400ft skyscraper has
always been considered a likely target.

Only last year, Italian intelligence foiled a terrorist plot to assassinate
world leaders with a plane packed with explosives at the G8 summit in Genoa.

Some reports said the four-seater Rockwell Commander aircraft was on fire before
it hit the building. Mr Fasulo, who had some 30 years' flying experience, is
believed to be one of those killed in the disaster. He was the only person on
board.

The drama began shortly before 6pm local time when the building, which is close
to Milan's main railway station, was still packed with staff from the Lombardy
regional government.

Witness Mr Matteo, a local journalist, said: "There was some smoke coming from
the plane before it crashed. It left a large hole in the front of the skyscraper
right in the middle of the building. There is something creepy about all this.
It's a perfectly clear day, with perfect visibility."

Another unnamed witness said: "It sounded like a bomb. The pavement shook just
like an earthquake." Another, Fabio Bonocore, said: "I was looking out of my
window towards the tower when I saw the plane and I was immediately surprised at
how low it was. It was white and red and was flying about the height of the
cranes. A few seconds later it smashed into the tower with a huge bang."

One of the hundreds of office workers rescued from the building said: "We heard
the sound of propellers as if from a small aircraft and then there was a huge
bang. Everything was flying through the air - paper, furniture."

Luccheta Antonio, 52, a barber whose shop is close by, added: "It was shocking.

The windows shook and the mirrors fell to the floor." Gianluca Liberto, an
engineer who was working in the area, said: "I saw the windows of the building
blown out and then I saw smoke billowing out ."

Helicopters airlifted firemen on to the roof, where they spent almost an hour
fighting the flames which had spread through the upper floors.

In the devastation, a large section of an entire floor lost its walls and smoke
and liquid poured from the gash in one side of the building.

Alfredo Micchi, of Canale 4 TV, said: "I saw a man lying motionless on the
street and covered with a sheet. The whole area is covered with glass. There are
people in shock and covered in cuts."

It was confirmed last night that the pilot had radioed the control tower at
Linate airport to report that his plane's undercarriage was not working.

Controllers told him to wait while they advised him which emergency runway to
land on but he flew off without waiting for an answer.

The Italian Air Safety Board said it had opened an investigation. Spokesman
Adalberto Pellegrino said: "It was clearly an air accident."

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                                 April 19, 2002

'Terror' attack man fined

BYLINE: G. Henderson

SECTION: NEWS; COURTS; MagistratesCourt; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 240 words


'Terror' attack man fined NEWTON Abbot man James Franklin grabbed his ex-partner
by the throat after he "flipped" during a row, a court heard. Franklin left
bruises around Lindsey Heyward's neck and on her arms during the attack, Jackie
Ashcroft, prosecuting, told magistrates.

Franklin of Old Exeter Road, Newton Abbott, was fined GBP 100 after he admitted
common assault on April 11.

He was ordered to pay GBP 100 in compensation to Ms Heyward along with GBP 80 in
court costs.

And he was also bound over in the sum of GBP 100 to keep the peace for the next
two years.

Miss Ashcroft explained that Franklin and Ms Heyward had had a relationship
about five years ago and had a daughter.

Bickering Miss Ashcroft said Ms Heyward had arranged to meet with Franklin but
had found him drunk in a pub.

They began bickering and a row broke out after they went to Franklin's home so
that Ms Heyward could collect some of her daughter's things.

During the row Franklin grabbed her by the arms, spun her around, pushed her
against a wall and put his hand around her neck in a "frightening" assault, she
said.

When he was seen by police Franklin admitted what he had done and said he
"flipped." Simon Colman, in mitigation, said that Ms Heyward had "more or less
dragged him out of the pub" and had been "verbally abusive" to Franklin, He
added that the assault had been "over fairly quickly and he apologised right
away."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Herald Express (Torquay)

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 19, 2002, Friday

MILAN: THREE DIE AND SCORES HURT AFTER PLANE HITS SKYSCRAPER;
 AIRCRAFT CRASH RAISES FEARS OF NEW TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Frances Kennedy And Marta Buonadonna Witnesses likened the impact on the
building to an earthquake; Antonio Calanni/AP

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 419 words


FEARS OF an 11 September-style attack reverberated around the world yesterday
when a small plane crashed into a Milan skyscraper, killing at least three
people and injuring scores.

Television stations interrupted programming to show the 31-storey Pirelli tower
on fire. Smoke poured from the upper floors after the Rockwell Commander
aircraft, with only the 75-year-old pilot on board, crashed between the 25th and
26th floors.

The first word of the crash sent tremors through American and world financial
markets, with the Dow Jones index dropping nearly 1 per cent.

The speaker of Italy's upper house of parliament initially said the tower, a
Milan landmark, had "very probably" been the target of a terror attack. But word
swiftly came that the crash was probably an accident. Police said the pilot sent
out a distress call at 5.50pm (4.50pm UK time), four minutes before impact.
Witnesses reported seeing the aircraft on fire before it hit the building.

The four-seater plane, which was on its way from the Swiss town of Locarno to
Linate airport, Milan, had reported undercarriage problems and was circling the
city before trying to land, Italian officials said. "We believe it isn't a
terrorist attack," said Vincenzo Curto, a carabinieri paramilitary officer.

The impact, described as resembling an earthquake, shattered glass and triggered
a fire in the top four storeys of the building, which houses the Lombardy
region's government offices. The death toll could have been much higher but for
the fact that the upper floors were being refurbished. At least three died,
including the pilot, Gino Fasulo.

Claudio Chetta was in a meeting on the 24th floor with seven colleagues when
they heard the explosion. "The building trembled and the windows crashed and
collapsed all over us. It was really scary," he said. "There was dust and glass
everywhere. The lifts were blocked so we went down by the emergency staircase."
He and his colleagues helped carry a disabled woman to safety.

Firemen were able to bring the blaze under control in about an hour, but the
risk of the tower collapsing was said to be serious.

A number of witnesses said they saw another aircraft flying low over the
building shortly after the impact. There was no immediate explanation.

President George Bush was briefed on the crash almost as soon as it happened.
Silvio Berlusconi, the Italian Prime Minister, cut short a visit to Bulgaria to
return home.

Everyone thought of New York, page 2

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 19, 2002, Friday

THREE DIE AND SCORES HURT AFTER PLANE HITS SKYSCRAPER;
 MILAN AIRCRAFT CRASH RAISES FEARS OF NEW TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Frances Kennedy And Marta Buenadonna Witnesses likened the impact on the
building to an earthquake; Antonio Calanni/AP

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 415 words


FEARS OF an 11 September-style attack reverberated around the world yesterday
when a small plane crashed into a Milan skyscraper, killing at least three
people and injuring scores.

Television stations interrupted programming to show the 31-storey Pirelli tower
on fire. Smoke poured from the upper floors after the Rockwell Commander
aircraft, with only the 75-year-old pilot on board, crashed between the 25th and
26th floors.

The first word of the crash sent tremors through American and world financial
markets, with the Dow Jones index dropping nearly 1 per cent.

The speaker of Italy's Upper House of Parliament initially said the tower, a
Milan landmark, had "very probably" been the target of a terror attack. But word
swiftly came that the crash was probably an accident. Police said the pilot had
sent out a distress call at 5.50pm (4.50pm UK time), just four minutes before
impact.

Italian transport officials said the four-seater plane, which was on its way
from the Swiss town of Locarno to Linate airport, Milan, had reported
undercarriage problems and was circling the city before trying to land. "We
believe it isn't a terrorist attack," said Vincenzo Curto, a carabinieri
paramilitary officer.

The impact, described by some witnesses as resembling an earthquake, shattered
glass and triggered a fire in the top four storeys of the building, which houses
the Lombardy region's government offices.

The death toll could have been much higher, but for the fact that the upper
floors were being refurbished. The dead included the pilot, Gino Fasulo.

Claudio Chetta was in a meeting on the 24th floor with seven colleagues when
they heard the explosion. "The building trembled and the windows crashed and
collapsed all over us. It was really scary," he said. "The noise was deafening.
There was dust and broken glass everywhere. Some people were really frightened.
The lifts were blocked so we went down by the emergency staircase."

Mr Chetta and his colleagues took it in turns to carry a disabled girl down the
stairs.

The risk of the tower collapsing was said to be serious. Firemen were able to
bring the blaze under control in about an hour.

President George Bush was briefed on the crash almost as soon as it happened.
Silvio Berlusconi, the Italian Prime Minister, cut short a visit to Bulgaria to
return home.

The US State Department has said it considers the Milan Islamic Cultural centre
a hotbed of Islamic radicals in Europe.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 19, 2002, Friday

MILAN: THREE DIE AND SCORES HURT AFTER PLANE HITS SKYSCRAPER;
 AIRCRAFT CRASH RAISES FEARS OF NEW TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Frances Kennedy And Marta Buonadonna Witnesses likened the impact on the
building to an earthquake

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 419 words


FEARS OF an 11 September-style attack reverberated around the world yesterday
when a small plane crashed into a Milan skyscraper, killing at least three
people and injuring scores.

Television stations interrupted programming to show the 31-storey Pirelli tower
on fire. Smoke poured from the upper floors after the Rockwell Commander
aircraft, with only the 75-year-old pilot on board, crashed between the 25th and
26th floors.

The first word of the crash sent tremors through American and world financial
markets, with the Dow Jones index dropping nearly 1 per cent.

The speaker of Italy's upper house of parliament initially said the tower, a
Milan landmark, had "very probably" been the target of a terror attack. But word
swiftly came that the crash was probably an accident. Police said the pilot sent
out a distress call at 5.50pm (4.50pm UK time), four minutes before impact.
Witnesses reported seeing the aircraft on fire before it hit the building.

The four-seater plane, which was on its way from the Swiss town of Locarno to
Linate airport, Milan, had reported undercarriage problems and was circling the
city before trying to land, Italian officials said. "We believe it isn't a
terrorist attack," said Vincenzo Curto, a carabinieri paramilitary officer.

The impact, described as resembling an earthquake, shattered glass and triggered
a fire in the top four storeys of the building, which houses the Lombardy
region's government offices. The death toll could have been much higher but for
the fact that the upper floors were being refurbished. At least three died,
including the pilot, Gino Fasulo.

Claudio Chetta was in a meeting on the 24th floor with seven colleagues when
they heard the explosion. "The building trembled and the windows crashed and
collapsed all over us. It was really scary," he said. "There was dust and glass
everywhere. The lifts were blocked so we went down by the emergency staircase."
He and his colleagues helped carry a disabled woman to safety.

Firemen were able to bring the blaze under control in about an hour, but the
risk of the tower collapsing was said to be serious.

A number of witnesses said they saw another aircraft flying low over the
building shortly after the impact. There was no immediate explanation.

President George Bush was briefed on the crash almost as soon as it happened.
Silvio Berlusconi, the Italian Prime Minister, cut short a visit to Bulgaria to
return home.

Everyone thought of New York, page 2

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 19, 2002, Friday

THREE DIE AND SCORES HURT AFTER PLANE HITS SKYSCRAPER;
 MILAN AIRCRAFT CRASH RAISES FEARS OF NEW TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Frances Kennedy And Marta Buenadonna Witnesses likened the impact on the
building to an earthquake

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 415 words


FEARS OF an 11 September-style attack reverberated around the world yesterday
when a small plane crashed into a Milan skyscraper, killing at least three
people and injuring scores.

Television stations interrupted programming to show the 31-storey Pirelli tower
on fire. Smoke poured from the upper floors after the Rockwell Commander
aircraft, with only the 75-year-old pilot on board, crashed between the 25th and
26th floors.

The first word of the crash sent tremors through American and world financial
markets, with the Dow Jones index dropping nearly 1 per cent.

The speaker of Italy's Upper House of Parliament initially said the tower, a
Milan landmark, had "very probably" been the target of a terror attack. But word
swiftly came that the crash was probably an accident. Police said the pilot had
sent out a distress call at 5.50pm (4.50pm UK time), just four minutes before
impact.

Italian transport officials said the four-seater plane, which was on its way
from the Swiss town of Locarno to Linate airport, Milan, had reported
undercarriage problems and was circling the city before trying to land. "We
believe it isn't a terrorist attack," said Vincenzo Curto, a carabinieri
paramilitary officer.

The impact, described by some witnesses as resembling an earthquake, shattered
glass and triggered a fire in the top four storeys of the building, which houses
the Lombardy region's government offices.

The death toll could have been much higher, but for the fact that the upper
floors were being refurbished. The dead included the pilot, Gino Fasulo.

Claudio Chetta was in a meeting on the 24th floor with seven colleagues when
they heard the explosion. "The building trembled and the windows crashed and
collapsed all over us. It was really scary," he said. "The noise was deafening.
There was dust and broken glass everywhere. Some people were really frightened.
The lifts were blocked so we went down by the emergency staircase."

Mr Chetta and his colleagues took it in turns to carry a disabled girl down the
stairs.

The risk of the tower collapsing was said to be serious. Firemen were able to
bring the blaze under control in about an hour.

President George Bush was briefed on the crash almost as soon as it happened.
Silvio Berlusconi, the Italian Prime Minister, cut short a visit to Bulgaria to
return home.

The US State Department has said it considers the Milan Islamic Cultural centre
a hotbed of Islamic radicals in Europe.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             April 19, 2002, Friday

PLANE CRASH A REMINDER OF US TERROR ATTACKS;
 MILAN: AT LEAST FIVE KILLED, 60 INJURED AS LIGHT AIRCRAFT PLOUGHS INTO
SKYSCRAPER

BYLINE: Chris Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 381 words


IMAGES of a skyscraper burning after being hit by a plane yesterday evoked
horrific memories of the September 11 terror attacks.

Millions of people across the world watched TV news channels report details of
the crash in Milan, which had eerie parallels with the World Trade Centre
atrocity.

During the evening rush hour, a light aircraft crashed into a 416ft skyscraper.

At least five people, including the pilot, died and 60 more were injured.

Just as in New York on September 11, viewers saw plumes of black smoke billowing
from a high-rise building which had a gaping wound in its side.

And, as in the immediate aftermath of the al Qaida attacks, stunned onlookers
and dazed survivors were seen milling around the street staring up in disbelief
at the mangled structure of the Pirelli building.

Erin Rowland, 28, who lives in New York's East Village, said, "A girlfriend I
was with on 9/11 called from work and told me to turn on the TV. When I realised
what had happened I thought, 'oh God, it's happening all over again.'

"We were close to the World Trade Centre when it came down and this seemed
frighteningly similar."

As the first pictures came through US commentators immediately speculated about
another terrorist outrage.

Security experts pointed out that several Italian cities, including Milan, were
suspected of harbouring al Qaida members.

But it was soon discovered that the pilot of the twin-engined plane, the only
person on board, had sent out an SOS after his plane encountered mechanical
difficulties while on a 50mile flight from Locarno in Switzerland to Milan's
Linate airport.

Pirelli Tower DOMINATING the Milan skyline, the Pirelli tower is a symbol of the
capital of Italian fashion.

At 416ft tall, the concrete and glass construction is the city's highest point
and the 10th tallest tower in the world, after London's Canary Wharf.

It and the ancient 14th century cathedral, the Duomo, have come to symbolise the
bustling city of Milan, which is Italy's second largest city and known as a hub
of industry, finance and fashion houses.

The 30-storey Pirelli tower was built between 1955 and 1959 and is famed for its
elegant shape, which tapers at the top.

It was billed as Italy's first skyscraper.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GAPING WOUND: plumes of smoke pour from the Pirelli skyscraper which
houses the local regional government offices in Milan, northern Italy

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 19, 2002

Three die as plane flies into Milan skyscraper;
 Pilot suffered mechanical failure, say authorities as terror attack is
discounted

BYLINE: a Special Correspondent

SECTION: News :999 :Disasters, Pg.10

LENGTH: 337 words


MILAN: For a brief moment yesterday the world held its breath, fearing a repeat
of the September 11 attacks on New York and Washington had been launched on
Italy's financial capital.

In the middle of the city's evening rush hour, a light aircraft crashed into a
416ft skyscraper, tearing apart two floors and killing three people including
the pilot. Sixty more were injured.

Such were the similarities with the attacks on the World Trade Centre that
President Bush was immediately alerted. In Rome, Senate President Marcello Pera
said the incident was "most probably" a terrorist attack.

But it was quickly ascertained that the pilot of the twin-engined Rockwell
Commander, the only person on board, had sent out an SOS after his plane
encountered mechanical difficulties.

The pilot, said to be an experienced flier from the Locarno area, was on a
50mile flight from Locarno in Switzerland to Milan's Linate airport.

Both Italy's Interior Minister Claudio Scajola and the National Air Safety
Agency said initial information suggested the crash had been an accident.

A police spokesman said Linate airport had been told by the pilot that his plane
had landing gear problems. He said eyewitnesses had told police that the plane
was on fire before crashing into the building.

Fortunately, most of the local government workers in the skyscraper had finished
work for the day when the small plane plunged into their offices.

"It sounded like a bomb. The pavement shook like an earthquake, " said a woman
eyewitness.

One Milan hospital, Fatebene Fratelli, said it had received 20 injured,
including a woman with burns.

Holes were punched into two sides of the slim skyscraper and smoke was still
pouring out of the building nearly three hours after the crash, which happened
at 5:54pm local time The 30-storey building houses the Lombardy region's
government offices and is a Milan landmark.

A number of people were rescued from lifts that were shut down by the impact of
the crash.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            April 20, 2002, Saturday

AUSTRALIA NEW TARGET FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 68 words


British and American interests in Australia are at risk from terrorists.

The Australian Security and Intelligence Organization told a Senate committee
that Canberra's support for the US-led war on terror has raised Australia's
profile as a target.

Specific mention of Australia in speeches by Osama bin Laden since the attacks
also suggested the country could be under threat, the agency said.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            April 20, 2002, Saturday

BANK TERROR ATTACK FEAR;
 WARNING ISSUED AFTER INTERVIEW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 280 words


THE FBI has warned more than 1,200 banks in America about the possibility of
terrorist attacks.

Government officials said the unconfirmed information came in part from a high
-ranking al Qaida leader who is currently held in US custody.

Authorities yesterday said they had no information about a specific plot or
threats to any financial institution, but a law enforcement source said
authorities feared a suicide attack.

The warning of what theFBI described as possible 'physical attacks' was based in
part on information from by Abu Zubaydah, the highest-ranking al Qaida terrorist
leader in US custody, two officials said. Abu Zubaydah is alleged to have been
one of Osama bin Laden's top planners of terrorist operations, with knowledge of
al Qaida plots and operational cells.

Hewas captured on March 28 by Pakistani and US authorities in Pakistan and is
recovering from three gunshot wounds sustained in the raid.

'We are not asking the banks to close, nor urging people to stay away from
banks,' said US Attorney General John Ashcroft.

The threat information, based on interviews with captured al Qaida suspects from
Afghanistan, was given to the FBI which, along with the Homeland Security Office
at the White House, decided to remind financial institutions of a need to be
vigilant.

Mr Ashcroft said the information 'may or may not be reliable'.

The warning, which went to specific states, came as authorities in Washington
tightened security for three days of meetings of the International Monetary Fund
and World Bank.

The sessions, which finish tomorrow, include finance ministers and central bank
presidents from many nations.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             April 21, 2002, Sunday

'BRITISH SPIES IN DUBLIN ATTACK';
 EX-AGENTS TELL OF TERROR INCURSIONS INTO REPUBLIC

BYLINE: Greg Harkin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 531 words


A GROUP of former British agents have met with officials representing the
Taoiseach, Government sources in Dublin confirmed last night.

And Irish Sunday People can exclusively reveal today that a further meeting has
been set up to discuss incredible allegations about British involvement in the
Dublin and Monaghan bombings as well as dozens of other terrorist crimes.

Sources say Judge Henry Barron, who is investigating the 1974 atrocities in
which 33 people lost their lives, was also at the meeting.

A government barrister also discussed the possibility of immunity for a number
of former spies in return for information on the rogue activities of agents of
the British state.

So far the former moles have passed over detailed information on:

The loyalist bomb attacks on Dublin and Monaghan in 1974

British Embassy official who recruited spies in the Republic

The involvement of northern security force agents in the horrific murder in 1991
of Co Louth farmer Thomas Oliver - even though he himself was working for RUC
Special Branch.

The role of a spy in the abduction and murder of 'disappeared' victim Jean
McConville

The infiltration of the Irish Army base at Lifford, Co Donegal

Numerous incursions by agents into the Republic over 30 years.

The British Government has always DENIED its agents have been involved in any
activity in the Republic during the Troubles.

Now we can reveal the Government is considering giving the moles who flew into
Dublin on Thursday immunity from prosecution in return for testimony at a
tribunal of inquiry.

The agents were involved in criminal activity in this state at the behest of
their northern security force handlers, said Government sources.

One source said: "We were told this was just the tip of the iceberg.

"These are very serious allegations and while we have always suspected there was
a British security force role in a number of incidents we have never had
confirmation from actualy former agents of those forces until now.

"We are organising further meetings to see where we can take this. The
Government is taking all these allegations very seriously indeed."

Meanwhile the ex-agent at the centre of the Omagh bomb inquiry scandal was
refused protective custody by the Police Service of Northern Ireland in Newry on
Friday.

The man known as Kevin Fulton may be given protection within days however - by
the Police Ombudsman Nuala O'Loan.

It was Fulton's allegations in Irish Sunday People last July that he had spotted
a RIRA leader making a bomb three days before the 1998 bombing of Omagh which
led to a damning inquiry in the North.

Fulton was turned away from Newry police station on Friday and is now back in
hiding in England.

Tomorrow, he will hand over tapes incriminating former handlers to the Ombudsman
which could spark a new inquiry into police in the North.

Meanwhile, Fulton has been warned again that his life is in danger after
republicans spotted him in east Belfast on Friday, April 5.

Sources say he was seen leaving a plush house in the area and was spotted by a
senior Provo driving back to his home in the Short Strand.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Life

                                 April 21, 2002

Loyalist pubs on terrorist attack alert

BYLINE: ALAN MURRAY

LENGTH: 219 words


PUBS in the loyalist Tigers' Bay and Shankill Road areas were put on a terror
alert by police on Friday night.

PSNI officers also visited bars in other parts of north Belfast, warning of the
risk of an attack by dissident republican terrorists.

It is understood that police told bar staff that they had received a coded
warning that pubs could be attacked.

Bar staff were warned to lock their doors on Friday night.

All the bars at the centre of the scare are frequented by loyalists.

Both UDA and UVF sources said yesterday that they were taking the warnings
seriously.

"Nothing happened, but this sort of thing just adds to the already high tension
on the ground around Tigers' Bay in particular," said one UDA source.

"Shots were fired in north Belfast on Thursday night by republicans and the next
night bars in loyalist areas are told that maybe they're going to be hit. It is
not a good sign."

One UVF source said: "Bars on the Shankill were warned about a possible threat.

"Luckily nothing happened. But if any republican group does go down that road,
you know what will happen.

"It doesn't matter who does it, there will be a big response, especially in the
current situation."

A PSNI spokeswoman said: "We do not comment on individual security operations."


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       Lancashire Evening Post (Preston)

                                 April 23, 2002

Terror of sex attack

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post (Preston)

BYLINE: By Post Reporter

LENGTH: 197 words


A woman was rescued from a terrifying indecent assault.

Only the woman's kicks and screams prevented what police say could have been a
much more serious attack.

Her frantic cries alerted her partner who saved her from the early morning
assault.

The 32-year-old woman had been waiting for her boyfriend on New Hall Lane,
Preston, when two Asian men approached.

One grabbed her by the shoulders while the other attempted to remove her jeans.
But the woman broke free by screaming loudly and kicking out.

Her boyfriend, walking to meet her, heard the commotion and ran to the scene.
The two men made off.

The attack happened opposite Simla Kebab House, New Hall Lane, at 12.55am on
Sunday.

Police today appealed for help in catching the offenders.

Det Insp Tony Bolton, from Preston CID, said: We are appealing for anyone who
was in the area or who perhaps drove past and saw the men running away to come
forward and contact us.

The first offender was an Asian man of 25. He was wearing black trousers, a
beige jumper and a black jacket with an elasticated waist.

His accomplice was not seen by the woman as he stayed behind her throughout the
ordeal.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 April 23, 2002

Palestinians held
ISRAELI forces raided several villages overnight and arrested 26 Palestinians
suspected offor involvement in terror attacks., the Israeli military said today.
US envoy William Burns met Arafat yesterday while, outside, an Israeli

BYLINE: by Mason Mike (Sentinel)

SECTION: AGENCY:PA:NEWS, Pg.4

LENGTH: 42 words


Palestinians held

ISRAELI forces raided several villages overnight and arrested 26 Palestinians
for involvement in terror attacks.  There was also gunfire at the Church of the
Nativity and smoke grenades used with each side blaming the other.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2002 The Sentinel

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 April 24, 2002

Teenage thug in terror attacks is spared jail term

SECTION: News :Courts :Crown Court, Pg.13

LENGTH: 153 words


A TEENAGER who terrorised a shopkeeper has been spared from jail by a judge at
Bristol Crown Court.

Judge Michael Roach heard that Paul Wollen, aged 18, of Bickerton Close,
Henbury, had already served the equivalent of seven months in custody.

But the judge warned Wollen, who was given a two-year community rehabilitation
order, that if he came before him again for picking on the same shopkeeper, he
would be jailed.

Wollen had admitted twice assaulting Vishal Luthra, of Alldays Store,
Shirehampton, and stealing 10 bottles of Smirnoff Ice and, on a second occasion,
cigarettes worth about 80.

His pleas of not guilty to two charges of robbing Mr Luthra were accepted.

Mr William Hart, defending, said Wollen had a drink problem. He said:

"His recollection of it is pretty limited because he was always drunk."

Judge Roach said everyone in court would have sympathy with Mr Luthra.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 24, 2002

SWOOP HALTS TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 53 words


    A MAJOR terror attack may have been stopped after customs officers found a
car packed with weapons at a port.

    Customs officers using an X-ray machine discovered the car inside a
container on a cargo ship which had arrived in Felixstowe, Suffolk, from
Holland.

    A man and a woman were arrested yesterday.


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2002 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                 April 25, 2002

BMI British Midland says that services to the United States have finally picked
up after last September's terror attacks in New York and Washington.

BYLINE: Phil Waller

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 490 words


Passenger numbers on the Castle Donington airline's routes to Chicago and
Washington from Manchester dropped by 30 per cent following September 11. A
question mark still hangs over the routes because of BMI's continued failure to
achieve its more cherished aim of flying to the U.S. from Heathrow.

But chairman Sir Michael Bishop yesterday said that the performance of the
transatlantic services had improved since February, with aircraft more than
two-thirds full.

Sir Michael said: "We are extremely encouraged by the performance of our
long-haul services.

"Volumes have picked up strongly during the last two months, with current load
factors well over 70 per cent." The news emerged as BMI said that passengers
carried last year fell 5.2 per cent to 6.7 million, compared with 7.1 million in
2000. It said that the fall was a direct result of September 11.

The company estimates that GBP 35m in revenue was lost as a result, primarily
through a significant drop in transfer passengers through London Heathrow.

BMI reported an operating loss of GBP 12m in the year to December 31, partly due
to the write-off and advanced depreciation of business systems and equipment,
transatlantic launch costs and the cost of making 600 people redundant.

But an exceptional gain made on the sale of its baggage-handling business meant
that pre-tax profits were GBP 12.4m, up 51.2 per cent on the previous year's GBP
8.2m.

BMI said yesterday that, in a bid to turn round its operating loss, it would cut
fares on its regional and international services from East Midlands,
Leeds-Bradford and Manchester airports.

The airline is removing Saturday night and minimum-stay restrictions on tickets
and allowing passengers to buy same-day returns priced from GBP 20 each way.

In an interview with the Evening Telegraph, Sir Michael said that he believed
that there would be a "steady recovery" in passenger numbers this year.

But he said that he did not expect numbers to recover fully until next year.

Sir Michael said that the airline's new low-fare offshoot, BMI Baby, had
performed exceptionally well and was expected to make a profit "sooner than
expected".

It expects to carry more than 500,000 passengers in its nine months of operation
during this financial year and 1.5 million in 2003.

"BMI Baby may well break even or make a small operating profit in the current
year," he said.

Asked whether or not BMI eventually intended to sell BMI Baby, Sir Michael said:
"It is too early to say at the moment. We have no plans for it other than to
keep it as an intrinsic part of the business." Sir Michael added that BMI, which
is a privately owned company, had no plans to float on the London Stock
Exchange.

The Bermuda II agreement, which limits the right to operate transatlantic
services from Heathrow to just four airlines, continues to prevent BMI launching
its own services from the London hub to the U.S.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 27, 2002, Saturday

It's the perfect place to panic The terrorist attacks of September 11 have
fuelled Americans' demand for 'safety rooms'. As a scary new film comes to
Britain, Simon Brooke sees the trend catching on here

BYLINE: By SIMON BROOKE

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 760 words

You're woken up in the night by the sound of intruders or the smell of smoke:
what do you do? Your natural inclination might be to get out as quickly as
possible. But these days, if you're very wealthy, and perhaps a little paranoid,
your reaction will be to disappear instead into your steel-lined cocoon and call
for help from there.

"Panic rooms" have become increasingly popular among the super-rich in the
United States - Madonna is believed to have installed one in each of her US
homes and is rumoured to be considering kitting out her two British properties
as well. The demand for "safety rooms", as they are more euphemistically known,
has risen sharply since September 11 and a new film, Panic Room, which opens
here on Friday, will bring this unusual security feature even greater publicity.

Directed by David Fincher, of Fight Club fame, the film stars Jodie Foster as an
affluent New Yorker whose home is invaded by burglars. Immediately, she
withdraws to her panic room with her daughter; from there she plays a game of
cat-and-mouse with the three intruders, watching their movements on CCTV
cameras, her connection with the outside world cut off by the invaders.

America has long had a tradition of self-sufficiency in the face of physical
adversity such as earthquakes, hurricanes and tornadoes while fear of the
Millennium Bug brought a new wave of hide-out and shelter building as fears
arose about chaos and looting. But the events of last September and subsequent
scares about germ warfare have fired concerns further. Sales of civilian
spy-gear in the US shot up 60 per cent in the wake the World Trade Center
attack.

In Britain, panic rooms are less common but there is currently a country
property for sale with a fully equipped one, although, naturally enough, its
vendors are wary of publicity.

"Homes with this feature have been coming up occasionally over the past five
years or so," says London-based agent Simon Edwards. "The panic room is usually
off the master bedroom. In one house I sold, it was disguised as a walk-in
wardrobe, although it was completely steel-lined and had a direct phone line
separate from the other lines.

In another property, a section of the house was protected by a roll-down,
fortified shutter that could be lowered against intruders. "Very often people
don't boast about them when selling because of what it suggests about crime in
the area," says Mr Edwards.

Andrew Langton, managing director of Aylsford, believes that security is fast
becoming the number one issue among wealthy buyers in London. "People are
desperately concerned and crime is beginning to affect values, so anything that
improves security will be welcome," he says.

"At one time, panic rooms were very rare this side of the Atlantic. Asil Nadir
[the Turkish Cypriot fugitive businessman] had one on the second floor of his
home in Knightsbridge, but now more people are deciding that if they can't make
their homes burglar-proof, they can, at least, make a part of them secure."

Peter Stevenette, of DTZ Residential, who has sold houses in Mayfair, Kensington
and Belgravia with panic rooms over the past few years, says: "You tend to find
that people don't talk about them as they do other security matters. They often
ask about the potential and then call in a specialist."

Californian expert Bill "Panic Room" Rigdon, whose clients include movie stars
and chief executives, has installed a room for a Middle-Eastern businessman in
London. For about pounds 300,000, he provided surveillance equipment, air
filtration systems and independent power supplies.

"One can be fashioned from an existing room in a typical home for about $5,000 [
pounds 3,600] or less. This would mean replacing the door to a bathroom closet
with a metal, bullet-proof door, then mounting a locking mechanism such as a
large dead bolt," he explains.

Whatever it does to the resale value of your property, a panic room brings its
own risks. Mr Langton points to the case of the Monte Carlo-based banker Edmond
Safra, who withdrew to his safe room/bathroom during a fire but died from
asphyxiation behind the giant steel door because it was not smoke-proof.

Panic Room director David Fincher told the Los Angeles Times about his own
experiences. "In the early 1990s, I stayed in an apartment in London which had a
panic room, and I proceeded to set the alarm off almost every two weeks," he
recalled. "So I was instructed not to set the alarm, because I couldn't be
trusted not to set it off, defeating the entire purpose."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 April 27, 2002

Monster gets 10 years for OAP terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 362 words


A CALLOUS thief who robbed an elderly couple in their home before tying them up
and leaving them without food or water has been jailed for 10 years.

Joseph Nelson Howard, 20, forced his way into Harold and Elizabeth Snook's home
in the Newington area of Edinburgh last October, and then subjected them to the
terrifying ordeal.

The couple were eventually found four days later, after worried relatives raised
the alarm.

They were taken to Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, where 87-year-old Mrs Snook died
in February. Mr Snook is still being treated at the hospital.

Howard was originally charged with attempted murder, but on Wednesday, the Crown
accepted his guilty plea to the lesser charge of assault and robbery.

The prosecution also accepted a not guilty plea by his brother Joseph Downie
Howard.

Appearing for sentence at the High Court in Edinburgh, Howard was told by judge
Lord Dawson that he had committed a "monstrous crime".

Lord Dawson said: "This is one of the most cruel and cowardly crimes it has been
my misfortune to deal with."

"As a result of a carefully hatched plan, you tricked your way into this elderly
couple's home and subjected them to the most appalling physical and
psychological ordeal while you ransacked their house, all for the sake of
(pounds) 128.

"You left them locked in a room, tightly bound and unable to help themselves and
without access to water and food.

"It is only by the grace of God and the vigilance of family and neighbours that
they did not perish.

Lord Dawson said because of the "dreadfulness of this crime", he believed Howard
was a "violent danger to the public".

He then ordered that Howard should be supervised for a further five years when
he is released from prison.

As he was led away, Howard winked at members of his family who were in court to
hear him being sentenced.

Detective Superintendent Bert Swanson of Lothian and Borders Police said: "This
was a crime that shocked not only detectives, but the community and the entire
city.

"We even got letters from prisoners in jail saying they were horrified that an
elderly couple could be treated in such a way."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CALLOUS: Joseph Nelson Howard was found guilty of subjecting Harold and
Elizabeth Snook to a horrifying ordeal

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 28, 2002

SCANDAL OF EU CASH HANDOUTS TO PALESTINIAN GROUP LINKED WITH SUICIDE BOMB
OUTRAGES; HOW YOUR TAXES PAY FOR TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: From Bob Graham in Jerusalem

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1032 words


BRITISH taxpayers' money is funding Palestinian terrorists, including the groups
responsible for suicide bombings.

Some of the money used to finance the latest attacks against Israeli civilian
and military targets is derived from a monthly GBP 6million European Union grant
to the Palestinian Authority.

Documents seized from the offices of Yasser Arafat in his Ramallah compound by
Israeli Defence Forces indicate a direct link between the authority and the
terror groups.

An investigation into the origin and veracity of the documents - many of them
signed by Arafat - confirm they are genuine. Some are appeals for funds from the
Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigades, which has taken responsibility for many suicide
bombings.

In one, dated September 16 last year, Al Aqsa chillingly requests the immediate
transfer of funds to pay for materials "for the production of charges and
bombs". It states: "This has been our largest expense, the cost of a prepared
bomb being at least 700shekels (GBP 100)." The report adds: "We need about five
to nine bombs a week for our cells in various areas." Also detailed are the
monthly costs of suicide harnesses, used for carrying bombs, and booby-trapped
cars - around GBP 3,000.

Al Aqsa began suicide bombings against Israeli civilians last November, two
months after this request.

Several documents, one on Arafat's headed stationery, authorised payments to
known terrorists.

One, dated September 19 last year, authorised the payment of $ 600 (GBP 400) to
Raed Karmi, leader of the Al Aqsa brigades in Tulkarm, who boasted of murdering
two Israeli restaurateurs in January 2000.

In another Marwan Barghouti, head of the Fatah organisation in the West Bank,
asked Arafat for $ 1,000 (GBP 700) for each of the "fighter brethren". Arafat
responded in a hand-written, signed note dated January 7: "Please allocate $ 350
(GBP 240) to each."

At the time, Arafat had just agreed with a US peace envoy to arrest the leaders
of the terror gangs and dismantle the Al Aqsa brigades.

Lt Col Miri Eisin, of Israeli Military Intelligence, said: "We have direct
funding here of money which was requested directly to Arafat and by him, with
his own signature, given to these people who are known terrorists. Far from
being a man trying to find peace for his people, we can now conclusively show
Arafat is a man who knows about and actively supports many of the terror acts
that are taking place.

"The documents we have seized, and there are thousands of them, provide a direct
link between Arafat and those carrying out the acts."

She said the documents were in the process of being destroyed by the
Palestinians when they were seized from the compound in Ramallah.

The Israelis have already shared the documents with US and British intelligence
representatives in the region.

Palestinian officials at first claimed the documents were "taken out of context
or are forgeries" being used in an attempt to justify the Israeli military
offensive in the West Bank.

But Ziad Abu Zayad, a Palestinian cabinet minister, later admitted:

"Yes, these documents are genuine.

But these sorts of requests for financial help come in every day. It doesn't
necessarily mean the money is being used for military reasons."

Under international agreements, funding for the Palestinian Authority is
provided from a series of grants and donations - GBP 38,000,000 monthly from the
Arab League and GBP 6million from the European Union. Half of the EU money pays
the salaries of the Palestinian Authority staff.

Jean Breteche, EU representative in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, said: "We are
providing 20 per cent of the payroll that they have in the Palestinian
institutions. We pay about 10million euros (GBP 6million) per month for about
120,000 total employees."

Despite repeated requests and warnings from Israeli officials, the EU continues
to provide finance for the Palestinians. Breteche said: "We are trying to
maintain the institutions and create the kind of environment which will be
conducive to the starting again of the negotiations."

Now Israeli officials - backed by the documents - say the EU is being deceived
over the destiny of all of the money and that some of it is helping to finance
the very terrorists who are wrecking any chance of peace.

Israeli Housing Minister Natan Sharansky said the EU's behaviour was
"scandalous".

"The EU are making a major mistake and allowing an essential part of the money
they provide to be used for Palestinian terror, " he said.

Sharansky said that in addition to the salaries, other money from the EU and
foreign donors was being diverted by Arafat into terrorist activity through the
use of sophisticated accounting techniques - and simple extortion.

"Whatever money comes in, even if it is for specific projects, it goes partially
to Arafat and we know he uses it to finance terror, " he said.

Directors of Palestinian non-governmental organisations supported by the EU
confirmed that up to one fifth of the money they were supposed to receive was
retained for unspecified purposes by the Palestinian Authority.

The diversion of EU money into terrorism is likely to become the focus of a
ground-breaking legal case being brought in the Israeli courts by Briton Stephen
Bloomberg.

The 42-year-old originally from Hendon, north London, emigrated to Israel 20
years ago soon after leaving Manchester University where he obtained a degree in
physics.

He was travelling with his Israeliborn wife Tehiya and children, Noam, aged 14
and Haggai, 7, close to their home in the West Bank eight months ago when they
were attacked by gunmen. Tehiya was killed and Mr Bloomberg and daughter Noam
were injured. Both are still receiving treatment for spinal injuries in Tel
Aviv.

Mr Bloomberg said: "The person who killed my wife and caused these terrible
injuries to my daughter and myself was employed by the Palestinian Authority. It
is important to make everyone who contributes money to the Palestinian cause
understand that some of the money is being used to commit acts of terrorism.
That's why I'm planning to take a court action against the EU."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 28, 2002, Sunday

Sharon's plan is to drive Palestinians across the Jordan The leading Israeli
historian Martin van Creveld predicts that a US attack on Iraq or a terrorist
strike at home could trigger a massive mobilisation to clear the occupied
territories of their two million Arabs

BYLINE: By Martin van Creveld

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 902 words

TWO YEARS AGO, less than eight per cent of those who took part in a Gallup poll
among Jewish Israelis said they were in favour of what is euphemistically called
"transfer" - that is, the expulsion of perhaps two million Palestinians across
the River Jordan. This month that figure reached 44 per cent.

Earlier this year, when a journalist asked Ariel Sharon whether he favoured such
a move, the Israeli prime minister said he did not think in such terms. A glance
at his memoirs, however, shows that he has not always been so fastidious. In
September 1970 King Hussein of Jordan fell on the Palestinians in his kingdom,
killing perhaps 5,000 to 10,000. The then Gen Sharon, serving as Commanding
Officer, Southern Front, argued that Israel's policy of helping the king was a
mistake; instead it should have tried to topple the Hashemite regime. He has
often said since that Jordan, which, according to him, has a Palestinian
majority even now, is the Palestinian state. The inference - that the
Palestinians should go there - is clear.

During its 1948 War of Independence, Israel drove 650,000 Palestinians from
their homes into neighbouring countries. If it were to try something similar
today, the outcome could well be a regional war. More and more people in
Jerusalem believe that such is Mr Sharon's objective.

It might explain why Mr Sharon, famous for his ability to plan ahead, appears
not to have a plan. In fact, he has always harboured a very clear plan - nothing
less than to rid Israel of the Palestinians.

Few people, least of all me, want the following events to happen. But such a
scenario could easily come about. Mr Sharon would have to wait for a suitable
opportunity - such as an American offensive against Iraq, which some Israelis
think is going to take place in early summer. Mr Sharon himself told Colin
Powell, the secretary of state, that America should not allow the situation in
Israel to delay the operation. An uprising in Jordan, followed by the collapse
of King Abdullah's regime, would also present such an opportunity - as would a
spectacular act of terrorism inside Israel that killed hundreds.

Should such circumstances arise, then Israel would mobilise with lightning speed
- even now, much of its male population is on standby. First, the country's
three ultra-modern submarines would take up firing positions out at sea. Borders
would be closed, a news blackout imposed, and all foreign journalists rounded up
and confined to a hotel as guests of the Government. A force of 12 divisions, 11
of them armoured, plus various territorial units suitable for occupation duties,
would be deployed: five against Egypt, three against Syria, and one opposite
Lebanon. This would leave three to face east as well as enough forces to put a
tank inside every Arab-Israeli village just in case their populations get any
funny ideas. The expulsion of the Palestinians would require only a few
brigades. They would not drag people out of their houses but use heavy artillery
to drive them out; the damage caused to Jenin would look like a pinprick in
comparison.

Any outside intervention would be held off by the Israeli air force. In 1982,
the last time it engaged in large-scale operations, it destroyed 19 Syrian
anti-aircraft batteries and shot down 100 Syrian aircraft against the loss of
one. Its advantage is much greater now than it was then and would present an
awesome threat to any Syrian armoured attack on the Golan Heights. As for the
Egyptians, they are separated from Israel by 150 miles or so of open desert.
Judging by what happened in 1967, should they try to cross it they would be
destroyed.

The Jordanian and Lebanese armed forces are too small to count and Iraq is in no
position to intervene, given that it has not recovered its pre-1991 strength and
is being held down by the Americans. Saddam Hussein may launch some of the 30 to
40 missiles he probably has. The damage they can do, however, is limited. Should
Saddam be mad enough to resort to weapons of mass destruction, then Israel's
response would be so "awesome and terrible" (as Yitzhak Shamir, the former prime
minister, once said) as to defy the imagination.

Some believe that the international community will not permit such an ethnic
cleansing. I would not count on it. If Mr Sharon decides to go ahead, the only
country that can stop him is the United States. The US, however, regards itself
as being at war with parts of the Muslim world that have supported Osama bin
Laden. America will not necessarily object to that world being taught a lesson -
particularly if it could be as swift and brutal as the 1967 campaign; and also
particularly if it does not disrupt the flow of oil for too long.

Israeli military experts estimate that such a war could be over in just eight
days. If the Arab states do not intervene, it will end with the Palestinians
expelled and Jordan in ruins. If they do intervene, the result will be the same,
with the main Arab armies destroyed. Israel would, of course, take some
casualties, especially in the north, where its population would come under fire
from Hizbollah. However, their number would be limited and Israel would stand
triumphant, as it did in 1948, 1956, 1967 and 1973. Are you listening Mr Arafat?

Prof van Creveld is author of The Sword and the Olive; a Critical History of the
Israel Defence Force (New York, 1998). He lives in Jerusalem

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 30, 2002

Terror of woman, 88, in sex attack;Judge hears tape of victim as she pleaded for
mercy

BYLINE: Bruce Mckain And Lynne Robertson

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 596 words


A JUDGE yesterday listened to a tape recording of a terrified 88-year-old woman
screaming for help as she was sexually assaulted in the sheltered home where she
had lived for 16 years.

The woman repeatedly begged David Hillhouse to stop, but the dangerous sexual
predator carried on abusing her even when he knew that police were on the way to
help his frail victim.

At the High Court in Edinburgh yesterday Lord Reed warned Hillhouse, 31, who has
a previous conviction in 1997 for indecently assaulting a 51-year-old woman as
she laid flowers at a graveside, that he was considering jailing him for life
for the protection of the public.

After the hearing, the elderly victim's son and daughter-in-law told how the old
lady's confidence and independence had been destroyed by her terrifying ordeal
at the hands of Hillhouse.

The daughter-in-law, a 58-year-old nurse, said her mother-in-law was convinced
that Hillhouse would have gone on to murder her if she had not pulled the alarm
cord at her beside.

"Before this horrendous attack she could do everything for herself. She was very
happy in her home, leading a very simple but enjoyable social life which has
been totally destroyed," she said.

"Now she's just a frightened old lady. She's afraid of life. She didn't want to
return to her home as she would never feel safe there again. She has lost
confidence in herself and her ability to cope."

She added: "I am really angry that this man was able to walk the streets after
what he had done before. If he hadn't been on the streets she would have been
all right. I hope it doesn't, but I think it could kill her. In a situation like
this life should mean life because when he comes out he'll do it again. He
should die in prison."

Hillhouse, of Buccleuch Street, Edinburgh, admitted breaking into the elderly
woman's home in Edinburgh on January 19 this year, placing her in a state of
fear and alarm, making menacing sexual remarks, pulling down her nightdress,
biting her breast and indecently assaulting her.

Sandy Bolland, QC, advocate-depute, told the court that the old lady was asleep
between 1am and 2am when she was wakened by a noise and saw the outline of a man
standing beside her bed.

She put on her light and pulled the emergency cord linked to a call centre which
then alerted the police. Hillhouse stood staring at her for a moment, pulled her
duvet aside and indecently assaulted her.

"Despite being frail and slight she struggled as best she could. She did manage
to claw his face and caught his mouth with her fingers. She screamed
continuously. The accused placed one hand over her mouth, asking if she was
enjoying it. She pleaded with him to stop, saying 'I'm just an old lady, please
don't'."

Mr Bolland said Hillhouse was a strong suspect and his DNA was later matched
with DNA obtained at the crime scene.

Lord Reed then listened to the disturbing five-minute recording from the scene
of the attack in which the victim could be heard screaming repeatedly: "Please
help me. Please stop. Oh, God." At one point Hillhouse could be heard saying:
"You like that."

Ronnie Renucci, defence counsel, said his client accepted there was little he
could say in mitigation and he had pleaded guilty to spare the victim the ordeal
of giving evidence.

Lord Reed made it clear he was considering jailing Hillhouse for life and said
he would call for a psychiatric report so that he could assess the risk the
accused posed for the public. He deferred sentence until May 16 at the High
Court in Glasgow.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DAVID HILLHOUSE: Judge told him he may be jailed for life.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 30, 2002, Tuesday

PARTY GIRL IS ATTACKED;
 VICTIM'S TEENAGE GANG TERROR

BYLINE: Maggie Barry

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 224 words


A VICIOUS teen gang savagely attacked a 20-year-old woman as she made her way
home from a party.

Cops are also investigating the possibility she may been sexually assaulted by
the two girls and two boys.

The woman was taken to Glasgow's Victoria Infirmary, where she was treated for
her injuries.

She has been severely traumatised by the incident in Rutherglen, near Glasgow,
and was still in shock yesterday.

A police spokesman said: "She is very upset and confused about what happened.

"We are interviewing her but she has managed to give us a description."

Two elderly women were also the victims of sick attacks - one by a 12-year-old
thug.

The first - a frail 87-year-old - was mugged for her pension in Edinburgh.

She was returning home and was at her front door when the thug struck.

A police spokesman said: "It takes a certain type of person to rob such an
elderly lady."

An 86-year-old woman was pushed to the ground by an attacker in Milngavie,
outside Glasgow.

He took her purse, which contained a three-figure sum of cash.

POLICE have warned OAPs to be wary of a conwoman in her 20s who has been behind
at least two thefts.

She smooth-talks her way into their homes and asks for a drink of water. While
the elderly residents are in the kitchen, she steals money from their handbags.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 April 30, 2002

terror attacks; Workers stunned at aerospace factory closure

BYLINE: Diane Williams

SECTION: BUSINESS; COMPANIES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 631 words


A LLANELLI aerospace factory is closing with the loss of 270 jobs because of the
knock-on effects of the September 11 terrorist attack.  Workers at CF Taylor B/E
Aerospace UK were yesterday told the plant will shut in February next year.

The production line at the Dafen factory will be moved to another plant in
England. Some employees may be offered jobs in Leighton Buzzard but the majority
of workers will be made redundant.

The factory, which makes kitchen galleys and interior furnishings for most of
the world's airlines, employs 270 people at its base on the Dafen Industrial
Estate.

Staff were stunned by the announcement although there had been worries over the
long-term future of the factory for some time.

In November the company axed 130 jobs with a further 90 in February blaming the
downturn in demand for air travel following the September 11 atrocity. The
terror attacks have again been blamed for the closure of the factory.

Speaking from America, director of investor relations Max Kuniansky, said it was
"very unfortunate and painful''.

But he said the company had no choice if it was to remain profitable.

He told the Post: "We are planning to shift the production line to another plant
to reduce overhead costs.

"I don't have to tell you what has happened to the airline industry following
September 11, it is in financial difficulty, airline travel is down worldwide.
They are being very careful what they spend their money on and there is a
reduced demand for our products.

"It is a situation we think is going to continue for some time.

"Under those circumstances we have no choice but to try to reduce costs in order
to stay profitable.

"It is very unfortunate and painful to have to cut a workforce like this, but if
we are going to remain profitable, we really have no choice.'' He said the
company announced a plan in October to reduce its workforce by 1,000 and to
close five facilities.

But until now it has kept tight-lipped about which plants were to shut. The
other four are in the US.

Mr Kuniansky said: "He said that the final details of the closure have not yet
been worked out.

"We are still working out the details on that, we are not quite ready to talk
about that yet.'' lLeaders bolt from blue pledge page 3 Managers call for pay
rise ballot WORKERS at Llanelli's Calsonic are to be balloted on industrial
action at the request of the management.

The company has offered the workforce a 2.6 per cent pay rise but the offer was
rejected by employees at the Felinfoel factory and now bosses have asked union
leaders to hold a ballot on industrial action.

Andy Richards, manufacturing sector organiser for the Transport and General
Workers Union in Wales, said they had never known a situation like it before.

He said: "The company has told us that their response to this year's wage claim
is not for negotiation which prevents us from seeking a resolution to the
problem. Astonishingly, on that basis, we have received a request from the local
human resources manager to conduct a ballot on industrial action.

"We have never been confronted with a situation where the management have
requested us to ballot our members before.'' The ballot will be conducted by the
independent Electoral Reform Society by post and the results should be known in
around four weeks.

Tim Jones, group manager at Calsonic, said: "We have offered a 2.6 per cent
increase on pay, which is above the rate of inflation, and compares very
favourably with other companies in the locality.

"We think we have made a very fair offer, and we are sticking to it.'' But he
said if workers were to take industrial action, it would have serious
consequences.

"It would have a disastrous effect on the business here in Llanelli.''

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BLAME September 11 is blamed for a sharp downturn in the aerospace
industry

                    Copyright 2002 South Wales Evening Post

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 April 30, 2002

Insurance on terrorist attacks set for the axe

SECTION: POLITICS; NEATH/PORT TALBOT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 226 words


COUNCIL chiefs in Neath and Port Talbot are being forced to scrap the
authority's insurance against terrorist attacks.  They say it has become too
expensive and insurance companies are imposing too many exclusions in the wake
of September 11. Until now the council has paid for insurance cover against
terrorist attacks on its three main civic centres and Margam Park.

But since the September 11 atrocities the Association of British Insurers has
reconsidered what lever of cover it is prepared to offer. A report on the
situation goes to members of Neath Port Talbot's finance panel later this week.

Finance director Derek Davies said the exclusion would now be extended to
include political, religious and ideological terrorism. It would also include
the additional operation costs incurred as a result of a potential act of
terrorism.

"The authority's consultants were requested to negotiate with the insurers in
order to establish the level of terrorism cover available and its associated
cost,'' said Mr Davies.

He said a quotation had been received for GBP 15,225 for education, civic and
general council properties but not including housing.

"Having regard for the various exclusions placed on this policy and the premium
required it is recommended the authority does not purchase terrorism cover for
2002-3,'' added Mr Davies.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 South Wales Evening Post

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            April 30, 2002, Tuesday

KNIFEMAN GETS JAIL SENTENCE;
 CARDIFF: ATTACKER PUT EX-GIRLFRIEND THROUGH TERROR ORDEAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 259 words


AN OBSESSED lover put his ex-girlfriend through a "terrifying" knifepoint ordeal
after catching her with another man.

James Monahan, 38, was jailed for six months yesterday and ordered to keep away
from Annette Bewick.

Cardiff Crown Court heard Monahan broke into Miss Bewick's house after the break
up of their four-year relationship.

Prosecutor Michael Jones said, "Monahan refused to accept it was over and
continued to phone her and turn up at her home.

"He was warned by police but continued to send letters and cards to Miss
Bewick."

Monahan later broke into Miss Bewick's house after seeing her go in with her
friend Shaun Roach.

Mr Jones said, "She heard Monahan smash the glass panel on her door and open it.
He picked up two knives from the kitchen.

"He told Mr Roach "get out or I'll kill you" then locked the door behind him.

"Monahan, still holding a carving knife, was clearly very upset, and asked Miss
Bewick, 'Why are you doing this to me?'" Police arrived and Monahan told them,
"You may as well lock me up and throw away the key, because I'm not going to let
this lie."

Judge Eleri Rees told him the attention he paid to Miss Bewick was "clearly
unwanted".

She said, "You began by sending letters and cards but then events took a more
sinister turn. I accept you were in emotional turmoil but it must have been a
terrifying experience."

Monahan, of Canton, Cardiff, admitted harassment.

He was put under a restraining order to keep away from Miss Bewick when he is
released from jail.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        May 2, 2002, Thursday Edition 1

Mum's terror after attack ordeal

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 359 words




A brutal maniac attacked a terrified mum as she tried to get on a bus with her
daughter

Shaken Ruth Latouche told how she feared for her life after the man approached
her in broad daylight and subjected her to a terrifying assault.

Miss Latouche said she was shocked no-one had come to her aid as the attacker
grabbed her from behind as she made her way onto the bus with her daughter Cody,
aged seven.

Miss Latouche, 38, of Wingrove Avenue, Fenham, Newcastle, said: "I was standing
at the bus stop and this man came along and said to me: 'Are you the devil?'

"I didn't answer him and then he said: 'Are you deaf or what?' and I started
getting really scared.

"I looked at my little girl and she was terrified so we moved away from him but
he kept on saying I was the devil then asked if I wanted a fight.

"I didn't know whether to walk away or stay there but the bus came and I thought
I would just stay and I would be okay once I got on the bus.

"Cody got on the bus first and as I got on the bloke ran up behind me and
grabbed me. He put his hand around my neck and held it tight and tried to drag
me off the bus.

"I was screaming and trying to hold on but he kept trying to pull me off until
eventually I struggled so much he had to let go and I fell on the floor."

The attack happened as Miss Latouche waited for a bus on Wingrove Road, Fenham,
Newcastle, around 3.30pm.

Despite the vicious attack she suffered, no pedestrians or bus passengers came
to her rescue.

Miss Latouche said: "I was in a right state, crying and hysterical, but no-one
even bothered to help me.

"When I eventually got on the bus and said to people I thought they might have
helped me all they said was they thought it was my husband and that we were
having a domestic. Even the bus driver said that.

"In the end I had to phone the police and when they came we went out in the
police car to see if we could find him and we did, just round the corner, and he
was arrested.

"I just want other people to be aware of the kind of people there on the streets
because I would hate the same thing to happen to anyone else because it was
terrifying."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Leigh Reporter

                                  May 2, 2002

Hammer attack terror

SOURCE: Leigh Reporter

BYLINE: Charles Graham

LENGTH: 321 words


A SECURITY guard's helmet saved him from terrible injuries when masked raiders
battered him about the head with a hammer.

Shoppers looked on in horror as the victim was beaten to the ground in the
street and robbed of the cashbox he was delivering to the Royal Bank of Scotland
in Atherton town centre.

The attack happened in broad daylight on Market Street. The Securicor van had
just arrived at 10am on Friday morning when the gang's stolen car screeched to
halt alongside and the delivery man was attacked.

Police say he was struck about the head several times with a blunt instrument -
possibly a hammer - and the box torn from his grasp.

The four robbers then sped off in the maroon Volvo in the direction of the
Punchbowl. The vehicle, which had been stolen earlier from Cheshire, was
discovered ablaze a short time later in York Street, Atherton.

The partially burnt out car was later taken away for forensic examination.

Detectives say that, although badly shaken by his ordeal, the security guard was
not seriously injured.

A number of witnesses to the robbery have already come forward but police are
keen to speak to others.

Det Insp Steve Nolan of Leigh CID said: This was a serious attack carried out by
a group of dangerous man. Thankfully we are not left with any serious injuries
from the incident, although it was very frightening for those involved.

One can speculate that on abandoning the car in York Street, the offenders then
got into another vehicle to make their escape. We would particularly like to
speak to anyone who may have seen this exchange of vehicles, the Volvo's being
set on fire or knows where the offenders went afterwards. Perhaps someone saw
the men without their masks on.

These men need to be caught before they have the chance to strike again. Next
time the consequences could be much more serious.

Police say only a small amount of cash was taken.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 2, 2002, Thursday

MIRACLE OF THE BERNABEU BOMB;
 TERROR ATTACK AS FANS GATHER FOR MATCH

BYLINE: Oliver Holt In Madrid And Mark Ellis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 433 words

HIGHLIGHT: WRECKAGE: Firefighters tackle burning cars set ablaze by the
terrorist car bomb outside Bernabeu Stadium yesterday; INTENSE: Fire rages after
the explosion before the semi-final; ALERT: Riot police outside stadium after
blast and fighting


A CAR bomb exploded at the Bernabeu stadium last night as football fans arrived
for the Champions League semi-final.

Several people were hurt by flying glass in the blast in Madrid. No one was
killed.

Terrorists from the Basque separatist group ETA claimed responsibility for the
bomb and a second blast - believed to have been their getaway car - an hour
later and a mile away.

Police cordoned off the area near Real Madrid's home ground just before the
explosion after a telephone warning to a Spanish newspaper

Fans arriving early for the clash with Barcelona fled in panic as the blast
shattered windows and set five cars alight. Three hours later the area would
have been packed with the expected crowd of 75,000 trying to get in for the
match.

European soccer's governing body Uefa held an emergency meeting with police and
security services two hours before the game but officials insisted it went
ahead.

The bomb went off only 50metres from the 100,000- capacity stadium three and a
half hours before kick off.

Madrid fan Jorge Tristan said: "I heard a great bang and turned to see a huge
cloud of smoke. There were people running. It was a miracle no one was killed.
If it had happened closer to kick off there would have been terrible injuries.
It would have been carnage."

The stolen Renault packed with 50lb of explosives was parked outside the Europa
Tower, one of Madrid's tallest buildings, in the financial district less than a
mile from the city centre.

Mayor of Madrid Jose Maria Alvarez del Manzano said at the scene: "Now ETA have
got a new target - football stadiums and major sporting occasions. What a
disgrace! Thank God people are not mourning the death of loved ones."

Joan Gaspart, Barcelona's president, added: "This is madness."

Riot police also had to use tear gas to separate rival fans in a clash outside
the stadium 30 minutes after the explosion. Gangs hurled crash barriers at each
other and threw fireworks and smoke bombs at police.

Uefa spokesman Mike Lee said: "Certain areas have been cordoned off and one of
the underground stations has had to be closed, so clearly there were some
implications in terms of fans arriving.

"There were some smoke effects but no physical damage and no injuries directly
related to the game. The area was on a state of alert. We had to be fully guided
by the police and the security advice we received."

Eta has carried out numerous attacks in its campaign for an independent Basque
region. Ten days ago it detonated a car bomb in the same area. No one was
seriously injured.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                  May 4, 2002

Court told of terror attack after dispute about shed

BYLINE: Alan Gorham

SECTION: NEWS; COURTS; Sheriff; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 735 words


AN OFFSHORE worker yesterday described a terrifying attack by a neighbouring
landowner he had previously reported to council bosses over the state of his
shed.

Robert Murney told Stonehaven Sheriff Court he required plastic surgery after
James Herd jabbed him in the face with a metal bar on May 10 last year.

The 53-year-old told the court he has had skin grafts to repair two sections of
his nose, which were sliced open by a metal bar wielded by Herd.

He also lost two teeth and suffered a fractured shoulder.

Herd, 51, along with his son, David Herd, 16, both of 5 Davidson Place, St
Cyrus, and another man, John Stewart, 20, of 5 Glenskinno Cottage, Hillside,
Montrose, appeared for trial yesterday on 14 charges including assault, breach
of the peace and resisting arrest.

Mr Murney, of Waterside House, Waterside of Kinnaber, near Montrose, said the
attack came as he approached Herd to talk to him about an alleged assault on his
son.

The court heard Mr Murney had returned home from a trip offshore and, when a car
used by Herd's family passed, his wife said she was calling the police.

Ann Murney told the court she had informed her husband of an incident early the
same day in which their son, Andrew, was allegedly struck in the chest with a
baseball bat by Stewart.

Mrs Murney, 49, said officers who visited her that morning had asked her to call
them if she saw the Herds. No charges have been brought in connection with the
earlier alleged incident.

Mr Murney asked his 22-year-old son to accompany him, to talk to James Herd
about the previous alleged incident.

They met the three accused on a road near Mr Murney's home. James Herd was
driving a tractor and Stewart and David Herd were in a car with two other men.

Mr Murney said: "He (James Herd) got out of the tractor and he picked up a metal
bar from inside the tractor." He said he was going to go towards him when Herd
sen threatened to kill them.

The court heard that Stewart and David Herd had climbed out of the car. Stewart
was holding a 2-3ft-long axe and David Herd was holding a golf club and a metal
chain with a hook at its end.

Butted Mr Murney said David Herd swung the golf club at him and struck him on
the shoulder.

James Herd then struck him in the face twice with the metal bar. Mr Murney said
he butted Herd sen twice to try to stop the attack.

They grappled for a short time. Mr Murney said he kept glancing at his son as
Stewart was "waving" the axe about.

Mr Murney was then hit by "a really heavy blow" that left him staggering and
"praying to God to give me strength".

Andrew Murney told the court he had tried to wrestle the metal bar from James
Herd and the bar had hit the accused in the face.

Both he and Robert Murney fell to the ground.  Mr Murney jun said he put his
foot on Herd's chest to stop him from attacking his father again. The incident
then ended.

Under cross-examination from James Herd's defence agent, John Richardson, Mr
Murney admitted he had reported the accused to council officers over the
condition of a shed in the field by his home.

Mr Murney denied that, before the incident on May 10, there had been any
problems between the families.

He also rejected suggestions from Mr Richardson and David Herd's agent, Billy
Warden, that he been the aggressor.

Both Mr Richardson and Mr Warden suggested Mr Murney had attacked David Herd
first, and then turned on his father.

James Herd denies possessing a metal bar and assaulting Mr Murney by striking
him in the face with it to his severe injury.

He also denies struggling with police officers as they attempted to arrest him.

Stewart denies possessing an axe and assaulting Andrew Murney by attempting to
strike him it. He also denies assaulting Ann Murney and wielding an axe at her.

David Herd denies possessing a length of metal chain with a hook at its end and
twice striking Mr Murney sen with the weapon to his severe injury and permanent
disfigurement.

He also denies attempting to strike Mr Murney sen with a piece of wood, and
throwing a brick at his son.

Stewart and David Herd also deny resisting, obstructing, molesting and hindering
police officers by pushing and pulling at them as they attempted to arrest James
Herd.

All three deny brawling, shouting, swearing and two charges of breaking the
peace.

The trial before Sheriff Alexander Jessop continues.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PRAISED Swansea Airport's Martin Morgan (right above) with Air Wales
owner Roy Thomas. Nigel Evans MP (below right). D011016/0061/RM

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 4, 2002, Saturday

TROOPS' FEARS OVER NEEDLE ATTACK KIDS;
 PEACEKEEPER'S SYRINGE TERROR

BYLINE: Graham Tibbetts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 247 words

HIGHLIGHT: NEW FIGHT: Troops now face dangers from children


BRITISH troops in Afghanistan have been put on red alert after a peacekeeper was
stabbed by a syringe-wielding child.

Military chiefs are warning soldiers to avoid friendly-looking local youngsters
for fear they may be hiding needles primed with contaminated blood.

It follows a chilling incident in which an off-duty German peacekeeper in Kabul
was jabbed in the hand by a nine-year-old boy.

One Scots squaddie said: "We've been told not to shake hands with children. You
can get syringe anywhere and some kids will use them.

"It's hard enough to defend yourself against the Taliban without having to worry
about children and phials of contaminated blood."

British troops have previously been the target of syringe attacks in the Balkans
and Africa.

About 1,500 UK servicemen and women are in the International Security and
Assistance Force (ISAF) patrolling the Afghan capital and a similar number are
based at at Bagram Airbase.

The German soldier suffered a needle attack on a shopping trip.

ISAF spokesman, Lieutenant Colonel Neal Peckham, said: "Kids were shaking his
hand and one punctured the skin of the peacekeeper.

"He was shocked but not seriously harmed."

Dr Koen Henckaerts, who has worked in Kabul with Medecins sans Frontieres, said
that Hepatitis B - not AIDS - was the big threat.

Dr Henckaerts said: "It's a very dangerous disease.

"It is treatable if identified and troops would probably be vaccinated against
it."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                  May 4, 2002

Arson attack woman's terror.

BYLINE: Claire Fearn

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 172 words



A TERRIFIED woman had to be rescued from her home by a neighbour after an
arsonist set fire to her garden shed.

Flames from the blaze set the back of Audrey Kay's house alight and then spread
to the next-door terraced property.

Mrs Kay was dragged through the front window by her next-door neighbour, Alan
Eden, whose home was also ablaze.

Simon Long, who claimed a candle he lit caused a fire in the shed, was arrested
at the scene. The fire was responsible for causing almost GBP 100,000 of damage
to two houses.

Mrs Kay's house was wrecked by the blaze causing GBP 53,000 worth of damage.
Next door the fire caused GBP 43,000 worth of damage.

Long, aged 21, of Bradshaw House, Bury Road, appeared at Bolton Crown Court for
sentence.

He admitted burglary of a shed at the rear of the house in Bury New Road,
Bolton, and arson being reckless to the threat of danger to life.

Judge Reginald Lockett sentenced Long to a two-year Community Rehabilitation
Order and a 100-hour Community Punishment Order.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                  May 4, 2002

Life for father in terror attack.

BYLINE: Claire Fearn

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 472 words



A FATHER with a grudge against social services who held a woman prisoner in her
own home has been jailed for life.

Andrew Roberts broke into the house expecting to find the social worker who had
handled a case that led to his son being taken into care.

But she had changed address -- and instead, a mother-of-two who had moved into
the property at Oswaldtwistle feared for her life in a terrifying ordeal.

Speaking after the case, Detective Inspector Bob Eastwood called Roberts one of
the most 'violent and vindictive' men he had come across and was convinced that
his intention was to murder his victim.

Roberts poured petrol into the home on Stanhill Lane and tied up the woman as he
tried to gain information about where the previous occupant had moved to.

Roberts, 40, formerly of Oaks Avenue, Bolton, had pleaded guilty to charges of
false imprisonment, possession of articles with intent to cause damage by fire
and possession of an offensive weapon.

Judge Peter Openshaw QC told him at the end of a Preston Crown Court hearing: "I
would be failing in my duty if I did not pass a life prison sentence."

The defendant had developed a grievance against Bury Social Services and one
social worker in particular, during care proceedings over his son that took
place in the late 1990's.

At that time he was living in Bury.

He continued to nurse this grievance after he and his family moved to Bolton, to
a different social services area, said Charles Brown, prosecuting.

He found out where the social worker lived and in March last year visited the
area.

However, the woman had sold the house in January and had moved out when the
defendant forced entry.

He had been expressing violent sentiments towards that social worker and also
towards his own family before being asked to leave his family home.

Lancashire Evening Telegraph tele-ads employee Joanne Trickett, the new occupant
at the Stanhill Lane address, woke after midnight to see the defendant, dressed
totally in black, who broken into the house.

He had poured petrol into the property and demanded to know where the social
worker was.

Mr Brown said "The defendant was unwilling to accept that she was unaware where
the person now lived. He continued to question her.

"She was extremely frightened, not only for her own safety, perhaps even more
for her two children asleep upstairs. She feared for her and their lives."

He made the woman lie on the floor and tied her wrists behind her back.

Roberts eventually left and was arrested following a car chase in Bury.

He had a previous conviction in 1999 for common assault on the social worker.

Roberts represented himself at the hearing and made a long speech claiming he
and his family had been a perfectly normal, decent family before social services
got involved.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 5, 2002

Focus: The Bin Laden connection: Britain's most wanted: He is a Muslim cleric
being hunted for terrorist attacks accross Europe. So how was Abu Qatada allowed
to disappear in Britain?: Special report by Paul Harris, Anthony Barnett, Burham
Wazir and Kate Connolly in Berlin

BYLINE: Paul Harris, Anthony Barnett, Burham Wazir and Kate Connolly

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1166 words


WHEN police burst into Ismail Shalabi's flat in the small western German town of
Beckum on 23 April, they instantly knew they had hit the jackpot.

On one wall a large portrait of Osama bin Laden gazed down as the armed officers
scrambled through the door. There were dozens of books and leaflets in the rooms
praising bin Laden. It was a shrine to the terrorist.

Another terror cell in Europe had been exposed. But, as other German agents made
19 more raids, sweeping up weapons and suspects, a familiar name emerged as one
of the cell's organisers and inspirations. It was a name also well-known to
British police n Abu Qatada.

Qatada is one of the world's most wanted men, the quarry of police on three
continents from eight different countries. He is suspected of masterminding mass
murder and bombing as a key figure in bin Laden's al-Qaeda network. He has been
called bin Laden's eEuropean ambassador'. And he is here in Britain.

Whether he has adopted a disguise, perhaps shaving his beard and wearing Western
dress, or whether he has holed up in a safe house, is not known. But for at
least four months, according to reliable Islamist, police and political sources,
Qatada has been hiding in Britain.

London, where he lived for nine years, is the most likely hiding place. He could
also be in Leicester or in north-west England where he also spent time and has
known associates.

The police are not the only ones who are confused. Rumours are starting to
circulate that the manhunt for Qatada is not what it seems. In the tight-knit
world of Britain's fundamentalist Islamic groups it is being whispered that
Qatada may have changed sides. He might now be working with MI5, revealing the
identities of terrorist cells across Europe n cells that he helped to create. If
so, it would be a huge coup for Britain's embattled intelligence services. If
not, it represents a major failing in the eWar on Terror'. If a man such as
Qatada can hide so effectively in Britain, how can we expect to find bin Laden
in the mountains of Afghanistan? As one Islamic exile put it: eThis is the
United Kingdom, not Tora Bora. Why is he still free?'

On 22 March last year five men in an al-Qaeda cell gathered at a dingy flat on
the outskirts of Milan to watch a video of Algerian guerrillas slitting the
throats of government soldiers.

The conversation, secretly monitored by Italian police, turned to Qatada and the
need for secrecy. eIf one is very important, one ought not to put oneself in
danger. That's discretion. The example of that is Sheikh Abu Qatada,' said Sami
ben Khemais Essid, a Tunisian later convicted of being bin Laden's top terrorist
in Italy.

Certainly Qatada is being discreet now. The last time he was seen was on 15
December last year, outside the rundown house in Acton, west London, where he
lived since 1993.

It was just hours before new laws in Britain came into force that would have
allowed police to pick up and intern a long list of terrorist suspects. Qatada's
name was at the top of it. Neighbours saw him load his pregnant wife and four
children into their people carrier and drive off. His family still live in the
house but Qatada has not been seen since.

It has been a spectacular disappearing act. By the time Qatada went on the run
he was at the centre of a global web of terrorist conspiracies that runs from
Washington to Amman and from London to Madrid. Police in America, Britain,
Belgium, Spain, France, Germany, Italy and Jordan want him.

In Italy the Milan-based gang who praised him so highly plotted to use poison
gas n transported in tins of tomatoes n on targets in France. In Jordan Qatada
has already been convicted in absentia of plotting attacks on American and
Israeli tourist targets. Another bombing he was implicated in cost the life of a

12-year-old girl. Spain's top investigating magistrate, Judge Baltasar GarzUn,
has named him as the espiritual head of the Mujahideen in Europe' with extensive
contacts with Islamic terror cells in Madrid linked to the World Trade Centre
attacks.

In France he is wanted for his close links to Djamel Beghal, accused of being
bin Laden's main European recruiter. Beghal had attended Qatada's London prayer
meetings. Shoebomber Richard Reid, who tried to blow up a jet, attended Qatada's
weekly sessions at the Four Feathers Social Club on Baker Street. So did
Zacharias Moussaoui, the etwentieth hijacker', who was supposed to join the 11
September attackers.

It is a litany of infamy. And Qatada denies every word of it. He has denied ever
having met bin Laden, despite intelligence reports stating the two held talks in
Pakistan in 1989. Qatada says he is being persecuted for his views and has met
hundreds of people at his prayer group. He says he cannot remember meeting men
such as Beghal. Born in Bethlehem, Qatada, has claimed he is nothing more than a
refugee holy man, fleeing persecution in Jordan. Qatada was unwilling to try his
luck with Western justice. Since his disappearance, he has only emerged into
public view once, on 11 January, to leave a voice message on an internet site
used by his supporters. It stated simply: eI'm safe, but just don't ask too much
about me.' And with that, he was gone again.

But why hasn't he been caught? The French secret service believe they know: he
is a spy. That is also the view of many in Britain's Islamic community. In
prayer halls and private houses, the opinions are the same: eQatada is an MI5
agent', eHe is a supergrass' and even, as one Algerian exile remarked bitterly
last week, ePerhaps he is a Jew'.

The rumours have destroyed his reputation among radical Muslims. eIf Qatada
appears in public again, no one will trust him,' said Abdel Bari Atwan, editor
of the respected Arabic daily Al-Quds.

Certainly dozens of activists associated with him across Europe are behind bars
and charged with plotting to create mayhem across the continent. All these plots
n from Paris to Frankfurt n were caught before they were carried out.

But many observers reject the spy theory. The networks he was involved in
developed over many years into a terrifying organisation, the true extent of
which is still not known. It is still a danger. Qatada was too active and high
profile to be an agent and investigators missed the biggest plot of all: the
attacks on New York. If Qatada was a spy, they say, then he represents one of
the biggest mistakes in law enforcement history. Perhaps more likely is the idea
that British intelligence does know where he is and that they are monitoring his
every move, hoping to use him as a ehoneypot' to entrap others.

Yet maybe the simplest idea is the most likely. The British police and secret
services simply cannot find him. That raises questions about what attacks might
occur in the future. ePerhaps for Qatada it is still mission unaccomplished,'
said one Islamic radical close to Qatada's followers. eMaybe he still wants to
finish his task.'


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 5, 2002, Sunday

Israel fears 'mega' terror attacks to wreck peace drive

BYLINE: Uzi Mahnaimi in Tel Aviv and Tony Allen Mills

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 447 words


NEW Israeli proposals for peace in the Middle East will be presented to
President George W Bush this week amid fears that Palestinian extremists will
launch "mega-terror" attacks aimed at disrupting US plans for an international
conference on the region this summer.

Ariel Sharon, Israel's prime minister, is due to visit the White House on
Tuesday. Israeli sources say he intends to present Bush with "the most detailed
peace plan ever drawn up by an Israeli prime minister", but American officials
are not expecting a serious breakthrough.

Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader, has also agreed to consult Arab leaders
over a proposal by Colin Powell, the American secretary of state, for
international talks.

Despite cautious optimism that direct negotiations may soon resume, fears of
terrorist disruption have increased after the discovery by Israeli army
intelligence of a plan to blow up the Azrieli tower in Tel Aviv, the tallest
office building in the Middle East.

More than half a ton of explosives was seized by Israeli commandos in the West
Bank town of Qalqilia, 20 miles east of Tel Aviv.

Israeli officials claimed the fundamentalist group Hamas was planning the
attack. Brigadier-General Yehiam Sasson, Sharon's anti-terror adviser, warned
that a strategy of "mega" attacks would go "far beyond" the suicide bombings of
recent months. "We're talking about attacks that could create a strategic change
in the terror picture," he told a local newspaper.

Israeli sources say Sharon is ready to accept a Palestinian state but refuses to
hand over enough territory to satisfy Arafat. Nor are Palestinians likely to be
impressed by Sharon's insistence on presenting Bush with a 100-page document
that details Arafat's alleged financial backing for terrorists.

Bush's room for manoeuvre is hampered by domestic pressure in support of Israel,
although he was able to exercise enough leverage on Sharon to let Arafat leave
the Ramallah compound where he had been under siege. Congressional votes last
week indicated overwhelming support for Sharon's tough line, which many senators
and congressmen see as justified by the threat of terrorism.

American officials also acknowledge that Arab resistance to yet another round of
"talks about talks" means that any future peace conference will have to address
fundamental questions about Palestinian statehood.

However, even Powell's modest attempt to create a forum for renewed negotiations
was under fire yesterday from hawks in Washington. One senior official played
down suggestions that the initiative amounted to a peace conference.

A warning from Arab history News Review, page 7.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                  May 8, 2002

Suicide bomber kills 15 in crowded pool hall;
 TERROR ATTACK: PM Sharon cuts short his visit to Washington

BYLINE: PA News reporters

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 710 words


PRIME minister Ariel Sharon was today on his way back to Israel after a suicide
bomber blew himself up in a pool hall packed with teenagers, killing himself and
15 others.

The force of yesterday's blast blew out the front of the third-floor club in a
business district of Rishon Letzion, a city ten miles south of Tel Aviv,
collapsing the ceiling and sending glass and rubble flying into the street
below. An eyewitness, who refused to give his name, told Israel Radio that his
wife saw the bomber, who was carrying a suitcase, enter the pool hall and set
off the explosives.

Sharon cut short his visit to the United States soon after receiving news of the
atrocity and at a news conference before leaving Washington, said he would press
ahead with Israel's fight against terrorism.

"Our work is not done, " he declared. "The battle continues and will continue
until all those who believe that they can make gains through the use of
terrorism will cease to exist - cease to exist."

Israel Radio reported that police believe the bomber came from the Gaza Strip,
which has been left out of Israel's military offensive so far.

Sharon said the attack was "proof of the true intentions of the person leading
the Palestinian Authority, " blaming Yasser Arafat without mentioning his name.

Sharon has been trying to persuade the Americans that Arafat should not play a
part in peace talks, claiming he is responsible for the violence that has
plagued the region for more than 19 months.

The Palestinian Authority issued a strong statement condemning the bombing,
which it said only served Israel's interests.

"The Palestinian leadership will take firm and strict measures against those who
are involved in this operation and will not be lighthanded in punishing those
who have caused great harm to our cause, " the statement said. In a rare choice
of words, it referred to bombings as "terrorist crimes".

Public opinion polls have shown that many Palestinians believe such attacks are
a legitimate way to fight Israeli occupation.

Interviewed on NBC TV just before the latest attack, Arafat responded to a
question by saying:

"Religiously, it is forbidden for any Muslim to kill any civilian."

Jibril Rajoub, Arafat's security chief in the West Bank, said Israel's actions
against Palestinians were to blame for the bombing attack. "The Israelis have to
understand that . . .

the language of force cannot break the Palestinian people. There will be no
security for the Israelis unless there is peace and security for the
Palestinians, " he said.

Yesterday's bloody attack ended a period of three weeks of relative calm, after
an April 12 suicide bombing in Jerusalem killed six bystanders and the female
bomber.

The downturn in terrorism coincided with the Israeli operation in the West Bank,
its biggest thrust there in three decades. Army commanders said their assault
prevented many terror strikes, but admitted they could not stop them all.

The last vestige of the operation, a standoff at the Church of the Nativity in
Bethlehem, defied resolution, though the outline of a deal has been in place for
two days. Since April 2, Israeli forces have been surrounding the church, since
more than 200 people, including about 40 gunmen, fled there as the Israelis
invaded Bethlehem.

According to the deal, 13 militants were to be deported to Italy and 26 others
would be taken to the Palestinian-controlled Gaza Strip.

The others in the church would be freed. However, Italian officials said they
had not been consulted and were hesitating to take in the 13 Palestinians.
Contacts were expected to resume later today.

The explosion in the pool hall happened at 11.03pm local time, when the hall was
packed with young Israelis out for the evening.

Police said 15 people were killed, besides the bomber, and more than 60 wounded
were taken to area hospitals.

George Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, said that Bush "was
able to personally convey his condolences to the prime minister and . . .
register his disgust with this wanton waste of life".

The two leaders were unable to bridge major differences on the Middle East
crisis, including whether talks in the region should

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 8, 2002, Wednesday

MINISTERS GIVEN 'CHILLING' BRIEFING: RISK OF TERRORIST ATTACKS STILL HIGH

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 378 words


INTELLIGENCE SERVICES have warned Tony Blair that the threat to Britain from
terrorist attacks remains as high today as in the immediate aftermath of the 11
September attacks.

They have told ministers there is no evidence al-Qa'ida's suspected
international network of terrorist sleepers has been broken up by the military
action in Afghanistan.

The intelligence briefing - described by one senior minister as "chilling" - was
aimed at ensuring the Government stepped up security measures and redoubled
efforts to track down al-Qa'ida "sleepers".

The terrorist network set up by Osama bin Laden is also believed to have
received an influx of cash from Saudi supporters in the past few weeks. The
money has been pouring in from sympathisers outraged by the Israeli Government's
recent assault on Palestinian-held areas, according to intelligence sources.

Although the US-led war on al-Qa'ida and its Taliban protectors in Afghanistan
has been largely successful, Ministers admit the terrorist network has been "dug
in" in other countries for years and it is continuing to regroup. They also
confess the security services are little closer to understanding the chain of
events that led to the attacks on America and fear that a complacent public is
becoming less vigilant.

One said: "Mr bin Laden might be cornered in a cave but that won't necessarily
prevent al-Qa'ida carrying out further attacks. We were pretty shocked at what
we heard. The American attacks were five years in the planning. Who knows what
could be in the pipeline?"

Ministers have not been presented with any specific evidence of a planned attack
in Britain but fear al-Qa'ida "sleepers" could have been in the country for
years. They point out some of the men suspected of the US atrocities passed
through Britain. Britain's leading role in the coalition in Afghanistan could
propel it up the list of targets.

Dr Rohan Gunaratna, an expert on Islamic terrorism, has warned that Mr bin Laden
is recruiting support in both Britain and Europe. Mr bin Laden is believed to
have written a defiant message posted last month on an al-Qa'ida web site.

Sources believe al-Qa'ida's leadership has been reorganised by Abu Zubaydah, a
deputy who escaped from Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 8, 2002, Wednesday

MINISTERS TOLD RISK OF TERRORIST ATTACKS STILL HIGH

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Political Correspondent Tony Blair: Warned that terror
threat is still high

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 372 words


THE INTELLIGENCE services have warned Tony Blair that the threat to Britain from
terrorist attacks remains as high today as in the immediate aftermath of the 11
September attacks.

They have told ministers there is no evidence al- Qa'ida's suspected
international network of terrorist sleepers has been broken up by the military
action in Afghanistan.The intelligence briefing - described by a senior minister
as "chilling" - was aimed at ensuring the Government stepped up security
measures and redoubled efforts to track down al-Qa'ida "sleepers".

The terrorist network set up by Osama bin Laden is believed to have received
cash from Saudi supporters in the past few weeks. The money has been pouring in
from sympathisers outraged by Israel's recent assault on Palestinian- held areas
in the West Bank, according to intelligence sources.

Although the US-led war on al-Qa'ida and its Taliban protectors in Afghanistan
has been largely successful, ministers admit the terrorist network has been "dug
in" in other countries for years and it is continuing to regroup. They also
confess the security services are little closer to understanding the chain of
events that led to the attacks on America and fear the public is becoming less
vigilant.

One minister said: "Mr bin Laden might be cornered in a cave but that won't
necessarily prevent al-Qa'ida carrying out further attacks. We were pretty
shocked at what we heard (in the briefing). The American attacks were five years
in the planning. Who knows what could be in the pipeline?"

Ministers have not been presented with any specific evidence of a planned attack
in Britain but fear al-Qa'ida "sleepers" could have been in the country for
years.

They point out some of the men suspected of the atrocities in America passed
through Britain. They also believe that Britain's leading role in the coalition
that overthrew the Taliban in Afghanistan could make it more of a target.

Dr Rohan Gunaratna, an expert on Islamic terrorism, has warned that Mr bin Laden
and his lieutenants are recruiting support in Britain and on the European
mainland.

Mr bin Laden is believed to have written a defiant message posted last month on
an al-Qa'ida website.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 8, 2002, Wednesday

MINISTERS GIVEN 'CHILLING' BRIEFING: RISK OF TERRORIST ATTACKS STILL HIGH

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 378 words


INTELLIGENCE SERVICES have warned Tony Blair that the threat to Britain from
terrorist attacks remains as high today as in the immediate aftermath of the 11
September attacks.

They have told ministers there is no evidence al-Qa'ida's suspected
international network of terrorist sleepers has been broken up by the military
action in Afghanistan.

The intelligence briefing - described by one senior minister as "chilling" - was
aimed at ensuring the Government stepped up security measures and redoubled
efforts to track down al-Qa'ida "sleepers".

The terrorist network set up by Osama bin Laden is also believed to have
received an influx of cash from Saudi supporters in the past few weeks. The
money has been pouring in from sympathisers outraged by the Israeli Government's
recent assault on Palestinian-held areas, according to intelligence sources.

Although the US-led war on al-Qa'ida and its Taliban protectors in Afghanistan
has been largely successful, Ministers admit the terrorist network has been "dug
in" in other countries for years and it is continuing to regroup. They also
confess the security services are little closer to understanding the chain of
events that led to the attacks on America and fear that a complacent public is
becoming less vigilant.

One said: "Mr bin Laden might be cornered in a cave but that won't necessarily
prevent al-Qa'ida carrying out further attacks. We were pretty shocked at what
we heard. The American attacks were five years in the planning. Who knows what
could be in the pipeline?"

Ministers have not been presented with any specific evidence of a planned attack
in Britain but fear al-Qa'ida "sleepers" could have been in the country for
years. They point out some of the men suspected of the US atrocities passed
through Britain. Britain's leading role in the coalition in Afghanistan could
propel it up the list of targets.

Dr Rohan Gunaratna, an expert on Islamic terrorism, has warned that Mr bin Laden
is recruiting support in both Britain and Europe. Mr bin Laden is believed to
have written a defiant message posted last month on an al-Qa'ida web site.

Sources believe al-Qa'ida's leadership has been reorganised by Abu Zubaydah, a
deputy who escaped from Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 8, 2002, Wednesday

MINISTERS TOLD RISK OF TERRORIST ATTACKS STILL HIGH

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Political Correspondent Tony Blair: Warned that terror
threat is still high

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 372 words


THE INTELLIGENCE services have warned Tony Blair that the threat to Britain from
terrorist attacks remains as high today as in the immediate aftermath of the 11
September attacks.

They have told ministers there is no evidence al- Qa'ida's suspected
international network of terrorist sleepers has been broken up by the military
action in Afghanistan.The intelligence briefing - described by a senior minister
as "chilling" - was aimed at ensuring the Government stepped up security
measures and redoubled efforts to track down al-Qa'ida "sleepers".

The terrorist network set up by Osama bin Laden is believed to have received
cash from Saudi supporters in the past few weeks. The money has been pouring in
from sympathisers outraged by Israel's recent assault on Palestinian- held areas
in the West Bank, according to intelligence sources.

Although the US-led war on al-Qa'ida and its Taliban protectors in Afghanistan
has been largely successful, ministers admit the terrorist network has been "dug
in" in other countries for years and it is continuing to regroup. They also
confess the security services are little closer to understanding the chain of
events that led to the attacks on America and fear the public is becoming less
vigilant.

One minister said: "Mr bin Laden might be cornered in a cave but that won't
necessarily prevent al-Qa'ida carrying out further attacks. We were pretty
shocked at what we heard (in the briefing). The American attacks were five years
in the planning. Who knows what could be in the pipeline?"

Ministers have not been presented with any specific evidence of a planned attack
in Britain but fear al-Qa'ida "sleepers" could have been in the country for
years.

They point out some of the men suspected of the atrocities in America passed
through Britain. They also believe that Britain's leading role in the coalition
that overthrew the Taliban in Afghanistan could make it more of a target.

Dr Rohan Gunaratna, an expert on Islamic terrorism, has warned that Mr bin Laden
and his lieutenants are recruiting support in Britain and on the European
mainland.

Mr bin Laden is believed to have written a defiant message posted last month on
an al-Qa'ida website.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                                  May 8, 2002

Attack terror of woman, 92.

BYLINE: Phil Mills

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 456 words


image large="kershaw.jpg" type="landscape"Mildred Kershaw, inset, was mugged in
Hamilton Roadimage A 92-year-old woman was seriously ill in hospital today after
being viciously mugged for GBP 2 in cash, a few groceries and a copy of The
Argus. Frail Mildred Kershaw now faces potentially life-threatening surgery
after her attacker flung her to the ground, breaking her hip and wrist. Mildred,
known by friends as Millie, had just been to local shops near her Brighton home
when the mugger grabbed her bag, hurled her aside and fled. Three passers-by
gave her first aid until an ambulance arrived. Mildred was expected to undergo
surgery today at the Royal Sussex County Hospital, Brighton. Members of her
family were with her. The robbery happened yesterday at 4pm in Hamilton Road,
which leads from Exeter Street to Old Shoreham Road, near Seven Dials. Mildred
had just popped out to buy her copy of The Argus, a few potatoes, grapes and a
bottle of wine. A major police hunt, Operation Watcher, was launched and police
issued an urgent appeal for witnesses. Detective Sergeant Claire Shiel, who
spoke to Mildred in hospital, said: "She is such a lovely lady and she chatted
to officers, asking us about our lives. I left her bedside with a lump in my
throat. "She was cross with herself for going out alone." Mildred, described as
alert but frail, has to hold on to walls as she walks along streets but manages
to get out every day. She celebrated her birthday last Friday at the
Prestonville Arms in Hamilton Road with relatives and friends. Pub manager
Andrew White said: "This was dreadful and I hope they catch the big, brave bloke
who did this. "Millie is a very nice old lady and quite sprightly for her age.
She comes in here now and again and has a half of Guinness. "Millie has lived in
this area for years. She gave us an old photograph of VE Day celebrations in her
street to put up in the pub. "This is a terrible shame and I hope they bring the
culprit to justice." Acting Detective Chief Inspector Martin Underhill, who is
heading the inquiry, said police were trying to trace anyone who saw the
robbery. He added: "We have not interviewed a single person who witnessed it yet
and I can't believe no one was around at that time of day. "There must have been
motorists, cyclists or pedestrians nearby. "Someone must have seen something and
I would urge them to come forward. "This was a despicable robbery on a
vulnerable old lady. No one deserves to be accosted like this but especially a
woman of her age." Officers were carrying out house-to-house inquiries and an
incident room has been set up at Brighton police station. Anyone with
information should call the Operation Watcher team on 0845 6070999.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                  May 10, 2002

Terrorist bomb attack

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 80 words


A BOMB exploded near a bank in the southern Israeli city of Beersheva today,
injuring several people.

Police said they had caught a suspect.

"Two terrorists threw a bomb or planted a bomb.

"One was captured and the other escaped and we are searching for him, " said
Yossi Koppel, the southern district police commander.

The bomb went off near the Bank Hapoalim building in the desert city, 40 miles
south of Jerusalem. At least four people were injured.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                              May 10, 2002, Friday

LETTER: ARAB TERRORIST ATTACKS FORCED ISRAELI ARMY TO ACT

BYLINE: Henry Warson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 470 words


Sir, - If I may continue the correspondence regarding Israel, I repeat that the
occupation of Samaria, Judea and Gaza after the 1967 war was quite legal by
international law.

The letter by Mick Cole (Post, May 3) ignores completely the continued terrorist
activities coming from Arab-controlled areas, in particular the suicide bombers,
not to mention the pass-by shootings, murderous raids on settlements, the murder
of occupants of school buses and, most contemptible, the Arabs using their
children as shields.

The action of the conscript Israel army, one of the most disciplined in the
world, was essential to stop the terror. It was known that a large proportion of
this emanated from Jenin, hence the military action against it, which was
accomplished with the minimum of civilian casualties, although there was an
increase in Israel military casualties in a house-by-house attack with guns
firing from almost every window. Israel refrained from an aerial attack to save
civilian lives. The operation showed that the so-called refugee camp was one
vast arsenal and bomb factory, now happily demolished.

Before writing about UN resolutions, Mr Cole should remember that the earliest
resolution, the creation of Israel, was ignored by neighbouring Arab states, and
their military attack on the nascent state, in general unsuccessful, was the
cause of the so-called refugees leaving their homes. While UN was at the birth
of Israel, it cannot control its offspring indefinitely. Current UN General
Assembly resolutions are meaningless. All Muslim states, representing
populations of over one billion, will always vote against Israel and, often by
oil blackmail, persuade the other states, eg African countries, to support them.

Israel is a democratic country and no country can be expected to be a victim of
attacks of this tragic type without reprisals, which are directed against the
authority responsible for the attacks, believed by Israel to be Arafat himself.
He is the second most evil man of the second half of the 20th century, after
Saddam Hussein. I must also point out that Israel has a substantial Arab
population, not far from one million, and I believe there has only been one
Israeli Arab involved in an attack.

Unfortunately, the general tone of both radio and television broadcasting (and
some of your press contemporaries) is definitely anti-Israel, eg by giving more
time to Arab speakers, such as the charismatic Hanan Asrawi, than to Israeli
speakers who almost invariably have poor English. Television showed Arab women
in the ruins of the Jenin terrorist camp complaining that they could not get
milk for their children. Many Israeli children have no mothers to obtain milk
for them. They were murdered in one of the suicide bomber raids.

HENRY WARSON Solihull.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 10, 2002, Friday

MIDDLE EAST: ARAFAT TRIES TO STAVE OFF GAZA ASSAULT WITH ARRESTS;
  PRESIDENT BUSH DESCRIBES PALESTINIAN LEADER'S ORDER TO HALT TERROR ATTACKS ON
ISRAELI CIVILIANS AS 'INCREDIBLY POSITIVE SIGN'

BYLINE: Phil Reeves In Jerusalem Israeli soldiers and tanks arriving in the Gaza
Strip for the expected attack AP; Palestinians in a refugee camp south of the
Gaza Strip are expecting Israeli incursions Ahmed Jadallah

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 791 words


YASSER ARAFAT scrambled to head off a looming Israeli military assault on the
Gaza Strip yesterday by arresting 17 members of the Islamic- nationalist Hamas
organisation, masterminds of the latest suicide bombing against Israelis.

The round-up came as the Israeli armed forces called up a fresh batch of
reservists - a "limited number", said military sources - increasing speculation
that an Israeli attack on Gaza is imminent.

It was one of several manoeuvres by Mr Arafat to head off the invasion and
improve his standing in the eyes of the United States at a time when Israel's
Ariel Sharon is pressing hard for him to be ousted.

The arrests followed Mr Arafat's television address on Wednesday, which George
Bush fell upon with startling enthusiasm, declaring it an "incredibly positive
sign".

Speaking in Arabic, the Palestinian leader told viewers that he had ordered his
security forces to prevent "terror attacks against Israeli civilians" in the
aftermath of a Hamas suicide bombing in a social club near Tel Aviv that killed
16 people - the first such attack for more than three weeks.

Yesterday, Palestinian officials - mindful of Israel's threats of strong
retaliation - reportedly took another conciliatory step by ordering local media
outlets not to interview Hamas representatives.

Mr Arafat's popularity amongst Palestinians - which Mr Sharon did much to
improve by imprisoning him at his West Bank headquarters - has corroded since
his release last week. Yesterday's events are likely to accelerate this process,
at least among Gaza's body of hardline Islamic-nationalists.

Mr Arafat's domestic position has been battered by his decision to allow six
Palestinians - including four guerrillas from the Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine - to be imprisoned in Jericho under British and American
supervision. In the aftermath of punishing Israeli assaults on the West Bank,
some Palestinian moderates have revived calls for an end to suicide attacks and
a move towards peaceful popular resistance.

There is Palestinian anger, too, at their "president's" agreement to the exile
of 13 militants inside the besieged Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, whose
fate was still under negotiation last night.

In Nablus yesterday - where some 70 Palestinians were killed during Israel's
military offensive last month - opposition to Mr Arafat was easy to find. Amer
Ghanem, 22, an engineering student, said: "The big figures have been plundering
since 1994. Instead of supporting the resistance, Arafat dubbed it as acts of
terror."

Hassan al-Titi, a lawyer, said: "Arafat should resign. He has committed a grave
mistake by describing the resistance as terrorism. And Arafat has failed to get
a homeland for us."

Mr Arafat is "between the hammer and the anvil", said a soap factory owner,
Jihad Hamdan, 33. "If he condemns terror, his people would not accept that. If
he does not, America and Israel will pressure him."

In Gaza, yesterday, Palestinian officials were vowing robust resistance against
an Israeli assault. The spiritual leader of Hamas, the frail and wheelchair
-bound Sheikh Ahmed Yassin, moved against the twin threat of Palestinian arrest
and an Israeli commando raid yesterday by putting three bodyguards outside his
Gaza home.

As he weighs up what to do, Mr Sharon will be considering whether it assists his
larger goal of getting rid of Mr Arafat, clearly the path for what he hopes will
be a more compliant leadership. His critics suspect that is part of a larger
goal: Israeli control of all of Jerusalem and most of the West Bank, with
broken-up urban pockets of Arab autonomy.

The Americans see no alternative to Mr Arafat but Mr Bush is calling for the
Palestinian Authority - which is notoriously corrupt - to make the plethora of
security forces more accountable and unified. The CIA director, George Tenet,
has been told to come to the region to clean them up.

Mr Bush's suggestions have been met with considerable disdain from Palestinian
liberal intellectuals, who blame part of the endemic corruption on the Oslo
accords, overseen by the US, with close involvement from the CIA. Moderates have
been calling for reforms in Mr Arafat's regime for years, including demanding
elections and an independent judiciary. They note that Mr Bush's enthusiasm for
change has strict limits: few doubt that, if there were elections tomorrow, much
of Gaza would vote for Hamas, seen by the US as terrorists.

One senior Palestinian official said: "We would welcome real reforms, that would
be in our national interests. But we are not going to let the Americans impose
reforms on us that are only meant to create power centres for certain
individuals."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 10, 2002, Friday

MIDDLE EAST: ARAFAT TRIES TO STAVE OFF GAZA ASSAULT WITH ARRESTS;
  PRESIDENT BUSH DESCRIBES PALESTINIAN LEADER'S ORDER TO HALT TERROR ATTACKS ON
ISRAELI CIVILIANS AS 'INCREDIBLY POSITIVE SIGN'

BYLINE: Phil Reeves In Jerusalem Israeli soldiers and tanks arriving in the Gaza
Strip for the expected attack AP; Palestinians in a refugee camp south of the
Gaza Strip are expecting Israeli incursions Ahmed Jadallah

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 791 words


YASSER ARAFAT scrambled to head off a looming Israeli military assault on the
Gaza Strip yesterday by arresting 17 members of the Islamic- nationalist Hamas
organisation, masterminds of the latest suicide bombing against Israelis.

The round-up came as the Israeli armed forces called up a fresh batch of
reservists - a "limited number", said military sources - increasing speculation
that an Israeli attack on Gaza is imminent.

It was one of several manoeuvres by Mr Arafat to head off the invasion and
improve his standing in the eyes of the United States at a time when Israel's
Ariel Sharon is pressing hard for him to be ousted.

The arrests followed Mr Arafat's television address on Wednesday, which George
Bush fell upon with startling enthusiasm, declaring it an "incredibly positive
sign".

Speaking in Arabic, the Palestinian leader told viewers that he had ordered his
security forces to prevent "terror attacks against Israeli civilians" in the
aftermath of a Hamas suicide bombing in a social club near Tel Aviv that killed
16 people - the first such attack for more than three weeks.

Yesterday, Palestinian officials - mindful of Israel's threats of strong
retaliation - reportedly took another conciliatory step by ordering local media
outlets not to interview Hamas representatives.

Mr Arafat's popularity amongst Palestinians - which Mr Sharon did much to
improve by imprisoning him at his West Bank headquarters - has corroded since
his release last week. Yesterday's events are likely to accelerate this process,
at least among Gaza's body of hardline Islamic-nationalists.

Mr Arafat's domestic position has been battered by his decision to allow six
Palestinians - including four guerrillas from the Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine - to be imprisoned in Jericho under British and American
supervision. In the aftermath of punishing Israeli assaults on the West Bank,
some Palestinian moderates have revived calls for an end to suicide attacks and
a move towards peaceful popular resistance.

There is Palestinian anger, too, at their "president's" agreement to the exile
of 13 militants inside the besieged Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, whose
fate was still under negotiation last night.

In Nablus yesterday - where some 70 Palestinians were killed during Israel's
military offensive last month - opposition to Mr Arafat was easy to find. Amer
Ghanem, 22, an engineering student, said: "The big figures have been plundering
since 1994. Instead of supporting the resistance, Arafat dubbed it as acts of
terror."

Hassan al-Titi, a lawyer, said: "Arafat should resign. He has committed a grave
mistake by describing the resistance as terrorism. And Arafat has failed to get
a homeland for us."

Mr Arafat is "between the hammer and the anvil", said a soap factory owner,
Jihad Hamdan, 33. "If he condemns terror, his people would not accept that. If
he does not, America and Israel will pressure him."

In Gaza, yesterday, Palestinian officials were vowing robust resistance against
an Israeli assault. The spiritual leader of Hamas, the frail and wheelchair
-bound Sheikh Ahmed Yassin, moved against the twin threat of Palestinian arrest
and an Israeli commando raid yesterday by putting three bodyguards outside his
Gaza home.

As he weighs up what to do, Mr Sharon will be considering whether it assists his
larger goal of getting rid of Mr Arafat, clearly the path for what he hopes will
be a more compliant leadership. His critics suspect that is part of a larger
goal: Israeli control of all of Jerusalem and most of the West Bank, with
broken-up urban pockets of Arab autonomy.

The Americans see no alternative to Mr Arafat but Mr Bush is calling for the
Palestinian Authority - which is notoriously corrupt - to make the plethora of
security forces more accountable and unified. The CIA director, George Tenet,
has been told to come to the region to clean them up.

Mr Bush's suggestions have been met with considerable disdain from Palestinian
liberal intellectuals, who blame part of the endemic corruption on the Oslo
accords, overseen by the US, with close involvement from the CIA. Moderates have
been calling for reforms in Mr Arafat's regime for years, including demanding
elections and an independent judiciary. They note that Mr Bush's enthusiasm for
change has strict limits: few doubt that, if there were elections tomorrow, much
of Gaza would vote for Hamas, seen by the US as terrorists.

One senior Palestinian official said: "We would welcome real reforms, that would
be in our national interests. But we are not going to let the Americans impose
reforms on us that are only meant to create power centres for certain
individuals."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                             May 11, 2002, Saturday

HEART ATTACK WOMAN IN RAID TERROR

BYLINE: Petra Mann & Scott Faulkner Echo Reporters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 290 words


A TERRIFIED pensioner suffered a heart attack after being dragged around her
home by a burglar.

The frail 83-year-old woman was today still seriously ill in hospital. Her
ordeal began when she was confronted by an intruder at her terrace house in
Pilch Lane, Huyton, where she lives alone.

The man demanded cash and valuables and then roughly pulled his victim from room
to room as he searched for something to steal.

Eventually he fled with a black leather wallet containing cash and credit cards
leaving his victim bruised and shaken .

After the police arrived she was taken to Whiston Hospital for a check-up, but
shortly afterwards she suffered a heart attack.

Her condition is "poorly, but stable" today. Merseyside police said that the
pensioner has been too ill to give them a description of the burglar. But they
appealed for help from anyone who may have seen something around 1.15pm
yesterday. A spokesman said: "The man kept hold of the victim during the search
and her arms were badly bruised."

Officers were today trying to contact the woman's son, who works in Singapore.

Neighbours today spoke of their shock at the sickening attack. One said: "When I
came home yesterday there was a police car and ambulance parked outside.

"She is a nice lady, but she keeps herself to herself. She is very frail and
doesn't go out much. It's a horrible thing to happen."

Another resident added: "I was at home all day and didn't hear a thing. I only
knew about the burglary when the police came knocking.

"I was really frightened by what I heard, as we live so close."

The stolen credit cards were later cancelled, said police.

l Call police on 0151-777 4455 or Crimestoppers on 0800-555111.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                  May 11, 2002

Guests flee hotel after arson attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 97 words


A BLACKPOOL hotel had to be evacuated and two people were rushed to hospital
after an arson attack today. All 38 residents were cleared from the four floors
of the President Hotel on the north promenade just before 1am when a fire
started in a linen cupboard close to a third floor bedroom. Two of the residents
had to be rescued from a first- floor balcony by firefighters, who also took out
another couple from the smoke-filled building.

Investigations into the blaze were starting today and both police and fire
service believe the fire was started deliberately.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Manchester Evening News

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                  May 12, 2002

Is this the face of the anthrax killer?;
After this leading scientist plunged to his death from a bridge, the bio-terror
attacks in the States suddenlystopped . . . so did the Americans assassinate him
to avoid the scandal of him standing trial?

BYLINE: Sharon Churcher;Caroline Graham;William Lowther

SECTION: Pg. 22;23

LENGTH: 1741 words


SHORTLY before daybreak on November 16 last year, Professor Don Wiley stared
giddily into the dark, churning waters of the Mississippi, then toppled to a
swift but horrible death.

The fanatically fit 57-year-old had parked his rented Mitsubishi off-roader on
the Hernando DeSoto Bridge, a swooping, mile-long structure linking Tennessee to
Arkansas.

Then, after plunging over the railings, he bounced off a concrete support and
into the river 135ft below. His body was broken beyond S recognition before it
even hit the water but it was not until a month later that it was found more
than 300 miles downstream.

Here was a death that was inexplicable, completely unexpected and, naturally, a
tragedy for Professor Wiley's wife a striking Icelander and his children. But it
was also a blow for the

international scientific community because the academic was a microbiologist of
global renown.

He specialised in the field of lethal viruses and knew all about anthrax, the
deadly bacterium sent through the post last year by an unknown bio-terrorist to
American politicians and media figures.

Five innocent people, one a British settler, were fatally infected and family
members noted that the professor took an almost obsessive interest in the case.

Then, after Wiley died, a curious thing happened the anthrax attacks stopped.

A Mail on Sunday investigation today reveals

the extraordinary mystery of Professor Wiley and how the American authorities
have begun to investigate whether he, in fact, was the anthrax terrorist.

And, most extraordinary of all, we can disclose that the British Government
believes the American authorities decided to assassinate the anthrax attacker
rather than bring him to justice. The revelation came at a meeting in a
Westminster restaurant two weeks ago between senior Mail on Sunday executives
and a leading Government figure with close links to the intelligence services.

The source, choosing his words carefully, agreed with a suggestion that there
was no evidence that Al Qaeda was behind the anthrax attacks and that it seemed
likely they were the work of someone familiar with American germ warfare
research.

The Americans still reeling from the September 11 outrage would find it
politically unacceptable to put one of their own citizens on trial for the
bioterrorist campaign. It would, he explained, undermine national unity.

'It would be much more likely that the culprit would meet with an accident,' he
said.

So that we'd be in absolutely no doubt, he repeated himself with slow emphasis.

Those present were all convinced

that the source was speaking from direct knowledge.

Although the suggestion sounded fantastic, The Mail on Sunday launched immediate
inquiries in the States and what we discovered was the disturbing case of The
Suicide That Wasn't.

Wiley was a professor of biochemistry and biophysics at Harvard University a
world leader in these and many other fields and had conducted key research into
AIDS, Ebola, haemorrhagic fever and influenza.

He'd made a life long study of the means by which organisms attack human cells.
Indeed, from the age of five he had displayed a genius for formulating complex
chemicals, although in recent years he conducted much of his research via
computer simulations.

Last November the professor flew to Memphis from his million-dollar home in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, to attend a medical conference and banquet at the
exclusive Peabody Hotel, a Southern landmark with a duck pond in the front
lobby.

He travelled alone but his second wife, Katrin Valgeirsdottir, was due to join
him with their two adopted children for a family holiday.

Scientists who sat at Professor Wiley's table during the banquet describe him as
being 'the life and soul of the party'.

Colleagues confirm he was an agreeable sort yet there was a watchful, withdrawn
quality to him, too. He could be charming and he could be remote and he was
powerfully attractive to women. He had recently expressed an agitated interest
in the anthrax attacks.

He knew specialists in that area and would have had an understanding of the
bacterium. He would also have had easy access to samples, which at that time
were traded freely among researchers.

According to one witness, the professor was in the habit of heatedly disputing
news reports of the anthrax campaign. 'He would argue back at the TV,' said the
source.

As the banquet on November 15 drew to a close, Professor Wiley made his
farewells. He was not staying at the hotel but with his father, who lived in the
nearby Memphis suburbs. He set off at around midnight, having drunk no more than
two glasses of wine.

But now something quite inexplicable happened. Wiley took a series of wrong
turns somewhere near Graceland, the home of Elvis Presley and ended up on the
Hernando DeSoto Bridge, ten minutes from the hotel.

After dark, the bridge is spectacularly floodlit but, of course, there was no
sightseeing on that cheerless, gusty morning. And there seemed no reason why
Wiley should stop on that dangerous verge, rocked by speeding trucks unless he
wanted to commit suicide.

But did he? There have been many, many suicides from the Hernando DeSoto but,
because of the way the structure is angled, the professor was the first and only
victim to strike a support on the way down. All the other unhappy souls entered
the water directly because the act of jumping took them clear of the bridge. The
fact that Wiley bounced off the structure suggests he was already unconscious
when he toppled over.

And there's another curious twist he did not arrive at the bridge until 3.45am.
So where had he been in the four hours since leaving the hotel?

As the questions mounted, the FBI

launched a vigorous investigation, a rare occurrence in such circumstances and,
to many observers, evidence in itself of the significance of the Wiley mystery.
Agents fanned out across the country interviewing associates and family members
and urging them not to talk to the Press.

The agency conducted a thorough trawl of bars and clubs but could find no trace
of his movements on that fateful night. Had he after all killed himself out of
remorse? Had he been kidnapped then disposed of by terrorists who coveted his
specialist knowledge? Or was he eliminated by a secret area of American
government the fate that senior figures in London believe may have befallen the
person responsible for the bio-terror campaign?

The professor's family angrily deny he was responsible for the anthrax attacks,
yet they don't believe he killed himself either. All agree he just wasn't the
type he had no history of depression and no domestic or financial worries.

Wiley's widow, Katrin, said: 'I don't believe he killed himself. We don't know
what happened. We can speculate until the cows come home.' FBI sources concede
that even though they are ignorant of any official assassination plan, it does
not mean there wasn't one.

When they questioned the professor's family and friends they asked if he'd had a
grudge against the

American government and had ever worked with anthrax.

In late November, the Londonbased Arabic-language newspaper, al-Sharq al-Awsat
anxious to contradict claims of an Islamic link to the anthrax campaign reported
that the FBI was 'trying to discover if there were any links between Wiley's
disappearance and the nonappearance of more anthrax cases'.

The newspaper claimed the anthrax letters had been sent not to kill but to scare
the US government into spending more on virus and bacterial research.

One theory advanced by scientists was that when the plot took an unexpected turn
and victims died, Professor Wiley decided to take his own life.

His father, 85-year-old Bill Wiley, a retired chemist, told this newspaper: 'I
just don't know what happened to Don. He told me he knew a couple of the key
people who worked on anthrax at the US army's clinical warfare lab. I don't know
how long he knew them. He said the papers tried to distinguish between common
and expert grade anthrax weaponised anthrax and that they didn't know what they
were talking about.

He said there was just anthrax.' And this gives rise to another theory: Could
Professor Wiley have discovered clues that would identify the anthrax terrorist,
maybe a friend or colleague and could that suspect have killed the professor?

Virginia Packer, the professor's first wife and mother of their two grown
children, was interviewed by the FBI and said: 'Of course, there's a huge
mystery about why he was on that bridge but I felt that the FBI was jumping to
conclusions in asking about anthrax.

'It's ridiculous to think he could have anything to do with anthrax letters. He
didn't have access to anthrax. They also wanted to know if he ever talked about
the government.

All this has been torture for his kids.' The professor's 36-year-old daughter,
Kristen, said she had been unable to find out if the FBI had closed its
investigation into her father's death or if it was continuing.

'I prefer to think it was an accident but there could have been foul play,' she
says.

The anthrax letters were posted

between September 18 and October 9. More were discovered at the Federal Reserve
last week but it seems likely they were simply contaminated by the machinery
which handled the original letters last year.

At the inquest on Professor Wiley it was revealed that he had been known to have
'seizures'. And medical examiner Dr O. C. Smith concluded that the academic had

probably suffered one while driving, damaged his car, then stopped to examine
it.

Still disorientated by the seizure, and perhaps blown about in the slipstream of
passing lorries, the professor may have accidentally fallen over the 43in high
guardrail and into the river, said the examiner.

He was a tall man 6ft 3in and the rail would have been '14 inches below his
centre of gravity'.

But no one has ever fallen off the bridge unintentionally and the verdict hasn't
satisfied the professor's father.

Bill Wiley said: 'I don't know if he was murdered or if it was an accident.

There are a lot of holes in the coroner's findings. I saw his seizures and they
lasted a couple of minutes. There was never anything that would make him go over
that bridge.

'And where was he for those four missing hours?'


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ACCIDENT OR MURDER? SCIENTIST DON WILEY, ABOVE, WHO PLUNGED TO HIS
DEATH FROM THE HERNANDO DESOTO BRIDGE IN MEMPHIS LAST NOVEMBER. YET HIS WIDOW
KATRIN, FAR LEFT, DENIES HE KILLED HIMSELF OR WAS INVOLVED WITH THE ANTHRAX
LETTERS, INCLUDING THE ONE HERE SENT TO AN AMERICAN SENATOR WHICH CLAIMED THE
LIVES OF TWO POSTAL WORKERS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  May 13, 2002

Terrorists plan nuke attack 'for July 4'

LENGTH: 199 words


ISLAMIC terrorists are planning an attack on a US nuclear power plant to
coincide with the July 4 Independence Day celebrations, it was reported today.

US intelligence sources told the Washington Post that they were taking the
threat seriously.

The claims coincide with other recent reports that two al-Qaida terrorists are
planning an attack in the US using radioactive material in a conventional bomb.

The paper said the threat indicated that an unidentified Islamic terrorist group
is planning to attack Pennsylvania's Three Mile Island nuclear facility, or
another nuclear facility in the north east.

News of the plan followed earlier intelligence obtained from Abu Zubaydah (31),
who was captured on March 28.

Zubaydah is considered a key lieutenant of Osama bin Laden and the organiser of
terrorist training camps inside Afghanistan.

The detained al-Qaida operations chief revealed that two of his terrorists were
planning an attack.

But some doubt has been cast on the Zubaydah claims.

"He seems to be supplying some good information to enhance his credibility,"
said one official. "On the other hand, it could be part of a larger deception
effort."


LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                  May 13, 2002

Nuclear terror threat
ISLAMIC terrorists are planning an attack on a US nuclear power plant to
coincide with the July 4 Independence Day celebrations, it was reported today.
US intelligence sources told the Washington Post they were taking the threat

BYLINE: by Dixon Phil (Sentinel)

SECTION: AGENCY:PA:NEWS, Pg.10

LENGTH: 103 words


Nuclear terror threat

ISLAMIC terrorists are planning an attack on a US nuclear power plant to
coincide with the July 4 Independence Day celebrations, it was reported today.

US intelligence sources told the Washington Post they were taking the threat
seriously. The claims coincide with other recent reports that two al-Qaida
terrorists are planning an attack inside the US using radioactive material in a
conventional bomb.

The paper said the threat indicated an unidentified Islamic terrorist group is
planning to attack Pennsylvanias Three Mile Island nuclear facility, or another
facility in the state.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2002 The Sentinel

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 13, 2002

Terror attacks: We told you so . . .

BYLINE: Luke Mendham

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 309 words


THE Government has finally admitted that West power stations could be potential
targets for terrorist attacks.

More than six months after the Western Daily Press highlighted the danger of an
aerial attack - by flying over Hinkley Point power station in Somerset -
topsecret contingency plans have been put in place.

Government disaster planners last night finished the largest civil-emergency
exercise in five years at Bridewell power station in Essex. It came after
warnings from the US and nuclear authorities that al-Qaeda had threatened to
attack nuclear plants.

The three-day exercise, code-named Isis, simulated the crashing of a fully
loaded, medium-sized plane into one of the UK's most radioactive power stations.

Last November, days after the Press revealed the ease with which unidentified
planes could reach Hinkley Point, the Government installed no-fly zones over
nuclear-power plants across the country. But it insisted there was little real
danger of such an attack.

Northavon MP Steve Webb, who has the Oldbury power station in his constituency,
said the Western Daily Press had helped bring the danger of the situation to the
attention of the Government: "Unfortunately governments can be complacent.
Sometimes it takes a dramatic gesture like flying a plane over a power station
to prompt them into action."

The Press revealed how easily terrorists could target a reactor from the air.

We chartered a plane to fly at 2,000ft above the site, near Bridgwater, on 1
November and were able to circle the plant and take pictures.

Four days later all planes were banned from flying below 2,000ft within a radius
of two nautical miles of all power stations. The Government introduced the
change without publicity and pilots were made aware of the new regulations
through a bulletin placed in all airports.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             May 14, 2002, Tuesday

OAP TERROR ATTACKER JAILED

BYLINE: Liz Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 316 words


A DRUG addict desperate for a fix dragged a pensioner to the ground, tried to
steal her money, and threatened a shopkeeper to open the till or she would be
shot.

The robber, Claire Johnson, 24, had been a "sensible and stable" girl who turned
to crime only after others turned her onto heroin and crack cocaine, Cardiff
Crown Court heard.

Today, she is beginning a four-year jail sentence.

The court was told how her elderly victim, Josephine Kirwan, 71, was traumatised
after being attacked in Albany Road, Cardiff, on February 13 and told: "Give me
your bag and I won't hurt you."

She refused and was dragged down onto the pavement and injured.

Two weeks earlier, Johnson had carried out a masked raid on the Pop-In Store in
Cathays, terrifying assistant Carole Carey and stealing cash, telephone cards
and cigarettes.

Prosecuting counsel, Meirion Davies said: "Mrs Carey was working alone when
Johnson came in, her clothing pulled into a hood over her head and said, I'm
going to shoot you. Open the till'.

"After removing cash and telephone cards, she sped off in a white Ford Fiesta."
Johnson was bailed but, 13 days later, went up behind Mrs Kirwan and grabbed
her. In the struggle to get her handbag from her, the pensioner was thrown twice
to the ground.

Defence barrister Susan Ferrier said: "She was a sensible and stable young woman
who went completely off the rails after being led astray.

"She was given drugs free of charge, as is often the case, until she became
addicted and desperate for heroin and crack cocaine." Johnson was said to have
been able to come off drugs during her time in custody on remand awaiting
sentence.

Jailing her, Judge Phillip Richards said: "Innocent people were terrified and
attacked when they were doing no more than their job or their shopping."

Johnson had pleaded guilty to robbery and attempted robbery.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            May 15, 2002, Wednesday

RACIST IN COURT;
 OUTRAGE AT DRIVER'S PROTEST OVER US TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Robert Fairburn Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 486 words


FURIOUS Colin Green was convicted yesterday of staging a racist protest in the
aftermath of the September 11 terror attacks.

The graphic designer landed in court after losing the plot when he heard
supporters of Osama bin Laden rejoicing in a radio interview.

Green decided to hit back by spraying the words "Support the USA in its hour of
need - kill an Arab today" in white lettering on the rear window of his car.

But shocked taxi driver Keith Lindsay tipped off police when he spotted the
slogan three days after the outrage in America.

At Selkirk Sheriff Court yesterday, Green, 39, was found guilty of acting in a
racially aggravated manner which caused alarm and distress to Mr Lindsay.

The charge added that Green publicly displayed a message on a motor vehicle
which was racially offensive.

During his trial, Green said he had been shocked and upset at the events of
September 11 and saw his action as a gesture of support for America.

He became angry after hearing Afghans talking on the radio praising the attacks
.

Green told the court he had put the sign on his Mazda two days after the attacks
on the USA - butt did not believe his remarks were racist.

However, Mr Lindsay, 54, from Selkirk, said that he was very offended when he
saw the slogan as he drove past the parked car.

He said: "I was not going to accept it and phoned the police.

"I found it racist - I became quite angry that someone could find it
acceptable."

A neighbour of Green's, taxi operator Stewart Russell, said: "I was amazed and
astonished and definitely offended. It was racist."

But Mr Lindsay said that the next day he noticed the sign had been replaced with
a Stars and Stripes map of America.

Green told the court: "I was angry at everything that had gone on over the
previous few days. The news reports were making me angry.

"I was in my car when I heard a BBC Radio 2 reporter speaking to Afghanistan
asylum seekers who were saying how proud they were of what happened in America
on September 11. During my lunchbreak I made the sign and put it on my car."

Green added: "I wanted people to give more support to America - I felt sorry for
them.

"When I put up the sign I did not think it was racist, I never gave it any
thought.

"The meaning was there but the wording was wrong.

"I had realised that by the Friday when I had calmed down.

"It was not against all Arabs, just those who had carried out the attacks."

Convicting Green, Sheriff Kevin Drummond deferred sentence for six months for
him to be of good behaviour.

He said that it was to Green's credit that he had taken the sign down and
replaced it with a US flag that did not include any racist remarks.

But he added that it did not in any way excuse the racist remark which he had
made earlier.

Green, of Magdala Terrace, Galashiels, was unavailable for comment after the
case.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                  May 15, 2002

Three more arrested over family arson terror attack

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Joanne Ginley and Hannah Start

LENGTH: 599 words


THREE more people are being questioned after seven members of the same Yorkshire
family died in an arson attack on their home.

The local Asian men were arrested yesterday after the deaths of five young
sisters, their mother and uncle in the attack at Osborne Road, Birkby,
Huddersfield, on Sunday morning.

Last night premises in Huddersfield and further afield were being searched by
West Yorkshire Police, who also seized a number of vehicles for examination.

The men are being held in police stations across West Yorkshire along with four
others arrested on Sunday.

Earlier yesterday the aunt of the five sisters who burned to death together with
their mother and uncle in the firebomb attack sobbed uncontrollably at her
father's side as he made an emotional appeal for help in catching those
responsible.

Devastated Siddiqah Aziz, 27, sat with her head bowed and later had to be
escorted from a Press conference in tears by police officers.

Her father, Abdul Aziz Chishti, spoke in Urdu at the conference at Huddersfield
Police Station and said: My family and I have been the victims of a murderous
attack on my house.

We have suffered an enormous tragedy in which I have lost my daughter and five
young granddaughters aged from six months to thirteen years. I have also lost a
son.

I hope the community will join me in praying to Allah for those who have left
us. May they all go to heaven, he added.

Mr Chishti's daughter Nafeesa, his five granddaughters Tayyaba, 13, Rabia, 10,
Ateeqa, six, Aneesa, two, and Najeeba, six months and his teenage son Mohammed
Ateeq, all perished in the fire.

The father of the dead children was last night flying from Pakistan to Britain.

Police and Mr Chishti, a well-respected man, widely-known as a scholar and
one-time religious preacher at a local mosque, believe that the local community
holds the key to the investigation.

Mr Chishti said: I have come here today to seek help from the community, but
especially the Pakistani community, who I feel must have information that will
help the police find the people responsible for murdering seven members of my
family.

I appeal to the community, community leaders, mosque committees and the Imams at
all the mosques to encourage anyone who may have information to contact the
police.

Yesterday Det Supt Bob Bridgestock, who is leading the inquiry, said police
believed they knew the motive for the arson attack but, were not in a position
to make it public.

Mr Bridgestock said: Give us the evidence. A number of names have been given to
officers anonymously and that's a good start, but the people who gave us those
names have other information.

Give us the evidence we need to continue taking this inquiry forward. I appeal
to people to break their silence and come forward, in particular I am appealing
to a number of young men who I believe have information.

Last night Mr Chishti's wife, Zaib-u-Insa, who jumped from an upstairs window,
remained at Leeds General Infirmary with a serious head injury.  Her condition
was yesterday described as poorly.

Another man, Mohammed Shafique, was yesterday transferred from a hospital in
Manchester to Pinderfields Hospital in Wakefield for specialist treatment for
burns.

Mr Chishti's daughter, Nafeesa, together with her four eldest daughters, is
believed to have arrived from Pakistan to visit her father six months ago. While
in England she gave birth to a fifth daughter, Najeeba.

Anyone with any information is asked to contact Huddersfield Police on 01484
436702 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 16, 2002, Thursday

ETA TERROR ATTACK ON SUMMIT THWARTED

BYLINE: Jerome Socolovsky In Madrid

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 199 words


THE SPANISH authorities said yesterday that they had thwarted a serious
terrorist attack by the Basque separatist group Eta, planned to coincide with a
summit of Latin American and European leaders.

Two suspected Eta members arrested on Tuesday had stashed nearly 200kg of
explosives, as well as detonators, automatic weapons and false licence plates in
an apartment in the centre of the capital, said Francisco Javier Ansuategui, the
Interior Ministry's top official for the Madrid region.

"It was a real arsenal," Mr Ansuategui told a news conference with the heads of
the National Police and Civil Guard. "These two persons didn't want to scare.
They wanted to kill and to kill with all its consequences" during the summit of
more than 40 leaders that begins tomorrow.

Such an attack would be a departure from the traditional methods of the group,
which has aimed mostly at Spanish police and government figures during its 33
-year campaign of shootings and bombings.

Mr Ansuategui said the explosives were found in an flat near the National and
Supreme Courts. A 40kg charge was also found in the outskirts of the capital, in
a stolen car linked to the detainees. (AP)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 16, 2002, Thursday

ETA TERROR ATTACK ON SUMMIT THWARTED

BYLINE: Jerome Socolovsky In Madrid

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 199 words


THE SPANISH authorities said yesterday that they had thwarted a serious
terrorist attack by the Basque separatist group Eta, planned to coincide with a
summit of Latin American and European leaders.

Two suspected Eta members arrested on Tuesday had stashed nearly 200kg of
explosives, as well as detonators, automatic weapons and false licence plates in
an apartment in the centre of the capital, said Francisco Javier Ansuategui, the
Interior Ministry's top official for the Madrid region.

"It was a real arsenal," Mr Ansuategui told a news conference with the heads of
the National Police and Civil Guard. "These two persons didn't want to scare.
They wanted to kill and to kill with all its consequences" during the summit of
more than 40 leaders that begins tomorrow.

Such an attack would be a departure from the traditional methods of the group,
which has aimed mostly at Spanish police and government figures during its 33
-year campaign of shootings and bombings.

Mr Ansuategui said the explosives were found in an flat near the National and
Supreme Courts. A 40kg charge was also found in the outskirts of the capital, in
a stolen car linked to the detainees.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                  May 16, 2002

Terrorists attacks increase risk of nuclear disaster.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 410 words



RISKS of rail accidents and terrorist attacks mean nuclear waste should no
longer be transported through Watford, according to a spokesman for the Nuclear
Free Local Authorities (NFLA) group.

NFLA secretary Stewart Kemp said all cities and towns were threatened by
radioactive waste.

He said: "Here in Watford we have nuclear waste travelling through the borough
on the railway system".

And he said the material was carried at speeds the protective containers were
not designed to withstand in the event of a crash.

Mr Kemp said: "Direct Rail Services British Nuclear Fuels transportation arm
raised the speed limit from 45 mph to 60 mph, twice the speed they test the
flasks for impact safety".

He added: "There is the question of nuclear accident potential".

NFLA documents also criticise the containers' ability to withstand sabotage or
attack.

His warning, issued at a town hall meeting on Wednesday, came less than a week
after the rail disaster at Potters Bar and a month after the Royal Society,
Britain's science academy, said preparations should be made for "extreme
terrorist intervention" in the wake of the September 11 attacks.

Last Friday, Government disaster planners simulated a plane crash into the
Bradwell nuclear plant in Essex, less than 50 miles from London.

Waste from this power station, as well as Sizewell and Dungeness, passes through
Watford on the way to the Sellafield reprocessing plant in Cumbria, according to
NFLA.

Mr Kemp also said there was concern in the north London area about chronic low
level exposure to radiation from waste trains.

According to the NFLA, up to three waste carriers could pass through or close to
Watford in a week, despite the fact the council has been part of the "nuclear
free" group since 1982.

Mayor Dorothy Thornhill, one of a handful of people at the briefing, said
nuclear issues were serious and had been largely ignored.

She said: "Given current concerns about safety on the railways, I would rather
it didn't come through Watford , but the reality is this is happening at the
moment.

The mayor said legally raising speed limits was "ridiculous" and said there
should be "vociferous" lobbying to change the situation.

Mr Kemp said the Government still had no policy for managing radioactive waste,
and said the best solution until one was devised was to store it on site, rather
than transporting it hundreds of miles.

May 16, 2002 14:00

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 17, 2002, Friday

BUSH UNDER FIRE OVER REVELATION HE WAS WARNED OF TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe In Washington What did he know and when did he know it?
George Bush in Washington yesterday Win McNamee/Reuters

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 529 words


PRESIDENT GEORGE Bush was under mounting pressure last night after it was
revealed he had been warned a month before 11 September of an al-Qa'ida plot to
hijack American airliners.

There were widespread demands for a full inquiry into why his administration
alerted law enforcement agencies but did not make the warning public or take
greater preventive measures.

Mr Bush and his senior advisers were told of the threat, involving terrorists
linked to Osama bin Laden, by means of a daily intelligence briefing in the
first week of August, passed to Mr Bush while he was on holiday at his Texas
ranch.

The CIA warning, which was highly classified, was not specific in terms of dates
or locations and there was no mention that the hijackers intended to use the
aircraft as weapons, as they did with devastating effect in the attacks on New
York and Washington.

But while the warning may not have been specific, there was fierce criticism in
Washington yesterday that Mr Bush's senior intelligence advisers had failed to
"join the dots" by linking various pieces of intelligence that suggested an
attack was imminent.

"There should have been bells and whistles going off," said the Democrat John
Edwards, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee. "Was this information
communicated to a central source? Was action taken?"

Disclosure of the warning led to a flurry of questions about exactly what, and
when, Mr Bush was told. There was also a growing feeling that the President -
still enjoying approval ratings of almost 70 per cent - could be damaged by the
revelation.

The White House - forced on to the defensive for the first time over the 11
September attacks - claimed it had taken "all appropriate action", alerting US
embassies and military facilities and sharing information about the threats with
domestic agencies.

"Throughout the summer, beginning in May, the government received heightened
reporting on threats to United States' interests or territory, most of it
focused on threats abroad," Mr Bush's spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said.

"As a result, several actions were taken to button down security. All
appropriate action was taken based on the threat information that we had. The
President did not - not - receive information about the use of airplanes as
missiles by suicide bombers. This was a new type of attack that was not
foreseen."

One investigator told The New York Times that over the 4 July holiday there had
been "a lot of static in the system suggesting something was coming". After
that, the "evidence" disappeared as quickly as it had arrived before the new
warning in August.

It has also been revealed that the FBI received a memo written by a Phoenix
-based field agent in July last year warning of a link between a group of Middle
Eastern aviation students and al-Qa'ida.

Leading Democrats asked why the various warnings were not put together and more
proactive measures taken. Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, said he was
"gravely concerned" about the issue. Dick Gephardt, the House minority leader,
said: "You cannot say that we did everything we could. Let's do better next
time."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 17, 2002, Friday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: VETERAN ANCHOR ATTACKS MEDIA FOR BEING TIMID

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 325 words


DAN RATHER, one of the most respected and well-known broadcasters in the United
States said last night that the mood of extreme patriotism engulfing the country
since 11 September had stopped the media asking difficult questions of America's
leaders. He said he was personally guilty of self-censorship.

"It is an obscene comparison ... but you know there was a time in South Africa
that people would put flaming tyres around people's necks if they dissented,"
said Mr Rather. "And in some ways the fear is that you will be necklaced here,
you will have a flaming tyre of lack of patriotism put around your neck.

"Now it is that fear that keeps journalists from asking the toughest of the
tough questions, and to continue to bore in on the tough questions so often. And
again, I am humbled to say, I do not except myself from this criticism."

He added: "What we are talking about here - whether one wants to recognise it or
not, or call it by its proper name or not - is a form of self-censorship. I
worry that patriotism run amok will trample the very values that the country
seeks to defend."

Since the attacks on New York and Washington, Mr Rather, 70, a veteran anchor
for CBS, has for many been the embodiment of American patriotism. A week after
the attacks he broke down in tears recalling the efforts of rescue workers.
Later, when he was sent anthrax-tainted mail, he tried to reassure the public,
saying: "Our biggest problem today is not anthrax. Our biggest problem is fear."

In an interview with BBC's Newsnight, Mr Rather said he believed it was a
patriotic duty to bring the government to account. "It's unpatriotic not to
stand up, look them in the eye, and ask the questions they don't want to hear -
they being those who have the responsibility, the ultimate responsibility in a
society such as ours, of sending our sons and daughters, our husbands, wives,
our blood, to face death, to take death," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 17, 2002, Friday

BUSH UNDER FIRE OVER REVELATION HE WAS WARNED OF TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe In Washington What did he know and when did he know it?
George Bush in Washington yesterday Win McNamee/Reuters

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 529 words


PRESIDENT GEORGE Bush was under mounting pressure last night after it was
revealed he had been warned a month before 11 September of an al-Qa'ida plot to
hijack American airliners.

There were widespread demands for a full inquiry into why his administration
alerted law enforcement agencies but did not make the warning public or take
greater preventive measures.

Mr Bush and his senior advisers were told of the threat, involving terrorists
linked to Osama bin Laden, by means of a daily intelligence briefing in the
first week of August, passed to Mr Bush while he was on holiday at his Texas
ranch.

The CIA warning, which was highly classified, was not specific in terms of dates
or locations and there was no mention that the hijackers intended to use the
aircraft as weapons, as they did with devastating effect in the attacks on New
York and Washington.

But while the warning may not have been specific, there was fierce criticism in
Washington yesterday that Mr Bush's senior intelligence advisers had failed to
"join the dots" by linking various pieces of intelligence that suggested an
attack was imminent.

"There should have been bells and whistles going off," said the Democrat John
Edwards, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee. "Was this information
communicated to a central source? Was action taken?"

Disclosure of the warning led to a flurry of questions about exactly what, and
when, Mr Bush was told. There was also a growing feeling that the President -
still enjoying approval ratings of almost 70 per cent - could be damaged by the
revelation.

The White House - forced on to the defensive for the first time over the 11
September attacks - claimed it had taken "all appropriate action", alerting US
embassies and military facilities and sharing information about the threats with
domestic agencies.

"Throughout the summer, beginning in May, the government received heightened
reporting on threats to United States' interests or territory, most of it
focused on threats abroad," Mr Bush's spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said.

"As a result, several actions were taken to button down security. All
appropriate action was taken based on the threat information that we had. The
President did not - not - receive information about the use of airplanes as
missiles by suicide bombers. This was a new type of attack that was not
foreseen."

One investigator told The New York Times that over the 4 July holiday there had
been "a lot of static in the system suggesting something was coming". After
that, the "evidence" disappeared as quickly as it had arrived before the new
warning in August.

It has also been revealed that the FBI received a memo written by a Phoenix
-based field agent in July last year warning of a link between a group of Middle
Eastern aviation students and al-Qa'ida.

Leading Democrats asked why the various warnings were not put together and more
proactive measures taken. Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, said he was
"gravely concerned" about the issue. Dick Gephardt, the House minority leader,
said: "You cannot say that we did everything we could. Let's do better next
time."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 17, 2002, Friday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: VETERAN ANCHOR ATTACKS MEDIA FOR BEING TIMID

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 325 words


DAN RATHER, one of the most respected and well-known broadcasters in the United
States said last night that the mood of extreme patriotism engulfing the country
since 11 September had stopped the media asking difficult questions of America's
leaders. He said he was personally guilty of self-censorship.

"It is an obscene comparison ... but you know there was a time in South Africa
that people would put flaming tyres around people's necks if they dissented,"
said Mr Rather. "And in some ways the fear is that you will be necklaced here,
you will have a flaming tyre of lack of patriotism put around your neck.

"Now it is that fear that keeps journalists from asking the toughest of the
tough questions, and to continue to bore in on the tough questions so often. And
again, I am humbled to say, I do not except myself from this criticism."

He added: "What we are talking about here - whether one wants to recognise it or
not, or call it by its proper name or not - is a form of self-censorship. I
worry that patriotism run amok will trample the very values that the country
seeks to defend."

Since the attacks on New York and Washington, Mr Rather, 70, a veteran anchor
for CBS, has for many been the embodiment of American patriotism. A week after
the attacks he broke down in tears recalling the efforts of rescue workers.
Later, when he was sent anthrax-tainted mail, he tried to reassure the public,
saying: "Our biggest problem today is not anthrax. Our biggest problem is fear."

In an interview with BBC's Newsnight, Mr Rather said he believed it was a
patriotic duty to bring the government to account. "It's unpatriotic not to
stand up, look them in the eye, and ask the questions they don't want to hear -
they being those who have the responsibility, the ultimate responsibility in a
society such as ours, of sending our sons and daughters, our husbands, wives,
our blood, to face death, to take death," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  May 18, 2002

US braced for more terror attacks

LENGTH: 188 words


MORE terrorist attacks on the US are likely, even though the government is
better prepared in light of the September 11 suicide hijackings, US Defence
Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has said.

"I think we have to be realistic. The likelihood is - because it's not possible
to defend at every place at every moment -- that there will be another terrorist
attack.

"We should just face that reality," he said in an interview with reporters
yesterday.

Rumsfeld said he was not aware of a White House plan for attacking Osama bin
Laden's network in Afghanistan prior to September 11.

A senior US official said an options memo on actions to dismantle al-Qaida was
prepared by US President George W Bush's foreign policy team as threats of
terrorism peaked last summer. It was dated September 10.

"I don't have knowledge of it," Mr Rumsfeld said.

He said mid-level officials at the National Security Council may have discussed
asking the Pentagon to put together a battle plan, "but I don't recall anything
at my level," he said.

He had no clue where bin Laden may be hiding or whether he is still alive.


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             May 18, 2002, Saturday

MORE TERROR ATTACKS LIKELY'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 109 words


MORE terrorist attacks on the United States are likely, US Defence Secretary
Donald Rumsfeld said yesterday.

"I think we have to be realistic. The likelihood is - because it's not possible
to defend every place at every moment - that there will be another terrorist
attack.

"We should just face that reality."

Mr Rumsfeld said he was not aware of a White House plan for attacking Osama bin
Laden's al-Qaida terrorist network in Afghanistan before the September 11
atrocities.

L US President George Bush yesterday denied he had advance warning that
terrorists planned to attack US buildings with hijacked jets before September
11.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HEADING FOR BATTLE: 45 Commando at Bagram

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 18, 2002

BIN LADEN 'PREPARING MORE TERROR ATTACKS'

BYLINE: From Mike Theodoulou in Nicosia and Will Stewart in Moscow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 374 words


OSAMA Bin Laden is alive and preparing more terror attacks, according to former
Taliban leader Mullah Muhammad Omar.

In an interview believed be 10 days old at most, Omar said that Bin Laden was
hiding somewhere in the Afghan mountains.

"The battle in Afghanistan has just started, " Omar told a reporter from a
London-based Arabic newspaper.

"The future of America in Afghanistan is fire, hell and a certain loss as had
been the case with the Soviet Union and before that with the British
occupation."

Mullah Omar did not admit any link to the September 11 attacks, but said: "There
were reasons behind these great deeds. America should seek to remove these
reasons - and it knows them well - so that such accidents do not recur.

"Osama is still alive, praise God, and this is causing anguish to Bush who
promised his people to kill Osama not knowing that lives are in the hands of
God."

One-eyed former cleric Omar is second only to Bin Laden himself on America's
"most wanted" list. His brutal regime gave the Saudi-born terrorist a base from
which it could organise the September 11 attacks.

The paper's reporter did not interview Omar directly, but used a third party to
exchange questions and answers.

The exchange took place in Pakistan's lawless Tribal Areas, along its border.

Omar has not been seen since the Taliban capital of Kandahar fell in November.
Bin Laden is thought to have slipped from America's grasp during the battle of
Tora Bora last December.

In March, the Saudi magazine Al-Majalla published what it said was an interview
with one of Bin Laden's four wives. She was quoted as saying that Bin Laden had
disagreements with Omar and feared the Taliban would betray him to the United
States.

The interview ended with a message from Bin Laden to the Palestinians: "I tell
my brethren in Palestine, be patient and continue your blessed struggle."

Meanwhile, a major new drive to locate Bin Laden in southern Afghanistan is soon
to be launched, it was claimed yesterday. Gol Agha Sherzai, governor of Kandahar
province, said his forces have discovered "detailed information" about hideouts
used by both Bin Laden and Omar.

He forecast that the men would be "soon" captured.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             May 18, 2002, Saturday

RESERVES FIGHT MOCK TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Tomos Livingstone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 355 words


BY DAY they are a solicitor, policeman, package technician and a helpline
consultant, but yesterday four people from South Wales were having a rather
unusual day at work.

Kevin Knights, Nathan Davies, Craig Silcock and Hayley Stokes are all Naval
reservists, and yesterday were demonstrating to the crowds in Cardiff Bay how to
deal with a terrorist boat attack.

The four successfully stormed a boat in the Roath Dock and made it safe. They
then watched the terrorists - attempting to get away - spectacularly stopped by
a combination of a new pounds 80,000 speedboat and a Merlin mark 1 helicopter.

"We just like to do something different," said policeman Mr Knights. "A lot of
employers are supportive of employees being part of the reserves like us."

After several practice runs the demonstration went ahead last night.

The exercise - all "terrorists" from Cardiff University Naval Unit were caught -
was part of the largest Naval demonstration in Cardiff for 20 years.

HMS Cardiff arrived in Cardiff on Thursday, amid calls from Lord Mayor Russell
Goodway for the ship to be permanently moored there when it is decommissioned.

The Navy needs 5,000 recruits in order to meet its targets.

Yvette Ellis-Clark, from Borth in Mid Wales, joined the Navy 19 years ago. She
was part of the first group of Wrens to serve on board a Navy ship, HMS
Brilliant, in 1990.

"I was very proud to be able to do that," she said. "I'm pleased to say
attitudes towards women have changed for the better since I joined. "I think the
highlight for me was serving in Antarctica, where I did get to walk with
penguins - not something people do in normal life."

Lieutenant Gerwyn Tumelty, 28, served in the Gulf in 1998, for which he received
a general service medal. Lt Tumelty, from Ferryside in Carmarthenshire, said
he'd recommend a career in the Navy to anyone. "It's interesting, hard work but
the perks are good," he said. "You get to travel around the world, and people
who leave find it's very easy to get employment in other areas."

HMS Cardiff will be open to the public from 10am this morning.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ACTION STATIONS: The Royal Navy exercise taking place yesterday in;
Roath Basin, Cardiff; Picture: David Hurst

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             May 18, 2002, Saturday

AIRLINES: VIRGIN PICKS UP IN US AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 296 words


SIR Richard Branson's Virgin Atlantic has made its first quarterly profit since
the September 11 attacks in the US, it said yesterday.

The airline generated underlying profits of close to pounds 5m in the three
months to April 30 in yet another indication of an upturn in the market. Virgin
recently announced it was creating 300 jobs after seeing passenger numbers pick
up again following the terrorist atrocities.

The fallout from the attacks saw Virgin cut back the size of its business by
around 20pc, with staff numbers reduced by 1,900 worldwide.

Virgin said that losses for the 12 months to April 30 would be around pounds
90m, compared with profits of pounds 45m a year ago.

Sir Richard said the recovery in the final quarter reflected the "hard work and
dedication" of the airline's workforce.

"It's a tremendous achievement to register a trading profit in the last three
months after the terrible challenges the airline faced last year," he said.

Virgin made a small loss in the same quarter last year but has increased the
load factor on its routes after a marketing blitz.

The average proportion of seats occupied on each flight has increased from
between 80pc and 85pc to 85pc and 90pc.

Virgin has offered cut-price fares to New York in recent months following on
from the offer of a return to the US for pounds 98 in November and December.

A spokesman said passenger numbers were down by around 6pc on last year, a
significant improvement on the 15pc to 20pc drop after September 11.

The recovery matches the upturn seen by both British Airways and airports
operator BAA.

Last week BAA, which owns Heathrow and Gatwick, said passenger numbers at its
seven UK sites were down just 0.7pc in March and April on last year.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Life

                                  May 19, 2002

Terror feud looming over mural attacks

BYLINE: CIARAN MCGUIGAN

LENGTH: 214 words


THE BLOODY feud between the UVF and LVF in mid-Ulster is threatening to boil
over again... with attacks on LVF murals.

The attacks are being blamed on members of the Young Citizen Volunteers - the
youth wing of the UVF.

And they follow alleged attacks on LVF supporters in the town, which can be
traced back to the murder of local UVF commander, Richard Jameson.

Among those attacks, was an alleged threat to kill made on a LVF supporter, made
by a former associate of Mr Jameson.

Two men arrested and charged in connection with that incident have since been
freed - and the charges dropped.

UVF mid-Ulster brigade members vowed to wreak revenge on the LVF gang that
murdered former commander Jameson, outside his Portadown home, in January 2000.

They said the father-of-three was targeted for being outspoken about the LVF
using politics as a cover for their drug-dealing and gangsterism.

Meanwhile, the LVF is itself in danger of splitting down the middle over the
provocation from the UVF.

A number of their key members want to keep a low profile after coming under
pressure from cops investigating the LVF murder of journalist, Marty O'Hagan.

Others in the group want to tackle the UVF and YCV head-on - and re-ignite a
full-blown feud.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 19, 2002

NEW TERROR ATTACK FEAR

BYLINE: By Keith Perry

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 210 words


AMERICAN officials have uncovered evidence of a possible new attack against the
US or American interests abroad.

A White House official said last night: "There has been information of enhanced
activity."

The comments came as The New York Times reported on its web site that American
Intelligence agencies have intercepted a series of messages among al Qaeda
operatives indicating that Osama bin Laden's network is attempting to carry out
an attack as big as or bigger than the one on September 11.

"Certainly we are always concerned about the possibility of a terrorist attack"
said the White House official.

"The President just a couple of days ago told the country there always exists
the possibility of a terrorist attack. We as American citizens want to be
vigilant, but also live our lives." The new interceptions are so vague they have
left President Bush in the dark about the time, place or method of what some
officials refer to as a second-wave attack.

Targets could include the Arabian Peninsula or Europe.

The officials compared the intercepted messages, described as cryptic and
ambiguous, to the pattern of those picked up last spring and summer when al
Qaeda operatives were also overheard talking of a big operation.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 20, 2002

Bush faces backlash on 'vague' attack warnings;
Campaign Against Terror

BYLINE: Jeremy Campbell

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 449 words


GEORGE BUSH'S presidency is facing a public opinion backlash over a new round of
warnings of a terrorist attack that are "vague and unhelpful".

US Vice President Dick Cheney has said that another terrorist attack was certain
"whether this year, or next year, or after that - but it will happen."

Senior members of Congress are using his series of warnings on TV as fodder for
their censure of the US intelligence agencies, especially the FBI and the CIA.

They are accused of inferior information gathering which, by lacking specifics,
tends to be dismissed by a public growing sceptical of the government's ability
to penetrate al Qaeda. They are particularly incensed by the Vice President's
remark that all the government can do is "read the tea leaves".

In two interviews over the weekend, Mr Cheney confirmed that US intelligence is
picking up hints that Osama bin Laden's terrorist network may be planning an
attack.

The information is vague, he conceded, but he insisted it must be taken
seriously.

Mr Cheney said the allies have been successful in disrupting the al Qaeda
network but he warned that it is impossible to create a perfect system of
protection for Americans.

He said: "You try to read the tea leaves. We look for pieces of information but
you never get the complete picture."

Robert Fox writes: In London, Colonel Randall Larsen, Director of the US ANSER
Institute for Homeland Security, told an audience at the Royal United Services
Institute: "We are facing an emerging threat from new weapons.

If the 20th century was the century of weapons, blasts and fragmentation, the
21st century is the century of cyber and biological weapons."

He said a number of recent exercises have simulated biological attacks on
commercial centres and said: "A small phial of a bacillus related to anthrax
could have killed 10,000 in the World Trade Center."

Security experts in Britain think US intelligence agencies may have been
distracted from the activities of the hijackers preparing for 11 September by
the possibility of imminent biological attack.

With 500 new laws and regulations on US domestic security over the past six
months, Col Larsen said America still does not have the powers needed to prepare
a proper defence against biological attacks and cyber hackers. He pointed out
that two students in the Philippines had caused huge damage with the 'I love
you' computer virus. "If two dropout kids can do that - imagine what 1,000 well
trained computer scientists could do." He said defending America against
biological attacks was just as difficult because of the 7,500 miles of frontier
shared by the US with Mexico and Canada.


LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 20, 2002

Palestinians braced for retaliation after second suicide attack;
Campaign Against Terror

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 389 words


PALESTINIANS are today braced for revenge attacks after a suicide bomber
disguised as an Israeli soldier killed three people shopping at an outdoor
market.

At least 35 people were injured, five of them seriously, in the attack in the
seaside resort of Netanya yesterday.

It was followed by a second blast early today in northern Israel in which
another suicide bomber killed himself in an explosion at a road junction but
caused no other deaths or injuries.

David Baker, spokesman for Israeli prime minister Ariel Sharon, said: "This
campaign of terror continues unabated and so does Israel's daily battle against
these terrorists. Israel will know how to respond as it deems fit."

The Netanya attack shattered the fragile sense of security which had begun to
emerge in Israel after the end of the country's incursions into the
Palestinian-controlled West Bank. The military action began after another blast
in Netanya on 27 March destroyed a hotel and Armed Israeli police inspect the
wreckage of the market in Netanya today where three people were killed killed 29
people. It was the worst of a series of suicide attacks which began in August
2000.

Last week Israel pulled back under heavy international pressure from a planned
attack on the Gaza Strip in the wake of another suicide attack in which 15
Israelis died at a snooker club in a town south of Tel Aviv.

The blast in Netanya yesterday afternoon tore through a fruit and vegetable
market. Eyewitness Eli Maimon said: "I heard a huge boom and saw body parts
flying.

He (the bomber) came in an army uniform." Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority
condemned what it called "the terrorist operation". The radical Popular Front
for the Liberation of Palestine claimed responsibility.

The authority has come under increasing pressure, particularly from the United
States, to introduce democratic elections and reform its security forces.

Israel has demanded urgent reforms as a condition for resuming peace talks.

Palestinians today said several Israeli tanks had moved into Ramallah, the West
Bank city where Mr Arafat has his headquarters.

Police in Netanya also revealed they had been warned of an imminent attack and
had been on high alert, but the bomber's Israeli army uniform may have helped
him slip into the town unnoticed.


LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 20, 2002

NEW VIDEO SHOWS TERROR CHIEF VOWING TO ATTACK UK; BIN LADEN TARGETS BRITAIN

BYLINE: By Geoff Marsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 453 words


AL Qaeda terrorists are "almost certain" to launch more devastating attacks on
the United States, Vice President Dick Cheney said yesterday.

Mr Cheney spoke as Osama Bin Laden, in previously unseen video footage, singled
out Britain as a target for revenge.

In the video, which may have been filmed as recently as March, the Al Qaeda
leader vows to attack Britain, A merica and all nations that side with the Jews
and pledges to die in holy w ar.Mr Cheney's comments that the terrorists could
strike "tomorrow, next week or next year" came as the White House revealed it
had intercepted messages which indicated new attacks, possibly bigger than those
on September 11, were being planned.

Security officials said they had detected "increased activity" within Bin
Laden's terrorist network in recent weeks which suggested an attack, against the
US or other interests abroad, was imminent.

"In my opinion the prospects of a future attack against the United States are
almost certain, " Mr Cheney said. "It's not a matter of if, but when.

We don't know if it's going to be tomorrow or next week or next year - partly
because we're having some success in disrupting the organisation and making it
more difficult for them to carry out their operations."

The FBI warned that Al Qaeda could be planning to hire rooms in prestigious
apartment buildings, from where they could detonate bombs.

FBI spokeswoman Debbie Weierman said: "The information is nonspecific and
uncorroborated, but we have passed the potential threat on to our field offices,
local officials and owners of apartment buildings." The FBI stopped short of
issuing official warnings, and said there was no reason to believe the threat to
apartment blocks had "gone past the discussion phase".

The messages intercepted by the FBI and other intelligence agencies represent
some of the most credible intelligence yet gathered on Al Qaeda's plans.

The new video of Bin Laden, released by a British-based Islamic news agency, was
reported by Pakistani sources to have been shot in March - which would be the
first proof that Bin Laden survived the US military bombardment in Afghanistan.

But the independent Arab satellite news network Al-Jazeera said it had seen the
tape three or four months ago and believed it was recorded in October last year.

The 100-second clip shows Bin Laden seated outside a stone building in a
camouflage smock extolling the merits of martyrdom. He refers to widening the
war against Britain and America but makes no mention of the September 11
atrocities.

He declares: "This war is not confined to Britain and America. It serves as an
opportunity for other nations to revise their stance."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 20, 2002

It is not if but when for next terrorist attack, says Cheney

BYLINE: Shan Ross And Ian Bruce

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 504 words


DICK Cheney, the US vice president, warned last night that a new al Qaeda attack
against the US was "almost certain" as intelligence agencies picked up
increasing traffic on the airwaves indicating a fresh terrorist strike.

"In my opinion the prospects of a future attack against the United States are
almost certain. It's not a matter of if but when," Mr Cheney said.

The warning came as a British-based Islamic news agency released video footage
of Osama bin Laden singling out Britain as a terrorist target.

The opening sequence of the video, which surfaced in Birmingham, features bin
Laden being interviewed by a journalist from Al-Jazeera, the Qatar-based
television station, in which he states that any country siding with Israel and
America is a target for Islamic terrorists.

A Sunday newspaper said unidentified supporters of bin Laden claimed sections of
the 40-minute video were filmed only eight weeks ago.

The Ministry of Defence said it had not seen the video and could not comment on
its

contents.

US intelligence agencies have been picking up what they described as "enhanced
activity" between al Qaeda agents suggesting bin Laden's terrorist network was
planning a "second wave" terrorist attack as big or bigger than September 11.

Mr Cheney said the reports made it clear the threat was just as real now as it
was last September.

Surveillance of telephone, microwave, and e-mail communications world-wide and
interrogation of al Qaeda and Taliban prisoners at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba all
point to a pre-planned atrocity designed to inflict mass casualties.

The FBI said there had been "a lot of chatter in the system again" which had
thrown up patterns pointing to a new attack.

Mr Cheney warned: "We don't know if it's going to be tomorrow or next week or
next year, partly because we're having some success in disrupting the
organisation and making it more difficult for them to carry out their
operations."

When asked if bin Laden's network was planning to strike American targets, Mr
Cheney replied: "We assume they are."

Some of the intercepted signals have included references to "vast numbers" of
victims, reinforcing a threat warning issued last week about a possible attack
on a US nuclear power station during the July 4 Independence Day celebrations.

George W Bush, the US president, has defended his handling of intelligence ahead
of the September 11 attacks. The warnings suggested bin Laden was going to
hijack US aircraft, but Mr Cheney said there was no specific information in the
warnings that could have led to direct action to stop the attacks on the World
Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

Mr Cheney also urged restraint by members of Congress who are suggesting an
expansion of inquiries into what the White House and federal law enforcement
knew about possible terror attacks.

He said: "My assessment is that there wasn't anything out there that would have
allowed us to predict what was going to happen on September 11."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 20, 2002, Monday

New terror attack is certain, Cheney warns US

BYLINE: James Doran in Washington and Michael Evans Defence Editor

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 373 words


Terrorists around the world are exchanging cryptic messages at a rate not seen
since the days leading up to September 11, raising fears that al-Qaeda is
planning another attack on America or its interests abroad.

The White House confirmed yesterday that intelligence agencies had gathered
information in recent weeks indicating a renewed threat. CIA sources disclosed
this weekend that the number of intercepted messages from people believed to be
part of the al-Qaeda network pointed to the possibility of an attack in the
United States, or on its bases and embassies overseas, similar in magnitude to
those on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon, which killed more than 3,000
people.

Dick Cheney, the Vice-President, said yesterday that an attack against the
United States was almost certain. "It's not a matter of if but when," he said.
"We don't know if it's going to be tomorrow or next week or next year, partly
because we're having some success in disrupting the organisation and making it
more difficult for them to carry out their operations."

The report came as President Bush's Administration continued to face accusations
that it had failed to act on intelligence reports received before September 11
suggesting that al-Qaeda could hijack aircraft in America. The latest
information did not provide any details of an attack. It was described by a
White House official as "vague but disturbing".

The White House official said that threats had been received and monitored
continuously by the intelligence agencies since September 11, and added that the
latest warning was in response to information suggesting that "the terrorists
continue to have an interest in striking America". The reports have not been
corroborated or verified but officials believe that the intercepted messages
represent the most credible information they have received about terrorist
attacks on the US since last September.

CIA and FBI counter-terrorism units are on a heightened state of alert. However,
it is feared that they are also becoming reluctant to withhold any information,
no matter how vague, to avoid the kind of harsh criticism they have faced in the
past week.

Bomb fear, page 15 Mick Hume, page 18


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                              May 20, 2002, Monday

MORE TERROR ATTACKS ON THE WAY, SAYS CHENEY;
 UNITED STATES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 381 words


THE chance of more Al-Qaeda attacks against US targets is "almost a certainty",
believes American VicePresident Dick Cheney.

US officials do not know when the attacks might occur or what the targets might
be, Mr Cheney added.

He also said the United States could not have anticipated that terrorists would
turn four commercial airliners into missiles on September 11, as he responded to
criticism that the Bush administration ignored warnings. US officials are again
evaluating a growing body of intelligence suggesting another large-scale
Al-Qaeda attack may be in the planning for Europe, the Middle East or the United
States, government officials said.

"I think that the prospects of a future attack on the US are almost a
certainty," Mr Cheney said yesterday.

"It could happen tomorrow, it could happen next week, it could happen next year,
but they will keep trying. And we have to be prepared."

Asked if Osama bin Laden's network was planning to strike American targets, Mr
Cheney said, "We assume they are. There is certainly a level of noise out there
in the system that would indicate that those efforts are continuing."

The suggestion is that the network is reconstituting itself after a winter of
disruptions caused by the US military operations in Afghanistan and widespread
arrests across the globe. "There's a great temptation . . . for people to look
back at September 11 and say, Well, we haven't been hit in eight months,
therefore the threats have receded or gone away.' I don't think that's the case
at all," he said. Some of the intelligence suggests Al-Qaeda may be agitating
for a large-scale terrorist operation.

Mr Cheney said the government is doing everything in its power "to make us a
tougher target".

He advised Americans to stay alert, watch for anything out of the ordinary and
go about their lives.

"We've got to do that. We can't shut down the country because of the possibility
of another attack. The terrorists win if they shut down our country and don't
even attack; just simply do it based on the threat."

Mr Cheney also urged restraint by leading congressional Democrats, who are
suggesting an expansion of inquiries into what the White House and federal law
enforcement knew about possible terror attacks.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 21, 2002

Terror chief 'plots attacks from prison'

BYLINE: Matthew Kalman

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 457 words


A MAJOR row began yesterday over the role of British prison officers sent to
supervise the detention of Palestinian terror suspects in Jericho jail.

Israeli officials said one of the six prisoners under supervision was operating
a fully functioning office and directing terror attacks under the noses of the
British and U.S. monitors.

Embarrassed British and U.S. diplomats were forced to admit that the monitors
had 'expressed concerns about the detention arrangements' last week to the
Palestinians, but the problems were not corrected.

Under an agreement hammered out between Britain, America, Israel and Palestine
to end the siege at Ramallah earlier this month, the six men are being held
under normal prison conditions by the Palestinians, while the monitoring team
ensures they really are in detention.

But yesterday, Zalman Shoval, an adviser to Israeli prime minister Ariel
Sharon,claimed one of the prisoners, Ahmed Sa'adat, was involved in a suicide
bomb attack in Netanya on Sunday in which three Israelis were killed and more
than 50 injured.

He said Sa'adat who is head of the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine, which claimed responsibility for the attack had access to a cellular
phone and other communications equipment while in prison.

Sa'adat managed to give two newspaper interviews last week and is said to be in
constant contact with PFLP officials. He is accused by Israel of masterminding
the assassination of Israeli tourism minister Rechavam Ze'evy last October.

Ze'evy was gunned down in Jerusalem by two members of the PFLP. The gunmen and
two others involved in the attack are also in Jericho jail serving terms of up
to 18 years after being convicted by a makeshift Palestinian court in April.

A sixth man, Fouad Shoubaki, a senior aide to Yasser Arafat, is accused by
Israel of masterminding a massive illegal arms smuggling operation from Iran in
January.

The row highlights problems with the effectiveness of the monitors, who would be
in the front line of an attack by Israel on the prisoners, or by Palestinians
trying to set them free.

Israel was accused yesterday of assassinating the son of one of its most bitter
enemies.

Jihan Jibril, 40, died when his car exploded as he drove through a busy district
in West Beirut, Lebanon.

He was military operations chief for the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine General Command, a terrorist splinter group established by his father.

The group, which is funded by Libya and has headquarters in Syria, was
responsible for massive attacks on Israel in the 1970s and 1980s and is bitterly
opposed to any peace deal.

The PFLP-GC has repeatedly been linked to the Lockerbie bombing.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 21, 2002

EXCLUSIVE: EXPERTS WARN OF TERROR ATTACKS; SUICIDE BOMBERS TARGET BRITAIN

BYLINE: By David Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 885 words


BRITAIN was put on suicide bomb alert last night amid fears of a revenge attack
by Osama Bin Laden's Al Qaeda terrorists.

Anti-terrorism experts swung into action to counter the threat.

A specialist Israeli police unit trained in dealing with the aftermath of
explosions has flown into the UK amid fears Middle East violence could spread
here. The FBI also admitted yesterday that walk-in suicide bomb attacks in
America were "inevitable".

A leading terrorism expert said there was "a real danger" Al Qaeda could wreak
the kind of devastation here that Israel suffers on an almost daily basis.
Earlier this month Anjem Choudary, the British head of AlMuhajiroun, an extreme
Islamic group which claims to have thousands of members in 30 British cities,
said:

"Why is an Israeli a legitimate target, for example, in Palestine and not
elsewhere? These people need to be eradicated." Organisers of Zaka, a 700strong
sub-division of the police in Israel, are to meet 150 Jewish activists and
rabbis at a north London synagogue tomorrow.

Zaka's volunteers are often first at the scene of suicide bombings, aiming to
collect victims' body parts for identification while preserving their dignity
according to their religion.

Experience gained in Britain during terrorist atrocities such as the 1988 Pan Am
Flight 103 disaster at Lockerbie will also be reviewed.

Volunteers will be able to apply for a training course set to begin next month.
A source said: "There is a big potential for a suicide bombing to happen beyond
the Middle East. It could be anywhere.

"The law in Britain makes it difficult for the police to deal with extremists,
who call it a heaven for terrorists.

We're not saying it's going to happen tomorrow but the signs are there and the
symptoms are there. We just have to hope we don't see it."

The source added: "The idea came from people in the community here who wanted
training for any kind of bomb or other incident.

"We've seen all sorts of attacks in Europe already including the firebombing of
synagogues. We train ourselves professionally to respect the religious
considerations while also preserving DNA, finger printing, dental records.

We need to know what to touch and what not to. This is something British police
would not know how to deal with because they do not have the experience."

Professor Paul Wilkinson, director of the centre for the study of terrorism at
the University of St Andrews, welcomed the Israeli aid. "I think there is a real
danger and it's right we should be leaning on expertise developed in Israel, "
he said. "Any organisation that has this expertise should be encouraged to make
it available to our emergency services.

"Despite the success in deposing the Taliban in Afghanistan the task is far from
complete. While terrorist cells are active, there is a real danger of more
attacks equally or more devastating than those perpetrated in America."

Although police have no intelligence suggesting a specific threat in Britain,
Special Branch officers are investigating extremists who took part in a rally
for Palestine in London last month.

Pictures showed one man dressed as a suicide bomber clutching a burning American
flag.

Surrounded by masked protesters waving the Lebanese flag, the man had three
cylinders tucked into a belt. He was shouting "Martyr! Martyr!" as the Stars and
Stripes burned in his hands.

Concerns have been raised that British security forces lack the knowhow or means
to counter the threat. A committee of senior counter-terrorist officers chaired
by Scotland Yard's head of security, deputy assistant commissioner Barbara
Wilding, is assessing strategies to prevent suicide attacks. The suicide bomber
working group, attached to the Association of Chief Police Officers, was formed
after the latest spate of attacks in the Middle East.

A source close to British security forces told Israel's Ha'aretz newspaper: "The
use of suicide bombers has become a ritual that crosses borders and
organisations, and is regarded as an efficient response to the intelligence,
military, and technological superiority of the security services in the West.
Suicide attacks are regarded today in Britain and among other security services
in Europe as a general threat, because the concept of martyrdom could also take
hold among extreme Christian right-wing organisations, and there are already
some signs of this in the United States. The concern is that Europe might be the
next target for these types of attack."

Attacks on British Jews continue to increase. There were 51 anti-semitic
incidents in April, the second worst month since records began in 1984.

There have been 22 this month, including two assaults of extreme violence.

In America last night the director of the FBI, Robert Mueller, warned that
walk-in suicide bombers similar to those who have struck Israel would target
America. "I think we will see that in the future, I think it's inevitable, " he
said. "I wish I could be more optimistic."

The statement came after US VicePresident Dick Cheney's warning that Al Qaeda
terrorists are "almost certain" to launch more devastating attacks on America,
while Osama Bin Laden, in previously unseen video footage, said Britain was
among targets for revenge.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  May 22, 2002

Fear of US terror attacks hits confidence

LENGTH: 207 words


THE FTSE 100 Index tumbled further below the 5200 bar rier today as concern
about renewed terror attacks on the US added to market jitters.

All the key heavyweight stocks in the City were heading south after losses on
Wall Street last night set the tone for trading in London.

And with the main corporate news limited to the retail sector, the Footsie was
off 59.8 points by mid-morning.

Analysts said talk of fresh attacks on the US added to lingering fears about the
Middle East region and undermined already weak sentiment.

The fragile confidence was reflected by losses across the board early on with
telecom, oil, banking and pharmaceutical stocks all in the red.

Alex Scott, analyst at Seven Investment Management said: "The four big sectors
are all looking weaker and with very little newsflow we are in for a tough day."

BP and Shell fell back after a slip in the oil price, with BP down 14p to 582p
and Shell 6p weaker to 524p.

Of the banks, HSBC dropped 6p to 840p, Royal Bank of Scotland fell 8p to £19.58,
Barclays dipped 5p to 608p and Lloyds fell 8p to 743p.

Slow profits growth from Deutsche Telekom hit telecoms with Vodafone down 2p to
105p, mmO2 off 1p to 45p and BT down 4p at 273p.


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                                  May 22, 2002

City: Terror attack fears depress FTSE

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 488 words


The FTSE 100 Index tumbled further below the 5,200 barrier today as concern
about renewed terror attacks on the US added to market jitters.

All the key heavyweight stocks in the City were heading south after losses on
Wall Street last night set the tone for trading in London.

And with the main corporate news limited to the retail sector, the FTSE was off
59.8 points at 5,137.0 by mid-morning.

Analysts said talk of fresh attacks on the US added to lingering fears about the
Middle East and undermined already weak sentiment.

The fragile confidence was reflected by losses across the board early on with
telecom, oil, banking and pharmaceutical stocks all in the red.

Alex Scott, analyst at Seven Investment Management said: "The four big sectors
are all looking weaker and with very little newsflow we are in for a tough
day.''

BP and Shell fell back after a slip in the oil price, with BP down 14p to 582p
and Shell 6.5p weaker to 524.5p.

Of the banks, HSBC dropped 6.5p to 840p, Royal Bank of Scotland fell 8p to
£19.58, Barclays dipped 5p to 608p and Lloyds fell 8.5p to 743p.

Slow profits growth from Deutsche Telekom hit telecoms with Vodafone down 2.5p
to 105.5p, mmO2 off 1p to 45p and BT down 4p at 273p.

And pharmaceutical stocks were offering little remedy, with GlaxoSmithKline down
6p at £16.28 and AstraZeneca off 64p at £31.73, a drop of nearly 2%.

Music giant EMI was one of the those hitting a chord with investors today as it
recovered some of its losses following yesterday's poor results.

The group rose 4p to 930p and was joined on the FTSE leaderboard by BAE Systems,
up 4p at 364.5p and Man Group, ahead 15p at 930p.

Of those companies reporting today, holiday firm MyTravel plunged 25% after
warning it was not confident of recouping losses caused by 11 September.

The former Airtours business also unveiled plans to launch into the no-frills
airline market but plunged 56.5p to 169p.

Among the host of retailers presenting updates, Woolworths fell 4.5p to 45p
after revealing flat like-for-like sales in the past 15 weeks.

EGi News 22/05/02




Shareholders of retail giant Kingfisher this weekend urgently requested
designated chairman Francis Mackay to push chief executive Geoff Mulcahy towards
retirement.

Investors are believed to be disillusioned with Mulcahy following Kingfisher's
low performance against the stock market over the past 18 months. They are
thought to be demanding a replacement for him within a year. Mackay is due to
succeed John Banham as Kingfisher chairman on December 7.

As part of dedicated restructuring of the group, Kingfisher is also rumoured to
be mulling the sale-and-leaseback of its B&Q stores and a handful of other
properties in a deal which would net the company around £1bn.

The move follows Kingfisher's £600m deal with London & Regional earlier this
year, which saw the retail group part with the freeholds of 182 Woolworths
stores before floating Woolies off earlier in the Summer.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2002 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             May 23, 2002, Thursday

TERRORISTS 'PLAN BRITISH ATTACKS'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 43 words


AL-QAEDA terrorists are on their way to Britain to plot atrocities, it has been
claimed.

A German newspaper says 29 men were smuggled into Europe and intend to blow up
high-rise buildings in retaliation for British backing for the war on terror.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 23, 2002

Arafat condemns 'punk' bomber's terrorist attack

BYLINE: Bob Adams

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 305 words


THE Palestinian Authority has condemned a suicide bombing near Tel Aviv that
killed two Israelis and injured over 30, describing it as a "terrorist attack".

The attack took place in a pedestrian mall in the centre of Rishon Letzion,
south of Tel Aviv. Israeli police commander Haim Cohen said that last night's
bomber had been of European appearance.

"His hair was dyed blond, short, punk-looking," he said. "I'm sure he disguised
himself so as not to arouse suspicion at the scene." A police spokesman said
"there were no general warnings" of attacks before the bombing took place.

In a statement in the Palestinian news agency Wafa, the Palestinian Authority
said it was "calling upon the Palestinian people to declare their condemnation
of such terrorist attacks, which constitute a certain danger on the Palestinian
people".

The al-Aqsa Martyr's Brigade, affiliated-with Palestinian Authority leader
Yasser Arafat's Fatah faction, claimed responsibility for the attack.

But the statement said the bombing gives Israel an "excuse to continue its
aggression (against) our people".

In Washington, State Department official Lynn Cassel denounced the bombing "in
the strongest possible terms," calling on Arafat to show leadership and warned
that such attacks " could not help the Palestinians achieve their national
aspirations". Meanwhile, a bomb set fire to a tanker at Israel's biggest fuel
depot today in Tel Aviv.

The depot is close to three highways and surrounded by residential areas.

"A huge disaster has been prevented," said a police spokesman after the fire was
put out.

And the Israeli embassy in Paris was destroyed by fire. The building was
undergoing renovation work.

Police chief Jean-Paul Proust said: "At this moment, we have no indication of
the cause of this fire."


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       Lancashire Evening Post (Preston)

                                  May 23, 2002

Gang robs man in race attack terror

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post (Preston)

BYLINE: By Nicola Adam

LENGTH: 374 words


A man was robbed, beaten and racially abused by a gang of three.

Police say Abdul Mitha, 39, could have been seriously injured, and have not
ruled out a racist motive for the attack.

Today they are appealing for two pensioners who interrupted the attackers to
come forward to help identify them. Mr Mitha, a father-of-three, was walking
near the pedestrian bridge at Ringway, Preston, when he was set upon by the gang
at 3.30pm on Tuesday.

They ran over and attacked him, taking his wallet and two mobile phones.

The three robbers then beat Mr Mitha to the ground, only stopping when the two
women walked close by.

Mr Mitha was left bleeding and in extreme shock following the attack.
Fortunately his injuries were only minor, but police say they could have been
much worse.

Today he told of his ordeal as he rested and nursed his injuries.

He said: I was walking home from town and went across the bridge.

Just as I came down one man collared me. He shocked me and I said asked him what
he wanted.

That's when I felt the first blow to my face .

Then another man came round and grabbed me and tried to take my wallet.

I tried to hang on to it which was when the second blow came.

Then I got another blow and another. I was beaten to the floor.

They were yelling Paki, Paki, let's do the Paki.

That's when two old ladies came walking by and the gang ran away. If they hadn't
been there who knows what could have happened.

He said he was convinced the motive for the attack was racist.

He said: I moved here from Zambia five years ago and

Preston was a quiet town.

Now it is getting violent, the crime is up and real race problems are starting.

I feel scared to walk alone on the streets now. That's not right.

DC Sue Swift of Preston CID, said: I would appeal for the two old ladies who
interrupted the attack to come forward.

We cannot rule out a racist motive for the incident.

The first man was white, 22 to 23, 5ft 7ins, well built, medium length hair, a
pasty face with blood shot eyes and unshaven.

The second was also white, about 26, 5ft 8ins, slim, wearing an army style
jacket with a ripped hood. The third robber was 21 to 22, about 5ft 4ins, with
light brown hair and a beard.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                  May 23, 2002

TERROR RAIL LINE ATTACKS

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

BYLINE: By Pauline Cooper

LENGTH: 344 words


STAFF and passengers on trains were left terrified after vandals hurled stones
at cab drivers in three separate incidents which left one driver nursing head
injuries.

British Transport Police are appealing for witnesses to the incidents which left
one Arriva Trains driver with slight head injuries after a missile smashed the
cab window.

At about 6pm on Sunday vandals threw stones at a passing passenger train near to
the old Frickley Colliery site in South Elmsall on the Sheffield to Leeds line.

Later the same evening, two high-speed GNER passenger trains between Leeds and
London King's Cross were attacked in the space of 10 minutes at South Elmsall
station. No-one was injured but the missiles had broken the cab window.

The service in the first incident was the 5.33pm travelling from Sheffield to
Leeds, said a spokesperson for Arriva.

Dreadful

The incident happened about half a mile south of Moorthorpe station. The
windscreen was smashed and the driver was slightly injured. He was shaken and
taken off duty at that point.

We are taking this incident very seriously, it was a dreadful act. We would
appeal to anyone who has information to contact British Transport Police who are
investigating.

In Leeds last night, vanfals attempted to cause a major disaster on a rail line
last night after abandoning a supermarket trolley on the track.

The 5.14pm Sheffield to Leeds train smashed in to the trolley between Millshaw
Lane road bridge and Crows Nest Lane bridge in Beeston at around 6.40pm. The
mangled trolley became caught underneath the train as its emergency brakes
brought it screeching to a halt. Police say it is a miracle the 50mph train was
not derailed.

Luck

The incidents come just 12 days after eight people were killed in the Potters
Bar rail disaster.

British Transport Police Sgt Keith Berry said: It was only through pure luck
that nothing much more serious didn't happen.

Trains are designed so that when they impact with something on the line, the
emergency brakes lock on and the train stops.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 24, 2002

Mother's face ripped open in dog attack;
A chat with the gardener, then moment of terror as his Alsatian pounced

BYLINE: James Tozer

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 379 words


A MOTHER-OF-FOUR was savaged by her gardener's Alsatian when she leaned into his
car to talk to him.

The animal locked its jaws around pretty Yvonne Williams' chin and mouth.

She managed to break free and staggered away covered in blood.

Last night she was recovering at home after two hours of surgery in which she
had 25 stitches in her face following the terrifying attack.

But Miss Williams, 39, refused to blame gardener David Niblock, because the dog
had never attacked anybody before.

Miss Williams, who is also a grandmother, had gone into her garden in Agecroft
near Salford, to tell Mr Niblock she did not want her grass cut that day. She
poked her head through the open passenger window of his car to talk to him when
the Alsatian, named Bruno, sprang at her and bit her on the chin.

Miss Williams, who had been holding her baby grandson Jake minutes earlier,
collapsed in agony as Mr Niblock pulled the dog off her.

Her sister Carol Jones and daughter Suzanne, 18, who had watched the attack in
horror helped her back into the house and called an ambulance.

Paramedics treated Miss Williams at the scene before taking her to Hope Hospital
in Salford for microsurgery. She was later transferred to a specialist unit at
Wythenshawe Hospital in Manchester.

Police officers called a vet and the dog was put down.

Miss Williams, whose face was badly swollen, struggled to speak after her
ordeal.

'It was such a shock because it all happened so quickly,' she said. 'I was
getting ready to go out when the gardener pulled up in his car.

'I was holding Jake in my arms but handed him back before walking over.

'I leaned in towards the car and began talking. I didn't lean right through the
window but had turned my head to hear him because I'm slightly deaf in one ear.

'The dog leaped across and bit me in the face.

'All that keeps going through my mind is what would have happened if I'd still
been holding little Jake.' Miss Williams added: 'It's too early to tell whether
I will be scarred for life but I'll never forget the attack.' Mr Niblock, 41, of
Salford said: 'I feel so sorry for the lady. Bruno was just doing his job
protecting his master. He was a lovely, loyal dog.'

j.tozer@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 24, 2002, Friday

Terrorism increases attacks on Muslims in Europe

BYLINE: Rory Watson in Brussels

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 315 words


MUSLIMS across the Continent have suffered more hostility and physical attacks
since September 11, according to the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and
Xenophobia.

"A greater sense of fear among the general population has exacerbated already
existing prejudices and fuelled acts of aggression and harassment across
Europe," Bob Purkiss, the chairman of the monitoring centre, said yesterday as
his Vienna-based organisation released its report.

Britain had seen a significant rise in the number of attacks on Muslims, with
numerous incidents of violent assault, verbal abuse and attacks on property.
Muslim women had been spat on and physically assaulted and mosques had suffered
attacks from minor vandalism to serious damage through arson and firebombs.

Asylum-seekers, political refugees and immigrants were other groups to have
attracted increased hostility in recent months. The report pointed to the
"sensationalist and often vitriolic campaign being waged by many of the (UK's)
national tabloid newspapers against asylum-seekers and refugees".

The report said that, by blurring the differences between asylum-seekers and the
events of September 11, sections of the media crudely portrayed those seeking
asylum as "potential terrorists who were willing and capable of inflicting
similar attacks on Europe as others had on New York".

Only Portugal and Luxembourg, with their tiny Muslim populations, had escaped
the phenomenon.

Muslim women, with their highly visible hijab head covering, had been routinely
verbally and physically abused in many European countries -Belgium, Germany and
Denmark in particular -and had had their headscarves ripped from their heads.

Men with turbans had also become targets of public hostility, even though the
headgear is not necessarily Islamic attire. As a result many Sikh communities
had come under attack.


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Life

                                  May 26, 2002

Victim's terror as attacker flees jail

BYLINE: CIARAN MCGUIGAN

LENGTH: 372 words


AN EVIL thug who slashed his teenage girlfriend's throat has been on the run for
a month... WITHOUT his young victim being told.

Violent John Paul Walker, 24, tried to murder his 18-year-old girlfriend, when
he attacked her and a pal in her Co Down home, in June 1999.

Two years ago, he was jailed for eight years at Newry crown court after
admitting attempted murder and another charge of assault.

But now he has been on the run for over a month, after absconding from
Magilligan prison, after being let out on leave.

His terrified victim broke down last week, after she learned that cut-throat
attacker Walker had been on the run for over a month.

Both the prison service and the police last night defended their decision NOT to
inform the woman that evil Walker had escaped.

Neither is obliged to inform victims, as new guidelines that are part of the
Criminal Justice Review have not yet been implemented.

But the decision was criticised by Victim Support.

A spokesman said: "It is extremely unfortunate that the victim of such a
horrific and violent attack did not know that her attacker had been on the run
for the past month,

"Understandably, she will be feeling emotions in relation to the attack, not
least of all fear.

"She will probably, however, be feeling angry and very let down by the Criminal
Justice system, who failed to inform her that the man who tried to kill her is
somewhere in the community.

"It is extremely important that people who have been informed of violent crime
are made aware of the release from prison of the person who attacked them. This
provides the opportunity for individuals to be prepared both mentally and
physically."

A Prison Service spokesman last night said: "It is our duty to inform the
police, when a prisoner goes unlawfully at large. The matter is then in their
hands."

A PSNI spokesman said: "It's our duty to bring offenders before the courts. If a
decision is taken that a prisoner is of sufficiently low risk to be given leave,
that is a matter for the prison service.

"If we are aware of a threat to any individual appropriate steps will be taken."

A new victims' charter is expected to be unveiled later this year.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 27, 2002, Monday

Israel fears attacks by 'regrouped terrorists'

BYLINE: By Alan Philps in Jerusalem

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 330 words

PALESTINIAN "terrorist infrastructures" have regrouped after last month's army
assault through the West Bank and the time is coming to launch new large-scale
operations, Lt-Gen Shaul Mofaz, the Israeli chief of staff, said yesterday.

Israel stepped up its incursions over the weekend, raiding three Palestinian
towns - Tulkarm, Bethlehem and Qalqilya - for the loss of one soldier. In
Bethlehem the army tried to arrest the leader of Islamic Jihad, the
Iranian-backed militant group, but he was not at home.

"It is possible that that the army will be forced to launch deeper operations if
those we are currently carrying out are not effective," Gen Mofaz said.

According to the defence minister, Benjamin Ben-Eliezer, security forces are
capturing an average of two suicide bombers a day before they complete their
task.

The latest was a 16-year-old boy who the army says was captured in a taxi at a
roadblock near Nablus.

There is apparently no shortage of suicide bombing volunteers, their ranks
swelled by continued Israeli shootings of Palestinian civilians.

Hundreds of mourners took part in the funeral in Gaza yesterday of Kamla
Abu-Said and her daughter, Anwa, 12, who were killed by an Israeli tank as they
walked near the Jewish settlement of Netzarim on Saturday. The army said it
regretted their deaths.

Yesterday police shot and wounded a deaf mute Palestinian after he failed to
respond to orders to lift his shirt and prove he was not carrying explosives.

The Israeli government says it has foiled 32 attacks "in an advanced stage of
execution" in the past month.

Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader, told the Canadian foreign minister, Bill
Graham, that he was taking steps to prevent suicide bombers.

But President Bush, in St Petersburg, returned to his criticism of Mr Arafat,
saying he had failed the Palestinian people. "He had a chance to secure peace,
but he didn't. He had a chance to fight terrorism, and he hasn't," Mr Bush said.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland

                                  May 27, 2002

Broker offers terror attack cover

SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 33 words


Specialist broker Crispin Speers & Partners can arrange cover for personal
accident and medical expenses arising from a terrorist attack, as well as for
the risk of hijack or detention.




LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                       Copyright 2002 CMP Information Ltd

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                  May 28, 2002

We'll need our road transport if terrorists attack;
 Letter

BYLINE: CLLR JOHN A BAILEY

SECTION: Features :General :Letters, Pg.11

LENGTH: 442 words


I FEEL that Len Liechti's flippant remark in your paper May 23, 'Port Stanley
might suit moaners better' was unfortunate, particularly as 20 years ago, on May
21 1982, commandos landed to retake the Falklands and several servicemen gave
their lives in that action to recover Port Stanley.

I don't know how old Len Liechti is but he seems to suggest life was easy in
1950s.

Well I can assure him it was not. At the age of 12 through until I was15 when I
had my first fulltime job, I got up at 7am and did a three-mile paper round by
cycle and then cycled two miles to school afterwards.

Several pupils did the same, or worked after school delivering other items by
bike for chemists or other shopkeepers.

A close friend who covered for me when I was away was hit by a vehicle and
killed as he came out on to the main Tunbridge Wells to Brighton Road. Our
school of 500 pupils was devastated.

It is because of this background I feel that current cycle lane policy is wrong
and will lead to more accidents; it was, after all, the 1950s new towns that
developed the clear vehicle cycle/pedestrian segregation.

Unfortunately, these totally separate cycle lanes around the backs of houses and
through open grass areas have become a muggers' paradise, particularly against
pedestrians and can be a no-go area after dark.

Encouraging cyclists to cycle on pavements which were designed for pedestrians
only is not a sensible answer.

It is difficult for some people to hear cyclists coming. I for one cannot hear
their standard bell. To reduce the width of roads making them one lane, to
facilitate a few who would cycle, thereby creating knock-on effects and road
rage against pedestrians and cyclist is, in my view, futile.

Better public transport and road infrastructure is the only answer and cyclist
should be encouraged to use it as well as car users. Cycling works well in
European cities where the roads are usually very wide (six lanes) consisting of
two tramlines in the middle and two vehicle lanes either side.

They certainly do not reduce the width of roads. The reduced size of the London
Road with its cycle lane protected by bollards is often brought to a standstill
because lorries have to block the road to deliver heavy items to shop keepers.

If, heaven forbid, terrorists did attack our rail infrastructure, our roads and
other independent means of transport would assume priority over public
transport, to keep the country going.

Bath has to face the fact that without a bypass, it cannot go on continually
clogging up its arteries, by self-inflicted injury.

CLLR JOHN A BAILEY Con, Bathwick

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             May 28, 2002, Tuesday

GLASS ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 100 words


A JUDGE ordered that a man who smashed a glass and pushed it into another man's
face in an unprovoked attack should be detained in a secure psychiatric
hospital. Judge Marten Coates said Matthew Dugmore should be detained without a
time limit and not released without the consent of the Home Secretary.

Dugmore, 27, of Medway Grove, Kings Heath, had denied wounding Mark Jones with
intent to cause him grievous bodily harm, but was found guilty at Warwick Crown
Court earlier this month.

Mr Jones and some friends were in the Navigation Pub, Kings Norton, when the
incident happened.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                  May 29, 2002

Terrorist attacks force staff cuts

SECTION: News :999 :Terrorism, Pg.3

LENGTH: 289 words


THE fallout from September 11 is starting to be felt as a Bath engineering
company has been forced to make staff redundant.

Precision engineering company Polamco has announced that eight of its 90 -strong
workforce are being made redundant immediately.

One of the eight has taken voluntary redundancy, while the other seven are
people who had only recently joined the firm.

The move has been made following the restructuring of aerospace contracts in the
wake of the terrorist attacks on America last year.

Polamco is a second tier supplier of connectors for the electrical controls on
Rolls-Royce jet engines, used by US plane giant Boeing, which itself axed 30,000
staff in America in the weeks after the attacks.

Managing director Andrew Polson said: "We are now seeing the effects of
September 11 starting to hurt.

"Our main contractors have had their contracts put back between nine and 12
months due to the events in the USA last year.

"This has left a large hole in Polamco's current order book and inevitably
cutbacks have to be made."

Mr Polson said without the postponing of aerospace contracts for 12 months the
company would not have been forced to make the cuts.

"It is very, very unfortunate, " he said.

"We would have been booming if it was not for that. It is really starting to
hurt us."

And he said he was unsure of what the future held. "We have to go on what is in
the papers and what the people at Rolls-Royce tell us and they say they are
still getting orders.

"We have just got to go with what information we can get."

As well as parts for the aerospace industry Polamco also supply products in the
automotive, military and defence and communications markets.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  May 29, 2002

Terror attack father tried to shield children

BYLINE: By Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 366 words


A FATHER has told a Belfast court how he shielded his two young daughters during
a machine-gun attack on their home, unaware one of them had already been shot in
the back.

Frank Daly, whose 11-year-old daughter Charlene still carries a bullet lodged in
her shoulder, was giving evidence at the Crown Court trial of three men who deny
attempting to murder his family, wounding his daughter and having a 9mm
submachine gun.

Mr Daly, who described himself as having a "minor role" in the now defunct
Ulster Democratic Party, said the August 2000 shooting took place during a
province-wide feud between the rival loyalist UDA and UVF.

He said he was having supper with his partner Yvonne and daughters Charlene and
seven-year-old Colleen in their Jefferson Park home in Coleraine on August 28,
2000, when initially he thought fireworks had gone off on the window-sill.

But when the window blinds were "cut in half" he realised it was gunfire and
immediately threw his youngest daughter to the floor, grabbing Charlene as she
went to run past and threw himself over them, "holding them tight".

Mr Daly said Charlene complained of a pain in her back and difficulty in
breathing, but appeared to be fine when they got up from the floor, although he
himself tasted blood in his mouth and his arm, which had been shielding her, was
also covered in blood.

He added it was only later as he comforted his common law wife Yvonne and
daughter Colleen that he heard Charlene was lying wounded in a neighbour's home
where he found her lying on a settee, "a hole in her back and a trickle of blood
coming out of it".

Ms Gray said she "collapsed in the street" on being told her daughter was shot.
She added that the schoolgirl still suffers from her injuries and has to take
pain killers and attend a "trauma centre".

Ms Gray also said doctors believe it would be too dangerous to try and remove
the bullet from Charlene's shoulder. Denying involvement in the gun attack are
Thomas George Dunbar (34), of Ballygallin Park, Darren Edward Clarke (21), of
Loughanhill Park, both Coleraine, and 31-year-old Limavady man John Thomas
Hazlett from Alexander Road.

At hearing.


LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                  May 29, 2002

Amnesty attacks curbs on rights in terror Act;
 Report accuses Britain over deaths and arrests

BYLINE: by MIKE AMBROSE

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 362 words


AMNESTY International condemned Britain and other western countries yesterday
for "jumping on the antiterrorist bandwagon" since the September 11 atrocities
in the United States.

The campaign said that the "democracies" had sidelined human rights in the name
of security.

The report laid bare humanrights breaches, an increase in paramilitary killings,
deaths in custody and a host of other violations in Britain and Northern
Ireland.

It said that new security legislation, which had been pushed through by the
Labour government in the months after the attacks, had "opened the door" to
human-rights violations.

The Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act allowed for foreign nationals to be
detained indefinitely without charge or trial.

Britain was also criticised for an increase in the number of paramilitary
killings and shootings in Northern Ireland.

Other areas of concern were the failure to bring prosecutions in a number of
controversial cases of death in custody in England and inadequate safeguards to
prevent the suicide of young people in prisons.

The report stated: "Our fears were realised as a shadow criminal justice system
was created in the UK without the essential safeguards of the formal system.

"Up to nine people are now being held within it."

The organisation blamed politicians "more concerned with popularity" than with
respecting international human-rights obligations.

The report charged: "A racist backlash has generated a climate of suspicion and
mistrust, exaggerated by the way in which foreigners are being portrayed as a
source of 'terrorism.'

"The year 2001 witnessed a direct challenge to long-accepted human-rights
standards by the very governments that campaigned for their establishment."

Amnesty attacked the United States for its treatment of prisoners from the
Afghanistan conflict, who have been held at Camp X-Ray in Guantanamo Bay in
Cuba.

The report said that rights violations had increased in many countries,
including Colombia, where 300 people "disappeared" and 4,000 civilians were
killed.

But Amnesty acknowledged that progress had been made in Tibet and in Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002

GRAPHIC: X-RAY EXPOSURE: US personnel frogmarching a detainee at the prison camp
in Guantanamo Bay, which the Amnesty report singled out for criticism.

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                  June 4, 2002

Teenager attacked on street tells of her terror

BYLINE: lwilliamson

SECTION: NEWS; 999; People; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 302 words


A TEENAGE woman who was beaten unconscious in a vicious weekend city-centre
attack last night monspoke of her terror.  Elaine Catto, 19, has been left with
a fractured nose and two black eyes which are so bruised they are almost swollen
shut, and bruising to her body after three men attacked her and her boyfriend as
they were getting into a cab after a night out on Saturday. 1june The couple had
been at Po Na Na nightclub at the Castlegate and had left at 2am to go home.

As they were getting into a taxi outside Bells Travel Agent's on Union Street,
two men jumped on 23-year-old Steve and began punching and kicking him. Another
man pushed Ms Catto away from the taxi and punched her in the face, knocking her
to the ground.

He then knelt on her chest and repeatedly punched her in the face until
bystanders pulled him off and the men ran away.

"I've never been so scared in my life. I just froze. My initial thought when I
saw him coming towards me was that he was not going to hit me. But he looked me
straight in the eyes and punched me" said Ms Catto.

"I couldn't understand why he kept punching me, he must have known I wasn't
going to fight back. He was clearly enjoying hitting me." The taxi driver took
Ms Catto and her boyfriend, a trainee solicitor, to the accident and emergency
department at Aberdeen Royal Infirmary where it took staff three hours to stop
the bleeding from her face.

She is due to start at Robert Gordon University in September but admitted it is
far from her thoughts at the moment.

"This has changed everything. I don't feel safe going out - I don't want to go
out." Police are currently viewing CCTV footage in the hope the men can be
identified.

Anyone with any information should contact police on 01224 386000 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.


LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             June 4, 2002, Tuesday

RUGBY TOURNAMENT TRIBUTE TO TERROR ATTACK VICTIM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 162 words


A SOUTH African rugby player killed in the September 11 terrorist attack on the
World Trade Centre was remembered at a North Wales sevens tournament at the
weekend.

Alec Rowe, who worked at the centre, played for Manhattan, who are regarded as
America's top rugby team.

He should have been lining up with his team for the Llangoed Sevens in Anglesey
at the weekend.

Tournament organiser Phil Lewis, who presented a cheque for pounds 240 to
Manhattan captain Dennis Devine, said: "The money was raised during a charity
night at a Bangor night club and will go towards a memorial fund set up by
Manhattan.

"As a team they play at top events and although they found it hard going here
they promised to come back with a much stronger squad next year.

"It was brilliant to have them here and it all adds to the way the tournament
has developed into an international spectacle."

The event attracted more than 20 teams playing at two village venues.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INTERNATIONAL: Manhatten's captain Dennis Devine in Anglesey at the
weekend

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                                  June 4, 2002

CASH APPEAL GROWS: The appeal for victims of the September 11 terrorist attack
on the Twin Towers in New York has been given a boost of GBP 1,237

BYLINE: J. Clarke

SECTION: NEWS; PEOPLE; Charities; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 25 words


CASH APPEAL GROWS: The appeal for victims of the September 11 terrorist attack
on the Twin Towers in New York has been given a boost of GBP 1,237

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Herald Express (Torquay)

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 June 04, 2002

'CIA identified terrorists months before attacks';

BYLINE: By Tom Kelly PA News in New York

SECTION:  Pg. 12

LENGTH: 417 words


A US government probe has been launched into why the FBI and CIA failed to
anticipate the September 11 attacks after new details of security lapses emerged
yesterday.

Senate and Congress intelligence panels are to meet in private tomorrow to begin
an analysis of the agencies' preparedness for the atrocity and how ready they
are to deal with future terrorist threats.

It follows a new report suggesting that the CIA identified two of the suicide
hijackers as al Qaida terrorists 20 months before the attacks, but did not tell
the FBI.

The CIA tracked Khalid Almihdhar and Nawaf Alhazmi, who were on board the jet
that crashed into the Pentagon, from an al Qaida meeting in Malaysia in January
2000 to their re-entry into the US.

But the CIA failed to follow procedure and inform the FBI which could have
monitored them while they were in America, according to a report in Newsweek.

The agency also neglected to tell the Immigration and Naturalisation Service
which could have stopped them getting into the US.

Senator Richard Shelby, vicechairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee,
declined to confirm the report, but complained of a pattern of CIA failures.

He said the hearings would also highlight more "big failures of intelligence."

On Thursday, the Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to hear from Coleen
Rowley, the Minneapolis FBI agent who said attempts to investigate alleged 20th
hijacker Zacarias Moussaoui after his arrest in August met a "roadblock" from
senior FBI officials.

The FBI has come under sharp criticism for not seeing a link between the
Minneapolis case and another pre-September 11 warning from an agent in Phoenix
that Middle Eastern men were training at US flight schools.

"Some hard questions have to be answered, " said Senator Dianne Feinstein, a
member of the Senate Intelligence and Judiciary committees.

The hearings would probably reveal other missed chances to foresee the attacks,
she added.

Meanwhile yesterday, an al Qaida spokesman was reported to have warned of more
terror attacks.

"We confirm our continuation in working to attack Americans and Jews, and
targeting them, both people and buildings, " Sulaiman Abu Gaith told the
pan-Arab daily newspaper Al-Hayat.

"What will come to the Americans, God willing, won't be less than what has come.

America should be ready and on high alert and fasten the seat belts, as with the
will of God, we will come to them from where they didn't expect."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 The Irish News Limited

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  June 5, 2002

US names the 'brains' behind terror attacks

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 468 words


THE man believed to be the "brains" behind the 11 September terror attacks was
today named by US officials.

Khalid Shaikh Mohammed has been identified by investigators as the al Qaeda
planner who they believe oversaw plans for the terror hijackings, which killed
almost 3,000 people.

Mohammed, a Kuwaiti, is described as a top lieutenant to Osama bin Laden and is
already the subject of a US arrest warrant for his alleged part in a plot to
blow up American aeroplanes over the Pacific in 1995.

He is one of 22 alleged terrorists named as the FBI's most-wanted and has a
reward of GBP 17.1 million on his head. Officials believe he is in either
Afghanistan or Pakistan in the wake of the attacks in the US.

One official said: "He is the primary brains of the plot. He is also a major
player in the al Qaeda organisation. He planned this whole operation. We would
like to locate, arrest him and bring him to justice."

A second official added: "In terms of al Qaeda bad guys, he's in the top
half-dozen or so."

Mohammed is also believed to be a relative of Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, who was jailed
for life for masterminding the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, which killed six
people.

Their relationship provides the first firm link between the 11 September
destruction of the World Trade Center and the earlier bombing, when a truck
carrying a bomb was parked under the twin towers.

Yousef was also convicted for his role in the conspiracy to bomb up to 11
American commercial planes as they flew from South-East Asia to the United
States.

The plot, hatched in Philippine capital Manila in 1995, was foiled when one of
Yousef's associates, Pakistani militant Abdul Hakim Murad, was arrested in the
city. Documents and a laptop computer found in his apartment led investigators
to Yousef and also to Mohammed, who was indicted in New York in 1996 on charges
of conspiracy.

One document, codenamed Operation Bojinka, detailed the plans to bomb 11 planes,
while another spoke of attacking the CIA headquarters near Washington, although
it contained no specific details.

Mohammed is known to have a series of aliases, and has been known to wear a
beard or be clean shaven. He uses two dates of birth, making him either 37 or
38, and is described as "armed and dangerous" by the FBI.

His naming as the 11 September mastermind comes after weeks of mounting pressure
on American authorities whose intelligence failings in the run-up to the
devastating attacks have become clear.

A joint committee of senators and members of the House of Representatives has
started hearings into what went wrong inside the FBI, CIA and other intelligence
agencies, which have been forced to admit they ignored warning signs which could
have led to the suicide-hijackings being foiled.


LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MOHAMMED: BELIEVED TO BE IN PAKISTAN OR AFGHANISTAN

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 5, 2002

Egypt warned US about terrorist attack;Mubarak says alarm raised a week before
September 11

BYLINE: Wlliam Tinning

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 628 words


HOSNI Mubarak, the president of Egypt, has claimed his country's intelligence
officials warned the US before September 11 about a possible attack by Osama bin
Laden's terror network.

Mr Mubarak, one of Washington's closest allies in the Middle East, told the New
York Times that his agents warned US officials about a week before that al Qaeda
was in the advanced stages of a planned strike against an American target.

The warning followed the recruitment by Egyptian intelligence of a secret agent
who was in close contact with al Qaeda.

The Egyptian leader said his intelligence chiefs had no indication the attack
would be as extensive as those of September 11.

"We didn't know that such a thing could take place," Mr Mubarak told the
newspaper. He said Egyptians officials thought the target they had word of "was
an embassy, an airplane, something, the usual thing".

Experts said Mr Mubarak's acknowledgment that his intelligence officials were
unable to determine the target or exact time of the attack suggested that the
Egyptian "mole" was not senior enough to take part in the planning of the
September 11 attacks.

America said yesterday it had no information to support the claims by the
Egyptian president, who is scheduled to travel to the US this week for talks
about the Middle East with President George W Bush.

Ari Fleischer, a White House spokesman, said US and Egyptian intelligence
agencies exchanged information in the early part of last year about a general
terrorism threat outside the US, but that there was no specific suggestion about
September 11.

He said: "Nothing that I've been made aware of would support Mubarak's quoted
remarks."

The New York Times report came as US lawmakers yesterday began congressional
hearings behind closed doors into the failure of US intelligence agencies, such
as the FBI and CIA, to thwart the September 11 attacks.

Members of the intelligence committees of the senate and house of
representatives want to determine what went wrong and what must be fixed to get
the FBI and CIA to track terrorists more efficiently, exchange information and
safeguard the nation.

The two agencies have been criticised after a string of disclosures that they
failed to share information that could have warned of the impending attack, and
the Bush administration has been criticised for not being open enough about what
it knew.

A series of hearings will be held over the coming months. The proceedings will
be opened to the public at the end of this when Robert Mueller, FBI director,
and George Tenet, CIA director, are expected to testify.

It has been claimed that both the CIA and FBI knew as early as January, 2000
that one of the eventual September 11 hijackers would be attending a meeting of
suspected al Qaeda members, a CIA official said.

Mr Bush said it was clear the FBI and CIA were not communicating properly before
September 11.

But he insisted they were now in closer contact and said he saw no evidence
which suggested the US had information that would have allowed it to prevent the
four hijack attacks which killed about 3000 people.

Donald Rumsfeld, US defence secretary, yesterday said he did not believe bin
Laden was still formally directing the al Qaeda network, although he believes
the organisation remains active worldwide.

Speaking before setting off on diplomatic visits to US allies in Europe and the
Persian Gulf to discuss the war on terrorism and other issues, he said: "My
guess is, if he (bin Laden) were active, we would know it - we would have some
visible sense of it, which we haven't seemed to have had, for some reason."

Mr Rumsfeld said he did not know whether bin Laden was simply lying low, was
ill, or was dead.

LOAD-DATE: June 05, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  June 5, 2002

Egypt says it warned US of terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 33 words


EGYPT warned US officials about a week before September 11 that al-Qaida was in
the advanced stages of executing a significant operation against an American
target, it was reported yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                 Copyright 2002 Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            June 5, 2002, Wednesday

SPOTLIGHT ON US INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES;
 INQUIRIES HAVE BEGUN INTO HOW THE FBI AND CIA FAILED TO PREVENT THE TERROR
ATTACKS OF SEPTEMBER 11

BYLINE: Toby Mason Welsh Affairs Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 498 words


What's the latest in the investigation into September 11?

US congressional intelligence committees yesterday began their inquiries into
the attacks - and how well-funded government agencies failed to prevent them.

Surely this must be embarrassing for the CIA and FBI, which have been heavily
criticised in the aftermath of the attacks. Absolutely. There is barely
disguised fury at the highest levels of the US Government that terrorists were
allowed to strike at the heart of America without the attacks being prevented or
even accurately predicted.

But the blushes of the intelligence services will be somewhat spared by the fact
that the inquiry is to take place behind closed doors. The closed hearings are
being held to protect secret sources of intelligence. Open hearings will begin
on June 25.

However, the reputation of the FBI in particular has taken a severe battering.

President George Bush has said intelligence agencies must do a better job
tracking and catching terrorists as new information surfaced that the FBI
learned about a September 11 hijacker from the CIA as early as January 2000.

So what are the difficult questions the agency has to answer?

CIA officials dispute reports that the agency had kept information from the FBI
on eventual hijacker Khalid Almihdhar's meeting with Al-Qaeda operatives in
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, in January 2000.

Some officials, remarking on a Newsweekstory about the CIA's handling of the
Malaysia meeting, had accused the agency of keeping the information to itself,
preventing the FBI from tracking the terrorists once they entered the United
States.

FBI officials declined to comment last night, saying director Robert Mueller was
not interested in engaging in fingerpointing.

So do we know what went so badly wrong?

A government official said some of the recent confusion over the cross-agency
communications centred around different spellings of Almihdhar's Arabic name.

At the time, the FBI also was unaware of Almihdhar's travels to the United
States, the official said. Neither the CIA nor the FBI was able to learn of
Almihdhar's plans for September 11, and CIA officials acknowl-edge his case
could have been handled better. Despite the terrorist concerns, neither agency
informed the State Department or the Immigration and Naturalisation Service,
which could have prevented their entry into the United States, about Almihdhar
or another hijacker, Nawaf Alhazmi, whom the CIA later learned also attended the
Kuala Lumpur meeting. Both were in the plane that hit the Pentagon on September
11.

What will be the likely fallout from the investigations?

President Bush, in a speech in Little Rock, Arkansas, said the government must
improve its intelligence on who is entering the country. "We know we've got to
do a better job on our borders, understanding who's coming into the country and
who's leaving and why they're here, and why they haven't left," the president
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  June 6, 2002

US NAMES MASTERMIND WHO PLOTTED TWIN TOWERS TERROR ATTACK; MR SEPTEMBER 11

BYLINE: From Toby Moore in New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 350 words


A KUWAITI fugitive has been named as the mastermind behind the September 11
terror attacks.

Khalid Shaikh Mohammed is said to have been the planner who plotted the strategy
for hijacking aircraft and flying them into buildings in America.

"He's a key guy, " said a US intelligence official. "In terms of the terrorists'
plot, he's on the top rung."

Mohammed, who is described as an explosives expert with many aliases, worked
with Abu Zubaydah, 32, a Saudi who served as the main recruiter to the Al Qaeda
terrorist ring run by Osama Bin Laden.

Zubaydah was captured in Pakistan after a shoot-out and is in American custody.
He is said to have confirmed the involvement of Mohammed.

Mohammed has also been linked to Ramzi Yousef, who plotted the bomb attack on
the World Trade Center in 1993 and is now held in a US prison.

He is also said to have devised another plan, to blow up 11 airliners
simultaneously in 1995.

Mohammed has eluded capture twice. America has put a bounty of GBP 18million on
his head, naming him one of the 22 most-wanted terrorists in the world.
Revelations of his role in the September 11 atrocities came as Congress began
hearings into why the FBI and CIA - with a combined budget of more than GBP
28billion and despite several leads - failed to stop last year's attacks.

President Bush has acknowledged the agencies' failures. "It is clear they
weren't comparing notes, " he said on a visit to the National Security Agency.

Meanwhile, many Al Qaeda fighters remain in Afghanistan, despite the eight-month
war waged against them by the Allied forces, a US intelligence official said
yesterday. "There is still a significant presence, " said Colonel Michael Flynn,
director of intelligence at Bagram air base.

The militants have dispersed into small groups, probably in the eastern Afghan
mountains, and some are moving along smuggling routes on the border with
Pakistan, coalition officials said.

"It's an enemy which is mobile, an enemy which is clearly watching what we are
doing, and he is adjusting to that, " Col Flynn said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 June 06, 2002

'Terror and disbelief' as mob attack funeral;
 Violence in the Short Strand

BYLINE: By Bimpe Fatogun

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 571 words


WORD that St Matthew's was being attacked spread like wildfire through the
Catholic enclave of the Short Strand yesterday morning.

Residents - some still in their pyjamas - streamed out of houses on
Mountpottinger Road, cars did quick U-turns in the street.

Everyone just desperate to reach the church at the heart of a community under
siege.

Soon the grounds of St Matthew's were filled with hundreds of residents, taking
shelter behind the church building itself as rocks and bricks were fired over
the walls.

At the back of the church, away from the bombardment, a hearse waited, it's
windows adorned with wreaths spelling out the tribute -'GRAN'.

Inside the funeral mass for 54-year-old Short Strand resident Jean O'Neill
continued, interrupted only briefly as her grandchildren and their school
friends were whisked away by teachers through the vestry.

The congregation thinned steadily as mourners ran outside to defend the church
from attack.

One man told of attempts by a loyalist mob to storm the church itself and of
handto-hand fighting between mourners and loyalists at the gates.

As police and army arrived on the scene the crowd were split apart and the
automatic gates finally closed.

Men using scarves as make-shift masks and with hoods pulled up over their heads
continued to throw stones over the heads of soldiers and into the church
compound.

Inside the grounds, a few men and women prowled the perimeter carrying sticks
and baseball bats.

The mood was one of terror mixed with appalled disbelief.

"They won't even let us bury our dead, " said one woman.

"They were trying to prevent the funeral from taking place, " said another.

"She was a good, quiet woman with a good family, well respected in the area.
They won't let us go to the post office, the doctors or the chemist and now they
don't even want us to bury our dead."

The mourners was finally forced to carry the coffin out through the side door of
the vestry to the waiting hearse.

There was palpable anger among the crowd at the picket by loyalists outside the
nearby post office and pharmacy on the mainly Protestant Newtownards Road.

In an area which has seen a constant barrage of attacks for the past four weeks,
the action yesterday increased the feeling of isolation.

Most of the anger was reserved for media coverage of the on-going violence.

"We are under siege here. We can't get out to go out our front doors. We're
living in caves with no natural light, " said one man.

"Whole streets have had windows put in with bricks, ball-bearings and petrol
bombs and blast bombs and all that is being reported is that it's tit-for-tat."

In such an atmosphere it was not long after the blockade began that a rumour
began to circulate that one or more nationalists were "trapped" inside the
pharmacy.

One resident said it was when a group of nationalists "went to the rescue" the
simmering tensions on both sides exploded into violence.

The church became the focus of disturbances for more than an hour, before
protests broke out on the lower Newtownards Road.

By late afternoon the doctor's surgery and local post office had been closed and
short term emergency measures had been put in place to deal with the medical and
social security needs of the community. Last night the area was quiet but tense.
The question on everyone's mind: 'What will happen next?"

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FREQUENT TARGET: St Matthew's Church in east Belfast

                     Copyright 2002 The Irish News Limited

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               New Civil Engineer

                             June 6, 2002 Thursday

Nuclear plants at risk from terrorist attack says report

BYLINE: Diarmaid Fleming

SECTION: ARTICLE; Archive; News

LENGTH: 313  words



HIGHLIGHT: SOME 20% of the UK's civil nuclear installations could be vulnerable
to attack by terrorists using truck or van bombs, a renowned engineering
consultant claimed this week.


Consultant John Large has found that a fifth of US nuclear plants would sustain
major damage if a truck bomb of the type used in Oklahoma City in 1995 were
detonated just outside the perimeter fence.

The risk to UK nuclear installations is at least as grave, Large warns in a
report prepared for environmental group Greenpeace International.

At Bradwell power station, reactor buildings are located within 30m of the
site's secure perimeter fence, making it possible for terrorists to attack
without having to breach site security.

A blast equivalent to that of the Oklahoma bomb could seriously jeopardise
nuclear safety, Large claimed.

He is also worried that, at one site at least, terrorists could use bombs
detonated outside boundary fences to knock out main and emergency power
supplies, which are vital to provide cooling for the reactor cores.

Large's report says UK nuclear facilities are inadequately protected against
terrorist attack.

Last month he reported to the Finnish Parliament on the risk to nuclear plants
from terrorist attacks.

'Up to 11 September, natural hazards and accidents were the main concern. There
is no defence provision against intelligent and deliberate attack such as
occurred at the World Trade Center,' said Large.

Such attacks are an acknowledged risk in the US, but are not classified by the
UK regulatory authorities. As a result, plants are not designed to take account
of them.

Sufficient information on plant locations, structural details and stored
radioactive materials exists in the public domain to help terrorists planning
attacks (NCE 8 November 2001).

Spokesmen for British Nuclear Fuels (BNFL) and the Office for Civil Nuclear
Security (OCNS) said that security had been under urgent review since 11
September, but declined to discuss details. However, the OCNS is expected to
publish its own report on the terrorist threat later this month.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: New Construction Engineer


                            Copyright 2002 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 7, 2002

MI5 compiles list of sites that may face risk of terrorist attack

BYLINE: Keith Sinclair

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 683 words


MI5 has drawn up a secret list of key government buildings and economically
vital installations in response to the threat posed by al Qaeda terrorists, it
was claimed yesterday.

The sites, including nuclear power stations, oil refineries, and vital
communications centres, have had their security profiles reassessed,
particularly in the light of the possibility of September 11-style attacks by
suicide bombers.

According to one report, more than 350 sites throughout Britain - including
several in Scotland - have been placed on a "critical national infrastructure"
list.

MI5 agents, it said, had been visiting the sites - including the country's 15
nuclear power stations, the main National Grid sites, oil installations,
petrochemical facilities, key defence companies, and research centres such as
the chemical defence agency at Porton Down in Wiltshire and the atomic weapons
establishment at Aldermaston in Berkshire - to check that security measures have
been tightened.

The military bases on the list also include the Faslane nuclear submarine base
on the Clyde, which is the Royal Navy's main submarine base and employs 2500
personnel.

The other Scottish targets on the list include the Scottish Parliament in
Edinburgh, Prestwick airport, and the nuclear plants at Hunterston, Torness,
Chapelcross, and Dounreay.

The Scottish Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament yesterday said that the inclusion
of the nuclear submarine bases at Faslane and Coulport on MI5's list was not
surprising, but demonstrated how much of a threat the bases posed to the people
of Scotland.

Brian Quail, secretary of Scottish CND, commented: "September 11 showed that
nuclear weapons are not the deterrent they are made out to be but, at the same
time, present a major risk to anyone living near them.

"Not only that, but Geoff Hoon's comments to the defence select committee
earlier this year that Britain would use nuclear weapons against Iraq increases
the possibility that Faslane could be attacked.

"There is nowhere else in Britain where there is the combination of nuclear
reactors and nuclear weapons in such close proximity. By having the nuclear base
at Faslane, we really have made ourselves a uniquely perilous hostage to
fortune."

Phill Jones, campaigns worker with Scottish CND, said: "It is difficult to
imagine what could be done to stop a hijacked plane crashing into Faslane,
especially if it came from nearby Glasgow or Prestwick airports.

"The consequences of such an attack involving one or more of the submarines
based at Faslane would be devastating for the west of Scotland. At any one time,
there are on average five or six nuclear-powered submarines tied up at Faslane,
each with a nuclear reactor on board.

"The situation would be even worse if a passenger jet was crashed onto any of
the three Trident submarines currently at Faslane. Each Trident submarine
carries 16 missiles armed with two or three nuclear warheads."

David McKenzie, a spokesman for Trident Ploughshares, said yesterday: "The only
real security we can have will be when these dangerous weapons are
decommissioned and taken out of service.

"In the meantime, we have real concern about the level of security and defending
of these dangerous toys. Since August 1998, the Trident high security berth at
Faslane has been breached on seven occasions by people swimming into it and
twice the swimmers actually got right next to the submarines."

A Home Office spokeswoman said: "It is government policy not to comment on
operational security matters. All security measures are kept under constant
review and have been before and after September 11."

NUCLEAR alerts

August, 2001: Four anti-nuclear protesters from the Trident Ploughshares
campaign cut through the fence and enter the Coulport Naval Base on Loch Long.

August, 2001: Two Trident Ploughshares activists enter the water near Faslane at
night, concealing themselves beside two submarines.

April, 2001: A Danish activist swims into Faslane and paints a slogan on the
hull of a Trident submarine.

LOAD-DATE: June 07, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 7, 2002

Fringe inspired by terror attacks;Artists tackle September 11

BYLINE: Phil Miller Arts Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 498 words


THE theme of the September 11 terrorist attacks on America is to dominate the
56th Edinburgh Festival Fringe.

While the usual high-profile mix of stars, celebrities and comedians are all set
to perform in Edinburgh this August, including Rory Bremner, Tony Benn and Rich
Hall, the focus of the Fringe this year is dominated by current affairs - the
horror of the September attacks and the humour and drama of the World Cup.

Paul Gudgin, the director of the Fringe, said: "Events like the Berlin Wall
coming down or the Falklands war have all found their way into the Fringe. But
in the four years I have been here there has never been such a strong trend
throughout the programme.

"We saw immediately, as we were making the programme, that was the theme coming
through. The theatre pieces are about feelings and emotions, about people who
have been living through, and with, a nightmare. The comedy may be even more
interesting. "

Perhaps the most controversial of all the September 11-related shows will be
Tina C's Twin Towers Tribute, a comedic female impersonator and country and
western singer, whose show is based around the media response to, and the public
grief expressed after, the attacks.

The show, at the Pleasance venue, is based around her album 9/11:24/7, and
features songs such as Kleenex to the World and Stranger on the Stairwell. In
the show, Tina C sets up her own charity, adopts a dog belonging to a victim,
and builds a replica of the Twin Towers.

Other shows based around the attacks include Project 9/11, which relates seven
personal accounts of living in New York on the day of the tragedy, while Jumpers
- referring to those who jumped from the burning World Trade Centre to their
deaths - focuses on four New Yorkers trying to cope with the day's aftermath.
Dance, poetry and music are used to examine the attacks in Bodies in Crisis,
while "physical theatre" approaches the subject in The Art of War.

Gudgin said the most controversial responses will be those expressed by
comedians, including Hall, and the first ever one man show from Michael Moore,
the political provocateur and film maker, whose Bowling for Columbine premiered
at the Cannes Film Festival.

"Maybe they won't be laughing directly about the attacks, but it will be
interesting to see how they look at the political atmosphere that created the
circumstances for those events to occur," said Gudgin.

Five Fringe shows are based around the World Cup.

And as revealed in The Herald, the Fringe is to use the 5000-person capacity of
the Royal Highland Centre in Ingliston for concerts for the T on the Fringe
series of pop concerts.

highlights

Alan Davies, comedian and star of Jonathan Creek.

Jerry Springer - the Opera.

5678, a "slasher-musical".

Jo Caulfield, in a show directed by Graham Norton.

Rich Hall, the Perrier award-winning comedian.

An Audience with Tony Benn.

Fringe Sunday - featuring 200 acts - on The Meadows.

LOAD-DATE: June 07, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: colourful pose: Olga Veazey from Russia looks at Light Red and Light
Orange at the first major sculpture display at the Royal Academy of Arts in
London. Picture: Peter Jordan/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 June 07, 2002

No Headline;
 TIM WHEELER remembers a terrorist attack on the US struggle to win civil
rights.

BYLINE: TIM WHEELER

SECTION:  Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1380 words


MANY martyrs died in the cause of freedom during the US civil rights revolution
of the 1950s and 1960s.

None touched the conscience of the US and the world more deeply than the
terrorist murder on September 15 1963 of Addie Mae Collins, Cynthia Wesley,
Denise McNair and Carole Robertson.

The girls, ranging in age from 11 to 14, were in the ladies' room in the
basement of Birmingham's 16th Street Baptist Church that bright morning.

They had left bible classes early because it was the church's annual "Youth Day"
and they were preparing for their role, dressed in white from head to toe, in
leading the main service at 11am.

An explosion erupted beneath the brick staircase in front of the church, blowing
in the foundation wall and burying the four girls in a mountain of rubble,
flames, smoke and ash.

The girls died instantly, while others arriving for services were badly injured.

The heinous crime sent shock waves across a city already convulsed by the
struggle against segregation.

The bombing took place two weeks after the march on Washington for jobs and
freedom led by Martin Luther King.

Many saw the bombing as Ku Klux Klan revenge for that immense outpouring in
which African-American people, joined by tens of thousands of trade unionists
and other fighters for equality, delivered a message to Congress - segregation
must go!

Yet, even without the march on the nation's capital, the segregationists had
ample reason to target the 16th Street Baptist Church, as well as Reverend Fred
Shuttlesworth's Bethel Baptist Church a few blocks away.

The civil rights movement in Birmingham had been meeting in the sanctuaries of
these churches to plan the street demonstrations by thousands of black youths
who confronted the police dogs and fire hoses of police chief Bull Connor and
the racist fulminations of Alabama Governor George Wallace.

In his Pulitzer prize-winning Parting the Waters, Taylor Branch devotes a
chapter to what he calls "the children's miracle, " in which youngsters, some of
them only six years old, poured into the streets to protest against segregation.

Connor's response was to arrest them all. At one point, more than 600 youngsters
were packed into Birmingham's jails, sometimes 40 or more to a cell.

Connor thought that he could crush the movement. But, in fact, the strategy of
King, Shuttlesworth and other leaders of this non-violent revolution was to fill
Birmingham's jails with protesting youths to expose the immorality of the system
to the world.

Footage of the brutal police assault on these peaceful demonstrators was aired
on national TV and on the front pages of newspapers, arousing the nation to the
injustice of segregation - a system so vicious that African Americans could not
drink from the same water fountain as whites, check in to a white hotel or eat
in a "whites only" restaurant.

All these memories flooded back at the end of May with the conviction of
Klansman Bobby Frank Cherry for his role in the murder of the girls.

Shuttlesworth, who led the struggle in Birmingham during the 1950s and 1960s,
was present in the courtroom when the verdict was handed down.

"I'm thankful that it came at last, but justice delayed so long is not true
justice, " he says.

"It should have been done 39 years ago. All the facts, all the names, were known
by the officials from J Edgar Hoover on down. They knew what was going on. They
were in co-operation with the Klan. That perverted justice."

The trial in Birmingham brought into sharp focus the deep roots of a brand of
terrorism that began long before the Sepember 11 terrorist attack on the World
Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

The young girls' names are on a long roster of victims of "homegrown" terrorists
who continue to murder people of colour today.

Shuttlesworth recalls the case of James Byrd, who was dragged to his death
behind a pick-up truck by Klansmen in 1999 in Jasper, Texas.

Terrorist Timothy McVeigh was a fanatic white supremacist who bombed the federal
building in Oklahoma City in revenge for the growing multiracial and
multicultural composition of the US.

Much of the racist terror today is committed by officers in uniform, as attested
in the shooting in New York City of Amadou Diallo in a hail of 41 bullets.

The officers, all white, were acquitted of the murder of this innocent west
African street merchant.

Even so, Shuttlesworth stresses that the life sentence meted out to Cherry marks
"the end of an era, " in which the Klan lynched with impunity.

"The Klan was tolerated because they were doing what those in positions of power
wanted, keeping black people in their place, " he says.

Shuttlesworth says that the struggle that cost the girls their lives won the
landmark 1964 Civil Rights Act.

The struggle today, he notes, is focused on economic and social injustice.

"Why are there 60 million people without health care in this country?" he
demands.

"Why do so many people sleep homeless on our streets? Why is there no affordable
housing?"

He questions the Bush administration's "war on terrorism, " declaring that
"bombing people's homes can never bring about peace. We are becoming deluded
with the idea of being a superpower.

"We are developing a psychosis of war in the guise of hunting terrorists.
Sometimes, men with sinister intentions can use God's words for evil ends."

Shuttlesworth is a giant of the civil rights movement who stirred his
congregation and the people of Birmingham into struggle against segregation
seven years before it flared into massive street confrontations in 1963.

It was Shuttlesworth who convinced King to bring his civil rights crusade to
Birmingham.

"Martin grew into a great speaker, " he says.

Yet, he adds: "Martin had to be pushed and I was the pusher. I told him we were
living in a city with 40 per cent black population but zero per cent of the
privileges. I said 'Martin, we're 6,000 miles from South Africa, but we're six
inches from apartheid'."

His views are shared by the Reverend CT Vivian of Atlanta, one of King's closest
comrades-in-arms and a leader of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference
(SCLC).

Vivian remembers being at an airport when news flashed of the church bombing and
the death of the four girls.

"There were so many Klan bombings of Birmingham's black community then that we
called it 'Bombingham', " he says.

He also states that today's struggle is to achieve social and economic equality,
while defending and expanding rights already won - voting rights, for example,
which were trampled in the 2000 presidential election.

As director of SCLC affiliates, Vivian played an important role in the civil
rights projects in Montgomery, Birmingham, St Augustine and Selma.

The struggle in Birmingham and the murder of the little girls set the stage for
the Selma voting rights campaign and the Selma-Montgomery march that culminated
in passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.

"No-one who is involved in a struggle for freedom and justice dies in vain, "
Vivian says.

"We are all part of the whole. We all gain our sense of freedom based on how we
respond to the death and suffering of anyone who stands for those freedoms."

One of Vivian's favourite works of art is a painting by the African-America
artist John Biggers, entitled "Birmingham:

Children of the Morning."

It depicts four children walking toward their church, their faces filled with
hope in the future.

King's eulogy for the girls rings across the decades.

"These children - unoffending, innocent and beautiful - were the victims of one
of the most vicious, heinous crimes ever perpetrated against humanity, " he said
at the funeral.

"They say to each of us, black and white, that we must substitute courage for
caution. They say to us that we must be concerned not merely about who murdered
them but about the system, the way of life and the philosophy which produced the
murderers.

"The death of these little children may lead our whole Southland from the low
road of man's inhumanity to man to the high road of peace and brotherhood."

This article first appeared in People's Weekly World, the newspaper of the
Communist Party USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2002

GRAPHIC: HATE: The Ku Klux Klan.  UNBROKEN: Police officers look on at the
"Selma Wall" civil rights demonstration in 1965.

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                  June 7, 2002

Profits hit by terror attacks

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

BYLINE: By Bob Rae

LENGTH: 388 words


THE terrorist attacks on America played a major part in a (GBP)3.2 million fall
in half-year profits at Firth Rixson.

But, the Sheffield-based specialist engineering group has made an important
breakthrough into the French aerospace market as well as winning important
orders from Rolls Royce and GE, in the wake of September 11.

Pre-tax profits fell to (GBP)3.7 million from (GBP)6.9 million for the six
months to the end of March while turnover fell by (GBP)300,000 to (GBP)108.4
million, but chief executive David Hall reckons the company has done well to
manage its way through difficult times.

Mr Hall said: These have been the most challenging conditions we've seen for
many years, so these results are more than satisfactory.

Although the second half of the year is unlikely to bring any radical
improvement, Mr Hall believes growth will return to the aerospace market in 12
to 16 months.

New contracts with Rolls Royce, GE and now SNECMA will bolster that recovery for
Firth Rixson.

Reducing manufacturing costs helped Firth Rixson win the orders from Rolls
Royce, while GE responded to a joint offering from Firth Rixson's ring
manufacturing businesses.

Firth Rixson made a (GBP)500,000 profit on the disposal of its German
stockholding business Enpar Sonderwerkstoffe, but job cuts and rationalisation
cost it (GBP)1.5m.

Since those cuts the company has focused on controlling costs, in particular
overtime and power usage, and keeping a tight grip on capital expenditure to
avoid shedding any more jobs than the 150 it has already lost.

While aerospace markets were depressed, demand from the gas turbine power
generation sector boosted performance at the group's Superalloys operation.

The recovery in power generation and minerals sectors continued for Firth
Rixson's castings operations.

Oilfield and railway-related sales remained high for its ring operations and its
forgings operations benefitted from strong demand for mining applications, but
was hit by a lack of demand from the commercial automotive sector.

The firm is fighting for exemption from punitive tariffs imposed on engineering
and aerospace steels by US President George Bush, having already pulled out of
supplying stainless steel bars to the US because of previous heavy duties which
cut sales volumes.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 7, 2002, Friday

Bush transforms Cabinet to thwart terrorist attacks

BYLINE: James Doran in Washington

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 643 words


PRESIDENT BUSH addressed the American people in a ten-minute primetime
television broadcast last night to outline his plans for the creation a huge
government agency to protect the country against terrorism.

"The Department of Homeland Security will...control our borders and prevent
terrorists and explosives from entering our country," Mr Bush said.

"It will work with state and local authorities to respond quickly and
effectively to emergencies. It will bring together our best scientists to
develop technologies that detect biological, chemical and nuclear weapons, and
to discover the drugs and treatments to best protect our citizens.

"And this new department will review intelligence and law enforcement
information from all agencies of government and produce a single daily picture
of threats against our homeland."

It emerged before Mr Bush spoke that he had secretly planned the shake-up for
the past four months with Tom Ridge, the Homeland Security Adviser, appointed
after the September 11 attacks. The move shocked some senior Administration
officials, who had been told about the plans only within the past 48 hours.

The announcement of the agency coincided with the opening this week of a
congressional investigation into the failure of America's intelligence agencies
to avert the September 11 attacks.

Some officials expressed concern that the new agency could spark turf wars in
the Administration. Close to a hundred separate committees and sub-committees,
which have at present some responsibility for homeland security, will be drawn
into the new agency.

"By ending duplication and overlap, we will spend less on overhead and more on
protecting America," Mr Bush said.

Heads of some of those committees were told by the President yesterday that
billions of dollars of their budgets would be reassigned to the new entity, as
it is hoped that the plan will not cost the Treasury more.

"The Government must be reorganised to deal with the new threat," the President
said. He added that the agencies with responsibility for security had suffered
because there was no central office to which they should report.

Mr Bush pointed to the customs department as an essential line of defence
against terrorists smuggling weapons into the US. The department will be moved
to the new agency as it reports at present to the Treasury. The Coast Guard,
which reports to the Transport Department, will also move into the new agency.

Mr Bush concluded the address by urging Americans to encourage their
representatives in Congress to support the plans. "We are better prepared
tonight than we were on that terrible morning," Mr Bush said. "With your help we
will be stronger still."

Dick Cheney, the Vice-President, spent yesterday canvassing support on Capitol
Hill. He assured Republicans who were worried that the agency would create
another layer of bureaucracy that the plans were nothing more than a
restructuring.

Democrats, such as Joseph Lieberman, the Connecticut Senator, welcomed the plans
as he claimed to have suggested them with Democratic colleagues after September
11.

Critics said that the President had moved to deflect attention from weeks of
rebukes about the failure of his Administration and intelligence agencies to act
on information that could have prevented the September 11 attacks.

Mr Bush spoke less than 24 hours after Robert Mueller, the Director of the FBI,
gave warning that the number of suspected terrorist sympathisers under
surveillance in America had become so large that his resources were stretched
close to their limits.

Many more thousands of Middle Eastern and Muslim residents and visitors to the
US have been called in for questioning by most of the 14 American intelligence
agencies since September, which has also created a backlog of analysis.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 7, 2002, Friday

Terrorist victims attack Greece

BYLINE: John Carr in Athens

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 258 words


RELATIVES of people murdered by the most notorious terrorist group in Greece
have attacked the Greek Government for failing to act against the killers.

The so-called 17 November terror group has killed 23 diplomats, police and
businessmen over the past 27 years but not one of the murderers has been caught.

Two years after the murder of Brigadier Stephen Saunders, the British military
attache to Athens, a new relatives' association has been set up to urge Greece
to take tougher action against domestic terrorism.

Tomorrow, on the second anniversary of his shooting, the association will
distribute leaflets and stickers in central Athens, while a memorial service for
the brigadier is held at a local Anglican church.

The group, called "Os Edo" (which roughly translates as "enough is enough"),
criticises Greek governments for lacking the resolve to hunt down the 17
November group.

Despite two years of work by Scotland Yard counter-terrorism advisers in Athens,
none of the group, which is believed to support extreme Marxist economics with
virulent anti-westernism, has ever been arrested.

Os Edo will also distribute stickers to motorists and shopkeepers, mobile
telephone users will get anti-terrorism text messages, and banks and utilities
will be asked for donations. National newspapers will include the stickers and
leaflets in their Sunday editions.

"Our aim is to start a dialogue over and above partisan affiliations," said
Stelios Maratos, whose father was killed by 17 November in the 1980s.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  June 8, 2002

OAPs in stone attack terror

LENGTH: 65 words


Police are investigating an attack on houses in the Cambrai street area of
Belfast.

A number of windows were broken after stones and bricks were hurled at the
houses shortly before 3am yesterday.

Local independent councillor Frank McCoubrey said pensioners living in the
properties were badly shaken after the incident and accused republicans of
stoking tension in the area.


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             June 8, 2002, Saturday

AL-QAIDA ARMS FIND SUCCESS FOR TROOPS;
 VILLAGE WAS A BASE FOR TERROR ATTACKS SAYS MILITARY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 463 words

HIGHLIGHT: UNITED CAMPAIGN: a member of the US special forces and a British;
Royal Marine stand outside the barn in Atalay where a cache of explosives was
discovered


BRITISH and US troops have discovered a cache of weapons and explosives during a
raid on a tiny Afghan village that the soldiers said was a base al-Qaida used to
plan attacks.

Around 120 Royal Marines and US special forces swept into Atalay village in
southern Afghanistan under cover of darkness before dawn on Thursday.

They seized four compounds and took 17 people into custody, British Lieutenant
Commander Gary Lydiate said.

All but five of the prisoners were later released, US spokesman Roger King said
yesterday. The remaining five were thought to have "intelligence value," and
were still being questioned to determine if they were linked to al-Qaida or the
Taliban.

Troops found weapons, plastic explosives and bomb-making equipment, as well as
documents of intelligence value that were being analysed, King said.

Inside the mud-brick barn where the haul was discovered, a pillow and a blanket
lay on the dirt floor, a kerosene lamp still flickering nearby.

Someone sleeping there, apparently the cache's guard, fled moments before the
troops swept in, probably awoken by the approaching waves of helicopters.

"Someone made a hasty escape," British 2nd Lieutenant David Spink, one of the
first soldiers to enter the barn, said, standing over the abandoned bed.

"This is not your average farmer with a weapon. We are quite used to farmers
with AK-47s (assault rifles). But these explosives are far from the norm."

The sweep in this village, 50 miles northwest of Kandahar, was typical of what
the war in Afghanistan has become - a sometimes frustrating hunt for traces of
the al-Qaida terror network and the country's former ruling Taliban militia,
hidden among the local population.

US-led forces, following intelligence leads, have raided a number of suspected
hideouts in the Kandahar area and near the border with Pakistan.

In some cases, villagers around Kandahar have insisted they were raided by
mistake and that they had no connection to al-Qaida or Taliban.

But troops on the ground in Atalay insisted their sweep here was a success.

Lydiate said it was launched after "unambiguous intelligence" that al-Qaida was
using the site. Based on the weapons caches, "we have identified this as a
possible site which al-Qaida was planning operations from," he said.

King said that officials were still trying to figure out who was using the site
and how.

At one end of a barn, among piles of branches used to hang grapes, was a blue
plastic barrel brimming with around 15 automatic weapons and a rocket-propelled
grenade launcher.

A bag contained RPG rounds, grenades, detonation cord and 25 tubes of plastic
explosives.

"Any of these explosives could quite easily be turned into a booby trap," Spink
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                              June 9, 2002, Sunday

I DON'T FEEL SAFE.. I JUST WANT TO COME HOME;
 LIVING IN FEAR: SCOTS SUPER MODEL KIRSTY BEGS HER HUSBAND TO RETURN TO SCOTLAND
AFTER TERROR ATTACKS ON US

BYLINE: Sharon Feinstein Exclusive

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 1231 words


SUPERMODEL Kirsty Hume yesterday told how she desperately wants to come home to
Scotland.

The pounds 3.5million-a-year face of Chanel says she no longer feels safe in
America after witnessing the September 11 attack on the World Trade Center.

She said: "It was like a scene from the movies. We saw people jumping out of the
buildings and the images have stayed with me.

"I'll never forget the smell of burning that pervaded New York for months
afterwards."

Since the atrocity, Kirsty, 26, regularly wakes in the night wishing she could
be back home and has begged musician husband Donovan Leitch to take her home.

The pair will soon go house- hunting in Ayrshire, where her dad Russ lives - and
Kirsty has told Donovan she wants their children to be born in Scotland.

Speaking from her home in the Hollywood hills, Kirsty's voice broke as she spoke
about how much she longed for her homeland.

She said: "Scotland means so much to me, I feel very patriotic. I miss it so
much you can't imagine, I pine for the country and the people and often wake up
in the night wishing I was back.

"Being in L.A. is too far. When I was based in New York, it wasn't as bad.

"I never planned to come to America, get married and stay here, just like I
never planned to be a model.

"I plan to find myself a home there this summer. At the moment it would be a
second home - but I'd like it to be my first."

The 5ft 11in blonde says Ayrshire would be her first choice, but the couple may
settle nearer Glasgow.

"I've been working on Donovan and he's coming round to the idea," she said.

"Scottish people are so down to earth, such natural people, and I feel very much
myself around them.

"When I hear bagpipes playing my heart stands still. It's so precious to me."

She says she would like to do something for her country - which might interest
tourist bosses who imported a Finnish model to promote Scotland earlier this
year. She said: "I'd love to model for Highland Spring. Drinking sparkling
spring water seems like a good thing to do. Anything to promote Scotland."

Kirsty's break into modelling is the stuff of legend.

Her dad suggested she try it when she was a gawky 14-year-old girl at Ayr's
Wellington School, who slouched because she was embarrassed to be so tall.

Kirsty's mother Jean accompanied her to assignments, but just two years later
she died from a brain haemorrhage.

Speaking for the first time about the trauma of losing her mum, Kirsty said: "It
was very young to lose her and not having her there when the modelling took off
made things so much harder.

"It was the beginning of my adult life and the end of my childhood. After she
died, the world was a different place.

"My dad and I tried to look after each other, giving each other support.

"I tried my best to make meals when he came home from work and have the house in
order, and we got by.

"I didn't do the modelling to bring money in. I didn't have to support my dad
financially, he had a good salary."

She added: "I set out on an adventure. I thought I was going to Miami for a few
months and then coming home to art school, but that never happened."

"Instead, I was travelling alone and working with people who didn't know me, so
they didn't necessarily care about me on a personal level. It was a blur of
faces.

"I felt catapulted into a very fast world where I knew no one, was stripped of
my own identity and made up to be somebody else.

"I was 18 when I went to Miami. At that age you're just beginning to have an
understanding of the world and who you are. I didn't have time to breathe or
think about what was happening to me.

"People just said, 'Do it Kirsty, make the money', so I did it.

"You have to be strong to persevere in that world and cope with being judged and
rejected all the time. Having a stable background helped a lot. I went home
three or four times a year and I got through it.

"I was doing it for myself and felt like it had been laid in front of me and was
part of my path.

"I got the Chanel contract before anything else, it was really exciting,
worldwide fame, and Chanel has a great image.

"But it was very hard for me to adapt. I just felt like a very down-to-earth
Scottish girl and I was pretty unhappy and lost during the first year."

It was while she was caught up in the whirlwind of the New York fashion world
that Kirsty was introduced to Donovan Leitch, son of the Glasgow-born 60s
singer, Donovan.

The statuesque blonde, who has appeared twice in People magazine's list of the
50 most beautiful people in the world, said: "I always think it's funny that I
went to America to meet a man who is half-Scottish.

"He's very creative, working as a solo musician and directing a documentary. It
wasn't love at first sight though, we knew each other for six months before
dating.

"He's a very supportive and loving husband. I really want children and so does
Donovan but I plan to start a knitwear business at the moment and I'd really
like to get it up and running first.

"Once you have a baby who needs 24-hour attention it's much harder to get things
going."

Kirsty has decided to take a step back from modelling to concentrate on her art
.

"I just wanted to be me, not Kirsty the model, for a little while," she said.

"I have a studio in my house and try to dedicate two days a week to painting,
making jewellery and knitting."

Kirsty admitted she had a very sweet tooth. "My favourite food in the world is
chocolate," she said.

"My dad always says, 'One day your figure will change, all of a sudden you'll
get really fat from all the chocolate you've been eating'.

"And I'm like, 'yeah yeah yeah, whatever dad.' He's a strong character.

"The most important things to me are my family and friends, creativity and the
environment, and, of course, Scotland."

KIRSTY revealed she is haunted by images of the planes flying into the Twin
Towers in New York, which she witnessed from a few blocks away.

She said: "I was lying awake in bed in a friend's flat when I heard this plane
flying over very low. I woke Donovan and said, 'There's a plane about to crash.'
It was so loud I thought it was going to hit our building.

"We threw up the window and saw the crash happen, the smoke pouring out.

"We've seen so many disaster movies over the years, it felt like we were
watching an image from one of those movies. It didn't seem real.

"People were jumping out of the buildings, we saw such terrible things, we were
walking round in a state of shock.

"The images have stayed with me and I doubt I will ever forget them."

She added: "We ended up staying in New York for over a month because we were too
terrified to get on a plane.

"We almost drove back across the country to our home in L.A. and even had a car
reserved, but finally we decided to have faith.

"It was right when the whole anthrax thing was going on as well, we were frozen
in position for over a month unable to do a thing.

"I don't know how much safer Britain is because they're America's closest
allies.

"I just try to have faith that whatever is going to happen it will be OK. I just
want to go back to Scotland and be among Scottish people.

"I feel I've been here for eight years and it's time to be back among the people
I know and understand."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        June 10, 2002, Monday Edition 1

Double sex attack terror for teenager

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 300 words


   A sex attacker grabbed a 16-year-old girl twice and tried to drag her from
Newcastle Central Station's concourse.

The distressed youngster was accosted on the busy station forecourt in broad
daylight as she waited for her sister.

She pushed the man away the first time, but he grabbed and fondled her as she
stood by the train departure board.

The attacker returned minutes later and grabbed her again, trying to drag her
out of the station.

Transport police today appealed for help in identifying the man, who fled when
the girl shoved him away again and told him her sister and boyfriend where due
to meet her.

Det Con Brian Buddo said: "This man would not leave the girl alone.

"She forced him away twice and was distressed by his persistence.

"We urgently need to trace anyone who was on the station concourse at the time
and who may have seen the man.

"To other commuters it may have looked like a domestic row. They may have
thought the victim and the man were a couple messing about.

"The youngster was left traumatised. Although she wasn't physically hurt, she
has needed counselling.

"We have trained officers talking to her. She has to be interviewed sensitively
again so that we can get more details of the man and what he was doing prior to
the attack."

Police say the girl, from Tyneside, had been waiting for her sister on the
concourse at around 2pm last Wednesday when she was approached by the man.

He began talking to her and then carried out the indecent assault as she tried
to push him away.

He was Asian, approximately in his mid-20s, and 5ft 8in. He wore a blue hooded
top with dark jeans.

Det Con Buddo said: "We need to know if anyone saw him getting off a train or if
he had been hanging around the station before he confronted the girl."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                             June 10, 2002, Monday

RESERVES FOR TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 45 words


SIX thousand volunteer reserves from the armed forces are to be trained to form
an anti-terror reaction force.

Under plans drawn up by the Ministry of Defence, the force will assist the
police and civil authorities in the event of a September 11-style attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 June 10, 2002

US terror attacks led to baby boom

SECTION: News, Pg.17

LENGTH: 89 words


AMERICA is preparing for a baby boom - nine months after the September 11 terror
attacks encouraged couples to "make love, not war".

New York is expected to be the centre of the increase, with a reported 25 to 30
per cent rise in the number of babies born compared with last year.

Obstetrician Dr Paul Kastell said:

"The World Trade Centre attack was a wake-up call. People said 'It's never going
to be the right time to have a baby, we should do it now'.

"It was an emotional response to a moment of terror."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             June 11, 2002, Tuesday

ARRESTS 'FOIL MAJOR TERRORIST ATTACKS'

BYLINE: Tom Kelly HELD: Abdullah Al Muhajir

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 216 words


ALLEGED al Qaida plots to carry out two major terrorist attacks have been
foiled, according to security services in the US and Morocco.

Moroccan police said they had broken up a terrorist cell with links to Osama bin
Laden's terror network with the detention of three Saudi Arabians said to be
planning suicide attacks on British and US warships in the Strait of Gibraltar.

In the US, President George Bush welcomed the arrest of an American national for
allegedly conspiring with al Qaida to build and detonate a radioactive "dirty"
bomb, possibly in the US capital Washington DC.

The President said: "We have a man detained who is a threat to the country and
that, thanks to the vigilance of our intelligence-gathering and law enforcement,
he is now off the street, where he should be."

Commenting on the news from Morocco, a Foreign Office spokesman in London said:
"We welcome the arrests if they involve individuals who may have been planning
terrorist attacks against UK assets."

The announcement came hard on the heels of the news of an apparent breakthrough
by US security services.

Abdullah al Muhajir, who was born in New York and changed his name from Jose
Padilla, was detained by the FBI in Chicago when he returned to the US from
Pakistan last month.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             June 11, 2002, Tuesday

ARRESTS 'FOIL MAJOR TERRORIST ATTACKS'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 198 words


ALLEGED al Qaida plots to carry out two major terrorist attacks have been
foiled, according to security services in the US and Morocco.

Moroccan police said they had broken up a terrorist cell with links to Osama bin
Laden's terror network with the detention of three Saudi Arabians said to be
planning suicide attacks on British and US warships in the Strait of Gibraltar.

In the US, President George Bush welcomed the arrest of an American national for
allegedly conspiring with al Qaida to build and detonate a radioactive "dirty"
bomb, possibly in the US capital Washington DC.

The President said: "We have a man detained who is a threat to the country and
that, thanks to the vigilance of our intelligence-gathering and law enforcement,
he is now off the street, where he should be."

Abdullah al Muhajir, who was born in New York and changed his name from Jose
Padilla, was detained by the FBI in Chicago when he returned to the US from
Pakistan last month.

Commenting on the news from Morocco, a Foreign Office spokesman in London said:
"We welcome the arrests if they involve individuals who may have been planning
terrorist attacks against UK assets."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 11, 2002, Tuesday

Terrorist who feared jail attack found dead in cell

BYLINE: By David Sharrock Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 228 words

A LOYALIST terrorist was found dead in his cell in Northern Ireland yesterday.

Mark "Swinger" Fulton from Portadown, Co Armagh, was awaiting trial for
conspiring to murder a man during a feud with rival terrorists.

He was found by staff at Maghaberry Prison, near Lisburn. It is believed that he
had a belt around his neck.

Fulton, 42, had told people that he was afraid someone would try to kill him
while he was in the jail and he did not mix with other prisoners.

He was once the right hand man of Billy Wright, the leader of the Loyalist
Volunteer Force who was shot dead by republicans inside the Maze in December
1997.

With Wright, he ran a campaign of murder and violence against the Provisional
IRA and Roman Catholics in Mid-Ulster in the late 1980s and early 1990s.

Both were supporters of loyalist ceasefires called in 1994 but changed their
minds when the framework document for a political settlement, which advocated
closer links with the Irish Republic, was published.

When Wright was expelled from the Ulster Volunteer Force, Fulton followed him
into the breakaway Loyalist Volunteer Force.

John White, a convicted murderer and member of the loyalist Ulster Political
Research Group, who knew Fulton, said: "He was afraid somebody would try to kill
him. That is why he refused to mix with any mainstream prisoners."
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 June 11, 2002

Plot to attack UK warships is foiled; TERRORISM: Three Saudi suspects arrested
in Morocco

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 25 words


THE Foreign Office has welcomed the arrest in Morocco of three terrorist
suspects said to be planning suicide attacks on British and US warships.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 11, 2002

US foils 'dirty bomb terror' attack;Gibraltar plot also thwarted

BYLINE: Vicky Collins

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 821 words


A DEADLY terrorist attack on the United States with a "dirty bomb" using nuclear
material has been thwarted by US agents, it was revealed yesterday.

It also emerged last night that Moroccan police have arrested three Saudi men
with links to the al Qaeda network who were planning suicide attacks on British
and US warships patrolling the Strait of Gibraltar.

The target for the "dirty bomb", a conventional explosive laced with radioactive
material, was probably Washington DC, according to a US official.

Had the plan gone ahead, it would have been far worse than the attacks of
September 11 and could have killed many thousands of people. Experts said it
could make a swathe of any major city uninhabitable for centuries.

The arrests in Morocco were made with the help of intelligence services of
"several friendly countries", an official said.

The suspects, aged between 25 and 35, planned to sail an inflatable dinghy
loaded with explosives into the strait to blow up warships stationed there.

The plan was similar to one carried out in October 2000, when two suicide
bombers in a small dinghy rammed the USS Cole destroyer in a port in Yemen,
blasting a hole in its side and killing 17 sailors. The US blamed al Qaeda for
that attack.

In the US, officials said the "dirty bomb" plan came to light after they
arrested an al Qaeda operative at O'Hare international airport in Chicago.

Abdullah al Mujahir, a US citizen who is also known as Jose Padilla, is in
custody in a naval brig in South Carolina after authorities arrested him in
Chicago on May 8.

George W Bush last night praised police and intelligence agencies for the
investigations that led to al Mujahir's arrest.

Speaking as he met Ariel Sharon, the Israeli prime minister, Mr Bush said: ''I
can tell you that we have a man detained who is a threat to the country, and
that thanks to the vigilance of our intelligence-gathering and law enforcement,
he is now off the streets, where he should be."

The arrest was announced by John Ashcroft, the attorney general, during a visit
to Moscow.

"We have disrupted a terrorist plot to attack the United States by exploding a
radioactive dirty bomb," Mr Ashcroft said.

He said the government's information about al Mujahir came from "multiple,
independent, corroborating sources".

He added that al Mujahir was closely associated with al Qaeda and was "involved
in planning future terrorist attacks on innocent American civilians in the
United States".

Mr Ashcroft said al Mujahir had spent much of 2001 training with senior members
of Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda network in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

The 33-year-old returned to the US last month to carry out reconnaissance for
the attack, but was arrested at the airport.

He was being treated as an enemy combatant despite his US citizenship, said Mr
Ashcroft. This means he may be tried at the first military tribunal of an
alleged terrorist since the September 11 attacks.

Born in Brooklyn, New York, al Mujahir moved when he was four years old to
Chicago, where he joined a street gang.

He converted to Islam while serving a prison term in the early 1990s for gun
-related charges.

Following his release, he travelled to Afghanistan and Pakistan and on several
occasions in 2001 he met senior al Qaeda officials, Mr Ashcroft said. Al Muhajir
had not been in the US since 1998.

He added: "While in Afghan-istan and Pakistan, al Mujahir trained with the
enemy, including studying how to wire explosive devices and researching
radiological dispersion devices.

"Al Qaeda officials knew that as a US citizen, holding a valid US passport, al
Mujahir would be able to travel freely in the United States without drawing
attention to himself."

Al Mujahir was originally in custody at the Justice Department in New York. He
was transferred to a high-security US Navy prison in South Carolina last Monday,
a Pentagon spokesman, said.

He is being held separately from other prisoners. Military officials had not
decided whether to charge him, or what charges to file.

Al Mujahir has a lawyer in New York but, now he is in military custody, access
to that lawyer will probably be restricted.

In response to general terror threats against the United States, the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission last month ordered extra security measures to protect
spent fuel stored at US commercial nuclear power plants that are being
decommissioned.

Military experts were worried that terror groups might try to use the material
to make dirty bombs.

Andrew Koch, Washington bureau chief of Jane's Defence Weekly, and an expert on
radiological weapons, said: "You could get the material for this from X-ray
machines or isotopes used for cancer treatment.

"At the very least, a person who got their hands on something fairly radioactive
could contaminate several city blocks for hundreds of years."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SUSPECT: Abdullah al Mujahir

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            June 12, 2002, Wednesday

GOLF: MICKELSON: WHY I FEAR RYDER CUP TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Neil Mcleman

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 259 words


PHIL MICKELSON fears the Ryder Cup could be a target for terrorists.

The showdown between Europe and the United States was postponed last year in the
wake of the September 11 attacks.

America's world No.2 has not travelled outside his homeland since then and
reckons the rescheduled event at The Belfry this September could be at risk.

Speaking before this week's US Open on Long Island, Mickelson said: "I'm OK
travelling in the US but I'm still leery about leaving the country. I'm also
unsure about the Ryder Cup because it would be a prime target for something bad
to happen."

Mickelson is a pilot and flies himself to events in the States.

He added: "September 11 made me glad I was a pilot, that I didn't have to put my
trust in a commercial airliner."

Security is so tight for the US Open that some players have had problems getting
on to the Bethpage course.

Frenchman Jean van de Velde arrived at 7am on Monday but because he had
qualified only last week and did not have his accreditation he waited two hours
to get in.

Colin Montgomerie will require the biggest security operation after Tiger Woods
following his run-ins with American spectators.

But the Scot said: "I'm just looking to come and play my game. Everything I have
heard about the course is positive."

And can the man who has twice finished runner-up in the US Open finally win this
year? He said: "Of course there is a maybe - maybe if Tiger Woods withdraws.

That's a good maybe isn't it? But apart from that? We'll see how it goes."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 12, 2002

MI6 hunts terror plot network: Al-Qaida cell planned Gibraltar attacks: MI6
hunts terror plot network

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor, Giles Tremlett in Madrid and Julian Borger in
Washington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 870 words


British and other western intelligence agencies were last night engaged in an
international operation to uncover the full network behind the first targeting
of British military forces by al-Qaida terrorists.

As details emerged of the potential scale of the foiled mission, Whitehall
sources emphasised that they had strong evidence that suicide bomb attacks on
both British and US warships in the Strait of Gibraltar and on the Rock itself
had been planned.

A three-man al-Qaida cell, made up of Saudi nationals living in Morocco, were
preparing to launch attacks similar to that which killed 17 US sailors on the
USS Cole in Yemen in October 2000, senior Moroccan officials said.

The official Moroccan news agency identified the three men as Hilal Jaber Aouad
al Assiri, Zuhair Hilal Mohamed al-Tbaiti and Abdullah M'Sfer Ali al-Ghamdi. An
earlier report named one of those arrested as Abdallah El Gareh, 32.

In a brief statement quoting the interior ministry, MAP said: "The group was
preparing for acts of violence . . . against western ships crossing the Strait
of Gibraltar."

The three men, aged between 25 and 35, were picked up on May 11 after being
followed for several weeks.

The al-Qaida unit had alleg edly been preparing to pack Zodiac-style rubber
speedboats with explosives and send them crashing against the hulls of passing
warships in one of the world's busiest sea traffic lanes.

Britain's HMS Sheffield, a type-22 frigate which is flagship to Nato's Standing
Naval Force Mediterranean, is known to have been in the south-western
Mediterranean at the time and visited Algiers a few days later.

HMS Lancaster, a type-23 frigate, is currently in Gibraltar along with two small
Royal Navy patrol boats, Ranger and Trumpeter, permanently based there.

The men had admitted belonging to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida group, a Moroccan
security source said.

Five detainees, who are being held in Casablanca, are due in court next week.
Moroccan police have not yet made public any of the evidence against them. The
Moroccan wives of two of the men, who allegedly worked as couriers for the cell,
were arrested on Monday as part of Operation Gibraltar, which also involved
British, US, French and Spanish intelligence services.

The secret police operation covered Casablanca, Fez and the northern city of
Tangiers, which lies at the mouth of the Mediterranean a dozen miles from the
British naval repair and resupply base at Gibraltar.

It reportedly followed a tip-off from US authorities in Guan tanamo Bay - where
17 Moroccan prisoners captured in Afghanistan are being held - that a Saudi
recruiter was working for Bin Laden in Morocco.

Morocco, which fears being associated with armed Islamist radicals, had kept
quiet about the May arrests. Officials were, however, forced to admit that
al-Qaida had been planning attacks from Moroccan soil after the story was
published yesterday by French news magazine L'Express.

"Morocco's security services have dismantled a network of al-Qaida who planned
terrorist attacks on US and British warships crossing the Strait of Gibraltar...

It was a successful operation," a senior government official confirmed.

Police moved in as the men prepared to leave Morocco via Casablanca airport,
presumably to clear the way for the suicide unit that would actually carry out
the attacks, according to L'Express.

The magazine reported that the al-Qaida team had travelled to Gibraltar to
reconnoitre Royal Navy installations.

Gibraltar's military installations recently increased their level of security
alert to a state known as "bikini black special" - which meant that officers
working for the MoD's Gibraltar services police were given arms.

MI5 has advised the MoD to take extra precautions to protect Royal Navy ships
sailing through the Strait of Gibraltar or docking at the Rock.

The US Sixth Fleet also has one of its most important bases on the south-west
coast of Spain at Rota. A spokesman at the base, shared with the Spanish navy,
said yesterday it had not altered its security arrangements in the past three
months.

The Saudi men had their own import-export, tourism and employment businesses in
Morocco.

They also had contacts with other al-Qaida cells in north Africa, according to
Moroccan intelligence sources quoted by L'Express.

"The two young women were apparently married to the Saudi nationals preparing
terrorist attacks in the Mediterranean . . . They were aware of what the men
were doing," a Moroccan official said yesterday.

The arrests were a further sign of the importance of the Maghreb countries to
what remains of al-Qaida.

The group's most recent attack saw 21 people, including 14 German tourists,
killed by a suicide bomber as they visited a Jewish synagogue on the Tunisian
island of Djerba in April.

Separate claims that an al-Qaida cell was planning to hijack an aircraft and
attack the Houses of Parliament were dismissed by Whitehall sources last night.

The allegation by Rohan Gunaratna, author of Inside al-Qaida, is based on
allegations made by Mohammad Afroz, an Indian who said he had trained as a pilot
in Britain, Australia and the US.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 13, 2002, Thursday

Insurer makes pounds 130m debut call Start-up group seeks Aim backing as
premiums soar after New York terror attacks

BYLINE: By Andrew Cave Associate City Editor

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 562 words

THE biggest flotation on the Alternative Investment Market was announced
yesterday in an attempt by a start-up insurance company to take advantage of
soaring premiums in the wake of September 11.

Professional Risks Insurance Group is a new business being formed by insurance
specialists headed by Andreas Loucaides, a former executive at US insurer
Markel.

It has agreed to buy an unnamed UK insurer that already has insurance licences
and is seeking to raise pounds 130m from a placing organised by broker Collins
Stewart.

PRI Group aims to specialise in professional indemnity and directors' and
officers' liability insurance as well as medical malpractice and legal expenses
cover.

Targeting medium-sized businesses and professional practices, it has secured an
A- credit rating and plans to outsource a large amount of PRI's back-office
functions.

Mr Loucaides believes PRI will benefit from having no historic underwriting
liabilities.

He plans to position it as a lower-risk insurer, arguing that its focus on
professional liability will leave it less susceptible than general insurers to
losses from catastrophes and disasters.

He said: "We are never going to write property or motor insurance. We are going
to focus on a set of standards that we know and understand.

"Too often, people branch out into other areas they do not understand and all
too often they get burned."

Mr Loucaides has 25 years' experience in the Lloyd's insurance market, where he
ran a syndicate latterly owned by Markel.

His chief underwriting director, Peter Matson, has also worked at Lloyd's for 25
years but PRI is eschewing the Lloyd's market because of the additional licences
required to operate there. It intends to sell its insurance policies through
insurance brokers and has retained Heath Lambert Capital Markets as strategic
insurance consultants.

More than $23 billion has been raised by insurance companies worldwide since
September 11, including pounds 1 billion for the dozen quoted integrated Lloyd's
vehicles in London.

This has raised fears that the shortage of insurance capacity that has led to
soaring premiums may be short-lived.

However, Mr Loucaides said: "The vast majority of the money that has gone into
Bermuda has gone into property insurance. We specialise in directors' and
officers' insurance and professional indemnity and very little money has come
into this area.

"What we have seen in our particular field is that people who have not been
focused on professional indemnity and directors' and officers' cover are exiting
the market because it is not their core area of specialism. We have seen a
contraction in our market."

Professional indemnity insurers are seeing claims mushroom in the US, thanks to
a series of high-profile fraud and negligence cases.

However, Mr Loucaides said PRI would not operate in the US. He added: "We do not
intend to write business outside the UK and Europe economies, where we
understand the legislative environment."

Insurer CGNU is cutting 325 jobs in a reorganisation of its general insurance
claims processing operations. It plans to close 11 of its Norwich Union claims
offices across the UK, affecting 750 jobs. However, it will expand another 11
offices, adding 425 people to the workforce in those locations.

It said the closures will cost pounds 11m and save about pounds 12m a year.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 13, 2002

MoD unveils terror attack defence

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 310 words


A reaction force of 6,000 volunteers will be mobilised within a few hours of a
terrorist attack under proposals announced yesterday by the Ministry of Defence.

The proposals, prompted by the September 11 attacks on the US, envisage groups
of 500 reservists in different regions. They would be called up in an emergency
in support of civil authorities.

A discussion paper published by the MoD says the government assumes "asymmetric
attacks (attacks by small groups equipped with unconventional weapons with a
potentially devastating impact) on the UK are likely to be infrequent, and
unpredictable as to timing and location".

It adds: "Chemical, biological, radiological, or even nuclear devices cannot be
ruled out: although the international response to the September 11 attack may
help to reduce the likelihood that these might be used, some terrorist groups
will certainly be interested in causing an equivalent, mass casualty, effect."

MI5 has advised the government to take extra precautions to safeguard potential
targets of al-Qaida terrorist attacks. The agency, whose job is to advise the
government and companies on security, has drawn up a list of over 350 possible
targets, including oil refineries, and nuclear power stations.

Asked yesterday why the government had not followed the Bush administration's
example by setting up a department of homeland defence with a huge budget,
defence sources replied that Britain was "fundamentally different" from the US.

Here the home secretary, was responsible for civil emergencies and
counter-terrorist policy. Emergency services, the police, and the security and
intelligence agencies had established a well practised system as a result of
Irish terrorism, they said.

The members of the reaction force will come from the existing reserves of 48,000
men and women.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 13, 2002, Thursday

PARLIAMENT & POLITICS: SECURITY - RESERVES TO BECOME CIVIL DEFENCE FORCE IF
TERRORISTS ATTACK

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 526 words


THE GOVERNMENT announced plans yesterday for the volunteer reserves of the armed
forces to be used in support of civil authorities in response to terrorist
attacks.

The proposal was drawn up because of the 11 September attacks on America and the
fear of similar action in this country prompted by Britain's backing for the
"war on terrorism" and the deployment of troops in Afghanistan.

About 6,000 members of the volunteer reserves are expected to form the Reserve
Reaction Force under plans outlined in the discussion document "The Role of the
Reserves in Home Defence and Security".

The document concludes that Britain should not have specific military units
similar to the American Department of Homeland Security. Military planners
concluded that would put a further burden on the overstretched armed forces.

Geoff Hoon, the Secretary of State for Defence, said: "The Volunteer Reserves
could play an important role in meeting the challenges posed following the
terrorist attacks in the United States. This work sets out how military
arrangements for liaising with the civil authorities could be enhanced and how
best to co-ordinate military assistance to them if requested.

"We want the widest possible consideration of these proposals. The discussion
paper will create an opportunity for the Reserves, their employers and other
interested parties, including local authorities and emergency services, to
influence our thinking."

Bernard Jenkin, the shadow Defence Secretary, said: "The UK is miles behind the
US and other countries on the issue of homeland defence. The present commitments
of the armed forces already outstrip resources. Will this simply add to
overstretch?"

Defence sources insisted Britain already had well developed structures in place
and did not need the sort of radical changes seen in America.

Mr Hoon stressed that the reaction force was simply one part of the Government's
wider response to the increased terrorist threat.

"Sadly, we have a long history of terrorism in the UK. We have had to develop
appropriate mechanisms. What we are doing is improving those in the light of
those appalling events on September 11 in the United States," he said.

The consultation paper also envisages an enhanced role for the armed forces in
civil contingency planning.

It said the 2 Signal Brigade - a predominantly Territorial Army formation -
would be equipped with a radio communication system compatible with the police
and civil emergency services.

It envisages that the new force would be deployed only in the "wholly
exceptional" circumstances of a major terrorist attack. While such attacks are
likely to be "infrequent", they are "unpredictable as to timing and location",
it said.

Defence sources stressed the reservists would form only one part of the military
response in the event of a terrorist attack and that the full resources of the
regular forces would also be available.

Nevertheless, the announcement represents a substantial shift in the
Government's thinking on the reserves after the 1998 strategic defence review
recommended a big reduction in their numbers.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       June 13, 2002, Thursday Edition 1

Reserves to roll if terrorists attack

BYLINE: By Gavin Cordon, The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 386 words


   Plans for a 6,000-strong reaction force of reservists to help civil
authorities in the event of a major terror attack were unveiled yesterday.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon said armed forces' volunteer reservists could play
an "important role" in meeting the challenges posed by international terrorism
following September 11.

However, the Tories warned that Britain was already lagging behind the US in
strengthening its homeland defences and said it was essential that the new force
was backed by additional cash.

Shadow defence secretary Bernard Jenkin said: "The present commitments of the
armed forces already outstrip resources. Will this simply add to overstretch?"

Defence sources insisted the UK already had well developed structures in place
following decades of Irish terrorism and did not need the sort of radical
changes taking place in the US.

Officials stressed money would be found to fund the new force but acknowledged
they would have to wait until next month's Government spending review to find
out how much extra they would get from the Chancellor.

Government plans set out in a consultation document propose a force drawn from
the 50,700 part-time volunteer reservists of the Royal Navy, Royal Marines, Army
and Royal Air Force.

The reservists will continue to serve with their normal units, but around 500
will be earmarked for the reaction force in each military region, giving around
6,000.

The force would be held at "graduated readiness" with first elements able to
assist police and other civil authorities within hours.

It would help in dealing with mass casualties, mounting search and clearance
operations, restoring transport and communications and operating food and water
supply points.

The paper also envisages an enhanced role for the armed forces in civil
contingency planning.

It said the 2 Signal Brigade a predominantly Territorial Army formation would be
equipped with a compatible radio communications systems to the police and civil
emergency services.

It envisages that the new force would only be deployed in the "wholly
exceptional" circumstances of a major terrorist attack.

Such attacks are likely to be infrequent but "unpredictable as to timing and
location", it said.

More than one attack may be also be mounted at the same time.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 June 13, 2002

Plans for homeland defence force unveiled; Civil defence reservists would be
used to combat terrorist attacks and major disasters

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 34 words


PLANS for a 6,000-strong reaction force of armed forces reservists, to come to
the aid of the civil authorities in the event of a major terrorist attack, were
unveiled yesterday by the Government.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                 Copyright 2002 Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 June 14, 2002

The gaping hole in our defences;
 No money to pay for protection against a terror attack

BYLINE: Matthew George ;Michael Ribbeck

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.6

LENGTH: 844 words


ANTI-TERROR agencies yesterday warned they could no longer guarantee national
security because of a cash crisis.

The shock admission comes in the wake of the war on terror after September 11
which has drained resources in both nuclear security and intelligence in the
West.

Cheltenham-based spy centre GCHQ and the agency responsible for security at
power stations said the heightened state of alert over the past nine months had
left them struggling to make ends meet.

The electronic eavesdropping centre warned it may have to reduce its
intelligence work because of the costs of moving to its new 350million building.

The Office for Civil Nuclear Security, set up almost two years ago to protect
nuclear power stations from terrorist attack, admitted there were serious flaws
in the industry's security procedures.

It said it was under-funded, shortstaffed and struggling to cope with its
workload.And it revealed that two years ago a security guard was caught trying
to sabotage a power plant.

The revelations come amid heightened concern about the threat to nuclear power
stations from terrorists and the danger, exposed by the Western Daily Press, of
an aerial attack on Hinkley Point power station in Somerset.

Concerns over GCHQ were raised by the powerful Parliamentary Intelligence and
Security committee which is worried the budget for the organisation's move may
be too low.

The base is currently split over two sites in Cheltenham.Work began in March
2000 on a new site at Benhall in the town and the futuristic circular building -
dubbed the Millennium Doughnut - will be completed next spring.

The committee was told that, following September 11, the new building will need
extra workspaces, while an additional number of staff will stay at the Oakley
site.

The problem is made worse because GCHQ is being criticised for a "poor asset
-tracking system" meaning it cannot work out the full cost of relocating and
installing all necessary equipment.

In a report, the committee said it was "concerned that, in order to keep within
the agreed relocation budget, GCHQ may be forced to reduce its operational
effectiveness and agreed service."

M15 and M16 as well as GCHQ were between two to three per cent below their
staffing levels before September 11, it said.

Funding cuts in the 1990s and the staff shortages meant the agencies were
operating under financial pressure before the terrorist attacks on America.

Afterwards, GCHQ doubled its counter-terrorism team and was initially devoting
up to 40 per cent of its total effort to the crisis.

The report said GCHQ was improving its capability in five particular areas - but
they are all censored in the version made public.

The Office for Civil Nuclear Security, a shadowy organisation that deals with
the industry, the Ministry of Defence, police and secret service organisations,
has also stepped up its workload following September 11.

But director of nuclear security Michael BucklandSmith admitted it was
struggling to cope.

Its report revealed the sabotage attempt but said vetting procedures had been
tightened up.

No further details were given of the episode except that the guard tried to
wreck a central control system.

Mr Buckland-Smith said:

"Public concerns are often misconceived and exaggerated. Nevertheless, a
successful sabotage attack on a nuclear facility could cause widespread nuclear
contamination and loss of life."

David Lowry, a consultant specialising in the nuclear industry, believes the
report points to a worrying trend.

He said it seemed to reflect a disturbing lack of interest in security matters
by the Government.

John Large, who worked as a nuclear engineer in the industry for more than 20
years, said: "The problem we are facing with the nuclear industry is that the
installations were built 50 years ago when the threat posed by organisations
like al-Qaeda was never even considered.

"After the events of September 11, it is just a short and logical step for
terrorists to latch on to how highly hazardous plants might be triggered into
releasing energy and toxins via an aerial attack.

"Nuclear plants are such highly hazardous plants and no matter what the
Government say there is very little protection from a determined terrorist
attack, " he added. Security has been stepped up and extra officers brought in
to patrol sites but environmental campaigners are not convinced.

Peter Roche, from Greenpeace, said: "It is not just the plants that are
vulnerable to attack but there are also large amounts of radioactive waste being
transported across the country.

"If anyone decided they really did want to build a dirty bomb they wouldn't have
to look far for the material."

The Department of Trade and Industry denied there was a problem.

But West campaigner Jim Duffy, who has called for the closure of Hinkley Point
nuclear power station, said:

"Since September 11 patrols have been stepped up but there is still nothing to
stop a suicide bomb attack."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            June 15, 2002, Saturday

TELEVISION YOUR ESSENTIAL TV & SATELLITE GUIDE FOR THE WEEK AHEAD: UNDER THREAT
OF TERROR ATTACK;
 DRAMA OF THE WEEK

SECTION: TELEVISION; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 162 words


SPOOKS Monday, BBC1, 9.00pm

THE MI5 team have divided opinions on what to do when an Irish splinter group
makes demands.

It wants 30 hours unwatched in return for information about a Middle Eastern
terrorist group which is planning to hit a British nuclear power station.

The Grid is taken by surprise when a well-known Irish splinter group leader,
Patrick McCann (Lorcan Cranitch), walks into a safe house, armed with a grenade,
and demands to talk to someone high up about Asabiyah.

An emergency meeting is called at which Tom (Matthew Macfadyen) offers to meet
McCann. Harry (Peter Firth), however, has doubts and is suspicious of McCann's
motives. After a vote, it's finally agreed that Tom will meet McCann - with no
wires or back-up as requested.

The meeting takes place in a field and McCann tells Tom what he knows. Asabiyah
is planning to hit the British nuclear power station, Sefton B.

His group has all the information MI5 needs.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                                 June 16, 2002

TERROR AS GIRL, 6 IS ATTACKED BY CRAZED ALSATIAN

BYLINE: David Leslie

LENGTH: 124 words


    A BLOOD-SOAKED schoolgirl had to be rescued by cops last night after being
attacked by

    a crazed dog.

    The alsatian pounced on the six-year-old as she played with pals in the
street near her home in Shotts, Lanarkshire.

    A passer-by alerted police and two officers dragged the beast off the
terrified child.

    Paramedics treated the unnamed girl for facial cuts before she was rushed to
Wishaw General Hospital.

    Doctors were last night fighting to prevent permanent scarring.

    A police spokesman said: "The girl was terribly shaken."

    The dog was taken to the police station. The spokesman said: "It will
probably be put down."

    Strathclyde Police said a 54-year-old man will be reported to the procurator
fiscal.


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2002 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 16, 2002

Focus: The return of al-Qaeda: SPECIAL REPORT: Just as you thought the world
might be safer: The war against terror seemed to have been won but suicide
attacks, allegations of 'dirty bombs' and plots in Morocco show al-Qaeda is
still a threat

BYLINE: Jason Burke Peshawar Martin Bright Casablanca Ed Vulliamy New York

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2691 words


WHEN ZUHER AL-TBAITI packed his bags last weekend to leave Morocco, he thought
his work in North Africa was done. As al-Qaeda's key recruiter in the region for
the best part of a decade, the young Saudi had sent dozens of willing foot
soldiers from the slums of Rabat and Casablanca to the terrorist training camps
of Afghanistan.

Now al-Tbaiti had completed his most dangerous mission yet. If successful the
daring operation would restore the battered morale of al-Qaeda and undermine the
war against terrorism. Al-Tbaiti hoped that, within a few weeks, the men he had
drawn together would blow up one of the British and American warships stationed
in the Strait of Gibraltar.

Al-Tbaiti had good reason to believe the operation would be successful. It was
modelled on the devastating attack by al-Qaeda operatives on the USS Cole in
Yemen in October 2000. Then 17 men had been killed and American prestige - and
morale - badly hit.

Al-Tbaiti was pulled in by the frontier police on his way to Casablanca's
Mohammed V International Airport. Within 24 hours of his arrest two other Saudi
nationals, Hilal Alassiri and Abdellah al-Ghamdi, had been picked up on
immigration and foreign currency charges. Only when the Moroccan authorities
were certain they had the whole cell did they release the news that they had
successfully smashed one of the most elaborate al-Qaeda plots since 11
September.

Last December those in charge of the US-led 'war on terror' trumpeted their
victory. Despite the occasional reminder that the struggle would be a long one
there was a strong sense that, with the terrorist infrastructure in Afghanistan
in ruins and Osama bin Laden on the run, the rest of the campaign was just a
mopping-up operation.

Now, with the Bush administration coming in for intense domestic criticism,
suicide bombers in Karachi, plots in Morocco, alleged 'dirty bomb' threats in
the US, strong indications that the Taliban are regrouping and clear evidence
that al-Qaeda, though down, is certainly not out, that triumphalism is beginning
to look premature. Security specialists are concerned that a new al-Qaeda is
beginning to form. They say it poses as much, if not more, of a threat as
before.

Until December last year, bin Laden's main assets were the training facilities
he could offer to any Islamist activist wanting instruction in terrorist
techniques and a cadre of experienced, motivated operators. Now the Saudi-born
Islamist is on the run, many of the leaders are incarcerated or in hiding, the
infrastructure has been destroyed and, with thousands of troops and
investigators on his trail, his personal capacity for commissioning, inspiring
and organising terrorist attacks is severely restricted. But a new al-Qaeda is
taking shape. It is dispersed, amorphous and composed of a huge range of
different units who often share little other than a fierce desire to combat what
they see as the 'Zulm' or 'tyranny' of America and the West.

In Britain a single individual - Djamal Beghal who was arrested in Dubai last
year on his way back from Afghanistan where he had received new instructions -
was allegedly able to recruit around a dozen young men prepared to commit
atrocities. Groups in Malaysia, Italy, Spain and, as was shown last week, in
Morocco were recruited in similar ways. It has now emerged that even Mohammed
Atta, the leader of the 11 September hijackers, was probably recruited by an
older, more experienced operative, Syrian-born Mohammed Haydar Zammar, 41, a
veteran of the Afghan training camps who is thought to be in American custody.

THE TACTIC OF sending men out to forge new groups overseas - instead of bringing
volunteers to Afghanistan for training - has become the cornerstone of the new
al-Qaeda. With the training camps in ruins and the Taliban unable to provide a
safe haven it is a tactic born of necessity. 'Instead of the volunteers coming
to the al-Qaeda leaders, the leaders are sending people out to the volunteers,'
said one diplomat in the Pakistani capital of Islamabad last week. 'We smashed a
wasp nest and that was an achievement. The problem is that the wasps are now all
over the place and they are very angry.'

Javed Paracha, a lawyer, tribal chief and hardline Islamic scholar who is
representing many of the alleged al-Qaeda men currently held in Pakistan told
The Observer that hundreds of al-Qaeda operatives had either fled the country or
gone to ground in its many cities. 'They have left by air, by sea, by land,
through central Asia, through the smuggling mafia, through Iran, through
everywhere,' he said last week. 'Where ever they go they will try and do what
they have been trained to do and try to find new ways to fight the jihad.'

For the moment, Pakistan is acting as a base of operations. Until his arrest in
the eastern Pakistani city of Faisalabad in March, Abu Zubaydah, bin laden's
acting chief of operations, was the most senior al-Qaeda operative still active.
Jose Padilla, aka Abdul al-Mohajir, the alleged 'dirty bomber' arrested in
Chicago last month, was reported to have told his captors that he had met
Zubaydah in Lahore, 30 miles from the Indian border. Now Zubaydah's place is
thought to have been taken by Khaled Shaikh Mohammed, the man who is believed to
have come up with the plan to attack the World Trade Centre.

Last week The Observer was able to obtain an 11-volume Encyclopedia of Jihad in
Peshawar, the frontier town close to the Afghan border. The book, which was
being circulated among al-Qaeda fugitives hiding in the city, includes hundreds
of pages devoted to urban warfare, assassinations, bombmaking and chemical and
biological weapons. It was dedicated to bin Laden, with thanks for the funding
that made this production possible 'may he fight the jihad until his dying day'.

The Observer was also shown books by Ayman al-Zawahiri, the key ideologue of
al-Qaeda, who is currently believed to be in hiding with bin Laden. Though raids
continue to round up al-Qaeda men - 12 were arrested in Peshawar early last week
- hundreds are still hiding out in mosques, Islamic schools and private homes in
remote rural regions.

Senior Taliban officials, interviewed clandestinely by The Observer in Peshawar,
confirmed that al-Qaeda was still very active. Khalid Shaikh Mohammed was
recently sighted in the city. Unsurprisingly, given the number of senior
al-Qaeda men in Pakistan, the new tactics have borne fruit in the troubled south
Asian state first of all.

The strongest evidence of the capability of the new al-Qaeda to launch attacks
on Western interests came with Friday's suspected suicide bombing - the third
such attack in as many months - on the US consulate in Karachi. Investigators
have told The Observer that they suspect that al-Qaeda operatives who fled from
Afghanistan to the city earlier this year quickly linked up with hardline local
Islamist groups to launch a series of attacks on Western interests.

Suspicion is focusing on the Jaish-e- Mohammed (Army of Mohammed) in which
British-born graduate Saeed Omar Sheikh, currently in prison charged with
kidnapping and murdering an American journalist in January, is a key figure.
Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) are also suspected of a suicide attack in Karachi last
month in which, 14 people, including 11 French submarine engineers, were killed
outside the Sheraton Hotel.

Previously JeM, and the myriad other hardline organisations in Pakistan, have
not been linked to attacks on Americans or British targets. Their focus has been
on Kashmir or on domestic sectarian violence. Links between the militant
organisations in Pakistan and al-Qaeda were cemented during the war in
Afghanistan last year when JeM men moved en masse from Kashmir to the battle
fronts north of Kabul.

Arrested JeM fighters have told the Pakistani intelligence services that 'scores
of Arabs and Pakistani supporters' are hiding in Karachi. They have 'joined
forces' against the infidel, interrogators were told. Al-Qaeda operatives who
have fled to other countries in the region, and to the Middle East and the West,
are likely to try to build similar alliances as veterans of the Afghan war
against the Soviets did more than a decade ago.

Then the result was a radicalisation of Islamist movements in Algeria, Egypt and
elsewhere. 'As long as there are hot headed, angry young men susceptible to
these people's message then there will be a problem,' said one Islamabad-based
analyst close to Islamist movements.

'All you need is one man to convince six more that they have to strike and
you've got a terrorist cell. In many countries there are people who are just
waiting for contact and leadership. Often there are fully fledged terrorist
organisations looking for new directions.'

Security services are nervous about the new threat. Senior terrorism specialists
are aware that the Moroccan cell broken up last week was essentially employing
old-style al-Qaeda methods similar to the attack on the USS Cole and the 1998
bombings of the American embassies in East Africa.

'A small group of trained men inserted into a location for a specific task is
almost traditional terrorism compared to what is happening in Pakistan,' said
one London-based intelligence expert. Significantly it is thought that al-Tbaiti
had been briefed, possibly by Abu Zubaydah, in December, just after the bombing
of the Tora Bora caves and before al-Qaeda began to develop its new tactics.
Al-Tbaiti and his two associates were chosen because they had a deep knowledge
of Morocco.

Two of the men were married to Moroccans, who were arrested last week along with
their husbands. In February, the three men flew into Morocco with generous funds
in dollars. The cell members set themselves up as legitimate businessmen: one
starting up an employment agency, another posing as an investor in Morocco's
tourist industry.

Their cover permitted travel throughout the country and, it is thought, even
into Gibraltar and the Spanish enclaves. Morocco has no visa restrictions for
Saudis and at least one cell member had an EU visa. When the Moroccan
intelligence services were passed information from MI6 and CIA interrogations of
the 17 Moroccan prisoners held at Camp X-Ray in Cuba which warned of an imminent
attack from their soil they were sceptical.

But, when they dutifully followed up the leads among active Islamists in the
slum districts of Casablanca and Rabat they quickly discovered that an al-Qaeda
reconnaissance cell had entered the country in February. A surveillance
operation was mounted and a photo-fit of al-Tbaiti was built up from
descriptions taken from Moroccan prisoners and circulated countrywide.

The break for the Moroccan police came when one of the Saudis sent a message
asking for technical advice from an explosives expert about the workings of a
detonator. It was intercepted, traced and the police moved in. The arrests were
just in time. The Observer has now discovered that the al-Tbaiti cell had
already contacted suppliers of Zodiac inflatable speedboats, such as those used
in the USS Cole attack.

These were to be purchased by teams of operatives due to arrive later this month
in the Spanish enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla on Morocco's northern coast from
where the attacks were to be carried out. Intelligence specialists point out
that 'homegrown' activists would have been far more difficult to stop. 'It was a
traditional operation and was detected with traditional methods,' said one
London-based analyst. 'The question is now whether traditional and conservative
security services can adjust fast enough.'

THE AMERICAN administration talked up the terrorist threat once again last week.
In a sensational announcement that provoked widespread fear John Ashcroft, the
Attorney General, announced that the FBI had foiled a plot to detonate a
radioactive 'dirty bomb' in an American city.

Reports from America showed record sales of anti-radiation protection devices,
attendance at fallout protection courses and even the construction of fallout
shelters. And on the East Coast, even the sober New York Times carried an
immense article by its veteran former foreign editor Bill Keller on his own
personal fears and sleeping problems, under the shadow of al-Qaeda's nuclear
nightmare.

In Washington, the metropolitan district commissioned the Centre for Strategic
and International Studies to devise a a scenario of the impact of a 'dirty bomb'
exploding outside the Air and Space Museum. The report concluded, to curious
disappointment, that such a bomb would do only a little more damage than a
conventional explosion, and 'spur more panic than medical harm'. But if Bush and
his key aides had been hoping the announcement would deflect the mounting
criticism of their handling of the war on terror they were to be very
disappointed. It soon became clear that Ashcroft had made a claim for which
there was little or no evidence - and one which none of his own colleagues
wished to turn into a criminal charge.

It soon became clear that Jose Padilla, aka Abdullah al-Mohajir, the 31-year-old
Brooklyn-born wannabee gang member and former Roman Catholic, was far from a
major al-Qaeda operative. He was a new recruit with little training and only
very fleeting contact with senior al-Qaeda men.

In what swiftly became a political farce, the White House and the man left in
charge of the Pentagon during the absence of the Defence Secretary Donald
Rumsfeld - his deputy Paul Wolfowitz - scrambled to claw back on Ashcroft's
'loose talk', as Wolfowitz called it. One official talking privately told The
Observe r that: 'There is no indication that (Padilla) had the means to do it or
was given the authority to do it.'

The 'dirty bomber' fiasco was an unusual lapse in the White House's disciplined
message management and a rare public rupture in the unity of its ranks. There
were other embarrassing lapses. After a briefing by Indian officials in New
Delhi, Rumsfeld announced that al-Qaeda was joining the fight in Kashmir.

His own intelligence specialists were then forced to tell him that, though the
growing ties between bin Laden's organisation and Kashmiri groups suggest an
imminent al-Qaeda presence in the disputed mountain state, there was currently
no evidence to substantiate the Indian claim that hundreds, if not thousands, of
bin Laden loyalists were joining the fight there.

Even at home, President Bush's care fully timed announcement that his office of
homeland security would become a government department was accompanied by
rumours that the obvious man to head it, current supremo Tom Ridge, does not
want the job, nor does Vice President Dick Cheney want him to have it.

AND THE PRESIDENT also came under fire on the timing of Padilla's arrest. Last
time there was a panic over imminent attack - due in New York last month - the
news overwhelmed that of a White House decision to hand over to Congress
incriminating details of how it had drawn up an energy plan with allies in the
oil industry, notably the disgraced Enron corporation.

And almost completely submerged in last week's events was a leak that the Bush
administration is to adopt a 'strategic doctrine' of what it calls 'preventive'
attacks against terrorists and nations that have what its intelligence refers to
as 'weapons of mass destruction'.

The issue of the legitimacy of holding Padilla without counsel or charge by a
grand jury comes during a week of increasing criticism of the administration's
handling of other cases. Civil liberties groups are focusing attention on the
case of a Boston taxi driver, Nabil Almarabh, in solitary confinement for eight
months without access to a judge or attorney.

However the Bush administration can take some solace from the discomfort of
their enemies. In a letter written in American custody and sent to his family in
Kandahar, Abdul Salaam Zaeef, the former Taliban ambassador in Islamabad,
requests that his friends and relatives pray for him. 'Ask them to pray to Allah
to make these difficult times easier for me,' he writes.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 June 17, 2002

Navy is 'unready' for terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 33 words


THE Royal Navy has identified a 'significant gap' in the ability of its
warshipsto defend themselves from attack by suicide bombers operating in small,
high-speed boats, it has been reported.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             June 18, 2002, Tuesday

MOTHER'S TERROR AFTER LATE NIGHT SEX ATTACK;
  I FOUND THE STRENGTH FROM SOMEWHERE AND JUST PUSHED HIM OFF,' WOMAN TELLS
COURT

BYLINE: Elwyn Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 483 words


A MOTHER of two told a jury yesterday that a stranger tried to rape her as she
walked home from a night out.

The 25-year-old described how she was held down but somehow found the strength
to fight him off.

"He was trying to force himself on me. That was when I got the strength and he
went flying. I pushed him off," the woman said.

"He was trying to have sex with me, with force. He tried to kiss me a few times
and tried to stick his tongue down my throat.

"I was moving my head and trying not to stay still. I found the strength from
somewhere and just pushed him off. He went stumbling back. By then I had got
myself up and I just ran."

Rafik Mansouri, 22, of Victoria Road, Wrexham, denies attempted rape following
the incident, which happened near the town's Belle View Park in January as the
woman, a single mother, was walking home alone along Ruthin Road on her way home
from Bonkers nightclub.

The defendant, who is being assisted by an interpreter, denies that he was the
attacker and says it is a case of mistaken identity. Prosecuting barrister
Meirion Lewis-Jones said that the woman had been out with a friend and the
friend's boyfriend to various pubs in Wrexham and ended up in Bonkers. The
friend had lost her purse and left to try to find it in other premises, the two
women missed each other and the complainant decided to walk home alone.

She walked up Penybryn and into Ruthin Road and it was alleged that the
defendant walked behind her and offered her a cigarette.

She accepted the cigarette but then he repeatedly asked her to go home with him.

The complainant refused and said that her husband, a big man, was waiting for
her, in a bid to get rid of him. But he followed her, continued to ask her to go
home with him, but then grabbed her coat near a low wall and tried to rape her,
it was alleged.

"She was afraid of what he was intending to do. The prosecution say that he was
going to rape her. If she had not put up a fight then he probably would have
done," Mr Lewis-Jones told the jury.

When she got free and ran to the friend's home, it was alleged that the
defendant followed her to the house and even put his foot in the door. But he
ran off when her friend's boyfriend came to the door and chased after him bare
-footed.

Mr Lewis-Jones said two police officers who went to inspect the scene a short
time later saw the defendant leaning over the wall as if he was looking for
something.

Pills, which were pain killers the complainant had been taking, were also found
at the scene.

The complainant and her friend later picked out the defendant as the man
responsible at an identification parade.

Mansouri denied that he was the attacker. He said he had been to Bonkers Club,
then left and walked around the town centre, had not seen the woman and had not
been responsible for the attack.

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ACCUSED: Rafik Mansouri

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 18, 2002

SUN TEAM COULD HAVE BEEN A TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: THE BIG ISSUE; DEAR SUN; LETTER

LENGTH: 683 words


    OUR revelations about the lapses in security at a Rosyth shipyard where two
Navy warships were being refitted shocked and angered Scottish Sun readers.

    Many felt that extra precautions should be taken in light of tensions over
possible terrorist attacks.

    Here are just a few of your views...

    * WELL done to The Scottish Sun for exposing the appalling lack of security
at Rosyth naval dockyard.

    It is chilling that your reporters were able to get in, wander around and
board Navy warships without their IDs being properly verified.

    If they had been terrorists, hell-bent on destruction, they could have
caused chaos.

    In light of the foiled al-Qai'da plot to blow up a British warship and
submarines in Gibraltar, security against possible terrorist threats should be
tightened before it is too late.

    JOHN GRANT

    Tollcross, Glasgow

    AFTER the security blunders at Rosyth, it would be a good idea to deploy the
6,000 reservists that the Government wants to help in the fight against
terrorism to patrol these sensitive sites.

    The professionals who are supposed to be doing this job are obviously not up
to it.

    IAN CAMPBELL

    Hawick, Roxburghshire

    TO be able to stroll into a dockyard where aircraft carriers are based is
very scary.

    It makes you wonder what the situation is at other defence installations.
You could get up to all sorts of mayhem if you are free to roam for two hours.

    JAMES IRVINE

    Glasgow

    THE sheer, dangerous complacency of yard chiefs at Rosyth defies belief -
especially with the ever-present threat of terrorist attacks.

    If a Scottish Sun team can wander around unchallenged for two hours, what is
there to prevent someone intent on mischief?

    Lax security is inexcusable in these perilous times and Babcock BES should
be grateful to The Sun for exposing weaknesses in theirs. Instead of ignoring
the problem, they should take definite measures to improve security.

    ROSEMARY THOMSON

    Wishaw, Lanarkshire

    IT is incredible that in these dangerous times your reporting team was able
to walk unchallenged around Rosyth dockyard.

    Does it take the loss of a couple of warships before the Government takes
security seriously?

    Surely someone must be held responsible for this lapse - and I hope
terrorists don't read The Sun.

    R PAULEY

    Irvine, Ayrshire

    THERE is concern at Rosyth now that you have shown security is sadly
lacking.

    An investigation has begun...how often have we heard those words?

    All along the way we find moves for solutions which are considered cost
effective and which are installed with great emphasis on their effectiveness
only for them to fall away without any monitoring.

    What The Sun has exposed is a national scandal.

    ALASTAIR McFARLANE

    Glasgow

    WELL done to The Sun for exposing the serious negligence in our national
security.

    It is almost beyond belief that, just nine months after the September 11
terrorist attacks, a team of unauthorised people can stroll around Rosyth. It is
far from reassuring. It is obvious to anyone that Rosyth must be considered a
potential target for terrorists - and the MoD must take the responsibility for
making it safe.

    K SMITH

    Inverurie, Aberdeenshire

    TOO many of our essential services are trying to operate with the minimum
number of employees. Costs are always being cut to the bone.

    That inevitably leads to short cuts and problems.

    The lapse in security at Rosyth should never have been allowed to happen -
security should be sacrosanct.

    JIM BLYTH

    Edinburgh

    I WASN'T surprised by The Sun's expose. When I was a crew member on one of
the Royal Fleet Auxiliary vessels at Faslane I just walked through two security
gates without showing my pass.

    The last gate led to the nuclear submarines.

    Even security on normal British merchant vessels has always been
non-existent. Anyone can just walk aboard without being questioned. It has been
known for people to walk on board passenger liners and have a free holiday and
three free meals a day in the crew mess.

    MICHAEL HASTIE

    Glasgow


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2002 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 June 19, 2002

Woman robbed of bag in terror hammer attack

BYLINE: gnicol

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Others; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 302 words


A HAMMER-wielding mugger chased a woman and pulled her to the ground in a
terrifying attack. The masked and armed teenager tried to snatch the
22-year-oldvictim's shoulder bag in the early hours of Sunday.

She was in a lane near Shetland Walk in the city's Sheddocksley area when he
approached her at 12.30am.

She ran away when he made a grab for her bag, but he gave chase.

He caught her, grabbed her bag, pulled her to the ground and threatened her.

The mugger, who had a scarf tied around his face up to his eyes, demanded she
hand over the bag, but the woman refused to give it up.

After a struggle he ran away empty handed. The woman had grazes and was shaken.

Police are urging anyone with information to come forward.

Chief Inspector Peter Simpson said the woman had been lucky he did not strike
her with the hammer.

"Often for women it is a natural reaction to hold on to their bag, especially
ifit is across their shoulder.

"It is not worth it. Money can be replaced.

"We would always advise letting go. She was lucky." "We would urge anyone who
saw anything suspicious to come forward." The mugger was in his late teens,
about 5ft 8in, with a skinny build and pale skin.

He was wearing a dark, hooded, waist-length anorak with the hood up, dark
trousers, and dark shoes or boots.

He was well turned out and had a local accent.

He had a beige or a light coloured scarf tied around his face up to his eyes.

A Grampian Police crime prevention spokesman today advised women never to walk
in dark lanes.

He said: "People should carry out their own risk assessment and not walk where
they don't feel safe.

"Personal attack alarms are also a good idea." Anyone with information should
call police on (01224) 386000 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 June 19, 2002

Terror attack family come home to safety; But North-east father stays on to work
in Pakistan

BYLINE: groberts

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 403 words


A NORTH-EAST mum and her two daughters hurt in a Pakistan terror attack have
returned to Britain.

Ellon preacher Griff Jones, his wife Amanda and their two children were lucky
toescape after a grenade attack on their church.

And they were later warned by Government officials to leave their home in
Islamabad as tensions between Pakistan and India heightened.

Amanda and the girls, Johanna, 13, and Lowri, corr9, returned to their home
townof Ellon recently for a visit.

And Lowri took time to visit pals at her former primary school and showed them
her shrapnel wound.

Her father, who has stayed behind in Pakistan, told the Evening Express today:
"The family is fine. I'm still out here working at the moment.

"Everyone is all right and that is all that I can say for the moment." The
Evening Express last month revealed the family had been warned to leave
Islamabad because of the rising threat of terror attacks.

The Foreign Office pulled out 130 of its diplomats and their families and
advised British citizens to get out as well.

In March the family, who were living in Ellon before going to Pakistan, were
injured in a terrorist bomb blast.

Mr Jones, 36, an oil worker, was preaching for the first time in an Islamabad
church near the American Embassy when a grenade was thrown into the
congregation.

His life was saved when the brunt of the blast was absorbed by a stack of
bibles.

But he was still injured, as were his wife and children.

Lowri was struck in the chest by a piece of shrapnel.

A friend from Ellon said the family had returned to the town recently for a
visit but were now in England.

The friend - who asked not to be named - said: "Amanda and the girls were down
at Ellon Primary School.

"My daughter came home from school and said she had been chatting away with
Lowri about what it was like living in Pakistan.

"Lowri was showing all the kids the wound she got from the bomb blast.

"I think she was just loving all the attention she was getting and she seemed
happy enough.

"They are a really lovely family and I'm just glad Amanda and the kids are safe
and sound." A spokeswoman for the British Consulate in Islamabad said: "The
situation in Islamabad has not changed and British citizens are being given the
same travel advice.

"They are being asked to consider whether they have any pressing need to remain
in the city."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 June 19, 2002

'Saudis were planning missile terror attacks';

SECTION:  Pg. 16

LENGTH: 143 words


SAUDI ARABIA has arrested 13 Saudis and foreigners linked to alQaida who were
planning terror attacks with missiles in the kingdom, the Saudi Press Agency
said yesterday.

Among those arrested was a Sudanese man suspected of being an al-Qaida cell
leader who claimed to have fired a surface-to-air missile at a US warplane at a
Saudi air base.

The Saudi agency said the alleged plotters were targeting a number of "vital"
installations and were planning to use explosives and surface-to-air missiles.

An interior ministry official said six Saudis and the Sudanese man were arrested
several months ago.

On Sunday the Sudanese government announced it had handed over a Sudanese man
for trial in Saudi Arabia.

The man had admitted firing a missile at a US plane taking off from Prince
Sultan Air Base, south of the Saudi capital Riyadh.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 The Irish News Limited

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Post Magazine

                                 June 20, 2002

INSURED PROPERTY LOSSES FROM TERRORIST ATTACK.

SECTION: Pg.4

LENGTH: 68 words

DATELINE: UK


Insured property losses from the 11 September terrorist attack on the World
Trade Center total $20.3bn ( GBP 13.6bn), according to the latest estimate by
the Property Claim Services (PCS) unit of the Insurance Services Office of the
US. PCS forecasts 49,000 claims in New York (30,000 personal, 15,000 commercial
and 4000 motor), totalling $20.34bn, and 2000 claims in Virginia, totalling just
$6.5m.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                 Copyright 2002 Timothy Benn Publishing Limited

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 21, 2002, Friday

Security gaps 'leave West open to attack' Terrorism

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 463 words

BRITAIN and its allies will remain "appallingly vulnerable" to terrorist attack
if they fail to make intelligence gathering a priority, MPs warned yesterday.

A unanimous report on the so-called war against terrorism published yesterday
praised the way Tony Blair has worked closely with the Bush administration in
the United States to take on al-Qa'eda and the Taliban.

The cross-party group of MPs made clear that the war would require additional
resources, in particular for the intelligence agencies responsible for
anticipating and preventing further attacks.

The Government should say whether it feels MI5, MI6 and the other services
involved in the fight against terrorism have enough money and manpower to
protect British interests against attack.

David Chidgey, (Lib Dem, Eastleigh) said his fellow committee members were
unable to tell if funding for the security services was sufficient. "We
unanimously agreed that the threat through international terrorism is such that
we want some guarantee that the no doubt considerable resources required to
combat it are not stinted."

The report stated: "If one lesson comes out of our consideration of why the
attacks of September 11 were able to succeed, it is that priority must be given
to the gathering, assessment and use of high-grade intelligence information.
Without that information, this country and its allies are appallingly
vulnerable.

"We recommend that, in its response to this report, the Government state whether
or not the British intelligence agencies on which the security of the UK depends
have the human, financial and other resources they require to offer the best
possible protection against terrorist attacks on the UK or on British posts and
facilities overseas."

It adds that detecting and preventing threats to the UK from terrorists using
weapons of mass destruction should be given "the highest priority" by the
Foreign Office, MI6 and GCHQ, the Government listening post.

The report also says that, in the wake of the row over the status of suspected
terrorists held by the United States at Guantanamo Bay, there ought to be a
review of the Geneva Conventions on prisoners of war.

Launching the report Donald Anderson (Lab, Swansea East), the committee's
chairman, said the war should be matched by efforts to tackle the "causes of
terrorism", in particular discontent in the Muslim world. "The continuing Middle
East conflict is a factor which severely complicates prosecution of the campaign
against al-Qa'eda and its sympathisers, adding even greater urgency to the need
for a settlement in the region," he said.

Andrew Mackinlay (Lab, Thurrock), said the West needed to remain vigilant,
despite al-Qa'eda's failure to follow up its September 11 attacks with further
outrages.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                    June 21, 2002, Friday Edition EC2106-01A

Terror attack kills five Israelis

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 185 words


   Five Israelis, among them three brothers aged five, 12 and 16, were gunned
down when at least one Palestinian seized a house in a Jewish West Bank
settlement.

Troops stormed the house and killed the attacker, as the house went up in
flames.

In response, about 50 Israeli tanks entered nearby Nablus, the West Bank's
largest city, early today.

The attack on the Itamar settlement last night brought to 33 the number of
Israelis killed in Palestinian shootings and bombings this week. Israel's Prime
Minister Arial Sharon decided earlier this week - in a major policy shift - that
troops would reoccupy some Palestinian land for every attack and remain there
until terror stopped.

Yesterday the Israeli army began calling up reserves for what TV reports said
would be a military campaign to be called Determined Path. The scope of the
operation was not clear.

In late March, Israel launched operation Defensive Shield, the largest-scale
offensive in 20 years, in which troops took over most West Bank towns for
several weeks. That offensive aimed, but failed, to crush Palestinian militias.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 June 21, 2002

Man, 33, in critical condition after Basque terror group targets holiday
resorts;4 Britons hurt in Costa terrorist bomb attack

BYLINE: By Katie Smith

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 539 words


Four Britons were injured today in a terrorist car bomb attack on a popular
resort in the Costa del Sol.

One, a 33-year-old man, was reported to be in a critical condition.

He was among six casualties of the blast near the Hotel Las Piramides in
Fuengirola, about 12 miles east of Malaga.

The Basque separatists, ETA, were blamed for the bombing, which came hours ahead
of an EU leaders' summit in Seville, 90 miles northwest of Fuengirola.

Hours later there was second blast in Marbella.

The attacks happened as many Britons in the resort were in gathering in bars to
watch England play Brazil in the World Cup.

Two British youths and a woman were injured in the Fuengirola blast, along with
a Spanish woman and a Moroccan, an Interior Ministry official said.

The attacks came only a week after authorities found 288lb of dynamite and other
explosives, along with detonators and wiring, in woods near Valencia.

The government said detained members of an ETA cell had been planning to attack
tourists and "create a sense of chaos" during the summit, attended by Prime
Minister Tony Blair.

However, one suspect managed to escape the police raid on a house in Valencia.

This morning's Fuengirola blast came as tourists slept in the popular resort.

Margaret Morrissey, 58, from Dor-chester, Dorset, was woken up by the blast.

"We were just lying in bed and all of a sudden we were woken up a bang and by
enormous loads of smoke, loads of flames.

"Then there was this terrible, scary, silence and then loads of people were
running everywhere."

Mrs Morrissey, the spokeswoman for the National Confederation of Parent Teacher
Associations in England, was staying at the Hotel Las Piramides with a friend,
as she has done every June for the last decade.

She said the hotel's windows had been blown out by the blast and glass fragments
covered the floors. Reports said most of the victims had been hit by flying
glass.

The hotel had been cordoned off, but there had been no attempt to evacuate the
guests, she said.

Mrs Morrissey said the bomb went off about 50 yards from her room.

The hotel, which features in the brochures of many UK tour operators, dominates
the skyline when approaching the resort from Marbella.

The area surrounding the hotel contains many small Spanish fishing cottages,
local restaurants, tapas bars and private villas.

Police had attempted to seal off the area after receiving a telephone warning
from ETA in the morthern Basque city of San Sebastian. The caller said a car
bomb would explode in Fuengirola at 7am (0600 BST). The grey Peugeot 205 was
loaded with 65lb of explosives.

Car bombings are frequently carried out by ETA, which is classified as a
terrorist organisation by Spain, the EU and the US.

The organisation has been fighting since the late 1960s to carve an independent
state out of lands between northern Spain and southwest France.

ETA's violent campaign has killed more than 800 people.

In May, Spanish authorities claimed they had thwarted a terrorist attack by ETA
during a summit of Latin American and European leaders after discovering
explosives in Madrid.

That summit took place without violent incidents.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CARNAGE: police investigators inspect the scene outside the Hotel Las
Piramides in Fuengirola after the bomb exploded injuring six people;HOTEL LAS
PIRAMIDES

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 21, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: 'SEVERE' ATTACK THREAT TO UK

BYLINE: Bob Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 63 words


THE threat of a major terrorist attack on Britain remains "severe", MPs said
yesterday.

The Commons foreign affairs committee, highlighting the key lesson of September
11, said "priority must be given to the gathering, assessment and use of high
-grade intelligence".

Without it, the West was "appallingly vulnerable". MPs spoke of a false sense of
security.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 21, 2002, Friday

Terror suspect's arrest may spur attack, FBI fear

BYLINE: Roland Watson and Katty Kay in Washington

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 380 words


FBI officials fear that the arrest of Jose Padilla, the US-born terror suspect,
may be a signal for other al-Qaeda operatives to stage attacks.

Padilla, who also used the name Abdullah al-Mujahir, walked knowingly into the
hands of the federal authorities at Chicago's international airport five weeks
ago.

The FBI strongly suspects that Padilla knew he was being tailed before his
arrest. Many seats around him on the Swiss International Air Lines flight from
Zurich to Chicago were taken by agents from the FBI and Swiss intelligence. But
even before that, officials believe Padilla was tipped off that he was being
followed after agents approached a travel agent he had visited.

The FBI remains puzzled why Padilla should have declared $ 8,000 on his customs
form, rather than the full $ 10,000 he picked up in Zurich. The discrepancy
allowed the authorities to detain him on a currency violation that he could
easily have avoided.

Officials remain furious with John Ashcroft, the Attorney-General, for wrecking
the publicity of Padilla's arrest with an overblown account of a "plot" to
detonate a radioactive "dirty bomb" that was barely even on an al-Qaeda drawing
board. But the FBI is struggling to explain why Padilla, who they regard as a
well-trained, ruthless al- Qaeda operative should have walked into their hands,
unless it was to act as a signal.

Concerns over Padilla come as US steps up security for Independence Day
celebrations.Al-Qaeda has previously made no habit of staging attacks on
symbolic dates. But after September 11, and the going to ground of the
organisation in Afghanistan, security officials fear that an attack on July 4,
when the United States is immersed in fireworks and parades, would be the most
effective way for the terror network to show that it was far from beaten.

President Bush expressed anger yesterday at the latest leak of highly sensitive
security data after it emerged that on September 10 last year US intelligence
intercepted encrypted warnings of an impending, major event, yet did not
translate them until September 12.

According to congressional sources, National Security Agency monitors had
intercepted two messages reading "Tomorrow is zero hour" and "The match is about
to begin".


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 June 21, 2002

Terrorist attacks are still a risk, MPs warn; End of Taliban regime doesn't end
threat

BYLINE: David Barrett

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 30 words


BRITAIN remains under threat from attack by Islamic extremists, despite the
overthrow of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, an influential committee of MPs
warned yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                 Copyright 2002 Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            June 22, 2002, Saturday

SEX ATTACK TERROR IN WOOD FOR GIRL OF 11

BYLINE: Sally Mclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 175 words


POLICE are hunting two men who subjected an 11-year-old girl to a terrifying sex
attack on a woodland path.

The primary school pupil was grabbed and indecently assaulted before she managed
to break free from her attackers.

The attack happened on a well-used path through Dedridge Burn Plantation, a
wooded area in Livingston, West Lothian, at around 6pm on Thursday.

The girl lives nearby and her parents raised the alarm when their badly shocked
daughter returned home.

A police spokesman said: "She was obviously very distressed by the time she
reached her house.

"The path is well-used by locals and dog-walkers and we would appeal to anyone
who may have been in the area at the time to contact police."

The men, both white, had English accents, were about 5ft 6in tall and 20 to 25.

One was clean-shaven, of medium to heavy build, with cropped brown hair and had
a red mountain bike.

The other man was thin, tanned, with a thin moustache, short reddish hair and
had a black bulldog with a white spot on a lead.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 June 22, 2002

Costa bombings injure tourists; BLASTS: Britons hurt in three terrorist attacks
in Spain

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 24 words


A BRITISH man remained seriously ill in hospital today after he was hit by
shrapnel from one of three terrorist car bomb attacks in Spain.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 22, 2002, Saturday

TERRORISTS COULD USE OIL TANKERS FOR ATTACKS ON US, WARNS FBI

BYLINE: James Vicini In Washington

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 415 words


THE FBI warned yesterday that terrorists may be planning to use fuel tanker
trucks for attacks in the United States or against US interests overseas, with
Jewish schools and synagogues or fuel depots as possible targets.

In the latest in a series of warnings since 11 September, officials said the
precise targets were unknown and the advice to police officers was issued as a
result of "uncorroborated information". It is believed to have come from al
-Qa'ida detainees at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.

The FBI said law enforcement agencies should "make contact with appropriate
Jewish community representatives and officials at trucking and fuel delivery
facilities that operate fuel tanker trucks or commercial fuelling stations and
emphasise the need to report suspicious activity or persons".

An official said people should be more vigilant, but should not avoid schools or
synagogues. He said: "This is just an effort to let everyone know that we've
picked up this information. We're not telling them to change their routine.
We're not telling people not to go to synagogues, not to go to schools. It's
telling people these are possible targets, and just be vigilant. While maybe the
fuel truck driving by didn't merit your attention, it should now, just in case."

The official added: "I don't think the Jewish community is surprised that
they're a target. They've been dealing with anti-Semitism and I think they have
security."

The warning did not change the level of threat in the country, which has
remained for months on "yellow alert", the middle level on a colour- coded scale
that rates the severity of threats.

In New York, the Shomrim Patrol, a 200-member unarmed citizens' group that
monitors Jewish neighbourhoods, shrugged off the warning. Mendel Rosenberg said:
"As of my experience, I don't think it's a threat. Personally, I don't believe
these things anyway. They shouldn't say these things, it gives people ideas."

But David Pollock, associate executive director at the Jewish Community
Relations Council in New York, said: "We should be aware and should report
things that are of concern. The worst enemy of any of these terrorists is a good
neighbour - someone who wants to check in on them and report something that is
unusual."

Just two days ago, the FBI warned of possible terrorist attacks at Independence
Day celebrations on 4 July. It emphasised there was no specific or credible
information that an attack was planned. (Reuters)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            June 22, 2002, Saturday

BOMBS BLAST SPAIN RESORTS;
 BRITISH TOURIST SERIOUSLY ILL AFTER TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Sherna Noah & Rachael Crofts

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30,31

LENGTH: 360 words


A BRITISH man remained seriously ill in hospital today after he was hit by
shrapnel from one of three terrorist car bomb attacks in Spain.

The 33-year-old tourist from London, who was not being named, was one of six
casualties of the first blast yesterday morning, outside the Hotel Las
Piramides, in Fuengirola, on the Costa Del Sol.

Last night he underwent an operation to stop bleeding from his chest, said a
spokeswoman for the Coast Del Sol Hospital in Marbella, after the bomb left
shrapnel splinters in his lungs, diaphragm and spleen.

"His condition is still serious but he is out of danger and is recuperating in
intensive care," she added.

She said the injured man's family was flying out to Spain today.

Two other Britons, both children, suffered minor injuries in the attack, which
was blamed on the Basque separatist terrorist group, Eta.

They were taken to health centres where they were treated for cuts and bruises,
and were later allowed to go back to their families, the British Embassy in
Madrid said.

A Moroccan child and a Spanish couple also suffered minor injuries in the first
attack, when a grey Peugeot 205 exploded shortly after 7am, while many in the
resort were asleep.

Others were already gathering in bars to watch England play Brazil in the World
Cup.

A second blast went off in Marbella at 1.05pm local time, but there were no
reports of injuries.

A third explosion last night rocked the north eastern city of Zaragoza. Police
said a policeman, a security guard and a passing French national sustained minor
injuries in the explosion in the car park of the El Corte Ingls department
store.

The attacks took place as European leaders, including Prime Minister Tony Blair,
gathered for an EU summit in Seville, southern Spain.

The Foreign Office updated its advice on travelling to Spain in the wake of the
attacks, warning tourists they should be alert to "continuing terrorist
activity".

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, speaking at the EU summit, said: "My condemnation
of this outrage is absolute, and is the same regardless of the citizenship of
those who have been injured."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARNAGE: Police inspect the damage after the car bomb attack in;
Fuengirola, Costa del Sol; THIRD BLAST: In city of Zaragoza

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 June 22, 2002

Briton hurt in Spanish terror bomb attack; Basque separatists blamed for holiday
resort blasts coinciding with EU summit

BYLINE: Sherna Noah

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 27 words


A BRITISH man was being treated in hospital last night after he was seriously
injured in the first of two terrorist car bomb attacks on the Costa del Sol.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                 Copyright 2002 Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 23, 2002

World: The settlers story: They come here to live and, if God wills it, to die:
Jewish settlers have borne the brunt of recent terror attacks. What sort of
people are they? What do they believe? And why do they cling on in the face of
growing violence?

BYLINE: Peter Beaumont

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2895 words


THE BODIES were laid out in a neat row, each wrapped in a shroud of black
plastic, next to the twisted wreckage of the bus. The burial society workers and
police had stuck a number to each body. But body is the wrong word. Some bags
had little enough to put in them, after the bombing.

They were not anonymous for long. By morning the bodies had been identified as
real people, who once enjoyed real lives: the victims of Bus 32a. There was Liat
Yagen, aged 24. Shiri Nagari, who was to have celebrated her twenty-second
birthday in 10 days' time. Shani Avitzedek, 15, who was to have flown to Berlin
this week as part of a youth delegation, and Leah Baruch, 59, who had emigrated
from Iran.

All lived in Gilo, a neighbourhood whose gates begin a few hundred yards from
where they died when Mohammed al-Roul, a Palestinian student from Nablus
University, blew up his bomb inside their bus, killing 19 people and himself.

Except the Palestinians use a different word to describe what Gilo is: an area
of tall apartment blocks that straddles a long ridge across the valley from the
Bethlehem suburb of Beit Jala. For while to Israelis it is the 'Jerusalem
neighbourhood of Gilo', for Palestinians it is the 'settlement at Gilo'.

The object of this attack was not selected simply as a convenient target. It was
aimed at the residents of Gilo, for where they live and who they are.

The people of Gilo, by and large, would not think of themselves as 'settlers'.
They would define themselves as ordinary residents of a well-developed suburb,
albeit one whose land was seized by the Israeli state, which is cheap and
convenient for Jerusalem's city centre. Real settlers, they will tell you, live
out on the West Bank, deep in the Occupied Territories, driven by religion and
their singular and passionate interpretation of history to reclaim the promised
'Land of Israel'.

Real settlers, admit settlers themselves, have their own assertive culture. They
have a way of dressing. The settler boys, in their baggy clothes and deep
Kurdish-style skullcaps, listen to their own kind of music and have their own
way of talking, using army slang. When Jerusalem kids say kvish for road, the
settler kids say tzir - the military word for 'access'.

But for the bombers and the gunmen of the Palestinian militant groups it is all
the same. Whether it is Gilo in the suburbs or the settlement at Elon Moreh on a
hill above Nablus, or a new 'outpost of mobile homes' deep in the hills of the
West Bank, they are all targets, say the militants, 'occupiers' living on stolen
land.

And these days the settlers - those driven by economic reasons (like those in
Gilo) or those driven by ideology - are in the forefront of the conflict between
Israel and the Palestinians as some of the militant Palestinian factions appear
to be moving away from a policy of indiscriminate suicide-bomb attacks towards a
more pointed strategy that has placed settlers in the front line.

ON THURSDAY evening it was the turn of the Shabo family, residents of the
settlement at Itamar, in the thorn-covered hills above the West Bank city of
Nablus. The Palestinian gunmen who cut through the settlement's fence burst into
the Shabos' home, killing Rachel, 40, and three of her sons, Neria, 16, Zvi, 12,
and Avishai, five. Eight people in the house were also wounded, including the
Shabos' 11-year-old son, who remains in a serious condition.

The settlers who came on Friday to bury Rachel Shabo and her sons, and neighbour
Yossi Tuito, shot down while running to their aid, fit the description of 'real
settlers'.

I saw a woman pass with two children in a stroller, an M16 assault rifle slung
across her shoulder. But mainly it is the men who carry the guns: and every
other man was draped with an M16, or had a machine pistol in a holster or
hanging from a lanyard. For all the civilian clothes, the mourners at Itamar
looked like a small army.

By chance last Tuesday, even as Israel's emergency services were counting the
cost of the carnage from Bus 32a, the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee of
the Knesset, Israel's parliament, was meeting to address security for the
settlements. What they were told was that the Israeli defence forces have become
tied down by the demands of defending the settlements.

These days almost three times as many soldiers and reservists are required to
protect them - many of them 'illegal outposts' (that is, not authorised by
Israel) - as were needed in the days before the present intifada. By some
estimates it may require more than 1.1 billion shekels extra (pounds 150
million) this year to keep them secure.

The settlers believe this is a price worth paying. If Israel begins disman tling
the settlements under threat of terrorism, they fear the next target will be the
cities of Israel proper. If the settlements are given up, say the hardliners,
then the next thing that will go will be Israel itself. The real settlers also
believe, in any case, that far from expropriating land, the West Bank of the
Jordan river is part of the historical land promised by God to the Jews.

I DROVE UP TO the settlement at Elon Moreh, the neighbouring settlement to
Itamar, just outside the West Bank city of Nablus, to meet Sara Gelbard, a
mother of eight and resident at Elon Moreh for 11 years, whom I first
interviewed at the funeral of a rabbi from her community, killed by Palestinians
in the first few days of the intifada.

The settlement sits on the highest hill above Nablus. The bypass that takes you
to it passes Arab villages and well-tended plots of land where, last week, the
Palestinian families were cutting hay. You curl up switchbacks, past a couple of
checkpoints, and then you reach the first houses: tidy, red-roofed villas built
in rows that contour the hills.

There is no fence, unlike some settlements. As Gelbard explained, the reputation
of the settlement means that Palestinians know that if they come here 'things
will be not be great for them'.

Elon Moreh is home to 1,500 residents. There is no cinema. But there are
religious schools, including a Russian high school. Strangers in communities
like Elon Moreh are greeted with suspicion. As I asked directions to Gelbard's
house; a heavy-set man in late middle age, wear ing shorts and a blue polo
shirt, came over. Seeing the press signs on my car, he said angrily: 'Go back
down to Nablus, where you will be happier among the Palestinians.'

I found Sara Gelbard at her house. A teacher at a religious school, Gelbard, 38,
grew up in London before emigrating to Israel and marrying a Uruguayan rabbi. In
the parlour of her home, lined with religious books, her son sat reading
prayers. She admitted settlers in her community were seen as 'hardliners'.

If any settlement is on the front line, both literally and in its ideology, then
it is Elon Moreh. Established in 1977 as the first community of the Gush Emunim
movement, Israel's authorities first tried to block its establishment. Faced
with the persistence of the settlers, it eventually backed down. And Elon Moreh
has acted as a springboard for new settlements, as those who have passed through
its gates have settled in new locations.

Life in settlements like Elon Moreh is simple. Despite financial grants and
assistance, money is short: settler cars out in the Territories, like settler
clothes, are well worn and often battered. Women teach, or work as social
workers. But mainly they work in the home and raise the enormous families that
they hope will populate the Territories: new generations raised in the settler
way of thinking.

The residents here are, by and large, 'religious', as Israelis would say. Few
residents watch television. There is no cinema or place for the youngsters to
hang out. Entertainment is arranged around the family and neighbours. Sara's
house, like several that I visit, is plain. There is little decoration. What
books are there are religious texts.

Gelbard told me some news. In April a Palestinian gunman crept into Elon Moreh.
He aimed an automatic rifle through a window and killed four members of the
Gavish family in their house. The other news was that Elon Moreh is about to
open its own swimming pool. The settlements' fondness for building pools is
controversial in a parched land where access to water is one of the most
dangerous and contentious areas of friction between Jews and Palestinians.

I asked Gelbard about President George Bush's plans to declare his support for a
'provisional Palestinian state'. Sitting in the front room of her modest house,
she said: 'I hope it won't ever come about. The whole idea of a Palestinian
state is a fabrication: Jordan is the Palestinian state.'

The way that Sara, and other settlers see it, is that the British promised the
Jews all of the 'land of Israel' east of the Jordan river (that is, including
the West Bank) in the Balfour Declaration of 1917. Britain reneged and the
League of Nations came up with a different map, but for those like Gelbard, and
the Yesha Council for the Communities of Judea, Samaria and Gaza, the British
promise - like that of God - still stands.

'We always wanted to come and live on a settlement,' says Sara, 'in the
historical territories restored to us by the Six-Day War. We are here because
this is our land. I can't ever see us leaving. So many miracles have brought us
here.' But what is good about the life here? 'The children have a lot of freedom
on the settlement. They can spend their time outside. It gives them a lot of
independence.'

Sara admits her own parents, who live in England but own a flat in the Israeli
town of Netanya, are apprehensive about her life on the settlement. 'They do
come to Israel a lot to visit, but have have been telling me for years we should
move back to Jerusalem or Netanya.'

THE NEXT MORNING I travelled down Route 60 - the main highway that connects the
Palestinian cities of the West Bank - to visit the settlement at Kiryat Arba,
and the most ambitious attempt at a settlement of all, in the middle of the
Palestinians in the heart of Hebron's old city. I took Bus 160 - the armoured
settler bus that leaves from Jerusalem's central bus station.

As the bus went south of Bethlehem past the ever-expanding settlements at Newe
Daniel, past the sprawling blocks of Gush Etzion, whose new 'outposts' of mobile
homes in rows are creeping further down the hillside, towards Kiryat Arba, I
realised that there were no Palestinian cars on this road. All the side roads
that lead to Palestinian villages and homes were blocked. The road was
controlled entirely by the army.

The Palestinians are all on foot.

I asked David Wilder, the spokesman for the settlement inside Hebron, about
this. I met David in his office. He is a grizzled US emigrant now in his
mid-fifties. He carries a pistol tucked inside a holster on his hip. He said
Operation Defensive Shield, Israel's massive incursion into the West Bank in
April, was 'a good job'. Cars with Palestinian plates are now forbidden on the
road. Route 60, the most economically important road for Palestinians, is now
sealed for the protection of the settlers.

David showed me around. The settlers here are surrounded by Palestinian houses
on all sides. They live in neighbourhoods separated by Palestinian homes. The
army is on every corner. Perhaps inevitably tragedies do happen. He showed me
the plaque on the wall next to the children's playground where Shalhevet Pass,
an infant in a stroller, was shot by a sniper through the head and killed. He
showed me the memorial wall in the synagogue commemorating all those Jews who
have been killed in the area.

Men like David - settlers generally - are not big on small talk. If they will
talk to the foreign media at all it is about God, history and their entitlement
to the land. But I ask him about his life - as he would put it - under siege.
'We live our life as normally as possible. You go to school. You go to work. You
travel the roads. You make minor adjustments to your life. I have sandbags on my
windows after my house got hit by bullets.'

David produced a book he keeps on his desk drilled by a bullet. 'But no one left
last year.'

IT WAS NOT supposed to be like this. Under the Oslo peace accords, signed by
Israel and the Palestinians in 1993 at Camp David, the Israeli government
committed itself to a freeze on settle ment building, promising it would
establish no new settlements and halt the expansion of the existing settlements.

But if Palestinians - and the international brokers of the accords - hoped that
this would mark the beginning of the end of Israeli settlement in the Occupied
Territories they were mistaken. Not only did Oslo not lead to the evacuation of
a single settlement; instead, as recent published research by the B'Tselem, an
Israeli human rights organisation, has demonstrated, settlement building has
accelerated.

In 1993 the population of the settlements in the West Bank (including East
Jerusalem) totalled 247,000. By the end of 2001 this had risen to 380,000 - an
increase of approximately 54 per cent in seven years. And the biggest increase
has taken place on the West Bank, where settler numbers between 1993 and 2000
increased from 100,500 to 191,600, a growth rate of 90 per cent.

The sharpest increase was in 2000, under the government headed by Ehud Barak,
when the construction of almost 4,800 new housing units was begun. And most of
it had been conducted under the banner of 'natural growth' of the population, a
device, independent experts now claim, which is a ruse being used simply to grab
more land. For while Israel's population has been expanding at a rate of around
2 per cent a year, the numbers of settlers have been rising by a staggering 12
per cent a year.

That expansion has taken place under different pretexts. Israel, as the B'Tselem
report details, has established new settlements under the guise of so-called
'new neighbourhoods' - expansions to existing areas of settlements, often not
even linked by contiguous areas of land. Another method, detailed by B'Tselem,
used to expand settlements has been seizure of a new location by a group of
settlers, who then erect caravans on the site without approval from the relevant
authorities.

'The government,' adds the report, 'generally refrains from evicting the
settlers or demolishing the buildings they erected without permits.' The
settlers' supporters will tell you that Israel may have broken its commitments
under Oslo, but so too, they say, have the Palestinians over both incitement and
violence. If the Palestinians are cheating, they suggest, then the deal is off.

'Since Oslo we have seen two processes going in parallel,' says Ezekiel Lein,
the author of the B'Tselem report. 'We have had one process that has been, until
the outbreak of the present intifada, about negotiation and declarations of
principle. On the other hand we have had this process of very fast growth of the
population of the settlements and land occupation. It has been a silent process
that has been quietly putting obstacles on the road to peace.

'Using these methods, Israel has seized control of 50 per cent of the West Bank,
excluding East Jerusalem,' says Lein. 'And what is lacking is any political will
to confront the settlers.'

IT IS KIRYAT ARBA that links settlements like Gilo with those like Hebron and
Elon Moreh. Seven thousand people live here. Its grounds are landscaped. It has
tennis courts and basketball hoops, it has schools, a supermarket, a covered
pool. And all laid out behind a fence that separates it from the dirt-poor
Palestinian village beyond its guarded walls.

Once Kiryat Arba was like Elon Moreh. Now it is established as a large,
well-developed community, other kinds of Jews are coming here to live, mainly
Russian immigrants, many of whom are secular in orientation. In that sense it is
moving in the direction of Gilo.

This time I meet Naftali Greenwood and his wife, Marsha. Since the last time we
met, a year before, Naftali has bought his own large apartment for Dollars
50,000. In Gilo it would cost Dollars 180,000, in Jerusalem itself much more.
But Naftali and Marsha came to Kiryat Arba 11 years ago not as 'economic
settlers' but because they believed in the vision of Kiryat Arba and the
settlement movement. It is, as Naftali explained, the Mother Settlement.

Naftali is aware of how settlers have come to be regarded as prime targets by
the Palestinian militant factions. 'They say that we are here illegally, and
that we are therefore soldiers and legitimate targets. They rationalise that
mainstream Israel does not care if settlers are blown up.

'Before the intifada the Palestinians used a word - sumud - to describe their
approach: steadfastness. In Hebrew it is tzamud , but the word we use is amida .
It also means steadfastness. I really believe that if the Palestinians saw a
single settlement given up now and dismantled, they would fight for another 25
years. So we have to be steadfast.'

But what if a real peace was contingent on whether the settlements would stay or
go? Naftali thought for a moment. 'Running away doesn't help. But if I thought
we were a real obstruction to a real and lasting peace, if it was real, then of
course we would go.'


LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 23, 2002, Sunday

Compensation deal for terror attacks

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 65 words


THE families of the 67 British people killed in the World Trade Center attacks
are to be offered compensation payments that average about Pounds 700,000. Those
who accept the deal will have to waive the right to sue the American government,
the airlines and insurers. An American Department of Justice representative was
due to make the offer to the families at a meeting in London.


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: News in brief

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 23, 2002

BIN LADEN LINKED TO SPANISH BLASTS AFTER FIFTH TERRORIST ATTACK; BOMBS HIT
HOLIDAY BRITONS

BYLINE: By Hilary Douglas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 5

LENGTH: 518 words


TERRORIST bombers yesterday targeted British holidaymakers at a Spanish resort
made famous in episodes of EastEnders.

A blast ripped through a hotel car park near the hilltop village of Mijas,
overlooking the Costa del Sol, narrowly missing children walking by. Two hours
later, a second bomb went off in Santander, the ferry gateway to northern Spain
used by thousands of Britons. Intelligence sources fear that Al Qaeda may be
linked to the wave of bombings which began with three attacks in Spain on
Friday, when Briton Marios Gavriel, 33, was critically injured. Several other
Britons, including two children, were hurt.

An Al Qaeda cell operating out of Morocco is believed to have been working
closely with ETA terrorists - encouraging them to kill British holidaymakers in
revenge for the bombing of Afghanistan.

The attacks are also believed to be a "sign of revenge" for the arrest of
several Al Qaeda suspects earlier this month.

The first bomb went off at lunchtime yesterday in a hotel on the coast, just
below the pretty village of Mijas - a celebrity-packed destination favoured by
the rich and famous from the UK.

EastEnders notched up record viewing figures earlier this year when it screened
a dramatic storyline filmed in Mijas, starring Mike Reid and Barbara Windsor.
The second blast - a car bomb - echoed round the bustling ferry port of
Santander at 2.47pm.

It coincided with the closing of the European Union summit in Seville, where
Tony Blair and other European leaders were meeting.

Al Qaeda has active cells across Spain and also has a financial centre in
Madrid.

Security chiefs believe that Osama Bin Laden's organisation has activated a plan
to launch terror attacks in France and across Europe.

A Western intelligence source said: "The threat of terrorism in France is
particularly significant and stems from Algerians in the Al Qaeda network."

The Sunday Express has also learned that Al Qaeda cells are operating in
south-east London.

Special Branch chiefs have been aware that Bin Laden supporters arrived in the
capital some months ago and have been sent in with specific targets. These
include the Houses of Parliament, Canary Wharf, Buckingham Palace, the Bank of
England, Buckingham Palace and Heathrow Airport.

One intelligence source revealed: "The terrorists have been preparing themselves
in London now for some time, but they quite clearly do not integrate at all into
communities.

"This means that until they start to do something we are not having much luck
flushing them out. But security has been heightened to a very high degree."

On Spain's tourist-packed south coast, all police leave was cancelled and
helicopters patrolled the coastline.

Businessman Alan Maddock, 56, who left Cornwall for a new life in Puerto Banus,
near Marbella, three years ago, said: "We will all have to be far more vigilant.
This is like a living nightmare.

""Every time it happens, as it does each summer, you see fewer and fewer people
on the beaches, and families stick close to their hotels and don't dare venture
out."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 24, 2002, Monday

ROGUE COPTER SPARKS TERROR ATTACK SCARE;
 TEENAGE FLYER IN ARAS ALERT WAS ALMOST SHOT FROM SKY

BYLINE: Pat Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 509 words

HIGHLIGHT: PANIC: Colibri like the one involved; FEARS: The Aras was thought
under threat


A YOUNG pilot who flew a helicopter without lights close to the US ambassador's
residence could have been shot down.

It has been revealed that the 19-year-old at the controls turned off his lights
and refused to answer frantic air traffic controllers at Dublin Airport who
spotted him on radar.

The teenager flew from Slane Castle straight across the flight path to Dublin
Airport before landing the Eurocopter Colibri near the Phoenix Park in complete
darkness.

The Garda helicopter was scrambled and followed the Colibri when it appeared to
be heading towards Aras an Uachtarain and the US ambassador's mansion.

Dublin Airport was shut down during the emergency and all incoming flights were
diverted.

It has now emerged that the pilot may face criminal charges in what is described
as "the worst breach of air safety laws in 30 years".

A source said it was a miracle there was not a mid-air collision or that the
helicopter did not come down on a residential area.

He said: "This was air lunacy. The helicopter had no lights. He even turned off
the strobe - he was invisible as he flew across the night sky.

"He refused to answer the tower at Dublin when they saw him coming into their
airspace.

"They repeatedly asked him to identify himself but he wouldn't and just flew
across the approach to the main runway.

"We didn't know what to do because he was heading towards the park and the
thoughts of an attack on the president or the American ambassador crossed our
minds.

"To be honest, we were thinking of ways of taking him down if it came to the
worst."

Officers at the controls of the Garda helicopter looking the Colibri feared for
their own safety as they couldn't see him.

A man witnessed the bizarre incident as the Colibri took off from a garden near
a quarry near Slane Castle.

He said: "We couldn't believe it when he got into the helicopter and started the
engine.

"He had his mother, sister and girlfriend as well as another woman with him.

"He had his spotlight on when he took off but turned it off as soon as he was a
few hundred feet up.

"The helicopter just disappeared into the darkness but we could hear it for a
while. We could also see the Garda helicopter in the sky, it was about a mile
away."

A Garda involved in the investigation said: "The most dangerous aspect of the
incident was flying without strobe lighting. There could have been one hell of
an accident."

It is believed the young pilot wanted to avoid the huge tailback of traffic on
the roads around Slane following the concert.

He though that by flying low he would not be picked up on radar at Dublin
Airport before he landed at a private hangar near Castleknock, Co Dublin.

It is understood the pilot was operating the aircraft under visual flight rules
for daytime flying and that he was not licensed for instrument flying, which is
the norm in darkness.

The incident is being investigated by the Irish Aviation Authority and and it is
believed a file will shortly be sent to the DPP.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             June 24, 2002, Monday

SENATOR WARNS OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Helen Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 276 words


AL QAEDA terrorists appear to be regrouping to carry out attacks, and pose a
serious threat with or without Osama bin Laden, US congressmen have warned. Bin
Laden's agents appear to be more capable of attacking Americans than they were a
month or two ago, said Democratic Senator Bob Graham, chairman of the Senate
Intelligence Committee.

"They could hit us any day," said Senator Richard Shelby, the committee's top
Republican.

There have been several uncorroborated warnings issued recently, including that
al Qaeda could use fuel tanker trucks against Jewish interests in the US.

And officials have yet to establish the authenticity of an audio tape which
emerged over the weekend.

In it, bin Laden associate Sulaiman Abu Ghaith said the al Qaeda leader and most
of the network's other top figures are alive and ready to attack again.

Graham said he was not surprised there had been an announcement that the man
blamed for the September 11 attacks was still alive: "That is the best
assessment of US intelligence."

He added that bin Laden might be in Pakistan's western tribal lands.

But, regardless of bin Laden's fate, al Qaeda appears to be regrouping.

US officials believe mid-level operatives are doing their own hasty planning
with whatever tools they can. The result could be more frequent but less
sophisticated attacks than before.

But new Afghan President Hamid Karzai sounded a note of confidence about the
progress made against al Qaeda and the Taliban.

"They are a defeated force," he said. "They are on the run. Individuals might be
plotting terrorism, but basically they are criminals in hiding."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 June 25, 2002

NorthWest: OAPs targeted in riots terror;
 Plea to end the attacks on home for elderlyPlea to end the attacks on home for
elderly

BYLINE: By Sarah Brett

LENGTH: 428 words


A RESIDENTIAL home for elderly people was today counting the cost of weeks of
sectarian violence around the Fountain estate in Londonderry.

Thousands of pounds worth of damage has been caused to Alexander House at Bishop
Street which provides sheltered accommodation for 45 pensioners.

Management at the home today appealed for an end to the violence which, they
claimed, is terrifying residents on an almost nightly basis.

As details of the huge cost of the sectarian attacks were revealed today,
efforts were continuing in a bid to stop the clashes around the only remaining
Protestant estate on Derry's west bank.

In recent weeks, Alexander House has been targeted by youths from both sides of
the Fountain peaceline as they engage in nightly petrol bombing, stoning and
paint bombing attacks.

During the latest attack on Friday night, a number of windows in the building,
which is owned by the North West Housing Association, were smashed.

But manager Bredge Shettle today said the incident was only "the tip of the
iceberg."

"We had a great many windows replaced last week only to have the majority of
them smashed again by Friday night," she said.

"It has cost the association a great deal of money and more importantly
considerable disruption to our residents, some of whom are very frail and
concerned by the violence which has involved everything from stone throwing to
petrol bombs.

"We are blue in the face talking to community representatives but nothing seems
to work," she added.

SDLP Councillor, Helen Quigley, described the attacks on Alexander House as
"despicable".

"The ongoing sectarian attacks in and around the Fountain estate have to stop,"
she said.

"All communities in the area are suffering at the hands of sectarian thugs.

"Elderly people, parents and children are living in fear on both sides of the
walls around the Fountain."

Mrs Quigley appealed to the community to help stop the attacks and warned: "If
we don't, we will end up with a north or east Belfast situation in Derry."

The North West Telegraph revealed last week that a new security fence is to be
erected at the interface between the Fountain and nearby nationalist areas.

The 3.8 metre fence will be erected on a wall between the Fountain and Harding
Street.

Local politicians have also called for the installation of CCTV cameras in the
area in a bid to catch those behind the sectarian attacks.

Residents have claimed that youths from outside the area are responsible for the
majority of the violence.


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 27, 2002, Thursday

Aircraft security increased to counter terror attacks

BYLINE: Philip Webster and James Doran in Calgary

SECTION: Overseas news; 19

LENGTH: 466 words


Passenger aircraft will have reinforced cockpit doors by next spring under a
package of measures agreed at the G8 summit yesterday to improve transport
security.

Minimum standards for issuing travel and identity documents will have to be
agreed within months as security agencies try to stop terrorists acquiring false
passports. Work will also have to start on installing advanced electronic
equipment to monitor the location and movement of container ships.

The G8 leaders, who were anxious to demonstrate unity with America at a lengthy
discussion of the war on terrorism, acted as President Bush said that the West
had to take seriously threats from al-Qaeda and other groups of new attacks. He
called on all countries to intensify their efforts against terrorism.

Experts from G8 countries have been studying the vulnerability of transport
systems since September 11, and yesterday's plan emerged from that. The leaders
said that the new measures should not interfere with the free flow of goods, but
that some restrictions were necessary.

The meeting was told of the worldwide efforts to combat terrorism since
September 11. More than $ 100 million of terrorist funds have been frozen, with
300 individuals or organisations having access to their assets blocked.

Tony Blair highlighted the issues of drugs in Afghanistan and the success of
tackling the opium trade. He said that between 25 and 30 per cent of the opium
crop this year, with a street value of Pounds 8 billion, had been destroyed. Mr
Bush said: "We will use all available resources to fight off terror, including
working with friends and allies to cut off funds. This is a chance to remind
each other that our countries are still under threat. We are making progress but
this is a different kind of war."

Mr Blair said that it was important for the world to understand that terrorism
presented a continuing threat. "This is not over," the Prime Minister said. "We
have to ensure that at every single level we are carrying this fight forward."

The summit was meeting under intense security and in the shadow of an expected
new broadcast from Osama bin Laden. The secluded site was originally chosen to
avoid anti-capitalist protesters, but security is stricter than ever because of
the fear of terrorism.

Thousands of Canadian troops have been deployed to protect an eight-mile-wide
security zone, and there is just one paved road leading to the conference site,
which is in a theme park frequented by the very wealthy.

Washington: Police on Capitol Hill have ordered 25,000 gas masks to protect
members of Congress, their staff and tourists from a chemical or biological
attack. The $ 150 (Pounds 100) masks, which have fitted mouthpieces, filter out
gases and biological particles.


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 30, 2002, Sunday

TEENAGER IS ATTACKED BY TERROR GANG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 92 words


A TEENAGER was last night recovering in hospital after he suffered a
paramilitary assault in Newtownards.

The 15-year-old boy was treated for extensive cuts and bruising after he was
attacked by 10 masked men in the town.

The youth was battered with bricks by the gang as he walked home through the
area of Shackleton Walk and Blenheim Drive at around 12.30pm.

Police have appealed for witnesses to the attack, which they believe was carried
out by paramilitaries.

Anyone with information should contact them at Newtownards on

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 30, 2002

OUTRAGE AS RAF LEFT EXPOSED TO SEPTEMBER 11TH STYLE ATTACK; AIR TERROR WARNING

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 4

LENGTH: 668 words


THE RAF's top guns are being starved of combat practice by budget cuts, leaving
Britain v ulnerable to September 11-style terrorist attacks.

In what ex-Chief of the Defence Staff Lord Craig of Radley has branded
"ridiculous folly", the RAF's elite fast jet pilots spend two-thirds of the year
flying fewer than the minimum number of hours considered safe. The four Tornado
F3 fighter squadrons, our main defence against kamikaze attackers, have been
among the worst hit.

Last night the Tories branded the cash cuts a "ludicrous risk". And Lord Craig,
Britain's most senior officer during the Gulf War, warned that RAF pilots must
spend "an absolute minimum" of 18-20 hours in the air each month or risk losing
the edge that can be the difference between life and death.

But official Ministry of Defence figures reveal that pilots with 10 of the RAF's
15 frontline fast jet squadrons are airborne for fewer than 18 hours a month.
None gives its pilots an average of 20 hours.

Of greatest concern is the fate of the F3 pilots - the modern-day equivalents of
"The Few", those Spitfire and Hurricane pilots who reached for the skies during
the Battle of Britain.

The four squadrons, based at RAF Leeming in North Yorkshire and RAF Leuchars in
Fife, all flew for less than 18 hours during most months last year.

They were already under strain after cash cuts and a chronic shortage of pilots
forced the closure of 5 Squadron at RAF Coningsby, which had been charged with
the air defence of London.

The figures also reveal that pilots with 14 Squadron failed to get 18 hours
aloft during any of the past 12 months. Some Tornado, Jaguar and Harrier
squadrons managed as few as four or five hours of flying a month. The MoD
refuses to disclose, on security grounds, the minimum number of flying hours
that Nato recommends.

But Lord Craig told the House of Lords: "Fast jet pilots need an absolute
minimum of 18 to 20 hours flying per month, depending on their role and the
weapons systems concerned, if they are to achieve and maintain their operational
expertise.

"The provision of new smart weapons, but without full and complete training and
preparation for their use before crews are sent to a combat zone, would be
ridiculous folly."

Shadow Defence Secretary Bernard Jenkin said: "Obviously, Lord Craig's views
should be taken very seriously. The Government is taking ludicrous risks,
particularly at a time of high alert for terror attacks which would be bound to
be something unexpected.

"The reason for the shortage of flying hours is money. The Government has
underfunded what they promised to deliver in their 1998 defence review.

"Is it any wonder that we have a shortage of pilots when they get fed up and
frustrated because they can't get their flying hours?"

An MoD spokesman said: "The RAF is satisfied we fly the number of hours we need.
We continue to meet all our operational commitments."

Officials insist the same number of aircraft are available for defence of the UK
as before the closure of 5 Squadron and that our pilots - among the best in the
world - are ready round the clock to intercept any incoming threat.

But defence chiefs are conscious that US jets did not react quickly enough on
September 11 to shoot down the aircraft hijacked by Al Qaeda and they would have
just minutes to react.

Tony Blair would personally have to authorise RAF pilots to shoot down a
civilian plane. The final decision would be relayed over a special
communications system carried with the Prime Minister at all times. F3s could
scramble within five to 10 minutes of a threat being identified. Details of the
effect of budget cuts come as the RAF is suffering from a critical shortage of
pilots and low morale.

Armed Forces minister Adam Ingram admitted earlier this year that pilots from
New Zealand have had to be brought in to plug the personnel gaps. The last
available figures show the RAF is 131 fast jet pilots short of its target of
1,484.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 30, 2002

RAF IS LEFT EXPOSED TO TERROR ATTACK; TOP GUNS TOO 'RUSTY' TO STOP TERROR
ATTACKS

BYLINE: ByTim Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 670 words


THE RAF's top guns are being starved of combat practice by budget cuts, leaving
Britain vulnerable to September 11style terrorist attacks.

In what ex-Chief of the Defence Staff Lord Craig of Radley has branded
"ridiculous folly", the RAF's elite fast jet pilots spend two-thirds of the year
flying fewer than the minimum number of hours considered safe. The four Tornado
F3 fighter squadrons, our main defence against kamikaze attackers, have been
among the worst hit.

Last night the Tories branded the cash cuts a "ludicrous risk".

And Lord Craig, Britain's most senior officer during the Gulf War, warned that
RAF pilots must spend "an absolute minimum" of 18-20 hours in the air each month
or risk losing the edge that can be the difference between life and death.

But official Ministry of Defence figures reveal that pilots with 10 of the RAF's
15 frontline fast jet squadrons are airborne for fewer than 18 hours a month.
None gives its pilots an average of 20 hours.

Of greatest concern is the fate of the F3 pilots - the modern-day equivalents of
"The Few", those Spitfire and Hurricane pilots who reached for the skies during
the Battle of Britain.

The four squadrons, based at RAF Leeming in North Yorkshire and RAF Leuchars in
Fife, all flew for less than 18 hours during most months last year.

They were already under strain after cash cuts and a chronic shortage of pilots
forced the closure of 5 Squadron at RAF Coningsby, which had been charged with
the air defence of London.

The figures also reveal that pilots with 14 Squadron failed to get 18 hours
aloft during any of the past 12 months. Some Tornado, Jaguar and Harrier
squadrons managed as few as four or five hours of flying a month. The MoD
refuses to disclose, on security grounds, the minimum number of flying hours
that Nato recommends.

But Lord Craig told the House of Lords: "Fast jet pilots need an absolute
minimum of 18 to 20 hours flying per month, depending on their role and the
weapons systems concerned, if they are to achieve and maintain their operational
expertise.

"The provision of new smart weapons, but without full and complete training and
preparation for their use before crews are sent to a combat zone, would be
ridiculous folly."

Shadow Defence Secretary Bernard Jenkin said: "Obviously, Lord Craig's views
should be taken very seriously. The Government is taking ludicrous risks,
particularly at a time of high alert for terror attacks which would be bound to
be something unexpected.

"The reason for the shortage of flying hours is money. The Government has
underfunded what they promised to deliver in their 1998 defence review.

"Is it any wonder that we have a shortage of pilots when they get fed up and
frustrated because they can't get their flying hours?"

An MoD spokesman said: "The RAF is satisfied we fly the number of hours we need.
We continue to meet all our operational commitments."

Officials insist the same number of aircraft are available for defence of the UK
as before the closure of 5 Squadron and that our pilots - among the best in the
world - are ready round the clock to intercept any incoming threat.

But defence chiefs are conscious that US jets did not react quickly enough on
September 11 to shoot down the aircraft hijacked by Al Qaeda and they would have
just minutes to react.

Tony Blair would personally have to authorise RAF pilots to shoot down a
civilian plane. The final decision would be relayed over a special
communications system carried with the Prime Minister at all times.

F3s could scramble within five to 10 minutes of a threat being identified.

Details of the effect of budget cuts come as the RAF is suffering from a
critical shortage of pilots and low morale.

Armed Forces Minister Adam Ingram admitted earlier this year that pilots from
New Zealand have had to be brought in to plug the personnel gaps.

The last available figures show the RAF is 131 fast jet pilots short of its
target of 1,484.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                              July 1, 2002, Monday

TERROR CHIEF IS KILLED;
 DEADLY ATTACK BY ISRAELI TANKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 313 words


ISRAELI tanks killed a Hamas terrorist leader in the West Bank city of Nablus
yesterday.

Mohammed Tahir was blamed for the deaths of at least 100 Israelis in suicide
bombings, including a recent bus attack which killed 19 and a disco bombing last
year where 21 died.

Palestinians said Tahir was one of the leading bombmakers in Izzadine al Qassam,
the military wing of Hamas.

One of his aides also died in the shelling and another Hamas activist was
seriously wounded.

Israel has started building a towering electronic fence that will protect three
sides of Jerusalem against Palestinian attacks.

Defence Minister Binya-min Ben-Eliezer visited the southern edge of Jerusalem
yesterday. He said: "I am happy that we have started with the project."

The fence will stretch 30 miles and is similar to one that will separate part of
the West Bank from Israel further to the northwest.

Construction began earlier this month, part of a larger plan to build barriers
that will completely separate Israel from the West Bank.

Palestinians want east Jerusalem for a capital of a future state, and oppose
fencing off the city from the West Bank. Roadblocks have already made it
difficult for Palestinians to visit the city since violence flared up again in
September 2000.

Palestinian attackers have launched frequent attacks in the area.

Gunmen have fired from the West Bank at Gilo, a Jewish settlement built on land
Israel captured in the 1967 Middle East War.

Now, as Israel attempts to guard against bombing and shooting attacks by
Palestinians, Ben-Eliezer is overseeing several simultaneous security
operations.

They include army occupation of seven Palestinian towns in the West Bank, the
building of the two security fences and the dismantling of the illegal, isolated
Jewish settlements that are difficult for the army to defend.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 1, 2002

HUGE SECURITY AFTER WARNING OF BIN LADEN STRIKE THIS WEEK; QUEEN TERROR ATTACK
FEARS

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 4

LENGTH: 585 words


SECURITY around the Queen and Prime Minister has been stepped up amid fears of a
July 4 terrorist plot by Osama Bin Laden's supporters.

Round-the-clock armed bodyguards were said to have doubled for both Her Majesty
and Tony Blair after specific warnings from the CIA and MI6 of a possible attack
on US Independence Day this Thursday.

Britain's role as America's ally in the war on terror has led to an increased
risk from Al Qaeda members operating in this country and being shielded by
extreme Moslem clerics.

The security services are on high alert for all possible threats - from Middle
East-style "suicide bombers" on London's streets to the possibility of sniper
attack. Senior sources in Whitehall last night confirmed that big increases in
bodyguards, armed police and other additional security measures had been
approved since the September 11 terror attacks.

"Security has certainly been significantly tightened around the Prime Minister,
" said one source. "Of course, July 4 is a highly symbolic date and everyone is
aware of that."

Another added: "People looking from outside in terms of establishing risk would
no doubt put a red circle around that date for perfectly intelligent reasons.
But to be honest there is a very high level of security around senior figures at
all times post-September 11.

The Queen is watched very, very carefully."

The Queen is understood to have a series of public engagements in south London
on Thursday and intends to carry them out as normal. Extra armed police are
likely to take over surrounding office blocks and other vantage points.

Buckingham Palace last night refused to comment on the Queen's security.

Mr Blair will also undertake his normal working duties on Thursday, but Downing
Street now refuses to disclose his movements in advance.

Last night US Secretary of State Colin Powell admitted that a variety of
intelligence reports "suggest we ought to be especially vigilant as we go into
the Fourth of July season".

He said: "In the course of the next couple of days we'll be meeting on a regular
basis to make an assessment of any additional threats that might be coming our
way."

Condoleezza Rice, the US President's national security adviser, said: "A lot of
preparations are being made to try to secure obvious sites."

She added: "It is a time for enhanced vigilance."

Last night it was claimed Bin Laden was alive as of late December, which means
he survived a US assault on caves in Tora Bora in Afghanistan.

America's Time magazine reported that a letter from Bin Laden was found on his
operations chief Abu Zubaydah when he was arrested in Pakistan in March. The
hand-written note urges Zubaydah to continue fighting the US even if something
happens to Bin Laden.

Other papers seized in Zubaydah's hideaway in Faisalabad, Pakistan, include
plans for attacks on tankers and cruise ships. Zubaydah is now in US custody.

Meanwhile, it also emerged yesterday that the US government has ordered military
commanders to stock up on antiradiation pills and make plans to give them to US
troops should they be exposed to radioactive fall-out from an attack.

Suppliers of potassium iodine say shipments to the military have increased in
recent months amid fears of new terror threats against US troops abroad and
domestic American targets, including nuclear power plants.

If taken immediately after exposure, the tablets can protect the thyroid gland
from diseases caused by radiation.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 1, 2002

QUEEN ON ALERT OVER JULY 4 TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 485 words


SECURITY around the Queen and Prime Minister has been stepped up amid fears of a
July 4 terrorist plot by Osama Bin Laden's supporters.

Round-the-clock armed bodyguards were said to have doubled for both Her Majesty
and Tony Blair after specific warnings from the CIA and MI6 of a possible attack
on US Independence Day this Thursday.

Britain's role as America's ally in the war on terror has led to an increased
risk from Al Qaeda members operating in this country and being shielded by
extreme Moslem clerics.

The security services are on high alert for all possible threats - from Middle
Eaststyle "suicide bombers" on London's streets to the possibility of sniper
attack. Senior sources in Whitehall last night confirmed that big increases in
bodyguards, armed police and other security measures had been approved since the
September 11 terror attacks.

"Security has certainly been significantly tightened around the Prime Minister,
" said one source. "Of course, July 4 is a highly symbolic date and everyone is
aware of that."

Another added: "People looking from outside in terms of establishing risk would
no doubt put a red circle around that date for perfectly intelligent reasons.
But to be honest there is a very high level of security around senior figures at
all times post-September 11.

The Queen is watched very, very carefully."

The Queen is understood to have a series of public engagements in south London
on Thursday and intends to carry them out as normal. Extra armed police are
likely to take over surrounding office blocks and other vantage points.

Buckingham Palace last night refused to comment on the Queen's security. Mr
Blair will also undertake his normal duties on Thursday, but Downing Street
refuses to give his movements in advance.

Last night US Secretary of State Colin Powell admitted that a variety of
intelligence reports "suggest we ought to be especially vigilant as we go into
the Fourth of July season".

He said: "In the course of the next couple of days we'll be meeting on a regular
basis to make an assessment of any additional threats that might be coming our
way."

Condoleezza Rice, the US President's national security adviser, said: "A lot of
preparations are being made to try to secure obvious sites."

She added: "It is a time for enhanced vigilance."

Last night it was claimed Bin Laden was alive as of late December, which means
he survived a US assault on caves in Tora Bora in Afghanistan.

America's Time magazine reported that a letter from Bin Laden was found on his
operations chief Abu Zubaydah when he was arrested in Pakistan in March. The
hand-written note urges Zubaydah to continue fighting the US even if something
happens to Bin Laden.

Other papers seized in Zubaydah's hideaway in Faisalabad, Pakistan, include
plans for attacks on tankers and cruise ships. Zubaydah is now in US custody.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  July 2, 2002

U.S. 'KILLS 120 AT AFGHAN WEDDING';
Did pilots mistake celebration gunfire for a terror attack?

BYLINE: William Lowther

SECTION: Pg. 4;5

LENGTH: 798 words


MORE than 100 people were feared killed yesterday after American planes bombed a
wedding party in Afghanistan.

It is believed that patrolling aircraft mistakenly thought they were being
attacked when weapons were fired in the air by partygoers a tradition at Afghan
marriage celebrations.

The pilots called for support, and an AC-130 gunship and a B-52 bomber attacked
the mountain village of Kakarak, in south-western Uruzgan province.

Residents reported that around 120 people, many of them women and children, were
killed and many more were injured. Special forces and other coalition troops
have been hunting Al Qaeda and Taliban fugitives in the Kakarak area.

However, a spokesman at Kandahar city hospital, where some of the wounded were
taken after the bombing, said: 'There were no Taliban or Al Qaeda in the
village. These people were all civilians.' Pentagon spokesman Jeff Davis claimed
that antiaircraft fire had been directed at an air patrol of 'coalition
warplanes' and they had responded with a close air support attack north of
Kandahar. He added: 'At least one bomb was errant. We don't know where it fell.
U.S.

forces evacuated four injured civilian personnel from the area and we are giving
them treatment.' He said he could not confirm that those casualties were caused
by the errant bomb, or comment on the number of dead and injured claimed by
residents.

At Bagram air base, north of Kabul, U.S. Army colonel Roger King said warplanes
joined the attack after coalition forces had come under fire.

He added: 'Right now there are a lot of different opinions as to what happened.'
U.S.

investigators would be sent to the area.

The bombing was said to have happened at 1am on Monday in a rugged region.

Villagers said guests at the wedding party were firing guns in the air as is
common in rural Afghanistan. They said the air attack lasted for about two
hours.

Resident Abdul Saboor told the BBC: 'We managed to transfer some of the wounded
to Kandahar in the morning.

Some of the foreigners' helicopters also came to help.' In Kandahar, one
survivor, Abdul Qayyum, told reporters that the Americans had come to the area
'demanding to know who fired on the helicopters'.

He went on: 'I said, "I don't know" and one of the soldiers wanted to tie my
hands but someone said I was an old man and out of the respect they didn't.'

Hospital officials said a number of wounded were brought to Kandahar. Most of
the dead and injured were women and children.

Sher Mohammed, a nurse at the Kandahar hospital, said he was told about 120
people had died in the bombing and that scores more had been injured.

An injured six-year- old girl was brought in still wearing her party dress.

Villagers said all members of her family had been killed.

Another wounded child, seven-year-old Malika, lost her mother, father, one
brother and a sister, according to neighbours who brought her to the hospital.

The injured also included Haji Mohammed Anwar, a friend of President Hamid
Karzai and one of the first prominent local figures who rose up against the
Taliban.

Another nurse, Mohammed Nadir, said: 'We have many children who are injured and
who have no family. Their families are gone.

'The villagers brought these children in and they have no parents. Everyone says
their parents are dead.' The bombing was the latest in a series of 'friendly
fire' incidents in Afghanistan in which Americans have killed their own forces,
allied troops or innocent civilians. Last December, the U.S. was accused of
mistakenly bombing a convoy of Afghan tribal elders on their way to Kabul to
attend the inauguration of the country's interim government.

Reports from the area of the attack near Khost, about 100 miles south of Kabul
said 65 delegates were killed on their way to the installation of President
Karzai.

But according to senior U.S.

military sources, the convoy was carrying Al Qaeda and Taliban leaders trying to
flee the country. In another incident, three American special forces soldiers
were killed in December by a bomb dropped from a warplane they had summoned to
help them.

The 'friendly fire' tragedy also killed five anti-Taliban fighters and injured
19 other U.S.

servicemen. The troops called in the B-52 bomber after coming under mortar
attack from Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters north of Kandahar.

The plane dropped a 2,000lb smart bomb, one of the most modern and precise
weapons in the U.S. military arsenal and one that has frequently been used to
blitz the Taliban.

America launched air strikes in Afghanistan last year against the Al Qaeda
network of Osama Bin Laden, blamed for the September 11 attacks on Washington
and New York, and the group's Taliban protectors.


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  July 3, 2002

ATTACK TERROR FOR ASYLUM CRITIC AINE

BYLINE: Barry Roche

LENGTH: 251 words


    Drunk burglar gets two years

    A DRUNK who subjected anti-immigration campaigner Aine Ni Chonaill to a
terrifying ordeal was jailed for two years yesterday.

    Patrick "Mock" O'Driscoll broke into her home and knocked her to the ground
in a scuffle.

    Then he forced schoolteacher Aine, who wants all failed asylum-seekers
kicked out of Ireland, to drive him to a bar, a court heard yesterday.

    She only escaped after alerting the attention of another customer who tipped
off Gardai.

    O'Driscoll, 41, from Skibbereen, blamed "the drink" when he appeared before
Cork Circuit Criminal Court yesterday.

    He said: "I should not have done it -I am ashamed of what I did, truly.

    "I know it's the drink that gets me into trouble -I hate to be locked up
behind bars." Det Garda Shanley told the court that O'Driscoll had 40 previous
convictions including some for assault, domestic violence, burglary and larceny.

    The detective added: "He has a problem with drink. When he goes to prison,
he works away, but when he comes out, he relapses."

    Judge Sean O'Donnabhain sentenced O'Driscoll to three years but suspended
the last year on condition that O'Driscoll goes on an alcohol dependency course.

    Aine, 56, who ran unsuccessfully in the election on an anti-immigration
ticket, was in court for the hearing.

    But she did not speak and told the Irish Sun afterwards: "I'm here today as
a private person.

    "As a private person, I never talk to journalists -thank you and good day."


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2002 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                  July 3, 2002

Nurse in sex terror attack

BYLINE: David Higgerson

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 277 words



A NURSE was pushed to the floor and sexually assaulted by a man who pounced on
her as she walked to work.

The terrified 21-year-old was attacked in Shadsworth Road, Blackburn, close to
the junction with Haslingden Road, as she made her way to the maternity unit at
Queen's Park Hospital.

She fought back as the attacker tried to snatch her handbag but he then turned
on her, pushed her to the ground and knelt on her before committing a serious
sexual assault.

The victim managed to break free and ran to a nearby Miller Homes building site
where workmen comforted her and raised the alarm.

Police today urged the public to help catch the attacker.

They were due to ask hospital bosses to warn other nursing staff about the
dangers of walking alone.

Detective Sergeant Paul Murphy, from Blackburn CID, said: "The victim was simply
walking to work at 12.45pm yesterday when she was attacked by this man, who
walked up behind her.

"She managed to hold on to her handbag when he tried to snatch that, but was
then subjected to a very serious sexual assault."

Mr Murphy added: "We would appeal for any witnesses to come forward or if anyone
recognises the description to contact us immediateley."

The woman was today described as being 'badly shaken' although she did not
suffer any serious injuries.

The attacker is described as being white, around 20-25 years old, of medium
build with short hair.

He was wearing a blue, three-quarter length jacket and denim jeans.

He was also described as having blond stubble.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Blackburn police on 01254 353564 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 4, 2002, Thursday

TERROR ATTACK AT PUB;
 NO ACTION AGAINST DRINKER

BYLINE: Krysia Diver BRAVE: Eddie McVeigh held down the man till police
arrived.; Picture: Steve Murphy; MAYHEM: McVeighs pub in Sparkbrook where the
incident took place

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 250 words


A MAN who head-butted and bit a pub landlord in a frenzied attack will not face
prosecution - because he was suffering a fit. The attacker who threatened to
kill everyone in a Birmingham pub will instead have treatment for the condition.

Eddie McVeigh, 60, of McVeighs, in Sparkbrook, received a broken nose in the
attack in front of shocked customers yesterday afternoon. Mr McVeigh restrained
the man until police arrived, who arrested him.

But it emerged today he was not going to be prosecuted because he was ill and
needed medical help.

Mr McVeigh, a former boxer and owner of McVeigh's Gym, said: 'My daughter told
me a man had blacked out so I went to check his pulse.

'He lashed out like nothing I've seen before. He headbutted me and started
ripping at my chest and biting my arms. I was terrified and I could see the
blood pouring out of my nose, but I didn't want him harming any of my customers
so I used all my strength to hold him down.' Witness James O'Kane, 50, said:
'One minute a man was sat drinking a pint of beer and the next thing he
collapsed. 'I saw the landlord go over to him and feel behind his ear. The man
suddenly came to and head-butted the landlord.'

A spokesman for West Midlands Police said the man was released from custody and
sent to hospital without charge after it became apparent he was unwell.

'The man suffers from a medical condition which caused him to have a fit and
during the course of this someone was injured,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             July 4, 2002, Thursday

CASH HELP FOR VICTIMS OF TERRORIST ATTACKS SUPPORT: Leading Firefighter Keith
Gilks, and firefighters Martin; Burrows, Mark Allen, Larry Stokes and Kevin Bray
with the cheque showing the huge amount raised in the county for relatives of
firemen killed in New; York in the September 11 attacks. Picture: MARK RADFORD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 170 words


FIREFIGHTERS from Warwickshire will show solidarity with their colleagues in the
US by handing over a massive $ 63,000 to victims of the September 11 terrorist
attacks.

The cash, collected through exercises including a mammoth bucket-shaking effort
by the Warwickshire service's men and women on the streets of the county, equals
more than pounds 40,000.

The money is being added to the New York Firefighters' Appeal after being
donated in town centres across the county. Some of the cash raised came from
donations sent in by schools and other groups.

Collections were held in Leamington, Nuneaton and Rugby, and across the rest of
the county, with charity events and car washes - all strongly supported by the
public, with further donations coming in many months after the attack.

County fire officer Brian Hibbert said: "The sadness of September 11 will fade,
but the memories of our colleagues in the New York Fire Department and their
actions at the World Trade Centre will remain for ever."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             July 4, 2002, Thursday

TERROR ATTACK ALERT AS US CELEBRATES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 98 words


SECURITY was being stepped up around the world today amid fears of terrorist
attacks against Americans as they celebrate Independence Day.

At Wimbledon, police have asked spectators and players to be vigilant as US
stars such as Venus and Serena Williams are due on court.

Championship organisers are already red-faced after three security breaches.

In the latest incident, two students entered the players' lounge on Monday
without passes.

Meanwhile, US forces in Afghanistan will mark their traditional holiday with
barbecues and parties but fireworks are banned.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  July 4, 2002

Fighters patrol US skies amid fears of 4 July terrorist attack

BYLINE: James Langton;Justin Davenport

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 390 words


FIGHTER jets are patrolling the skies over America's biggest cities today amid
fears of a new terrorist attack during the 4 July holiday.

The move came as security was also stepped up in London following concerns that
US interests here could be a prime target for attack.

In the US an unprecedented security operation saw thousands of police, troops
and undercover agents watching over 2,000 celebrations to mark the signing of
the declaration of independence in 1776.

A double fence has been thrown around the White House, where President Bush will
watch a massive firework display tonight along with 500,000 people. In New York,
navy patrol boats cruised the Hudson river as airforce jets roared overhead.

The traditional firework display will include a moment of silence, followed by
the ringing of a bell to mourn the nearly 3,000 killed in the World Trade Center
attack. Twin beams of light will also be projected into the skies.

Security chiefs in Washington have issued a series of warnings that terrorists
could be planning to use the 4 July celebrations for a second wave of terrorist
attacks.

The FBI warned that people with ties to terrorist groups were downloading images
of sports stadiums from the internet. The agency said there was no specific
threat but suspects had accessed the www.

worldstadiums.com site which includes the Edward Jones Dome, home to the NFL's
St Louis Rams, and the RCA Dome, home to the Indianapolis Colts.

President Bush urged Americans to celebrate the 226th birthday of the United
States, saying they should be "joyous in their celebration and celebrate the
fact that we're fortunate enough to be Americans.'' Intelligence experts are
reported to have picked up a series of threats about a 4 July attack, but
specific targets have not been mentioned.

In London, security patrols around US banks, hotels and corporations were also
being stepped up. There was extra security around the American ambassador's
annual 4 July party at his Regent's Park address.

The event, hosted by William Farish, attracts some of Britain's most powerful
people, including royalty.

Police will be mounting extra patrols around other potential high-profile
targets, including Canary Wharf and Buckingham Palace, while security at London
airports was on the highest alert.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                              July 5, 2002, Friday

'TERRORISTS' TO BLAME FOR AIRPORT GUN ATTACK Los Angeles Police close the
walkway to travellers at the Los; Angeles International Airport yesterday after
the gun attack Passengers and visitors are kept clear of the main building

SECTION: ROP; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 692 words


A gunman shot and killed two people and wounded three others before he was shot
dead by El Al security agents at the Israeli airline's ticket desk in Los
Angeles International airport yesterday.

Israel immediately said the shooting appeared to be a 'terrorist attack' but the
FBI said there was no indication that it was, although it was too early to rule
out anything.

The incident came amid heightened security around the nation as Americans,
nervous after a string of government warnings about possible future acts of
terror, celebrated their first Independence Day holiday since the September 11
attacks in New York and Washington.

In Los Angeles a man shot and killed a counter clerk at the El Al desk inside
the airport's international terminal at around 11: 30 am.

He then turned his weapon on others in the ticket line before Israeli security
staff shot the assailant dead.

At least four people wounded in the attack were taken to nearby hospitals and
one of them later died, police said.

Officials in the United States said the motive for the shooting was not
immediately known and Los Angeles Mayor James Hahn said it was an 'isolated'
incident.

'There is no indication of any terrorism connection in this matter right now,'
said FBI spokesman Matthew McLaughlin. 'At this point it's too early to rule out
anything.'

But Israel's Transport Minister Efraim Sneh said in Jerusalem the attack was
believed to be the work of 'terrorists.'

'Organizations, primarily Islamic extremist organizations, are planning to hit
Israeli targets outside (Israel). And an airport is a preferred target,' Sneh
told Israel's Army Radio.

'We believe we are talking about a terrorist attack.'

Foreign Minister Shimon Peres vowed that Israel, with US help, would track down
those responsible for the shooting.

'Peres pointed out the quick response and courage of the Israeli security agents
at the site, and he added he is certain that Israeli and American security
forces will succeed in searching for and capturing organizers (of the attack),'
said a Foreign Ministry statement issued in Peres' name.

El Al, Israel's national airline, probably has the toughest security precautions
of any airline, developed in response to a series of attacks by Arab and Islamic
militants on its operations during the 1960s and early 1970s.

El Al said it had no plans to alter its operations. 'El Al is not taking any
action or making any changes whatsoever,' a spokesman for the airline said in
Jerusalem. 'We always have security and because of our security, we prevented a
great tragedy.'

Witnesses in the airport said they heard a burst of gunfire and reported hearing
eight to ten shots. Some said they thought the noise was fireworks, but others
threw themselves to the floor.

Extra police, many with sniffer dogs, had been drafted into Los Angeles Airport
(LAX), the world's third busiest, for what was expected to be one of the
heaviest travel weekends.

The airport's international terminal was evacuated immediately after the
shooting, leaving hundreds of travellers milling around on pavements.

In a separate incident, a small plane crashed into a crowd of people at a picnic
area east of Los Angeles, killing one person and injuring ten, and adding to the
general sense of apprehension and unease around the country.

Plane crash in picnic park

A small plane crashed into a crowd of people celebrating July 4th near a picnic
area east of Los Angeles yesterday, killing one person and injuring ten.

The crash in San Dimas, California, about 35 miles east of Los Angeles, happened
near midday as the plane crashed along the shore of a reservoir used as a picnic
area.

One person was killed and two children suffered heart attacks. Eight others were
injured and airlifted from the site of the accident by helicopter. Debris from
the small plane was scattered in the Frank G. Bonelli Park, a popular recreation
area.

It was not immediately clear what had caused the crash and whether the pilot had
been attempting to land the plane beside the lake.

The crash site was near a local airfield.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              July 5, 2002, Friday

'TOXIC TERROR' TRIO;
 CHEMICAL ATTACK PROBE COPS SWOOP ON TARTAN TERRORISTS

BYLINE: Ron Moore, Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 353 words

HIGHLIGHT: TERROR CHIEF: Adam Busby was arrested in Ireland; ROYAL TARGET:;
Prince William was singled out


TARTAN terrorist Adam Busby has been arrested by armed cops probing a toxic
terror campaign.

Glaswegian Busby, 53, now living in Dublin, was arrested by Special Branch cops
working with Garda officers at his run-down flat on Monday.

The Scottish Nationalist Liberation Army founder was seized after a series of
suspect packages, hoax bomb warnings and sick death threats were sent to VIPs
across Britain, including Cherie Blair and Prince William.

Two other men were also arrested in separate raids in Scotland on Monday after a
lengthy investigation into the mail attacks.

Ex-soldier Busby was pounced on by Special Branch cops and quizzed about
allegedly sending Tony Blair's wife Cherie, a package containing noxious caustic
soda.

Busby, who fled to Ireland over a decade ago, was also questioned about 14 other
suspicious packages sent to politicians.

However, he was released 24 hours later after a file on the case was sent to the
Director of Public Prosecutions in Ireland.

Busby, whose terror group once threatened to contaminate the water supply of
English cities, may now face legal moves to have him returned to Scotland for
trial.

Two other Scots from the Strathclyde area were arrested by Fife police over
suspect packages sent to Downing Street and St Andrew's University, where Prince
William is studying.

There are links between the trio, police sources said last night, although the
other two men have also since been released.

Detective Chief Superintendent Richard Munro, the officer leading the probe,
confirmed two men had been arrested in the Strathclyde force area.

DCS Munro said: "A report has been sent to the Fiscal's office in Dundee in
connection with a number of offences."

The arrests follow a massive investigation into the terror campaign, which began
last February.

Culture Minister Tessa Jowell, Labour MP Gwyneth Dunwoody and Cherie Blair were
among hose targeted.

Mrs Blair received a bottle of aroma-therapy oil containing corrosive caustic
soda with a letter encouraging her to rub the oil on her face.

reporters@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  July 5, 2002

AIR GIRL'S SEX ATTACK TERROR IN HOTEL ROOM

BYLINE: Barry Roche

LENGTH: 445 words


    Evil porter tried to gag her

    A HOTEL porter used a master key to sneak into a sleeping air hostess's
bedroom, a court heard yesterday.

    Then Colm Twomey put his hands round her throat and tried to gag her with
masking tape as she lay helpless in bed.

    But he fled when the 24-year-old woman, who cannot be named for legal
reasons, screamed in terror.

    Twomey, 29, yesterday told a judge he had NOT meant to rape her.

    Instead he insisted he had just wanted to "sexually dominate" the woman.

    Crashed

    Cork Circuit Court heard that the air hostess still suffered "terrifying
flashbacks" after the chilling sex ordeal.

    She told cops that she had feared for her life and later became so upset
while driving that she crashed her car.

    The air hostess had gone to bed at the Great Southern Hotel, at Cork
Airport, after flying in from Gatwick when she heard a man enter her room.

    She got up but Twomey pushed her back on the bed and tried to gag her with
the tape.

    Twomey turned and fled but was later overcome by guilt and gave himself up
to gardai.

    The court heard he had been on a night off from the hotel but drank two
pints at the bar before getting the master key-card.

    In a statement to gardai, the air hostess said she was still suffering
trauma.

    "I remember leaving Cork for our flight back to Gatwick," she said.

    "When we took off, I looked down at the hotel and thought I could have been
flying back on my plane but in a wooden box in the hold."

    She continued: "I didn't sleep for more than about an hour at time as events
of that night in Cork would play in my head like a snapshot from a sinister
movie over and over again.

    "I seemed powerless to switch it off -so much so that one week, as my mind
was yet again engaged in yet another 're-run', I crashed my car.

    "I had been so preoccupied I didn't notice the lady in front of me had
stopped.

    "This was a release point for me as until then the shock had set in but the
tears had not -I cried for hours."

    The woman said she still suffered sleepless nights and depression Treatment

    She did not attend yesterday's hearing and said in her statement: "I haven't
been back to Cork since and nor do I wish to."

    Defence counsel Tom Creed SC said that Twomey, from Togher, Cork, had been
receiving psychiatric help since the incident.

    Mr Creed said it had been completely out of character for him.

    Twomey -who admitted attempted sexual assault -is currently engaged to be
married and his fiancee is standing by him.

    Judge Moran agreed to adjourn sentence until February 2003 to allow Twomey
to continue receiving psychiatric treatment.


LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2002 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  July 5, 2002

Gunman kills two in attack at US airport; Terrorism fears after shots fired at
Israeli airline desk as America marks Independence Day

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 23 words


AN FBI investigation was under way last night after a gunman opened fire at Los
Angeles International Airport, killing two people.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                 Copyright 2002 Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                              July 5, 2002, Friday

GUNMAN KILLS TWO PEOPLE IN US JULY 4 AIRPORT ATTACK;
 TERRORISM FEAR: ASSASSIN SHOT DEAD AT EL AL COUNTER IN LOS ANGELES

BYLINE: Chris Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 442 words


A GUNMAN opened fire at the ticket counter of Israel's El Al airlines at Los
Angeles International Airport yesterday, killing two people before being shot
dead, police said.

A gunman approached someone at the terminal and opened fire, said police, and
Byron Tucker, a spokesman for Governor Gray Davis, confirmed that an El Al
security guard had shot dead the gunman.

No other details about assassin or victim were immediately available.

A witness, Thad Weimlein, described an initial flurry of fire at the Tom Bradley
International Terminal at midday, followed by silence, then more gunfire.

He told CNN that he saw plainclothes policemen pulling out their guns and badges
at the same time.

"At first, a lot of people thought it was fireworks and a prank", Weimlein said.
"It was probably eight to 10 shots. People were hitting the floor." The
shoot-out happened with security on high alert around the United States for a
possible terrorist attack on Independence Day.

FBI agents were at the scene but there was no indication of the shooter's
identity or nationality, nor initial indication of his motive.

Israel's El Al is known as one of the most security-conscious airlines in the
world.

At least five ambulances were at the airport, where planes continued to land and
take off soon after the shooting. But much of the airport had been evacuated.
Traffic was stopped on the road for departing passengers but moved steadily
along that for arrivals.

Americans yesterday held cautious Independence Day celebrations as fears of a
new terror attack overshadowed the usual festivities.

Military jets patrolled major cities and extra police and troops were deployed
across the US as the nation marked its first Fourth of July holiday since
September 11.

"The anniversary of America's Independence is a day for gratitude and day of
celebration," US President George Bush said in an address to war veterans in
West Virginia.

"American patriotism is still a living faith. We love our country only more when
she's threatened."

But the country was on full alert after the FBI sent a nationwide advisory note
to law enforcement agencies warning of heightened traffic between terrorist
operatives overseas as Independence Day approached.

Security was especially high in Washington DC where police with hand-held metal
detectors frisked 500,000 people attending the annual firework display.

In New York 4,000 police officers, including about 1,600 in civilian clothes,
patrolled the streets, while 2,000 National Guard soldiers were on guard at
power stations, water supplies, bridges, tunnels and airports.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 6, 2002, Saturday

Terrorist attack kills 35 in Algiers

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: Overseas news; 20

LENGTH: 340 words


A bomb planted by Islamic fundamentalists in a market near Algiers yesterday
killed at least 35 people and injured 80 as Algerians celebrated the fortieth
anniversary of their independence from France.

The attack on the market in Larba, 15 miles southeast of Algiers, was the
country's worst for more than two years and the death toll seemed likely to rise
as many wounded were in a critical condition.

Witnesses reported that the explosion left a crater 6ft deep and tore the
victims' bodies apart. "I saw at least 15 bodies on top of one another inside
the crater left by the bomb impact," one witness said.

At least seven people were also injured in three other bombing incidents
yesterday within 120 miles of the capital.

Islamic rebels have fought the military-backed Government since 1992, when the
Algerian Army cancelled a general election that the Islamic Salvation Front
party looked set to win.

As the anniversary of the 1962 Evian Accords that granted independence
approached, security had been tightened in Algiers and towns such as Larba in
the region of Blida, south of the capital. The area is known as the "Triangle of
Death" because of the high number of killings there by the Armed Islamic Group
(GIA), as well as by death squads believed to be linked to the army.

The Chief of Staff for the Algerian Army, General Mohammed Lamari, said on
Tuesday that "the war against terrorism is won", even though "fundamentalism is
intact and still produces terrorists". For five years the Algerian authorities
have claimed that terrorism is "residual" and that the worst of a conflict that
has cost at least 120,000 lives was over.

But there has been a resurgence in violence this year after security forces shot
and killed Antar Zouabri, the GIA's main leader, in the town of Boufarik, 25
miles south of Algiers, on February 8.

He was replaced by Rachid Abou Tourab, who regrouped the organisation in an area
south of the capital, where thousands of civilians were massacred in the
mid-1990s.


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                  July 9, 2002

Woman's attack terror

BYLINE: jclarke

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 197 words


A YOUNG woman was attacked by a man as she walked home in Aberdeen.

The 20-year-old was put through the terrifying ordeal in the city centre during
the early hours.

The woman was walking home alone after a night out on Sunday when she started
chatting with a man outside Marks and Spencer.

They walked along Flourmill Lane together, and stopped at the rear of Provost
Skene's House.

But the man - whom she had never met before - pushed her to the ground and she
started screaming hysterically.

The woman's sobs scared the attacker off and he ran away.

The distraught victim called friends on her mobile phone. They went to meet her
and they contacted the police.

The incident happened around 2am yesterday. The woman was not injured in the
assault but was left very upset.

Police are trying to trace the man, who spoke with an Aberdeen accent.

He was between 21 and 30 years old, had short, black hair, tanned skin, brown
eyes and facial stubble.

He was wearing a white-and-black checked short-sleeved shirt, dark trousers and
black shoes.

Anyone with information can contact police on (01224) 386000 or Crimestoppers
on0800 555 111.


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                  July 9, 2002

BOY,17,IN FIREBALL TERROR ATTACK;PARENTS' PLEA IN HUNT FOR PETROL THUGS

BYLINE: Exclusive By Gerry Braiden

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 111 words


THE parents of a teenager who thugs tried to kill by turning him into a human
fireball today pleaded for them to be caught.

Sean Hagen, 17, was hit on the back with a baseball bat, doused in petrol and
then torched by a gang near his Clydebank home.

Today his dad Bernard, 39, said: "It may only be a matter of time before a
teenager in the area is killed."

Sean was engulfed in flames but, screaming in pain, managed to tear off his
blazing clothes.

A neighbour rushed to his aid and eased the agony of his burning skin with cold
water before an ambulance took him to hospital, where he is recovering from
horrific burns.

FULL STORY - PAGE 4

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: HORROR: Sean Hagen suffered serious burns when attackers doused him in
petrol and set him alight

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 July 10, 2002

Probation for terror attack on grandad; Grandson led raid on house

BYLINE: m.horne

SECTION: NEWS; COURTS; Sheriff; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 401 words


A TEENAGER who helped rob a friend's sick grandad was put on probation today.
Double-stroke victim, Albert Rendall, 67, was left bruised and distressed after
his grandson, Ronald Stott, twice forced his way into his Mearns home.

Stonehaven Sheriff Court was told that Stott had died a week after the robbery
of suspected substance abuse. He was 20.

But one of his accomplices appeared for sentencing today.

The "brutal" incident took place at the pensioner's Inverbervie home.

Michael Thom, 16, had previously admitted breaking into the property, along
withanother person, on January 22 this year, and stealing £80.

He also pleaded guilty to entering the council flat with intent to steal early
the following day.

Thom, of 15 Linton Court, Inverbervie, also admitted possessing cannabis.

The court previously heard the pensioner had been home alone when he heard
noises and saw his hall light coming on.

He was then grabbed from behind by youths, one of whom he recognised as his
grandson. He was bundled into his kitchen.

The frail pensioner, who walks with a stick, lost his balance and fell. to the
floor.

When he got up After managing to get up he found the intruders had fled with
hismoney. from his wallet and sideboard.

Mr Rendall tried to phone for help but found the phone had been damaged and he
went to bed.

At 1am he was awoken by a disturbance and heard Stott at his back door
shouting:"Let us in, grandad." The intruders got into the house and held the
pensioner down on a sofa before leaving empty-handed.

Defence agent Russell Spence said Thom was "deeply ashamed". in the incidents,
which he admitted were "pretty brutal".

He said Thom was unaware of the likelihood of violence taking place and had
mostly been outside acting as a look-out. when the events took place.

But Mr Spence admitted his client had shared in the stolen money.

Sheriff Alexander Jessop said it was a "particularly nasty incident".

But he accepted Thom's role was the lesser of those involved.

"The main offender is no longer with us," he said.

He put Thom on a year's probation and ordered him to do 80 hours of unpaid work.

Richard Rae, 19, of 1 Seaview Terrace, Gourdon, was put on probation and given
community service last month for his part in the raids.

Stott died from suspected substance abuse a week after the robbery. He was 20.


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                                 July 10, 2002

World Cup match ended in terror knife attack

BYLINE: G. Henderson

SECTION: NEWS; COURTS; MagistratesCourt; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 358 words


World Cup match ended in terror knife attack A 44-YEAR-old man attacked his
wifewith a kitchen knife as they argued in the wake of a World Cup football
match, acourt heard. John Green used the knife to slash at the bed his terrified
wife was lying on while their three-year-old daughter looked on, Ann Hampshire,
prosecuting, told magistrates.

Later he ran the blade of another knife along the back of his wife's neck,
leaving her with a wound that needed hospital treatment and three stitches.

Now the couple are obtaining a divorce and the Green's children do not want any
more contact with him, Miss Hampshire told the court.

Green, who has been living in a bail hostel in Bristol since his arrest, was
committed for sentence to Plymouth Crown Court.

He was allowed bail on condition he does not enter South Brent, does not enter
licensed premises and does not contact his family except through a solicitor,
although he is allowed to send postcards to his children.

Drink Green appeared before Totnes Court where he admitted assaulting his wife
Suzanne causing her actual bodily harm at South Brent on June 15.

An alternative charge of wounding was withdrawn.

Miss Hampshire told how Green had been drinking Jack Daniels whisky while
watching the England versus Denmark World Cup match.

After the match there was a row during which Green picked up the kitchen knife,
plunged it into plasterboard in the hallway and then began slashing at the
duvetcover while Mrs Green was on the bed.

This was witnessed by their three-year-old daughter, said Miss Hampshire.

Green smashed a desk lamp, pulled the telephone out of the socket, slashed at a
chair and plunged the knife into a table.

When his wife took the knife away he got another, placed it on the back of her
neck and dragged it across her neck, cutting her.

Magistrates were told Green had a previous conviction for theft in 1997 for
which he was jailed for a year.

John Hansell, in mitigation, said Green had "too much to drink" and added: "He
accepts that he was out of order and he did wrong and is responsible for the
injuries to his wife."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Herald Express (Torquay)

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 12, 2002, Friday

FAMILY IN AXE ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 184 words


A FAMILY was terrorised by an axeman as they walked in a park.

He swung the weapon at them, narrowly missing their two-year-old daughter.

The attack happened after her father had told the man to slow down as he raced
past them on a quad bike in Halewood Triangle, Okell Drive, Halewood.

The man said: "He nearly knocked my daughter down so I had to say something.

"He got off his bike and came at me. Eventually he went away and we decided to
head back the way we came."

But the parents, toddler daughter and six-month-old son were confronted for a
second time last Monday, at 7pm. The father said: "He said Remember me', then
pulled out an axe and came at me, saying: Your kids will see you cut to pieces'.

"He swung it at me a few times and missed with the blade but hit me with the
handle. He was waving that axe round near my kids, just near my daughter."

Eventually, he managed to fight off the axeman and escaped unhurt. "I have had
to take my wife to hospital since because she is in shock," he said.

The thug was in his early 20s, 6ft 2in, blond and stocky.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 12, 2002

TERRORIST ATTACKERS 'ARE WAR CRIMINALS'

BYLINE: By Gabriel Milland Foreign Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 320 words


AMNESTY International yesterday condemned Palestinian terrorist attacks as
crimes against humanity.

The human rights watchdog added that assaults on Israeli civilians may also be
war crimes In a hard-hitting, 44page report, Amnesty also criticises the
Palestinian authorities for doing nothing to punish those responsible and says
there can never be any justification for murdering innocent civilians.

The report - Without Distinction: Attacks On Civilians By Palestinian Armed
Groups - is Amnesty's first major investigation into possible Palestinian war
crimes.

The organisation has already probed Israeli human rights abuses seven times
since the present fighting began in September 2000.

The report states:

"Attacks against civilians by Palestinian armed groups are widespread,
systematic and in pursuit of an explicit policy to attack civilians.

"They constitute crimes against humanity. They may also constitute war crimes.

"We urge the Palestinian Authority to arrest and bring to justice those who
order, plan or carry out attacks on civilians.

"No violations by the Israeli government, no matter their scale or gravity,
justify the killing of civilians."

Out of 350 Israeli civilian victims in 128 attacks probed by Amnesty, 12 victims
were aged nine or younger and 49 were under 18.

Amnesty says: "The occasional presence of soldiers among passengers on ordinary
commuter buses in a cafe or shoppers in a market does not make such venues
legitimate targets for attacks."

A spokesman for the Israeli foreign ministry said: "We see this as a very
positive development. The world is finally paying attention to the crimes that
have been committed against Israeli civilians for decades."

Palestinian Cabinet secretary Ahmed Abdul Rahman said: "All that is happening to
Israeli citizens is a normal consequence of their occupation and rejection of
Palestinian rights."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             July 14, 2002, Sunday

Terror attack costs first lady of Lloyd's Pounds 2m

BYLINE: Maurice Chittenden

SECTION: Home news; News; 6

LENGTH: 692 words


THE first lady of Lloyd's has had to pay out nearly Pounds 2m for the terrorist
attack on the World Trade Center. Lady Rona Delves Broughton, a colourful
socialite who is chairwoman of the insurers' high premium group of "names", is
one of Britain's biggest financial losers from the September 11 outrage.

She is among nearly 2,500 names who have had to dip into their pockets to pay
for the loss of the twin towers in New York. Corporate investors have borne the
brunt of Lloyd's Pounds 1.98 billion losses from the attack but most names,
grouped together in 86 syndicates, have lost an average of Pounds 70,000.

Delves Broughton has had to suspend renovation work at her country home, the
18th century Doddington Hall set in 800 acres in Cheshire, and has taken out a
bank loan using her Pounds 2m home in Kensington, west London, as collateral.

With an estimated Pounds 10m still invested at Lloyd's, she is, however, hopeful
of recovering her losses over the next few years. "I'm a Lloyd's lady," she said
yesterday. "There is no going back now. We have to go through the bad times."

She is the widow of Sir Evelyn Delves Broughton, whose father Sir Jock was
acquitted of the murder of his wife's lover, the Earl of Erroll, in Kenya's
notorious Happy Valley murder case in the 1940s, on which the film White
Mischief was based.

Her stepdaughter is Isabella Blow, the style guru and former Sunday Times
fashion director.

Delves Broughton, 61, whose husband died in 1993, is a non-executive director of
several leading companies including the Luxury Brands Group, Hardy Amies and
Wiggins. She will be able to set off her Pounds 2m payment at Lloyd's as a tax
loss against other income.

She became an underwriter at Lloyd's in 1976 after her husband took her to Ascot
and she asked who owned the Rolls-Royces and Bentleys near the stands. "They're
all members of Lloyd's," he replied. She drives a three-litre Audi.

Another loser is Sir William Arbuthnot, the Eton-educated baronet and older
brother of a former Tory defence minister. Arbuthnot, who is vice-chairman of
the high premium group, said last week: "I hope Lady Rona, for her sake, is
exaggerating her losses, but she underwrites more than most people do. I don't
discuss my own individual position. We don't hold post mortems into our own
losses or, indeed, into our own profits when they occur."

However, the high premium group is planning a meeting to discuss how to make its
position more secure within Lloyd's.

Lady Archer, who once defeated Delves Broughton in an election for the council
of Lloyd's, had resigned as a name before the terrorist attack, but has still
suffered a loss because of the way Lloyd's accounting system works. "Everybody
who is in the same boat as me has lost something," Archer said yesterday. "It
seems slightly strange."

The ceiling of losses is different for each syndicate, depending on whether they
offset their potential losses by reinsuring some of their risk. The 350 members
of the high premium group all have to agree to underwrite a minimum Pounds 1m of
insurance before they can join. The annual fee is just Pounds 175.

The total losses to the world insurance market of the World Trade Center attack
is estimated at between Pounds 25 billion and Pounds 50 billion, far exceeding
the previous highest insured loss of Pounds 15 billion from Hurricane Andrew in
1992. But Lloyd's requires all its syndicates to provide regular estimates of
the impact of imagined "realistic disaster scenarios". The insured loss of an
earthquake hitting Los Angeles is put at Pounds 37 billion.

A Lloyd's spokesman said last week: "We cannot give out the details of
individual names, but most people will have lost money because of September 11.
It hasn't affected those syndicates involved in motor insurance, but the vast
majority of the others will be paying towards September 11.

"We learnt a big lesson from several disasters in the early 1990s. Risks are
held much more broadly across the market, but it does mean that virtually every
syndicate has been affected."

Additional reporting: Rachel Dobson


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 14, 2002, Sunday

Oh, we still like to be beside the sea After foot and mouth and the terrorist
attacks of September 11, inclement weather is the third strike to hit seaside
tourism in Britain. But, as DAVID THOMAS finds, reports of its death have been
greatly exaggerated

BYLINE: By DAVID THOMAS

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1644 words

It's mid-July in Bournemouth, and sensible holidaymakers are taking precautions
for a day on its seven miles of golden beach. But forget floppy hats and
lashings of sunscreen. With the skies a uniform pigeon grey, a gentle drizzle in
the air and a sea breeze adding to the wind-chill factor, it's strictly jumpers,
fleeces and sensible shoes.

At noon on Friday, the only people enjoying the seashore were a solitary man,
skimming stones across the water, a party of children on a school trip, and half
a dozen teenage girls whose determination to show off their new bikinis at any
cost has led them, giggling and shivering, into the water under the pier.

Out on the water, a tour boat's rigging is hung with jaunty bunting, but its
decks are bare of passengers. On the shore, a merry-go-round pipes cheery music,
but its horses are bereft of riders.

This is what happens to a seaside resort when the rain sets in. Last week,
weathermen insisted that we are in the midst of a normal British summer. But, to
some, it's the third strike to hit the battered British tourist industry within
the past 18 months: first the moors and dales were wiped out by foot and mouth;
then city hotels emptied in the wake of September 11. Could this chilly, wet
weather be the final straw?

It certainly feels that way down by the Bournemouth seaside. The town has 20,000
hotel rooms - the largest number outside London, according to Mark Haslingden,
the president of the Bournemouth Hotel and Restaurant Association. But there
certainly are not 20,000 people lining up to get aboard the Dorset Belle Cruises
run by Peter Lamb from an office near the pier.

"This business is feast or famine," Mr Lamb says. "On a good day, we can carry
1,500 people. On a bad day, no one."

And today is one such bad day. "It's been a very poor year," he says, with a
sigh. "April and May were nice, but that was a false dawn. We do evening
excursions on Thursdays to see the fireworks at Poole. Usually we carry 200
people. Last night, we had 30, and as they were getting off they all said that
they were freezing."

At the Variety Fayre souvenir shop, Tony Huxter stands behind his counter,
waiting in vain for customers to come and buy his rubber rings, buckets and
spades. "I've got all these inflatable boats for the beach in my garage," he
says. "There must be pounds 1,500 to pounds 2,000's worth, but I haven't
bothered bringing them out. The chap who supplies my souvenir mugs has gone on
holiday. This should be the busiest time of the year for him. But he hasn't had
a single order."

The rain hits businesses at every end of the market. The Westbeach restaurant is
right on the waterfront. Its chic, modern interior would not be out of place in
Putney or Hampstead. Nor would its prices: pounds 19.95 for a three-course meal,
without coffee or wine; pounds 27.50 for fresh lobster caught locally.

In June Westbeach opened a new attraction, an outdoor decking area, with chairs,
tables and parasols. "We called it Chilled on the Beach," says Karen Linklater,
the restaurant manager. "The idea was to do fruits de mer, and have a bar out
there."

The beach has been a little bit more chilled than Karen intended. "If this was a
nice day, there would be loads of people in here drinking coffee, or sitting out
on the verandah," she says, looking round at her empty restaurant, and its
rainswept decking. "It's not good to have a restaurant empty in July."

All of which sounds as though we're about to announce that traditional summer
fatality: the Death of the English Seaside. But wait. It's not that simple.

Take Westbeach, for example. It may have a rough time on wet Friday mornings.
But, says Karen Linklater, "We have jazz nights on Thursdays, which have a
regular clientele. Tonight we're fully booked. And we'll be full on Saturday
night, too."

The rain may be hurting the beach, but canny resorts have learnt to keep other
cards up their sleeves. Bournemouth, for example, has a giant Imax cinema, where
bored, wet children can have their senses blasted by 3D movies, and an
Oceanarium where they come face-to-face with sharks. Step away from the sand and
the mood in Bournemouth suddenly improves.

When not presiding over Bournemouth's hoteliers and restaurateurs, Mark
Haslingden runs the 109-room, three-star Wessex Hotel, the giant white bulk of
which lies just yards from Tony Huxter's Variety Fayre store. Mr Haslingden,
though, is far happier than Mr Huxter. "Last year was a particularly good year,"
he says, "And this year inquiries are up."

The Wessex was recently refurbished with 24 special family rooms, each
containing up to four beds. The rate is pounds 130 a night, including breakfast
and dinner, for two adults, with children free. "The holiday season runs from
mid-July to the end of August," says Mr Haslingden. "If all my rooms were family
rooms for those six weeks, I could fill them twice over."

Yet, as he readily admits, "The cost for an adult to stay here is about pounds
400 a week, and you can go to Greece or Spain for pounds 400, no problems."

So why would anyone come to Bournemouth? "You get people who just don't want to
go abroad," he says. "They want good accommodation, English food, and lots of
different locations, like the New Forest or the Dorset Heritage Coast."

Besides, not everyone who comes to the coast is a holidaymaker. At the town's
big hotels, such as the Wessex, most guests are business types attending
corporate training weeks, or delegates at the conferences which fill the
building that has come to matter even more to the town than the oversize cinema
or the jumbo aquarium: the Bournemouth International Centre.

Almost every week sees another vast group descend, be they 3,000 members of the
British Association of Barbershop Singers or 2,000 Unison trades unionists. More
than 8,000 are due for the Tory Party Conference in October. Few of them buy
buckets and spades, but they do fill Mr Haslingden's rooms and Ms Linklater's
restaurant tables.

The message is the same all around Britain's coastal resorts: if you can't
depend on the weather, then find a way to survive without it. Carolyn Armstrong
runs the Headland Hotel in Newquay, Cornwall. "The summer's going fantastically
well," she says, cheerily. "Our business has been growing by 20 per cent a year.
In fact, I'm glad the weather isn't brilliant. I don't think we could cope if it
was."

As in Bournemouth, Cornwall's revival reflects a move away from basic buckets
and spades. The Eden Project, with its acres of waterproof glasshouses, has
provided an enormous boost to the local tourist economy. And at Newquay they've
got another trump card: surfing.

Surfers don't mind how cold it is if they're wearing a rubber wetsuit. Nor,
apparently, are they bothered by hefty bills. "Surfing is very upmarket," says
Carolyn Armstrong, contentedly. "We have Porsches and BMWs in our hotel car
park, with surfboards on the roof."

Ms Armstrong also reveals the British hoteliers' secret weapon: the total
absence of European air-traffic controllers. "People are getting fed up with
flying abroad," she says. "There's been so much news of air crashes and strikes.
We rub our hands every time we hear about more delays at airports."

Not everyone, however, is quite so blithe. John Jennett is the managing director
of Freedom of the Glens Hotels, which owns three smart properties around the
town of Ballachulish, on the shores of Loch Leven. As we talk, he reports: "The
weather's gorgeous. I can see the mountains. The sun's sparkling off the loch,
and there are white sails in the distance."

That glorious vista has been all too rare this year. "May and June were
wall-to-wall greyness," says Mr Jennett. "People can enjoy sunshine and showers.
But when it sets in with rain and mist for days on end, it's not so helpful."

Mr Jennett's own hotels work hard to provide wet-weather attractions, such as
deals with local spas and gyms. His customers frequently book well in advance,
long before they can be put off by a poor weather forecast. But, he worries,
they may not be forgiving in the longer term.

"If the weather's uniformly drab, we may pay the price the following year. If
you come here and the weather's hopeless, you go back home and tell everyone
it's not a good destination."

Or maybe you just shrug your shoulders and say, "That's Britain." On the
waterfront at Bournemouth, the Bennie family, from Melbourne, Australia, are
over here for a four-week stay, travelling the length and breadth of the
country.

"We got a lot of sun for our first five days in Brighton," says Lisa Bennie.
"Then we went up to Scotland and it went downhill."

But is she disappointed? Not a bit of it. "We could be just as cold in
Melbourne. We had a dreadful summer at home last year. There was hail and rain
on Christmas Day."

Besides, adds her Scots-born husband, Nick, British weather has its advantages.
"You wouldn't have the green English countryside without rain. And Scotland is
even more beautiful because it gets even more rain."

That is the spirit that will keep the British seaside alive. The whole world is
filled with tropical beaches, where the sun shines with tedious predictability,
and there's nothing to see but lapping waves and palms. Only in Britain, do we
dare promote our resorts on the basis that, "It'll tip with rain. But so what?"
And that's what makes us great.

And sometimes, of course, the sun does come out. Yesterday's rays transformed
Bournemouth. Families flocked to the 1,900 beach-huts that line its shores.
Peter Lamb packed his boats with passengers. Karen Linklater's snazzy Westbeach
decking filled with chilled-out lunchers. Tony Huxter could finally hope that he
might sell some of his inflatable boats. Today should be just as good. Yes, the
glorious British summer had finally arrived. Both days of it.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 July 15, 2002

Baby is thrown to floor in attack;
 Mother's terror as one-year-old's head hits concrete

BYLINE: REBECCA CAMBER

SECTION: News :999 :Theft, Pg.5

LENGTH: 458 words


A MOTHER feared for the life of her baby after a teenager rode into her on his
bike, knocked her over and snatched her bag.

Amanda Smith dropped her one-year-old son Tommy-Ray when the thug rode into the
back of her legs, pushing her to the pavement on Church Road in Lawrence Hill.

The force of the blow shoved Miss Smith to the ground. She lost grip on her son
and he fell more than three feet head-first on to the concrete pavement.

The 30-year-old mother screamed as her baby fell to the ground.

She rushed to pick him up, but when he didn't cry she feared that he might be
dead or seriously brain damaged.

She spent a few agonising minutes waiting before he started to cry and move in
her arms.

But she barely had enough time to feel relieved before her attacker took
advantage of the situation and grabbed her handbag.

The teenager, who is thought to be aged between 13 and 14, picked up his BMX and
sped away towards Barton Hill without looking back after the incident.

To Miss Smith's relief, doctors at the Bristol Children's Hospital found that
Tommy-Ray had only suffered bruising and scratches - and after a few hours she
was able to take him home.

Now she wants to help police catch her attacker before he strikes again.

She said: "I was actually on the way to the babysitters when it happened.

"I heard a noise behind me and the next thing I knew I had been shoved to the
ground and I was on my knees.

"I didn't know what was happening at first but I realised that Tommy-Ray had hit
the ground as well.

"I was waiting for a few minutes for him to cry, but it seemed like hours, it
was just so horrible he could have died, that's what was so scary not the
mugging." The thief got away with 130 worth of benefit cheques and 70 given to
Tommy-Ray for his birthday just days before.

Miss Smith had been planning to put the 70 from her friends and family towards
some new clothes and a bike for Tommy-Ray when he was older.

Now she says she is afraid to walk around on her own after the attack and she
has to keep looking over her shoulder.

Spokesman for Avon and Somerset Police Paul Gainey said: "Anybody who rides a
bike into a woman holding a child is completely reckless. He had no idea how
badly injured the women or child could be.

"This person has been completely thoughtless for somebody's safety.

"If he is willing to knock down a woman and child he is capable of anything and
must be caught." Her attacker is described as between 13 and 14, 5ft, white,
blond hair, wearing a blue cap, a blue Adidas sweatshirt. He was riding a BMX
with no saddle and coloured disc spokes in the wheel. The mugging happened at
7.15pm on Friday, July 5.

r. camber@bepp. co. uk

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 July 15, 2002

Youth's terror attack on boy.

BYLINE: Claire Fearn

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 168 words



A YOUTH robbed a 14-year-old boy just weeks after he had been released from
custody for a similar offence.

Aaron Booth, aged 17, grabbed 14-year-old in a supermarket car park, forcing him
him against a wall with his arm across his throat.

As he demanded cash, a couple nearby came to the terrified teenager's aid and
Booth ran off with GBP 8.50 of the boy's money.

The robbery was reported to the police and, a few days, later Booth was arrested
and later admitted committing the offence.

Bolton Crown Court heard that Booth, of no fixed abode, had 15 previous court
appearances on his record and that it was his third robbery offence.

The court was told that Booth had been neglected and disowned by his own family.

He had been destitute at the time with no money or food and had been living
rough.

Judge Clement Goldstone QC said the 14-year-old victim must have been terrified.
Booth was sentenced to an 18 months' Detention and Training Order at a Young
Offenders' Institution.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             July 15, 2002, Monday

PARENTS ACCEPT BODY WILL NEVER BE FOUND;
 TERROR ATTACK: SEARCH FOR REMAINS OFFICIALLY ENDS IN NEW YORK

BYLINE: Robin Turner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 408 words


THE parents of a talented Welsh concert pianist killed in the September 11
terrorist attacks on New York finally accepted yesterday that her body will
never be found.

Katherine Wolf, 37, from West Cross, Swansea, was on the 97th floor of the World
Trade Centre's north tower when the first suicide jet crashed through the
building's huge glass windows.

She had been working in the highrise offices of finance firm Marsh and McLennan
for just three weeks.

For years she had worked in another part of New York for British company
Schroders.

This week the search for bodies of the terror attack will officially finish with
the devastated site having been cleared away.

Katherine's parents, retired headmaster Howard James and his wife Val, said at
their West Cross home they had now given up hope of a funeral for their
daughter.

The couple have visited New York but found it too painful to go the actual site
where their daughter died.

Mrs James said, "We will never get over her loss.

"She was a lovely daughter to us and we are very proud of her.

"It makes it all the more painful Katherine's body was never found, so we could
have a funeral."

She moved to America in 1988 working as a professional musician.

After meeting her husband Charles Wolf on the set of an opera she decided to
stay.

Katherine, who had travelled the world giving piano recitals and acting as an
accompanist for orchestras and opera companies, later opted for a more regular
income. She worked for asset company Schroders in New York and shortly before
the terrorist attacks made the fateful decision to switch jobs.

Because of the ferocity of the aviation fires in both the south and north World
Trade Centre towers, less than half of the 2,813 victims' bodies have been
found.

On the 97th floor of the north tower, close to the spot where the hijacked
American Airlines jet entered the building, Mrs Wolf would have had little
chance of escaping death.

It is thought that hundreds of finance workers on the top floors of the building
were killed instantly when the attack happened at 8.45am (New York time) on
September 11 last year.

Many of those trapped above faced the agonising dilemma of jumping or facing
death in the smoke and flames.

A family friend said, "Howard and Val are extremely popular, as was their
daughter Katherine.

"It just brings home that this was a world tragedy not an American one."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TALENTED: Katherine Wolf

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             July 16, 2002, Tuesday

SPENDING REVIEW: BBC WORLD SERVICE: TERROR ATTACKS HIGHLIGHTED KEY ROLE OF BBC

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 159 words


A cash boost for the BBC World Service in yesterday's review will be seen as
recognition of the importance of the global radio network after September 11.

Newly-announced investment represents an extra pounds 48 million over three
years to expand and build on existing services. International attention being
focused on Afghanistan in the weeks following the attacks in the United States
helped to highlight the value of the World Service Director of the BBC World
Service, Mark Byford said: 'The settlement is a strong endorsement of the BBC
World Service at a time when the global appetite for international news and
analysis has increased.'

Upwards of 150 million people globally listen to BBC World Service every week
and it remains the world's best known and most listened to international radio
broadcaster.

Cash will be used to consolidate extensions in BBC services following September
11 events and launch new programmes.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             July 16, 2002, Tuesday

INJURED LADEN'S ATTACK THREAT;
 WAR ON TERROR

BYLINE: Tom Newton Dunn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 228 words


OSAMA bin Laden was wounded by shrapnel during fighting in Afghanistan - but is
back to full health, it was claimed yesterday.

Abdel-Bari Atwan, respected editor of the London-based Arabic newspaper al -Quds
al-Arabi, said he was recently given the news by the terror chief's associates.

He was also told bin Laden's next video appearance won't come until after the
next terrorist strike on America.

Atwan's sources have been proved to be highly accurate in the past.

Atwan said: "His people said he was wounded in the shoulder by shrapnel. He is
in good health now.

"They also said bin Laden would not appear in a video and just say words.

"He will make another appearance only after his people attack the Americans
again. I also understand that is also likely to be quite soon."

Atwan believes the shrapnel injury came during the assault on Tora Bora last
December. He said: "That's why it was stiff in his last video. You could tell he
was in pain."

Earlier reports that bin Laden was at death's door from a kidney infection were
also rubbished.

Atwan added: "His sources told me his kidneys were all right."

Pentagon officials last night said they would examine Atwan's claims.

He is one of the few men to have met Osama bin Laden after he turned to
terrorism. He spent a week with him at Tora Bora in November 1996.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                                 July 16, 2002

Terrorist attacks cut the number of aircraft .

BYLINE: Wantage staff reporter

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 260 words



SEPTEMBER 11 has cut the number of aircraft at this weekend's Royal
International Air Tattoo at RAF Fairford by almost a quarter.


Organisers had expected there to be about 450 aircraft, but they have so far
only managed to attract around 350.


The September 11 terrorist outrages and subsequent war in Afghanistan have made
many governments loath to send expensive military equipment overseas for
display.


In spite of this, tattoo-goers are still being promised a show to remember, with
rare aircraft from throughout the world available for inspection at the base in
what is the world's largest show of its kind.


Tattoo spokeswoman Patti Heady said: "We are delighted to have well over 350 of
the world's aircraft flying into the Royal International Air Tattoo ' no other
European airshow attracts anywhere near this number.


"This is especially true at a time when world events have greatly increased
military operational commitments, in particular those of the United States Air
Force and the Royal Air Force."


Despite the loss of several planned highlights, including an appearance by the
legendary U2 spy plane and the Tu-22 Backfire bomber from Ukraine, other
spectacular aircraft are lined up to cushion the blow for aviation fans.


Among them is a B2 Spirit Stealth Bomber of the US Air Force, which is to head
the line-up of bomber aircraft from around the world. And organisers are
continuing to receive confirmation of participation by other air forces.


"http:/ /www.airtattoo.com"www.airtattoo.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                 July 16, 2002

Youths in terror sex attack on girl of 14

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

BYLINE: By Bruce Smith

LENGTH: 208 words


A TEENAGE girl was the victim of a serious sex attack as she made her way home
across Harrogate.

The 14-year-old victim was approached by two youths and assaulted as she walked
along Knaresborough Road, Harrogate, near the premises of Benfield Ford between
11pm last Thursday and 1am the following morning, said police.

After the attack the girl, who was wearing a grey jacket and jeans, flagged down
a passing motorist in a silver or green to yellow coloured car.

A spokesman for North Yorkshire Police said the driver took her to safety but
has not been identified.

The spokesman said: We would very much like this person to come forward.

At the moment the girl's memory is a little bit confused following the attack
and we do not know if the driver was male or female, but they may have important
information and we are keen to speak to them.

Appealed

A youth has been arrested by Harrogate Police and has been released on bail
pending further inquiries.

Today Knaresborough CID appealed for the motorist who came to the girl's aid to
come forward.

They also want any other witnesses or anyone with information about the attack
to ring Knaresborough CID on 01423 539653 or Crimestoppers on Freephone 0800 555
111.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 17, 2002, Wednesday

LETTER: INDIA'S RESTRAINT OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Sameer Patel

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 296 words


Sir: Your leader touches on some important issues regarding the situation in
Kashmir ("India's share of the blame for the killing in Kashmir", 15 July),
however I found some of your inferences disturbing.

To most impartial observers the Indian Prime Minister, Atal Behari Vajpayee, has
shown remarkable restraint in terms of reacting to indiscriminate deadly
terrorist attacks which strike at the very heart of India's secularism and
democracy. He has had to balance the views of his party, electorate and those of
the world community and had achieved a relative consensus in a situation where,
if placed in a similar situation, Britain, the US or Israel would possibly have
considered attacking terrorist bases in Pakistan. Double standards again?

You also infer that Pakistan's military ruler, Pervez Musharraf, has not the
power or influence to contain these attacks. Most people close to the situation
know that the terrorism simply couldn't continue without Pakistan's support. The
onus is clearly on General Musharraf to have the courage to turn off the tap.
Saturday's tragedy emphasises that his strong words need to be followed by
deeds.

To hold the Indian government even partially responsible for this act is akin to
holding the British government responsible for the Omagh or Enniskillin
bombings. Of course this is absurd. Like Britain did, India is now validly
holding a position where it will not negotiate in the face of a violent threat.
As such it becomes a continuous target.

This is a time when the world should rally around India and support its
leadership - a secular, democratic country of one billion people, including 150
million Muslims living, contrary to most press images, in relative harmony.

SAMEER PATEL

London NW6

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 17, 2002, Wednesday

LETTER: INDIA'S RESTRAINT OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Navdeep Suri

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 132 words


Sir: We are appalled by the tenor of the "argument" in your editorial (15 July),
which attributes to India a share of the blame for the latest massacre of
innocents in Jammu and Kashmir.

We know your paper prides itself on its independence, but to argue, as your
editorial does, that India must share the blame for an atrocity committed by
terrorists shows a truly sturdy unwillingness to be bound either by facts or the
views of the entire civilised world. The pity, of course, is that the argument
that, if terrorists kill innocents, governments must have driven them to it is
not even an independent one - it is the one used now only by the most diehard of
the supporters of the more egregious terrorists.

NAVDEEP SURI

Counsellor

High Commission of India

London, WC2

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 17, 2002, Wednesday

LETTER: INDIA'S RESTRAINT OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Mahesh Viswanathan

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 221 words


Sir: In Kashmir two days ago, some killers dressed up as holy men massacred two
dozen poor people listening to a play-by-play account of an England- India
cricket match. Anyone reading your leader on 15 July will wonder whether they in
live in this world or in George Orwell's.

Black is white and white is black. Pakistan, whose sole claim to nationhood is
its Islamic character, and whose dictators have consistently played the India
-card to survive and subsist since 1947, is to be praised? While India's
leaders, ruling a secular country which has lost over 10,000 of its citizens to
extremists over the last 10 years, are to blame for "stoking Hindu nationalism"?

While you condemn the blaming of Pakistan for this "shameless use of the Kashmir
issue", what was your leader saying on 12 September 2001? That George Bush was
stoking Christian nationalism when he placed the blame at Bin Laden's feet? Is
Bush now shamelessly using the 11th September issue to expand the war on terror?
Is Blair shamelessly kowtowing to the US? Has Blair shamelessly used the "war on
terror" to suspend habeas corpus in the UK? Where is your sense of balance and
propriety? Why do you have so much difficulty condemning killers when the
victims are non-Christians?

MAHESH VISWANATHAN

Yorktown Heights,

New York

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 17, 2002, Wednesday

LETTER: INDIA'S RESTRAINT OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Tara Mukherjee

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 107 words


Sir: I totallly agree with your comment that the Indian Prime Minister is
adhering toblind nationalism for electoral gain for his failing party.

To have a meaningful dialogue to settle the Kashmir issue under the Simla
agreement, the people of India and Pakistan need to remove both the present
Indian prime minister and the military dictator Pervez Musharraf. In a
democratic India, it is more than likely that the present ruling party BJP would
be ousted in the forthcoming general election. That cannot be said for General
Musharraf who will rulePakistan for at least another five years.

TARA MUKHERJEE

Brentwood, Essex

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                   July 18, 2002, Thursday Edition EC1807-01A

Information attack on world terrorism

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 211 words


   Plans to bolster the Armed Forces' capability to counter the enhanced threat
of international terrorism were being unveiled today by the Ministry of Defence.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon was publishing the "new chapter" to the 1998
strategic defence review, setting out measures to "rebalance" the forces in the
light of September 11.

The document is expected to focus on hi-tech electronic information gathering
which, ministers believe, will massively increase the effectiveness of existing
weapons systems.

In a recent speech, Mr Hoon likened the advent of so-called "network-centric
warfare" to impact of e-commerce on the business world.

He told a defence conference in May: "It offers the potential for dramatic
increases in tempo the ability to decide and act more quickly and with greater
agility, control and precision."

It will involve the development of systems such as unmanned aerial drones, like
the US Predator, which can transmit a stream of "real time" images from the
battlefield to commanders making decisions on the ground.

Mr Hoon has seen his budget rise from 29.3 billion to 32.8 billion by 2005-06 as
the result of this week's comprehensive spending review to enable the forces to
meet their expanded commitments.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 18, 2002, Thursday

MUM'S SLASH ATTACK TERROR;
 GRAVEYARD ORDEAL

BYLINE: Kizzy Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 180 words

HIGHLIGHT: TRAGIC: Nicola


A YOUNG mum was slashed across the face in a horrific knife attack as she
visited her grandparents' graves.

The woman was attacked in front of her two young children when she ignored a
beggar asking for cash.

Now it is feared the 34-year-old may be scarred for life.

She was attacked in the Auld Isle Cemetery, Kirkintilloch, where suicide
schoolgirl Nicola Raphael's tomb was vandalised twice in a year.

Inspector Bob Innes, of Strathclyde Police, said: "This was a cowardly, horrible
and senseless assault.

"It has been a terrifying experience for her and her children."

The attack happened at about 2.25pm on Tuesday. The attacker is around 20, 5ft
8ins with a goatee beard and ear piercings.

Last night the mother of Nicola Raphael, 15, vowed to continue her nightly vigil
in the cemetery.

Nicola killed herself after taunts at school about her Goth-style clothes and
make-up. Tributes have been stolen from the tomb and flowers torn up.

Her mum Rona, 48, said: "Police must do something to make the cemetery safe for
innocent visitors."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 19, 2002

30 passengers flee as assault leaves Steven covered in blood;Terror after couple
attack student on rush-hour bus

BYLINE: Exclusive: By Alexander Robertson

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 460 words


A BUS passenger was brutally attacked by a young man and woman as he travelled
home.

Student Steven McCafferty feared for his life as he was punched, kicked and hit
across the head with an empty wine bottle by his attackers.

Children and pensioners fled in horror as the teenage couple attacked and
threatened to kill the 26-year-old during the rush- hour assault.

It's thought the attackers escaped by boarding another bus which had been
flagged down to take the 30 terrified

passengers.

Police described the assault, aboard a packed No. 38 First bus in Ruchazie, as
"unprovoked and vicious".

Victim Mr McCafferty, from Craigend in the city's east end, said he was reading
a paper when a young man and woman sitting behind him started hurling verbal
abuse before spitting on him.

He said: "It was completely out the blue and when I turned around one of them
started throwing punches.

"I went into a panic. I grabbed the guy and managed to get him off the bus as
passengers were screaming.

"He ran back on and started to punch me and the girl started to hit me with a
bottle.

"They were drunk and swearing.

"I thought I was going to be killed, there was a lot of blood and I went into a
daze.

"One minute I was reading, the next I was covered in blood."

As frightened passengers boarded the second bus, the thugs hurled abuse at Mr
McCafferty and threatened to kill him.

As the thugs threatened to smash up his bus the terrified driver of the
Garthamlock-bound bus, feared a second attack and drove off with Mr McCafferty
still on board.

It is believed the attackers made their escape by getting onto the second bus.

Mr McCafferty was treated at Glasgow Royal Infirmary for concussion and a number
of cuts to his head before being released.

Police today urged anyone on the bus who witnessed the attack, at around 6pm
last Friday in Gartloch Road near Gartcraig Road, to come forward.

Detective Constable John Semple, of Easterhouse CID, said: "This was a totally
unprovoked and vicious attack in which the victim was minding his own business.

"The bus was virtually full and there was a middle aged man who tried to break
up the fight.

"I would appeal for this man and other passengers to get in touch."

Detectives are treating the attack as a serious assault and are hunting two
youths aged 18 to 19-years-old.

Both were wearing tracksuits, the boy had a baseball cap while the girl had long
straight blonde hair and wore a three tone designer anorak.

A spokeswoman for First Bus said: "We are sickened by the dangerous and anti
social behaviour of these passengers and have passed all relevant details to
Strathclyde Police.

"We are assisting fully with their investigations."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TERROR TRIP: Steven McCafferty was attacked by two young thugs on a bus
in the east end Picture: Andy Buchanan

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 20, 2002, Saturday

PRIESTS' TERROR AS HOME FIRE-BOMBED;
 LOYALIST ATTACK WAS 'MURDER BID'

BYLINE: Nick Henegan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 325 words

HIGHLIGHT: FURY: Eddie McGrady; AFTERMATH: Fr Albert McNally in kitchen
yesterday


A PETROL bomb attack on the home of two priests yesterday has been branded
attempted murder.

Father Albert McNally and Father Liam Blayney were asleep in the Parochial House
at St Mary's in Newcastle, Co Down, when the bombers struck.

Attackers broke the kitchen window before throwing four petrol bombs into the
house.

Three canisters of lighter fuel were also poured through the window and caught
fire in the blaze.

Fr McNally said: "I was asleep and Fr Blayney came and woke me.

"He heard the window break and while he was calling the police and the fire
brigade I was able to get the fire extinguisher and put the fire out.

"There is a certain amount of relief. This is only property and we are not hurt.

"Many people suffer worse than this and it gives you an understanding of what it
must be like for families who get petrol bombed."

Father McNally added that he thought the attack was sectarian.

He said: "I suppose there is a lot of vandalism in this town but this is more
sinister. I imagine it was sectarian. There is a lot of sectarian hate in this
part of the country."

South Down MP Eddie McGrady described the attack as attempted murder.

The SDLP member said: "This is a very vicious and horrifying attack, really it
is attempted murder.

"It wasn't just somebody throwing a petrol bomb at the front door, it was four
petrol bombs and canisters of fuel. It was an attempt to set the Parochial House
ablaze with the two good fathers in it.

"It was a horrendous event, it was really a murder attempt, a double murder
attempt, and must be treated as such."

But Fr McNally urged people not to seek revenge for the attack.

"I hope people will be restrained and I appeal for there to be no revenge.

"I hope we have an end to it and the people who did this come to their senses.

"They don't think of the consequences of their actions, that people could be
trapped and lose their lives."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 July 20, 2002

drug terror gang jailed; Innocent families attacked by vigilantes

BYLINE: David O'Callaghan

SECTION: COURTS; CROWN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 451 words


TWO innocent families were terrorised at their Garnant homes by a gang of
drunken vigilantes who were looking for a suspected drug dealer.  The three-man
gang wore masks made from carrier bags with eye-holes cut in them and brandished
a baseball bat, a knife and a length of wood.

They were trying to find a man said to be a drugs dealer.

The terrifying incidents at Maes yr Hendra and Cwmamman Road were described
yesterday when Judge John Diehl jailed the gang for conduct he described as
"truly the stuff of which nightmares are made''.

Sentenced at Swansea Crown Court were Leigh Patrick Foster-Griffiths, aged 27,
of Tan y Gelli, Glanaman; Anthony Woods, aged 37, of New Road, Upper Brynamman;
and, Woods's brother Jason Morris, aged 32, of High Street, Ammanford.

All three admitted two offences of violent disorder on April 9 this year.

Foster-Griffiths and Woods were both jailed for four-and-a-half years and Morris
for three years.

The court heard the vigilante plan was hatched when the three men met at The
Baird pub in Ammanford.

Their target was Christopher Davies who was said to be a dealer in hard drugs.

Patrick Griffiths, prosecuting, said the first violent disorder occurred at the
Maes yr Hendra home where Emma Bradley lived with her three children aged seven,
six and 19 months.

At 9pm, Miss Bradley, her boy-friend Neil Thomas and children had just returned
from shopping.

The two older children had got out of the car and the adults were removing
shopping when the three defendants appeared in the garden.

The men were armed with a baseball bat and a knife and were yelling: "Where's
the smack?'' Mr Thomas was cut on the chin with the knife when he was seized and
pushed to the ground.

The baby was left in a car seat while one of the men held a knife 10 inches from
Miss Bradley's stomach.

Mr Thomas emphasised the three men had got the wrong house.

A short time later, Foster-Griffiths, Woods and Morris travelled to the Cwmaman
Road home where Christopher Davies's sister Margaret Davies lived with Roy Munn
and her two children, aged 10 and seven.

They pushed their way into the living room and Mr Griffiths said the two
children were screaming in terror as Woods began waving the knife around.

As Morris began picking up property belonging to the family, Foster-Griffiths
was brandishing the bat.

But when Mr Munn asked for the family's property back, the baseball bat was
rammed into his mouth, cutting his lips and gums and loosening his teeth.

The court heard that as the men got back in their car, Woods shouted this
chilling threat: "If you tell the police, we will return and burn down the house
with the children in it.''

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 South Wales Evening Post

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 21, 2002

Doctors attack Blunkett over dying terror suspect

BYLINE: Martin Bright Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 714 words


PSYCHIATRISTS at the highest security mental hospital in Britain have protested
against the Home Secretary's treatment of a dying, mentally disturbed
Palestinian who is held without trial under the new anti-terrorism law.

The doctors at Broadmoor accused David Blunkett last night of 'unprecedented
political interference' after he ignored their advice and told them to admit
Mahmoud Abu Rideh, a torture victim with serious psychiatric problems.

Abu Rideh, 30, whose health failed after he began a hunger strike, was arrested
last January following the introduction of the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and
Security Act, which allows the detention of individuals identified by MI5 as a
threat to national security.

Medical experts who have examined him said they had difficulty securing
permission to visit him. They believe he should be placed close to his family in
a hospital with less oppressive security.

The case threatens to undermine Blunkett's case that the intelligence services
have correctly identified and confined the most dangerous men in Britain.

In what his lawyers have des cribed as 'the bizarre structure' of the new law,
Abu Rideh has been detained because he is thought to have associated with Abu
Hamza, the controversial imam of London's Finsbury Park mosque. Yet the
legislation applies only to foreign suspects and, as a British national, Abu
Hamza cannot be arrested under the new law.

Despite advice from psychiatrists that Abu Rideh poses no threat to the public,
the Home Secretary overruled Broadmoor staff this weekend and forced them to
admit the dying Palestinian, The Observer has learnt.

Amnesty International and the European Union Committee on Torture say he and
eight fellow detainees have been kept in 'barbaric' conditions.

The nine, who have not been convicted of any crime, have been imprisoned in the
highest security, Category A, conditions for seven months without formal
charges. They have been kept in their cells for 22 hours a day, and are unable
to communicate with their families in their native Arabic.

Two of the original detainees have left the country, one to Morocco, the other
to France, where neither has been arrested as a terrorist.

Abu Rideh had a long history of mental illness before he was arrested, and was
already under the care of psychiatrists. He has cut himself repeatedly in
prison. He has refused food for some time, and is so weak that he is confined to
a wheelchair and has difficulty in sitting up. Doctors believe he is at serious
risk of dying in custody. Broadmoor psychiatrists who have visited him in high
security Belmarsh prison, in south London, have told the Home Secretary that Abu
Rideh should be freed into the care of a mental hospital nearer to his family.

The doctors wrote to the Home Office at the beginning of this month to say that
Abu Rideh should be moved immediately to a less oppressive regime than
Broadmoor, which houses some of Britain's most dangerous prisoners, including
Peter Sutcliffe, the Yorkshire Ripper.

Lawyers for Abu Rideh and the other detainees will continue a legal challenge to
the anti-terrorism legislation this week. The Special Immigration Appeals
Commission is to decide whether their detention is lawful.

Most of the hearings will be held in secret so that intelligence evidence
against the men can be presented. Neither the suspects nor their lawyers will be
able to hear this, or respond to it.

The Observer has been given access to evidence presented in open hearings by
Blunkett. It consists almost entirely of press cuttings. They are intended to
persuade the commission that Britain is effectively under a state of emergency.
The detainees' lawyers claim that the cuttings are largely of stories fed to the
press by the intelligence services.

In his submissions, Attorney-General Lord Goldsmith, who is acting for the Home
Secretary, said the 11 September attacks 'changed for ever the landscape of
terrorism'. Britain, as an ally of the United States, was a potential target for
attacks.

Goldsmith said opponents of the law did not grasp the gravity of the situation
faced by the Government.

A Home Office spokesman said its policy was not to discuss individual cases.

Continued on page 3


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             July 21, 2002, Sunday

BRUCIE WIFE TERROR AS GANG RANSACK HOUSE;
 HOUSEKEEPER ATTACKED IN KNIFE RAID

BYLINE: Mike Hamilton And Andy Gardner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 479 words

HIGHLIGHT: TV FAME: Bruce on The Generation Game; UPSET: Bruce rushed home to be
with his family; CLOSE: Bruce, Wilnelia and JJ


KNIFE-WIELDING raiders burst into the home of Bruce Forsyth and attacked his
housekeeper before stealing cash and jewellery.

The Generation Game host wasn't at home but his wife Wilnelia, 43, and the
couple's 15-year-old son JJ watched in horror as their housekeeper was hurt.

She is now recovering from serious facial injuries after being discharged from
hospital.

Wilnelia and JJ were unharmed but said to be badly shaken after the late-night
raid by three men on their home next to Wentworth Golf Course in Virginia Water,
Surrey.

Bruce, 74, rushed back from Muirfield, Scotland, where he was watching the golf.
Speaking from home yesterday, he praised the courage of his family saying: "We
are all shattered about it.

"I am deeply shocked and upset by the attack. My wife, son and housekeeper acted
with considerable courage.

"They have all been very brave and marvellous and I wish I had been here." His
voice shaking with emotion, he added: "If I had been here maybe I would have
able to calm the whole thing down.

"I am glad to be back with the family now."

Police were called to the property shortly before 12.30am yesterday. Last night
they were still carrying out a fingertip search of the home, which has an indoor
swimming pool and outdoor tennis court.

Surrey Police yesterday appealed for witnesses to come forward.

It is the second time burglars have targeted the Forsyths' home. The first raid
took place in 1991.

Three months later Bruce's former partner Anthea Redfern was robbed of pounds
200,000 of jewellery from her home, which is also on the Wentworth Estate.

The area is one of the richest in Britain and Forsyths' neighbours include Terry
Wogan, Russ Abbot and David Essex.

Senior investigating officer Detective Chief Inspector Simon Humphreys said:
"This was a particularly disturbing incident and we want to hear from anyone who
may have any information in relation to three suspects."

Detectives are hoping CCTV footage will help them identify the burglars. They
are also conducting house-to-house enquiries.

A spokesman said: "A lot of force was used. But we are keen to emphasise that
although this was a serious offence, this type of violent crime is rare in the
county. However local residents should be mindful of individuals acting
suspiciously and if they have any concerns they should call the police."

One of the raiders is described as white, about 5ft 9in and of medium build. He
was wearing a blue jogging-type top with hood and is aged about 20.

The second is black, of similar age, and was wearing a grey or black hooded
jogging top. The third man is also black, around the same age, and about 6ft
3in.

Anybody with any information should contact Detective Sergeant Pete Foster on
01932 205452. Alternatively calls can be made to Surrey Crimestoppers on 0800
555 111.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 July 22, 2002

Gun attack victim's terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 31 words


A MAN was injured by 12 pellets when a shotgun was fired twice into his home.
Anwar Kamchah, 25, was watching TV when the attack happened at the house in
Fiddlers Lane, Irlam.


LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Manchester Evening News

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 July 23, 2002

CITY SEX ATTACK TERROR; Deaf woman tells of ordeal

BYLINE: jclarke

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 345 words


A DEAF woman indecently assaulted in an Aberdeen park spoke today of her
ordeal.The 42-year-old was sitting on a bench in Westburn Park when the attacker
struck.

The victim spoke out through her 17-year-old daughter to warn other women.

She managed to flee after kicking the man in the groin.

The woman described her attacker as having a small star tattooed near his thumb
and she said he had lost several teeth on his lower jaw.

Police praised the woman's actions but warned the attacker could strike again.

Her daughter said: "Mum was just sitting at the benches near the tennis courts
for a bit of fresh air.

"This man came up to her and said something and she said, 'sorry, I'm deaf'
because she didn't understand what he said.

"He grabbed her and she screamed and pushed him away but he came back at her
andripped her top.

"She was stunned and kicked him. He went down and my mum ran away." The
incidenthappened at 6pm yesterday.

The teenager said her mum was crying after running for 30 minutes to get home.

Her daughter then contacted police.

The teenager urged anyone with information to come forward.

"I'm really angry," she said.

"You can't imagine it happening to your own family.

"My mum was really in shock yesterday. She is feeling a bit better today." It
isbelieved other people in the park could hold vital clues.

It is not known in which direction the attacker fled.

He was between 30 and 40-years-old, had short, ginger hair and was wearing a
light top and blue jeans.

A Grampian police spokesman said: "This was a nasty assault and the woman was
very plucky.

She did absolutely the right thing in running away from her attacker.

"At that time of day there could have been quite a lot of people in the park
whomay have witnessed the incident.

"The woman was not injured but it was a very distressing attack.

"This man could assault another woman and we are anxious to find him." Anyone
with information can contact police on (01224) 386000 or Crimestoppers on 0800
555 111.


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                 July 23, 2002

'Beware more terror attacks'.

BYLINE: Gareth Tidman

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 279 words


A Bradford expert in terrorism has warned that Britain is at real risk of
terrorist strikes.

International security expert Professor Paul Rogers, 59, pictured, believes the
war on terror has increased the likelihood of further paramilitary attacks and
Britain could be a target.

The professor of the University of Bradford's Peace Studies department travelled
the world meeting defence experts to compile research for his updated book,
Losing Control.

In its first edition, published ten months before the attack on the World Trade
Centre, he warned of the West's increasing vulnerability to paramilitary action.

He has now added a new chapter expressing fears of fresh attacks from terrorist
organisations such as Al-Qaida.

"I wanted to update the book because many of the warnings in it have been borne
out by events around the world," he said. "Now the situation has moved on and I
feel we are going to see a lot more instability in the Middle East and a lot
more paramilitary attacks on the West, possibly on the scale of September 11.

"Another attack could come at any time and it is a possibility that they may
choose to hit an American installation in Britain."

Losing Control is the 16th book he has written since joining the university 22
years ago.

In it he warns of hardening militant attitudes in the Middle East as a result of
an increasing scarcity in resources, a growing gap in the wealth of rich and
poor nations and improving education in countries resentful of the West.

He also believes America's 'gung-ho' response to the atrocities in New York and
Washington has stirred up support for militant groups in the Middle East.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 July 23, 2002

MPs to attack security chaos after terror outrages

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin, Political Editor

LENGTH: 435 words


A DAMNING indictment of Britain's homeland security preparations in the wake of
the September 11 outrages is set to be delivered to MPs tomorrow.

The Commons Defence Committee is expected to condemn the excessive
departmentalism plaguing the Government's civil contingency reaction to last
year's terrorist attacks in America.

In a hard-hitting report, the Labour-dominated committee will paint a picture of
Britain's civil-defence preparations in chaos, with fire brigades and police
unable to communicate with each other because of different radio systems.

They will contrast the decisiveness of President George Bush in naming former
Pennsylvania governor Tom Ridge as head of homeland security after September 11
with what one source called the let's set up a committee approach of Britain.

MPs are also set to criticise the Civil Contingencies Secretariat (CCS) - set up
by Tony Blair last summer in the wake of the fuel protests of autumn 2000 and
the great floods - to draw up strategies for action in case of civil and natural
emergencies.

The report is understood to reflect concern that different Government
Departments have different ideas of the role of CCS chief Mike Granatt.

The source told the Yorkshire Post: What the Americans did after September 11
was put Tom Ridge in charge.  What did we do? We set up a Whitehall committee.
It's typically British.

The report is also understood to have survived a last-ditch bid by Government
officials to water down its conclusions.

Some committee members are said to be livid that its chairman Bruce George and
one other Labour member last week met Mr Granatt even though the report had
already been agreed.

The Defence Committee, which includes Beverley and Holderness Tory MP James
Cran, will specifically complain that despite the international terrorism
threat, some local authorities have had money for civil defence cut in the last
few months.

But sources last night said there were clear signs that the Government had
sharpened up its act and reacted to the committee as it took evidence since the
turn of the year.

They cited the appointment of senior civil servant Sir David Omand, permanent
secretary at the Cabinet Office, in place of Mr Granatt in charge of the CCF.

Only last week, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon answered a specific concern of
local authorities that there was no real liaison between them and regional
military commanders in the event of an emergency.

Mr Hoon told MPs that he was creating joint regional liaison officers to act as
a single point of liaison on emergency planning matters.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 July 24, 2002

Britain could not cope with attack;
 TERROR WARNING: MPs point to lack of capability

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 343 words


BRITAIN'S emergency services lack the capabilities and resources to cope with a
massive terrorist attack on the scale of the September 11 atrocities, MPs warned
today.

The Commons Defence Committee strongly criticised the Government's response to
the attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon, complaining of "inadequate
central coordination and direction".

In a scathing report, the MPs highlighted a series of "real deficiencies" in the
ability of the civil authorities to deal with a major terrorist incident.

Fire and ambulance crews lacked the equipment and training to cope with a
chemical, biological or nuclear attack, there was no role for the regular Armed
Forces, while crucial radio communications equipment contained "fundamental
vulnerabilities".

The report sharply criticised ministers for failing to mount a "proper and
comprehensive" review of disaster management procedures following September 11
and the "slow progress" in producing a promised civil contingencies bill.

It said a "strong central authority" was needed to lay down the law in Whitehall
and co-ordinate the work of the various government departments involved in
emergency planning.

The committee also urged ministers to consider establishing a police National
Counter-Terrorism Service to take the lead in anti-terrorism operations within
the UK.

It called for a review of security at nuclear power stations, sea ports, and on
Royal Navy warships to ensure they were properly prepared to counter the
heightened terrorist threat.

The committee chairman, Labour MP Bruce George, said: "We do believe that there
has been a lack of grip and direction on the part of central government.

"We are concerned that central government has not responded to the scale of the
complexity of the challenge posed by international terrorism."

The committee was particularly critical of the Civil Contingencies Secretariat
which was set up last year before the September 11 attacks specifically to co
-ordinate government response to disasters.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            July 24, 2002, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACK CONTROL FEARS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 217 words


BRITAIN'S emergency services lack the capabilities and resources to cope with a
massive terrorist attack on the scale of the September 11 atrocities, MPs warned
today.

The Commons Defence Committee strongly criticised the Government's response to
the attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon, complaining of 'inadequate
central co-ordination and direction'.

In a scathing report, the MPs highlighted a series of 'real deficiencies' in the
ability of the civil authorities to deal with a major terrorist incident. Fire
and ambulance crews lacked the equipment and training to cope with a chemical,
biological or nuclear attack, there was no role for the regular Armed Forces,
while crucial radio communications equipment contained 'fundamental
vulnerabilities'.

The report sharply criticised ministers for failing to mount a 'proper and
comprehensive' review of disaster management procedures following September 11
and the 'slow progress' in producing a promised civil contingencies bill. It
said a 'strong central authority' was needed to lay down the law in Whitehall
and co-ordinate the work of the various government departments involved in
emergency planning.

The committee also urged ministers to consider establishing a police National
Counter-Terrorism Service.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 July 24, 2002

Terror plans are attacked; FAILING: Report slams UK response to 9/11

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 351 words


BRITAIN'S emergency services lack the capabilities and resources to cope with a
massive terrorist attack on the scale of the September 11 atrocities, MPs
warnedtoday. The Commons Defence Committee strongly criticised the Government's
response to the attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon, complaining of
'inadequate central co-ordination and direction'.

In a scathing report, the MPs highlighted a series of 'real deficiencies' in
theability of the civil authorities to deal with a major terrorist incident.

Fire and ambulance crews lacked the equipment and training to cope with a
chemical, biological or nuclear attack, there was no role for the regular Armed
Forces, while crucial radio communications equipment contained 'fundamental
vulnerabilities'.

The report sharply criticised ministers for failing to mount a 'proper and
comprehensive' review of disaster management procedures following September 11
and the 'slow progress' in producing a promised civil contingencies bill.

It said a 'strong central authority' was needed to lay down the law in
Whitehalland co-ordinate the work of the various government departments involved
in emergency planning.

The committee also urged ministers to consider establishing a police National
Counter-Terrorism Service to take the lead in anti-terrorism operations within
the UK.

It called for a review of security at nuclear power stations, sea ports, and on
Royal Navy warships to ensure that they were properly prepared to counter the
heightened terrorist threat.

The committee chairman, Labour MP Bruce George, said: "There has been a lack of
grip and direction.

"We are concerned that central government has not responded to the scale or the
complexity of the challenge posed by international terrorism." The committee
wasparticularly critical of the Civil Contingencies Secretariat, set up last
year before the September 11 attacks specifically to co-ordinate government
response to disasters, saying: "Instead of being the solution to the habitual
'departmentalism' of Whitehall, it has become a casualty of it."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 24, 2002, Wednesday

PARLIAMENT & POLITICS: HOUSE IN BRIEF - MPS SOUND ALARM OVER TERROR-ATTACK
PLANNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 81 words


VBRITAIN'S EMERGENCY services lack the capabilities and resources to cope with a
massive terrorist attack on the scale of 11 September, MPs warned yesterday. The
Commons Defence Committee strongly criticised the Government's response to the
attacks in New York and Washington, complaining of "inadequate central
co-ordination and direction". The MPs highlighted a series of "real
deficiencies" in the ability of the civil authorities to deal with a serious
terrorist incident.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 24, 2002, Wednesday

GOVERNMENT EXPANDS TERROR ATTACK INSURANCE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 92 words


THE GOVERNMENT is expanding its scheme to insure businesses against terror
attacks, providing cover for a wider range of possible threats. The current
scheme - known as "Pool Re" - only covers damage caused by fire and explosion.
It was set up in the 1990s to cover the threat of attacks from the IRA, and has
been widened in the wake of 11 September. The Government said the scheme would
now cover destruction caused by biological contamination, the use of aircraft in
attacks and damage by floods. From 2003, it will cover nuclear contamination.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 July 24, 2002

UK couldn't cope with terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 386 words


BRITAIN'S emergency services lack the capabilities and resources to cope with a
massive terrorist attack on the scale of the September 11 atrocities, MPs
warnedyesterday. The Commons Defence Committee strongly criticised the
Government's response to the attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon,
complaining of "inadequate central co-ordination and direction". In a scathing
report, the MPs highlighted a series of "real deficiencies" in the ability of
the civil authorities to deal with a major terrorist incident.

Fire and ambulance crews lacked the equipment and training to cope with a
chemical, biological or nuclear attack, there was no role for the regular Armed
Forces, while crucial radio communications equipment contained "fundamental
vulnerabilities".

The report sharply criticised ministers for failing mount a "proper and
comprehensive" review of disaster management procedures following September 11
and the "slow progress" in producing a promised civil contingencies bill.

It said a "strong central authority" was needed to lay down the law in
Whitehalland co-ordinate the work of the various government departments involved
in emergency planning. The committee also urged ministers to consider
establishing a police National Counter-Terrorism Service to take the lead in
anti-terrorism operations within the UK. It called for a review of security at
nuclear power stations, sea ports, and on Royal Navy warships to ensure that
they were properly prepared to counter the heightened terrorist threat.

The committee chairman, Labour MP Bruce George, said: "We do believe that there
has been a lack of grip and direction on the part of central government.

"We are concerned that central government has not responded to the scale of the
complexity of the challenge posed by international terrorism." The committee
wasparticularly critical of the Civil Contingencies Secretariat which was set up
last year before the September 11 attacks specifically to co-ordinate
governmentresponse to disasters.

"It was unable, however, to use its position at the heart of government to lead
a strategic response to the new threats post-11 September," the report said.
"Instead of being the solution to the habitual 'departmentalism' of Whitehall,
it has become a casualty of it."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                 Copyright 2002 Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 July 24, 2002

It's Operation Overkill;
 Outrage as nine children die in attack on terrorist

BYLINE: Hamish Johnstone - Middle East Correspondent

SECTION: News, Pg.10

LENGTH: 502 words


ISRAEL was universally condemned yesterday after nine children were killed along
with a terrorist leader in a missile strike that premier Ariel Sharon boasted
was "one of our biggest successes".

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw called the civilian deaths "unacceptable and
counterproductive" and extended his sympathies to their families.

Even the White House, always reluctant to criticise Israeli actions, condemned
the attack as "heavy-handed".

The children were among 15 people who died when an Israeli missile flattened an
apartment block in a crowded Gaza City neighbourhood.

The target of the operation was Israel's most wanted man - Salah Shehadeh, 49, a
founder and top commander of Hamas' military wing.

Israeli intelligence said he masterminded scores of attacks against its
citizens, including a recent string of deadly suicide bombings.

Tens of thousands of angry Palestinians called for revenge as they filled the
streets of Gaza City. Mourners carried the body of a two-monthold baby wrapped
in a Palestinian flag, the child's face and black hair visible between the
folds.

Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat said: "I ask the whole world, how can they be
silent?

Sharon does not want peace." The crowd of mourners carried the bodies in coffins
and on stretchers, several of them small children wrapped in green Hamas flags.

Masked Palestinian gunmen, some dressed in camouflage uniforms, fired automatic
rifles into the air. The killings prompted a strike in Gaza City, with most
shops closing for the day.

While diplomats said they understood Israel's need for pre-emptive strikes
against most-wanted men, they deplored the children's deaths.

President George Bush's spokesman Ari Fleischer said:

"This heavy-handed action does not contribute to peace.

"This was a deliberate attack on the site, knowing that innocents would be lost
in the consequences of the attack, " he said, adding that Bush still remained a
strong backer of Israel. Swedish Foreign Minister Anna Lindh called the missile
strike "a crime against international law and morally unworthy of a democracy
like Israel".

In a statement, the EU said it had "consistently rejected the Israeli method of
extra-judicial killings".

Hamas promised revenge to avenge the death of one of its most senior figures.

Shehadeh was killed along with his wife Leileh, their 14year-old daughter Iman
and a bodyguard, the group said.

A Gaza City hospital said the other children killed were aged two months to 11
years.

Two other adults also died.

More than 100 people were wo u n d e d .

Hamas had hinted this week that it would consider halting suicide bombing
attacks if Israel pulled out of the Palestinian areas. However, the missile
attack appeared to end any such prospect.

The Israelis said they did not intend to harm civilians.

Defence Minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer issued a statement saying "the information
which we had was that there were no civilians near him".

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 25, 2002, Thursday

Blair attacked over disaster response Terrorism

BYLINE: By Michael Kallenbach Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 502 words

THE Prime Minister yesterday brushed aside criticisms that the Government was
not ready to deal with similar terrorist attacks to those that took place
against America last September 11.

He was challenged by Iain Duncan Smith, the Tory leader, during Prime Minister's
Questions.

Mr Duncan Smith referred to a report by a Commons select committee. It stated in
its conclusion that the Government had not taken the opportunity to conduct a
proper and comprehensive examination of how Britain would manage the
consequences of a disaster on the scale of September 11.

He asked the Prime Minister: "Do you agree with that?"

Tony Blair told him: "I do not accept that we have not made the most urgent
preparations following September 11. The report itself begins by saying that
since September 11 much has been done to strengthen the UK's defence and
security against the terrorist threat. We will, of course, study carefully the
additional things they say we should do."

The defence committee said Britain's emergency services lacked the capabilities
and resources to cope with a massive terrorist attack.

In a scathing report, the committee criticised the Government's response to the
September 11 attacks, complaining of "inadequate central co-ordination and
direction".

Mr Duncan Smith quoted from the report: "A great deal of work has been expended
without clear strategic direction.

"It seems to us that in many areas the Government has confused activity with
achievement."

Then he said to Mr Blair: "Surely you can see the relevance of that and
hopefully you will agree with that conclusion."

Mr Blair said all the emergency services had reviewed their capabilities.

"There is a massive amount of training of police officers, ambulance staff,
people in the health service that has gone on in order to make sure we are
prepared," he said. "In addition, we have allocated from the reserve around
pounds 250 million extra for all sorts of things, from the Ministry of Defence
through to the Metropolitan Police and to strengthen the UK's anti-terrorist
financing regime.

"So there is an awful lot that has been done but, of course, we will consider
carefully what further suggestions the committee make."

Later, Mr Blair repeated the Government line that no decision had been made
about military action against Saddam Hussein.

"We cannot have a situation where Iraq continues to develop these weapons of
mass destruction," he said in response to some Labour backbenchers who expressed
fears that Britain could go to war during the summer.

Labour critics of the Government's stance on Iraq include Tam Dalyell
(Linlithgow), Diane Abbott (Hackney N and Stoke Newington) and former minister
Peter Kilfoyle (Liverpool Walton). They want Mr Blair to recall Parliament from
the summer break before committing British forces to action.

Mr Blair said: "We have not got to the stage of military action." But he added:
"My view is and remains that weapons of mass destruction are a serious threat."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 25, 2002

TEEN GANGS IN TERROR ATTACKS;OAPS GET POLICE GUARD ON PENSION DAYS

BYLINE: By James Hastings

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 93 words


POLICE have been forced to set up special patrols to combat gangs of teen thugs
mugging elderly people on pension days.

The gangs attack in badly-lit underpasses after victims collect their cash from
the post office in Burnbank, Hamilton.

OAPs have been badly beaten and had their pension books stolen.

One pensioner said today: "Once you enter the underpass, you're helpless - no
-one hears you scream."

After dozens of complaints of attacks, police have been escorting elderly people
through the underpasses.

FULL STORY - PAGE 4

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TUNNEL TERROR: attack site

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 25, 2002

EXPRESS EXCLUSIVE AS THE PRIME MINISTER DENIES CLAIMS THAT BRITAIN COULD NOT
HANDLE A TERRORIST ATTACK, WE EXPOSE GAPING HOLES AT COMMONWEALTH GAMES;
SECURITY? WHAT SECURITY?

BYLINE: By Richard Moriarty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6 7

LENGTH: 782 words


Express man lands a key job with no checks on references Is given access to all
the areas including stadium trackside Gets no training at all on how to search
for terror weapons Discovers that just 10 of the 25 X-ray machines are
operational

WORKING alongside a team of roadsweepers, gardeners, hardup students and even a
Dutch au pair, I found myself part of the "ring of steel" at Britain's
biggest-ever sporting event.

I was as amazed as the hundreds of unqualified people all around me to have
landed a job as a security guard at the 2002 Commonwealth Games.

No checks were made on my past, references were not taken up and I had not
attended any of the six training sessions I was supposed to.

Yet 48 hours before the Queen, Tony Blair and visiting heads of state from the
72 nations taking part are expected to attend the official opening ceremony
tonight, I was given a uniform and told by organisers that I was a "valued
member" of the security team.

Never having worked as a security guard before, I was stunned to find a
shambolic setup where there were not enough qualified staff available to operate
all the airport-style X-ray baggage machines brought in to boost security at the
new 38,000-seater, GBP 110million City of Manchester Stadium.

And while police had checked and sealed drains and increased the number of armed
officers in the city, I was able to wander - unchallenged - through the VIP area
and on to the main field.

The lack of volunteers also meant that council staff from the works department
had to be drafted in at the 11th hour and given a 20-minute training session
before being told their job was to search bags and check people for concealed
weapons.

And all this at a time when security is at the top of the political agenda as
fears continue that terrorist groups such as Al Qaeda and the Real IRA are
preparing a spectacular attack in Britain.

Greater Manchester Police launched a massive operation to ensure the city -
devastated by an IRA bomb six years ago - does not suffer again at the hands of
terrorists.

Sniffer dogs trained to seek out explosives are being used at all the Games
venues, including the village housing the 6,000 athletes and the city's hotels.
A significant number of officers will carry firearms.

But while the police operation is not called into question, our investigation
into security at the 10-day sporting festival showed it to be woefully
inadequate.

After applying as a volunteer via the official Commonwealth Games website, I was
invited in May to Heron House in Manchester for a short informal interview.

An immediate job offer followed as part of the Security Mag and Bag Team
searching the 80,000 visitors expected to pass through the Sportcity complex,
which includes the Indoor Tennis Centre, the National Cycling Centre and the
National Squash Centre as well as the main stadium. My references were not
checked and no questions about my past employment were asked. When I informed
organisers I could not attend any training before the Games began, I was told:
"It doesn't matter."

The man who "interviewed" me admitted that organisers had been forced to hire an
extra 2,000 volunteers at short notice because they could "not afford" to pay
for proper security. I was then invited to work at Sportcity, the venue for
tonight's opening ceremony. On Tuesday I collected my accreditation and went to
the Sportcity complex for the dress rehearsal for tonight's extravaganza -
already classified as a "live arena", supposedly ensuring the highest security.

The ceremony will also be attended by Prince Philip and Prince Edward.

Organisers claim that each of the 50 entrances for members of the public will be
manned by at least seven Mag and Bag security volunteers who have all had at
least five training sessions. But my experience of the security operation was
very different. My volunteer colleagues said they had not received more than a
couple of days' training.

My security team leader admitted he was only offered the position less than two
weeks ago.

He too had had just one day of training and confessed to "picking things up as I
go along".

Of the 25 security entrance points within my view, just 10 of the airport-style
security checks were fully operational.

Last night Jacqui Brock-Doyle, director of communications for the Games, said:
"Our security arrangements are extensive and have been developed alongside
Greater Manchester Police.

"Clearly, volunteers are only one part of a multi-faceted and comprehensive
security plan and we are confident that we will have the adequate security
measures in place when the Games begin."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 25, 2002

LEADERAS MPS DISCOVER HOW UNPREPARED WE ARE FOR TERRORIST ATTACK. . .; WHY
SEPTEMBER 11 COULD HAPPEN HERE

BYLINE: MARK URBAN

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 853 words


IMAGINE the unimaginable. A huge explosion engulfs the Houses of Parliament. As
the dust settles, it becomes clear that the area is heavily contaminated - with
radioactive isotopes or with anthrax, it makes no difference. What happens next?
If the Defence Committee MPs who wrote yesterday's Defence And Security In The
UK report are right, we should all be very worried.

As the emergency services arrive, they become contaminated because they have not
received proper training or equipment for chemical or biological warfare. Soon
troops are sent to the scene - many of them reservists - but they have neither
the proper decontamination equipment nor radios that are compatible with those
of the other emergency services.

In hospital casualty departments, hundreds of victims pile up. There are so few
beds that the wounded and dying are soon receiving treatment on canteen tables.

Attempts to send victims outside the capital, founder because local authorities
have failed to make contingency plans.

Enough. These examples of unpreparedness were uncovered by MPs as they
investigated how Britain might respond to a terrorist episode on the scale of
last September's World Trade Center attack. The lack of readiness detailed on
almost every page of the report is deeply worrying.

If an organisation such as Al Qaeda has not hit some great national landmark
like Canary Wharf, Buckingham Palace, the NEC in Birmingham, Cardiff city
centre, the Commonwealth Games stadium in Manchester or the nuclear submarine
base at Faslane in Scotland it is almost certainly because they don't want to -
but let's leave that aside for a moment.

What stands out most in any assessment of what might happen is complacency. It
embraces not just the usual, depressing Sir Humphrey-isms of the civil servants
who have set up steering committees about subcommittees to think about possible
plans but a wider public mood that sees such a cataclysmic terror attack as the
sort of problem that might hit the Americans or the Israelis but couldn't happen
here.

The Defence Committee report is particularly scathing about the Civil
Contingencies Committee, assembled at Downing Street to knock heads together and
provide leadership in planning for a British "9/11". The MPs say:

"It has become bogged down in the details.

Instead of being the solution to the habitual 'departmentalism' of Whitehall, it
has become a casualty of it."

The MPs want Britain to create its equivalent of America's Department of
Homeland Security and put a Cabinet minister in charge so that it has the
necessary clout. Now there's an unenviable brief for an ambitious politician.

All in all, the report sits rather uneasily with the national mood. People seem
to oscillate effortlessly between blissful surrender to the Jubilee or the World
Cup and prickly defiance in the face of ID cards or long security checks at
airports.

There is also a sort of defeatism at work, a feeling that if the terrorists
really want to do something terrible, they will do it. If they ever succeed then
presumably there will be an outpouring of righteous anger about why we were so
unprepared and why more wasn't done to stop it happening.

So Government has to deal with this public ignorance and scepticism while
discharging its responsibility to think the unthinkable and to do its best to
frustrate mega-terror or, if it happens, manage its horrible consequences as
effectively as possible.

Rumour suggests that MI5 has not been idle in the prevention department. The
disappearance of Osama bin Laden's London representative - aka Abu Qutada - is,
usually reliable sources suggest, connected with his past usefulness to British
intelligence.

Clearly, if Abu Qutada was being run as an agent and was helping to warn of a
possible attack on Britain or, better still, to stop it happening, then he may
indeed deserve the safe house and protection that he is now reportedly being
given somewhere in Britain.

SO IF Abu Qutada's usefulness is at an end we may have lost our warning of a
possible attack. Equally it may be that Qutada's bosses knew what many a
London-based Arab could tell you: that Islamists who have taken refuge here
would discourage militants from doing anything to bring the Special Branch and
MI5 down on the heads of the whole emigre community.

A sophisticated Islamist would also argue that a major terrorist act in Europe
would probably end the transatlantic War on Terror rifts overnight, to Al
Qaeda's disadvantage.

Be that as it may, the British Government would be stupid to gamble on the
rationality of Al Qaeda's fellow travellers.

Therefore, the emergency planning must go on and it must be more effective than
it has been up to now. An ambitious minister with a hide like a rhino ought to
be thrust into the Cabinet job. As for significant changes to the sort of
freedoms enjoyed in this country, I have the feeling that the public will be
ready for those only if it suffers the kind of shock that Americans felt last
September.

Mark Urban is diplomatic editor o Newsnight on BBC2.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 25, 2002, Thursday

DEFENCE RESPONSE TO TERROR ATTACKS HAS STRUCK A BALANCE, BLAIR TELLS COMMONS

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor John Denham: Response to attack was not a
mess'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 394 words


TONY BLAIR rejected yesterday criticisms by an all-party committee of MPs that
Britain was not prepared for the threat of a major terrorist attack.

Mr Blair was challenged by the Leader of the Opposition, Iain Duncan Smith, at
Prime Minister's Questions over a hard-hitting report by the Defence select
committee.

The report warned that Britain's emergency services lacked the capability and
resources to cope with an attack on the scale of the 11 September atrocities. It
said there was "inadequate central co- ordination and direction".

Mr Duncan Smith asked Mr Blair whether he agreed with the MPs' conclusion that
Britain had not taken the opportunity to conduct a comprehensive examination of
how it would cope with a disaster on the scale of 11 September. The Tory leader
urged Mr Blair to take personal charge and said there had been a "lack of grip
and direction" from the Government.

"The crucial point is not that there has been activity, but, as the committee
said, it is a mistake that activity supplants direction and real drive."

But the Prime Minister told MPs: "I don't accept that we have not made the most
urgent preparations following 11 September." He said the Government would
respond in detail to the committee's recommendations.

But he said he believed the right balance had been struck between spending
billions on protecting the country from every threat and doing nothing.

"The report itself begins by saying that since 11 September much has been done
to strengthen the UK's defence against the terrorist threat," Mr Blair added.

"We will, of course, study the additional things they the MPs say we should do."

John Denham, the Home Office minister, said the Government's response to last
year's attacks had not been a mess.

"It would have been a mistake on 12 September to start sitting down, start
scratching our heads and saying shall we redesign the system'," Mr Denham said.

"What we actually had to do was get some very essential measures in place and
that is what we did."

Bruce George, the committee's Labour chairman, said the MPs did not believe that
David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, could devote all his energies to leading the
anti-terrorist preparations. MPs had rejected the idea of a security director,
but another cabinet minister for this area might be needed, he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 25, 2002, Thursday

BLAIR DEFENDS RESPONSE TO THREAT OF TERRORISM COPE WITH TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Paul Waugh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 264 words


TONY BLAIR yesterday rejected criticisms by an all-party committee of MPs that
Britain was not prepared for the threat of a big terrorist attack.

Mr Blair was challenged by the Leader of the Opposition, Iain Duncan Smith, at
Prime Minister's Questions over a hard-hitting report by the Defence Select
Committee.

The report warned that Britain's emergency services lacked the capability and
resources to cope with an attack on the scale of the 11 September atrocities. It
said there was "inadequate central co- ordination and direction".

In particular, the report pointed to concerns that emergency services were not
receiving enough training and equipment to deal with a chemical, biological or
nuclear attack, while communications equipment contained "fundamental
vulnerabilities".

Mr Duncan Smith asked Mr Blair if he agreed with the MPs' conclusion that
Britain had not taken the opportunity to conduct a comprehensive examination of
how it would cope with a disaster on the scale of 11 September. The Tory leader
said there had been a "lack of grip and direction" from the Government.

But the Prime Minister said he believed the right balance had been struck
between spending billions on protecting the country from every threat and doing
nothing. "We will, of course, study the additional things the MPs say we should
do," he said.

Bruce George, the committee's Labour chairman, said the MPs did not believe that
David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, could devote all his energies to leading the
anti-terrorist preparations.

Leading article, page 16

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 July 25, 2002

'Devonport at risk of terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Jamie McGinnes

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 556 words


PRECAUTIONS are in place to defend against terrorist attacks on nuclear vessels
moored in the Westcountry, the Royal Navy said last night. The assurance
followsa call from MPs yesterday for a review of security at nuclear power
stations, sea ports, and on Royal Navy warships to ensure that they were
properly preparedto counter the heightened terrorist threat. The Commons Defence
Committee strongly criticised the Government's response to the attacks on the
World Trade Centre and Pentagon, complaining of "inadequate central
co-ordination and direction".

But a spokesman for the Royal Navy said last night that the public should not
worry about the possibility of attacks on nuclear-powered submarines based at
Devonport Naval Base in Plymouth.

She said: "Devonport Naval Base, as with all MoD establishments, has always
regarded security as of paramount importance.

"We do have measures that are in place to protect the Royal Navy fleet and for
obvious reasons we would not discuss what form those measures take." In a
scathing report yesterday, MPs highlighted a series of "real deficiencies" in
the ability of the civil authorities to deal with a major terrorist incident.

The report sharply criticised ministers for failing to mount a "proper and
comprehensive" review of disaster management procedures following September 11
and the "slow progress" in producing a promised civil contingencies bill.

It said a "strong central authority" was needed to lay down the law in
Whitehalland co-ordinate the work of the various government departments involved
in emergency planning. The committee also urged ministers to consider
establishing a police National Counter-Terrorism Service to take the lead in
anti-terrorism operations within the UK.

The committee chairman, Labour MP Bruce George, said: "We do believe that there
has been a lack of grip and direction on the part of central government.

"We are concerned that central government has not responded to the scale of the
complexity of the challenge posed by international terrorism." Nuclear
consultant John Large aired his fears over nuclear submarines at Devonport
during a public meeting in Plymouth earlier this month.

Last night he said: "Post September 11, who knows what can happen? Devonport is
the home of the submarine which fired one of the first cruise missiles into
Afghanistan. What chance would a surface submarine have if it was the subject
ofan organised terrorist attack? "If there was an attack on a nuclear boat you
would have a city of more than 270,000 people at danger." An insider at
Devonport Management Ltd, the firm handling the decommission of nuclear
submarines at Devonport, told the Western Morning News last night that security
was tight at the base.

He said that the two most vulnerable nuclear submarines - the hunter-killers
which are stationed on the River Tamar - have sentries on board at all times,
while there are regular boat patrols. There are an additional five nuclear
submarines at Devonport either undergoing a refit or being decommissioned
Yesterday's committee was particularly critical of the Civil Contingencies
Secretariat which was set up last year before the September 11 attacks
specifically to co-ordinate government response to disasters.

jmcginnes@westcountry publications.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                 Copyright 2002 Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 July 26, 2002

Terror attack widow to stay

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 155 words


USA: A British mother whose husband died in the September 11 terrorist attacks
on New York's World Trade Center has won her battle to stay in the US with her
two young children.

Deena Gilbey, 39, said she was "so, so relieved and happy" after immigration
authorities granted her a green card following a ten-month struggle.

Mrs Gilbey faced being deported on September 11 this year because she lost her
right to stay in the country when her husband Paul died, despite her two sons
being US citizens.

"I'm just so thankful to everybody, especially all the British people, who
fought for me to stay, " she said.

"Even though they were three thousand miles away they showed incredible empathy
with what happened on 9/11.

"Nothing can bring my husband back or give my boys their father again, but this
long, painful fight has shown me how decent and kind people can be when they see
something is wrong."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 July 26, 2002

A BRITISH mother whose husband died in the September 11 terrorist attacks onNew
York's World Trade Center has won her battle to stay in the US with her two
young children.

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 30 words


Deena Gilbey, 39, who faced being deported, said she was 'so, so relieved and
happy' after immigration authorities granted her a green card following a
10-month struggle.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                                 July 26, 2002

Attack of the terror wasps.

BYLINE: Chris Semple (author email chris.semple@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 454 words

DATELINE: FORESTANDWATERSIDE



A HAMPSHIRE woman fled in terror after a swarm of dangerous wasps attacked her
in her garden.

Mother-of-two Yati Windsor was stung seven times by the insects - a foreign
species far nastier than its British counterpart - before escaping into her
home.

The Median wasp has already been blamed for the death of a 63-year-old man from
Wiltshire. Anyone who suffers an allergic reaction to its sting could die from
anaphylactic shock which can occur in hours.

Mrs Windsor, 41, was cutting the grass at her home in Tadburn Road, Romsey, when
the wasps swooped.

She said: "I stopped to examine a hydrangea that grows by the patio door.
Because the mower was on I couldn't here them buzzing around, and the next thing
I knew was there were hundreds of them coming at me from the bush and they just
started attacking.

"I got stung seven times before managing to get in through the door, and even
then they tried to follow me.

"When I went back to look at it later with my husband Keith, it just looked like
there was a football stuck in the tree, and we didn't realise at first it was a
nest."

As reported in the Daily Echo on Saturday, Median wasps appear to be increasing
in numbers across the south prompting fears over more attacks when the insects
get to their most active next month.

The concern stems from the wasps' tendency to attack on mass when disturbed -
particularly worrying as they have a habit of nesting in garden bushes.

Bigger than their British counterparts and with a far nastier and more venomous
sting, Median wasps, or Euro wasps as they are also known, are said to be
particularly sensitive to dark shapes or loud noises and see these as a threat
that needs to be repelled.

Dr Dave Goulson, lecturer in zoology at Southampton University, said: "The thing
that makes them dangerous is that they tend to nest in bushes where it is easier
for a passer-by to knock into them and trigger an attack.

"Also, the fact that they communicate via vibrations means that anything
interfering with that is going to upset them - so obviously a strimmer or lawn
mower is going to be bad news."

But not everyone thinks badly of the wasps.

Tim Woodcock, 43, of Fawley, works in the gardens at the National Motor Museum
in Beaulieu, and sees a nest of Median wasps almost every day.

He said: "We have quite a lot of them around, and they don't bother me.

"I can watch them and photograph their behaviour quite freely, but of course if
you went over the top of their nest with a hedge-trimmer I'm sure they wouldn't
like it."

The advice from the experts if you think you might have a nest is simply to
leave it alone and contact the environmental health department at your local
council.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 27, 2002

BRITISH MOTHER HAUNTED BY DEATH OF HUSBAND IN TERROR ATTACKS WINS FIGHT TO STAY
WITH SONS IN AMERICA; VICTORY FOR SEPT 11 WIFE

BYLINE: By Sally Guyoncourt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 604 words


A BRITISH mother who lost her husband in the September 11 atrocities said
yesterday that she could now "pick up the pieces of her life" after winning her
battle to stay in the US.

Deena Gilbey spoke of her relief and happiness after immigration authorities
finally agreed to give her and her two young children permanent residence by
granting her a green card.

She said: "I'm so, so relieved and happy. I'm just so thankful to everybody,
especially all the British people, who fought for me to stay.

"Even though they were three thousand miles away they showed incredible empathy
with what happened on 9/11.

"I have been so worried until now that I have not been able to grieve.

Now I can start to pick up the pieces of my life again."

The 39-year-old was threatened with deportation two days after the death of
husband Paul in the horrifying collapse of the World Trade Center.

Although both her sons, Max, four, and seven-year-old Mason were born in America
neither Mrs Gilbey or her husband Paul had green cards.

The couple had lived in New Jersey for the past 10 years under a work visa
awarded to Mr Gilbey who worked as a financial trader at the center.

Mr Gilbey was in his office on the 84th floor of the South Tower when it was hit
by the suicide hijackers.

He helped his fellow workers at Eurobrokers to flee the building.

But he insisted on staying in the building, struggling to get others out when it
collapsed, killing him and thousands of others.

Then, in a new blow to the mother-of-two originally from Southend in Essex,
immigration officers said her right to stay had expired when her husband died
and she would have to leave the country voluntarily or face deportation.

What followed was a 10-months struggle with authorities to allow her to stay in
the family home with her two sons.

She said: "I said to them, 'What will happen to me?', and they told me I would
be arrested and thrown out.

"After everything that had happened it seemed too much to take. I desperately
wanted to stay so that I could be close to where Paul died and so my children
could grow up in their home country."

The widow received backing for her fight from Prime Minister Tony Blair and New
York senator and former first lady Hillary Clinton.

She was finally told on Thursday that she had been granted a green card.

She said: "Nothing can bring my husband back or give my boys their father again,
but this long, painful fight has shown me how decent and kind people can be when
they see something is wrong.

"Until today I expected to be deported on the anniversary of my husband's death.

"This is the first truly good news I have had since the terrorist attacks."

To celebrate their victory the family are planning a trip to Disney World.

She said: "Paul loved it there when he was young and we had planned to take the
kids to it for the first time last October.

"I hope Paul is looking down and seeing that now, at last, we can begin to have
a little fun after such a terrible time."

Since his death, the family have been living on charity handouts and insurance
benefits.

The decision to grant her permanent residence was part of new legislation which
allows relatives of those killed at Ground Zero to apply to stay in the US. Her
victory could open the floodgates to hundreds of similar applications.

Mrs Gilbey said: "Much as I love Britain, America is my home.

"Our sons Max and Mason were born here and my husband was murdered here. He died
a hero helping to get others out of the South Tower and it seemed so wrong to
throw me out."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 July 27, 2002

Four die in terror attack as gunmen ambush cars

SECTION: News, Pg.10

LENGTH: 138 words


West Bank - Palestinian gunmen killed four people and injured at least two
others when they ambushed two Israeli cars yesterday. The attacks occurred near
Hebron, said settler Yehoshua Mor-Yosef.

He said three people were killed in one attack, and one killed and two injured
in the attack on the second car.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility. But several Palestinian groups
have vowed to seek revenge on Israel for its air strike earlier this week on
Gaza City which killed a Hamas leader and nine children.

David Baker, from Premier Ariel Sharon's office, said the attack was "graphic
proof of the extent of Palestinian terror and how totally devoted they were to
killing innocent Israeli civilians .

"Israel is resolved to rid itself of the noose of terror hanging over us, "
Baker said.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 July 28, 2002

AN exhibition opened in Liverpool today showing photographs of the aftermath of
the terrorist attacks of September 11..

BYLINE: Gordon McCully

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 47 words



Images of Ground Zero, taken by American photographer Joel Meyerowitz will be on
show at the Open Eye Gallery, in Wood Street, Liverpool.

The photographer had permission from the New York museum to take pictures of the
scene and many of his 5,000 images will be on show.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 July 29, 2002

THE SUN: India's cricket bosses yesterday feared a terrorist attack on Sachin
Tendulkar.

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 102 words


DAILY MIRROR: Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger last night predicted that his new
signing Gilberto Silva will take the Premiership by storm. DAILY STAR: Spurs
boss Glenn Hoddle has admitted he will sacrifice Darren Anderton to land a new
striker.

DAILY EXPRESS: Dwain Chambers may have to be put on a drip after every race to
save his career as a world class athlete.

THE TIMES: Arsene Wenger, the Arsenal manager, has threatened to pull his team
out of their pre-season tour of Austria after the club's friendly against Rapid
Vienna was abandoned on Saturday when rioting broke out in the stands.


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 July 29, 2002

THE SUN: India's cricket bosses yesterday feared a terrorist attack on Sachin
Tendulkar

BYLINE: Pearson Guy (Sentinel)

SECTION: SPORT; OTHER; Other; Pg. 38-SPORT

LENGTH: 78 words


THE SUN: India's cricket bosses yesterday feared a terrorist attack on Sachin
Tendulkar DAILY MIRROR: Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger predicted new signing
Gilberto Silva will take the Premiership by storm.

DAILY STAR: Spurs boss Glenn Hoddle has admitted he will sacrifice Darren
Anderton to land a new striker.

DAILY MAIL: Paula Radcliffe ran away with her dream last night when she won
goldon the track for the first time in a major meeting.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 July 29, 2002

Attack of the terror wasps.

BYLINE: Chris Semple

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 472 words


image large="1027522566-15.jpg" small="1027522566-15thumb.jpg"STUNG: Mrs Yati
Windsor with the wasps' nest.image

A HAMPSHIRE woman fled in terror after a swarm of dangerous wasps attacked her
in her garden.

Mother-of-two Yati Windsor was stung seven times by the insects - a foreign
species far nastier than its British counterpart - before escaping into her
home.

The Median wasp has already been blamed for the death of a 63-year-old man from
Wiltshire. Anyone who suffers an allergic reaction to its sting could die from
anaphylactic shock which can occur in hours.

Mrs Windsor, 41, was cutting the grass at her home in Tadburn Road, Romsey, when
the wasps swooped.

She said: "I stopped to examine a hydrangea that grows by the patio door.
Because the mower was on I couldn't here them buzzing around, and the next thing
I knew was there were hundreds of them coming at me from the bush and they just
started attacking.

"I got stung seven times before managing to get in through the door, and even
then they tried to follow me.

"When I went back to look at it later with my husband Keith, it just looked like
there was a football stuck in the tree, and we didn't realise at first it was a
nest."

As reported in the Daily Echo on Saturday, Median wasps appear to be increasing
in numbers across the south prompting fears over more attacks when the insects
get to their most active next month.

The concern stems from the wasps' tendency to attack on mass when disturbed -
particularly worrying as they have a habit of nesting in garden bushes.

Bigger than their British counterparts and with a far nastier and more venomous
sting, Median wasps, or Euro wasps as they are also known, are said to be
particularly sensitive to dark shapes or loud noises and see these as a threat
that needs to be repelled.

Dr Dave Goulson, lecturer in zoology at Southampton University, said: "The thing
that makes them dangerous is that they tend to nest in bushes where it is easier
for a passer-by to knock into them and trigger an attack.

"Also, the fact that they communicate via vibrations means that anything
interfering with that is going to upset them - so obviously a strimmer or lawn
mower is going to be bad news."

But not everyone thinks badly of the wasps.

Tim Woodcock, 43, of Fawley, works in the gardens at the National Motor Museum
in Beaulieu, and sees a nest of Median wasps almost every day.

He said: "We have quite a lot of them around, and they don't bother me.

"I can watch them and photograph their behaviour quite freely, but of course if
you went over the top of their nest with a hedge-trimmer I'm sure they wouldn't
like it."

The advice from the experts if you think you might have a nest is simply to
leave it alone and contact the environmental health department at your local
council.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 30, 2002, Tuesday

OAP FEARED FOR HER LIFE;
 THUG TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Phil Banner ORDEAL: Pensioner Margaret Grant fought off her attacker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 260 words


A CITY pensioner who was attacked and robbed of just pounds 4 by a teenage thug
who struck on her doorstep told today how she feared she would be murdered. 'It
was on the cards that he might kill me,' declared 79-year-old Margaret Grant as
she relived her ordeal.

'He banged my head about a dozen times on the wooden staircase. I tried to fight
him off, but he was so strong and I had no chance.'

Sprightly Miss Grant, a former teacher who lives alone in Erdington, was left
slumped on the ground with her face and elbows covered in cuts and bruises. 'I
was pretty dazed, but I got a good look at him and I remember he had steely
eyes,' she said.

'He took my keys from my handbag, which he stole, and locked me in. After he
left I staggered to my feet and immediately rang 999.' Miss Grant was ambushed
when she returned home at 5.25pm last Saturday after a trip to a local shop to
buy food for her Sunday lunch.

Detectives suspect she was trailed by the thug who was white, aged 16-18 and
around 6ft tall.

'I had treated myself to apple crumble and a turkey platter and was looking
forward to having it the next day,' she said.

'But as I was unlocking my front door this young man suddenly appeared behind me
and pushed me in.

'He covered my eyes and I tried to get him off. He shouted at me and threatened
me and then he started banging my head down on the stairs and everything went
black.'

Despite the terrifying attack, Miss Grant said she had no intention of quitting
the home where she has lived for the past 11 years.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 August 1, 2002

Man killed in terrorist bomb attack

BYLINE: Dixon Phil (Sentinel)

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; NEWS; Pg. 4-NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL NEW

LENGTH: 157 words


Man killed in terrorist bomb attack ROGUE republicans were today blamed for a
bomb attack which killed a construction worker at a Londonderry army base.

The 51-year-old victim, named locally as David Caldwell, suffered multiple
injuries afterpicking up a lunchbox-type device in a temporary building at the
Territorial Army's Caw Camp.

He was taken to Altnagelvin hospital but died a short time later.

As police sealed off the area and launched an investigation, security sources
accused dissident terrorists opposed to the peace process.

One said: "It's far and away most likely to be the dissidents.

"It's likely this was some form of anti-handling device, probably activated by
amercury tilt switch they have used in the past.

"Once you move it the bomb activates." The dead man was a former member of the
Ulster Defence Regiment who lived in the village of Eglinton, six miles outside
Londonderry.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 3, 2002

Bruce reborn for the USA;After the terrorist attacks, America turned to the Boss
for comfort. He mourned with them, and, says Allan Laing, was inspired to new
musical heights

BYLINE: Allan Laing

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1730 words


YOU never could see the World Trade Centre from Bruce Springsteen's 420-acre
spread in Monmouth County, New Jersey. Too high the hills and too many the
cornfields between them. If ever you

wanted to catch a glimpse of the Twin Towers you had to make the 20-minute drive
into Rumson. Even then there was only one spot, a bridge in the centre of town,
which offered a clear view of the Manhattan skyline.

Yet, the effects of what happened on September 11 last year were felt in
Monmouth as much as anywhere. Lots of local people commuted to New York; 158 of
them died in the disaster.

The man they call the Boss was watching television over breakfast when the news
broke. He jumped in his car, drove to the bridge in Rumson, and bore personal
witness to the horror unfolding just 12 miles due north. What he remembers most
was the empty sky where the towers used to be.

Like every American, he had an urge to do something to help. "This was one of
those moments when the years that I've put in and the relationships I've
developed and nurtured with my audience . . . this was one of those times when
people want to see you," he explained last week in Time magazine.

So, Springsteen decided that the best thing he could do was to do the best thing
he does. He opened the Tribute to Heroes telethon with My City of Ruins, a song
he'd written a few years ago but never released. The title alone made it a
resonant choice.

Then, like the rest of America, he mourned; tried to make some kind of sense out
of what had happened. He found a curious comfort in reading the New York Times
obituary columns, which were dominated by the Twin Towers' victims. And he
couldn't help but notice how many times Thunder Road or Born in the USA were
played at memorial services. It moved him to think how important his words, his
songs, his sentiments, had been to so many of those who perished.

The smoke was still rising from the debris when, a few days later, he locked
himself away in his bedroom, sat down at the same old desk he's used for 20
years, and began to write a cycle of songs inspired by the heroism and the
heartache of September 11. The result, an album called The Rising, released
earlier this week, may not be his finest collection of work, but it's certainly
the most intimate, most meaningful, and most significant musical response so far
to that awful day. Springsteen's sheer humanity shines through.

He went about his task in a way which was as much an exercise in journalism as
it was in song-writing. The man became a reporter. Stacey Farrelly, the widow of
a fire fighter killed in the Twin Towers, recalled recently how, about a month
after the event, she picked up the phone and heard a man say: ''May I please
speak to Stacey? This is Bruce Springsteen." They talked for more than half an
hour and the strength of that single call got her through her husband Joe's
memorial service.

Suzanne Berger, whose husband's obituary in the NYT was headlined: "Fan of the
Boss", also got a call. "I want to respect your privacy, but I just want you to
know that I was very touched and I want to know more about your husband," he
said. So she told him.

What these brave women, and many others, said to Springsteen provided the
critical human touch to The Rising. As a result, the songs are highly personal,
as much, if not more, to the bereaved as to the singer himself. Devoid of
cynicism, short on knee-jerk negative emotions such as revenge or hatred, they
really are songs of hope and redemption and, sometimes amid the sadness, even of
optimism.

In one song, Into the Fire (the first he wrote after September 11), the haunting
chorus comes across like a prayer: "May your strength give us strength/ May your
faith give us faith/ May your hope give us hope/ May your love give us love."
And it's meant to. "When the chorus hits, that's the gospel," Springsteen says
in the latest issue of Rolling Stone. "That's where the thing lifts and,
hopefully, tries to make sense of the experience itself."

The Rising proves, if proof were really needed, that Bruce Springsteen, more so
than any other songwriter (including Dylan, but with the arguable exception of
Tom Waits) is the rock'n'roll poet laureate for working-class America. He sees
what they see; he feels what they feel; he hurts when they hurt. Those of us
familiar with his work know that he always has.

Bruce Springsteen was born into a working-class family in Freehold, New Jersey,
on September 23, 1949. The family lived with his paternal grandparents until he
was eight years old. With a guitar bought by his mother,

he learned to play by listening to

rock'n'roll on the radio. At 16 he joined his first group, the Castiles.

In the early sixties his family moved to California in search of work.
Springsteen stayed behind. After dropping out of college the teenager spent most
of his time hanging out with musicians around the Asbury Park area of the New
Jersey shoreline, playing with various groups before finally forming his own
outfit, the Bruce Springsteen Band with, among others, guitarist Steve van Zandt
and saxophonist Clarence Clemons.

Legendary A&R man John Hammond came to check him out and, sensing a future Bob
Dylan, signed him up as a solo artist for CBS. Springsteen, however, didn't
quite see himself in either solo or Dylan mould so he recorded his first album,
Greetings From Asbury Park (1973), with his precision-made band.

Though critically acclaimed (Rolling Stone's rock critic Jon Landau, who would
eventually become the Boss's producer, manager, and mentor, famously wrote: "I
have seen the future of

rock'n'roll and its name is Bruce Springsteen)." neither it, nor the next year's
follow-up album, The Wild, the Innocent and the E Street Shuffle, were
particularly successful in commercial terms.

Springsteen's major breakthrough came in 1975 with the release of the landmark
album Born To Run. Here, at last, was a rock artist in touch with blue-

collar America, writing about the important things in working-class life; his
car, his job, his girlfriend, his home town.

The public loved it. The album was a huge hit on both sides of the Atlantic.
Springsteen embarked on a massively successful concert tour. He appeared on the
cover of Time and Newsweek.

However, a legal wrangle over management forced him to put his career on hold
for almost three years. His next album, the sombre Darkness on the Edge of Town,
didn't appear until 1978. In the meantime, many of his songs had been made hits
by artists including Patti Smith (Because the Night), the Pointer Sisters (Fire)
and Manfred Mann's Earth Band (Blinded by the Light).

The early 1980s saw Springsteen release the highly-praised double album, The
River, and the stripped-down, brooding, and much-misunderstood Nebraska,
downbeat songs about America's poor and dispossessed, which owe a debt of
gratitude to the fact that Steinbeck went travelling with Charley.

Then, in 1984, came Born in the USA, which sold 20 million copies (a good thing)
and was effectively hijacked by President Ronald Reagan (a bad thing). Some
people just don't listen to lyrics. At the height of the Reagan-Mondale
presidential race, a well-known conservative newspaper columnist, George Will,
wrote a piece commending Springsteen for his "elemental American values" and
praising the new album's title song for its patriotic sentiments. The only
problem was that Born in the USA was not some jingoistic tribute to the Stars
and Stripes. Quite the reverse. It was a powerful story about a Vietnam vet who
had lost his brother, his hope, and his faith in his country. Still, it didn't
prevent the song falling on the deaf ears of Reagan's political advisers who,
after reading Will's column, brought it to his attention.

Thus, in a campaign stop in Springsteen's native New Jersey, President Reagan
cheesily declared: "America's future rests in the message of hope in the songs
of a young man so many young Americans admire: New Jersey's Bruce Springsteen.
And helping you make those dreams come true is what this job of mine is all
about."

A couple of days later, at a concert in Pittsburgh, a bemused Springsteen said
to his audience: ''The president was mentioning my name the other day and I kind
of got to wondering what his favourite album might be. I don't think it was
Nebraska." He then proceeded to sing Johnny 99, a song about a man who murders
as a way of retaliating against the meanness of society. It was a song from
Nebraska which he wrote in response to the malignant political atmosphere
created by Reagan's harsh social policies.

If this unfortunate episode had any positive aspect then it was that it served
to make the performer more politically explicit. He began meeting with labour
activists and civil right groups. He made more and more social comments in
between the songs in his concerts. Woody Guthrie's This Land is Your Land, one
of the finest songs written about America, became a part of his regular live
set.

In his personal life, Springsteen has strived to maintain the balance between
his wealth and the working-class values he inherited. "A rich man in a poor
man's shirt," as he described himself in the song Better Days.

After his first marriage, to the model-turned-actress Julianne Phillips, ended
in divorce in 1989 he struck up an intense relationship with E Street Band
backing singer (and Jersey homegirl) Patti Scialfa who, like the man himself,
came from a Catholic Irish/Italian background. They married in 1991 and moved
across the continent to Beverly Hills and a plush $ 14m mansion. But they were
neither happy nor content in California.

This was reflected in his 1995 album, the sparse and depressing The Ghost of Tom
Joad. Shortly after its release, and after a period of serious soul searching,
they moved back to New Jersey and the sprawling farm where they live today with
their three children, Evan, aged 12; Jessica, 10, and Sam, eight.

Now Bruce Springsteen, at 52, is born again in the USA. Not this time as just
the voice of the disenfranchised, the dispossessed, or the poverty-stricken. Not
only for the shot-and-a-beer honest Joes. This time, with The Rising, he is
America's everyman, speaking for a nation still bewildered by the events of
September 11.

CD selection Page 15

LOAD-DATE: August 03, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: HOME GROUND: Bruce Springsteen performed songs from his new album at
the Convention Centre, Asbury Park, last Tuesday. Picture: Peter Morgan/Reuters

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 3, 2002, Saturday

WE WON'T FLY ON 9/11;
 EXCLUSIVE IRISH PASSENGERS FEAR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Elaine Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 347 words


WORRIED Irish tourists are refusing to fly on September 11 - in case there's a
repeat of last year's terror attack on America.

Travel agents said yesterday that many flights, especially to New York, are
almost completely empty.

A reservations manager with Club Travel said: "Ninety-nine per cent of our
customers have refused to travel on that date.

"I had a woman ring up to book a flight who asked for September 10. When that
wasn't available, she asked for September 12. That wasn't available either. I
offered her a flight on September 11 because we had lots of availability.

"But she just said no, she didn't want to fly that day.

"The flights on September 11 are just wide open."

The Club Travel worker said there was "any number" of seats available to New
York on the day that will mark the first anniversary of the world's worst
terrorist attack.

More than 3,000 people died when four passenger jets were flown into the World
Trade Center, the Pentagon and woodland in Pennsylvania.

A spokeswoman for another travel agent, Toolin Travel in Dublin, also admitted
September 11 had posed a problem for some customers.

She said: "A few people who had booked their holidays and didn't realise they
were due to return on September 11 came back to me and said they wanted to
cancel."

The spokeswoman checked flights to New York from Ireland on September 11 and
said there was "full availability", even though flights for other dates next
month were heavily booked.

A spokeswoman for Aer Lingus admitted the passenger loads on the airline's
September 11 flights were "very light".

But she added that September 10 and 12 were "chock-a-block".

In the US, some of the biggest airlines are cutting back their September 11
flight schedules, bowing to Americans' reluctance to fly on the anniversary of
the attack.

And Air France has cancelled one flight each to New York and Washington on
September 11 because of a lack of reservations, the company said yesterday.

The airline's remaining flights will run as usual, a spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             August 4, 2002, Sunday

ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 51 words


A BOY of 14 was being quizzed by police last night after a man was mugged and
left for dead in a ditch beside a busy road.

The 39-year-old victim from Southampton was so badly hurt he lay conscious but
unable to move for eight hours before being found. He is fighting for his life
in hospital.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:18:06

