



Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:11:36
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

DUO STILL QUIZZED OVER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 255 words


POLICE have released one of three people being questioned in London about the
terror attacks in the US, Scotland Yard said today.

Sonia Raissi, aged 25, was released without charge last night.

Anti-terrorist officers were continuing to quiz her husband Lotfi Raissi, aged
27, and a second man in his mid 40s, who was arrested in Birmingham on Friday.

They were also quizzing three men arrested in Leicester yesterday over possible
links to anti-American terrorist activities in Europe.

Sonia Raissi was arrested with her husband at their home in Colnbrook,
Berkshire, on Friday under the Anti-Terrorism Act, a Metropolitan Police
spokeswoman said.

Magistrates have granted police an extension, allowing them to question the two
men until an unspecified time tomorrow. Under the provisions of the Terrorist
Act 2000, detectives could apply for a further extension to hold them until
Friday.

A fourth suspect, Mohamed Raissi, aged 29, was released without charge at the
weekend.

Police yesterday arrested three men at two addresses in Leicester - one aged 29,
another 35, and the other believed to be in his 20s.

They were not suspected of being involved in the atrocities in the United States
two weeks ago.

Their detention was believed to be linked to previous arrests made in France,
Belgium and Holland. Seven suspected Islamic fundamentalist terrorists who were
thought to be planning attacks on American interests in France, including the US
embassy, were arrested in Paris last week.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

20 face court over Argentine terror attack

BYLINE: By Sophie Arie, Buenos Aires

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 66 words

Twenty Argentinians, including 15 police officers, went on trial yesterday over
a terrorist car bomb that killed 85 people at a Jewish cultural centre in Buenos
Aires in 1994.

The perpetrators of the attack, believed to be Islamic terrorists with bases in
South America, have never been caught. The 20 men are charged with being
accessories to the crime.
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 26, 2001

TODDLER TOO FRIGHTENED TO VISIT GRANNY AFTER SHOOTING; TERROR AFTER GUN ATTACK

BYLINE: BY TED OLIVER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 331 words


A LITTLE girl has become too terrified to visit her grandmother's house after it
came under gunfire.

Two-year-old Madison is too frightened to go back to the Belfast house after it
was riddled with machinegun bullets in a terrorist attack while she was inside
on Monday.

In a terrified appeal to her granny yesterday, she said: "Don't go back, the bad
boys are shooting at us." Madison, a Protestant, was staying the night in the
house in the north of the city when it was hit by more than 20 bullets fired,
allegedly, by the Provisional IRA.

She escaped unhurt in the attack, which came during the worst rioting in Belfast
for more than 20 years. But she is now too frightened to approach the back of
the house where the bullets smashed into the brick-work.

Grandmother Liz, 51, said: "She stays with me some nights to keep me company
because I live here on my own.

"I had just put her down to sleep and was getting ready for bed myself when I
heard bricks and bottles being thrown into my back garden and the back of my
house. We have had trouble here all summer and I have the windows protected with
Perspex, so I wasn't too worried.

"But a few minutes later there were two bursts of really loud gunfire and I
heard the bullets hitting the back of my home.

Madison was in complete hysterics and I wasn't much better.

"Luckily the bullets just hit the bricks and not the windows or we could both
have been killed. I have lived in this street for 33 years and I am not going to
be put out by this. But Madison is too scared to come back." Hours earlier, a
police patrol came under automatic fire in a nationalist street.

Unionist politicians have blamed the Provisional IRA for both attacks and are
calling on the Northern Ireland Secretary to review the Provisionals' ceasefire
and expel Sinn Fein from government.

Last night Assistant Chief Constable Alan McQuillan said: "We have had a gradual
escalation of the use of guns on both sides."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 26, 2001

Media: Mail blames terror attacks for fresh cuts in advertising: Recovery put on
hold

BYLINE: David Teather

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 290 words


Daily Mail & General Trust yesterday said the beginnings of a recovery in
advertising revenues had been knocked off course by the terrorist attacks in the
United States.

The publisher of the Daily Mail and Mail on Sunday, expects display advertising
on the two national titles to be 8% lower in the six months to October, compared
with the same period last year.

Finance director Peter Williams, said the market "was doing pretty well" before
the events of September 11 when pages were cleared to cover the attacks on New
York and Washington and advertisers began to cancel their campaigns.

"June was rough, July was slightly down and August was up by around 2-3% - not
much, but there aren't many positives among media companies in this climate," he
said. "September had also been looking fine."

Circulation, which accounts for more than 50% of the Daily Mail's revenue, has
been higher in the two weeks since the attacks.

On the day after the attacks, circulation of the Daily Mail broke through the 3m
mark, selling about 600,000 extra copies. "But not many advertisers want to
appear in that kind of environment," he said.

"It's too soon to say when things will recover. For a few days, certainly,
things were exceptional but the Mail is perhaps starting to look more normal
again."

Investors had been expecting worse. The trading statement sparked a 10% rally in
Daily Mail shares to 558p.

Classified advertising has improved by 5% on the Mail titles during the period
but the group's London Evening Standard has suffered an 11% fall in revenues
caused by a drop in recruitment advertising.

Overall advertising revenues in the company's regional titles is expected to
show a 3.5% increase.


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 26, 2001

On the brink of war: Hidden victims: 1,500 lost parents at just one firm:
Children bereaved in terror attacks treated for depression and anxiety

BYLINE: Michael Ellison in New York

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 683 words


Children are not a big feature of the landscape of Manhattan, where 75% of
residents are single; still, estimates of the number of young people who had
their lives damaged forever two weeks ago run to the thousands.

Indeed, the deaths in the World Trade Centre of about 700 employees of just one
company, the bond-trading firm Cantor Fitzgerald, are thought to have taken a
parent from about 1,500 children.

Many of those who commuted to the complex from New York's four other boroughs
and places nearby such as New Jersey, Long Island and Westchester county were
parents in their 20s, 30s and 40s.

Some counsellors said that younger children might become subdued and withdrawn
if they did not get the opportunity to express and understand their grief; those
of school age might experience complaints such as bedwetting, headaches and
stomach pains from holding in their feelings; and adolescents were more at risk
from drugs and alcohol and could be more likely to attempt suicide or run away
from home.

"Displaced anger is something that we see not just in children but also in
adults," said Scott Davidson, a child-family therapist working with the American
Red Cross in Washington. "Anger is a very natural emotion but they must learn to
understand it rather than to act out of it."

Ruth Kreitzman, a Manhattan clinical social worker who counsels bereaved
children, said: "In these special circumstances there are a number of special
challenges we've not confronted before. One is the violence, and not only that
but the graphic violence that's been assimilated over and over again though the
media." Another was that people were classified as missing for so long,
understandably because it allowed them to cling to some hope. "There was this
period of confusion when what you want to do with children is to be very, very
clear and in lan guage appropriate for their age let them know what's happened,"
said Ms Kreitzman of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, the
biggest mental health agency in the United States. This failure to confront the
inevitable was not necessarily a mistake but that it did create new problems.

Younger children exposed to television footage of the planes hitting the towers
might not understand that they were watching repeats but might think that they
were seeing a new attack each time. "Some will think that the building's gone
down and come up again," she said.

Mr Davidson said the media should switch their focus towards informing the
grief-stricken of the services available to them. "It would be real helpful if
they started covering some of the healing process that's in place. There's a
need for a phase that's not about what the terrorists did but that gets out some
of the information of what's available. The media need to capture the fact that
after the attacks there has been a great wave of caring and people wanting to
help and flying across the country to do so."

He spoke also of the hidden victims, those who were not related to a casualty
but were still suffering. "What gets missed is that hundreds or thousands of
children have parents who are severely traumatised, who worked with those who
died for years. They're going home and trying to be parents and the children can
sense their trauma."

Ms Kreitzman said that the more stark and violent the event that caused the
bereavement, the more difficult it was to come to terms with it.

"Everybody wants to make sense of their world. Children do too. You want to be
able to contextualise something. With a natural disaster you can say to yourself
that is what happens: volcanoes erupt, earthquakes happen. But with this,
whatever framework you bring to it, it's hard to make sense of it.

"Depression and anxiety are the two major manifestations in someone bereaved as
a child. The fact is that the absence of a parent has a very profound effect.
They know that they've begun to have a relationship with that person and there's
been a disruption of some kind. Under any circumstances, there's going to be
some tremendous upheaval."


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 26, 2001

On the brink of war: Protect and survive: With the possibility of terrorist
attacks in Britain looming large, Esther Addley seeks advice on what to do in
the event of a serious emergency - and finds a nation woefully unprepared

BYLINE: Esther Addley

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 948 words


The woman at ukonline can't help me. I had thought the "open government" website
might be a reasonable first port of call to find out what was going on, but
there's nothing on the site, and the helpline operator doesn't know anything
about it. I'd like some advice on imminent biological attack, I say. "If you
have a query you can tell me, and I'll pass it on to the government," she says.
"You should get an emailed response within five working days."

I try the Ministry of Defence. They send me to the Home Office, who suggest the
Cabinet Office. The man there says there's no advice, because there has been no
threat. "Normally local authorities have responsibility for this kind of thing."
But however efficient they are at recycling, Tower Hamlets council doesn't seem
to have grasped the situation. "Please hold, I'll put you through!" the woman on
the switchboard says cheerily. Two minutes later she's back. "Em, I know I'm
meant to put you through to a department, but I don't really know what you mean.
What are biological weapons?" I explain I'm worried about the terrorist threat
and want to know what I should do. I get an electronic voice message: "Hello! We
are unable to answer right now. If you would like to send a fax, please do so
after the beep."

Those who have been wondering whether or not to panic about a biological or
chemical attack on the UK can now rest assured. They should. Or so the World
Health Organisation seemed to suggest yesterday, when it urged governments to
speed up their emergency planning against such assaults. "Proper surveillance
and a quick, coordinated response are vital if any deliberate use of agents such
as anthrax or smallpox are to be contained before they infect large numbers of
people," the organisation said, posting on its website extensive details of
exactly what the weapons can do to the body.

Just two weeks ago the notion that our water might be contaminated, or that
someone could drop a fistful of anthrax from the top of Canary Wharf, was
preposterous. But that was before the US grounded crop-spraying planes in case
they were used to drop noxious chemicals over cities, and rumours about
terrorists releasing a suspicious package into a US reservoir. Can it really be
time to head to Tesco to stock up on tinned peaches? Or at the very least, a gas
mask?

Easier said than done, it transpires. A little over two weeks ago, Springfields
Army Stores' main clients were were executives going paintballing, fishermen and
parents buying outfits for their kids. But yesterday, manager Tony Bullock was
forced to put a brief notice on its website to relieve some of the demand: "If
you are concerned about possible terrorist attacks and want some detailed
information about how to use NBC suits and respirators, click here."

The Staffordshire company has sold 1,000 "NBC" (nuclear, biological, chemical)
suits and gas masks in just over a week, and could have sold more if his
suppliers had been able to keep up with demand. Bullock has no more British or
Russian masks left, he says; the Belgian ones don't fit in an airtight seal over
the British suits, but people are buying them anyway.

There doesn't appear to be a gas mask anywhere in London either; I try three
suppliers, all of whom have sold out. Not that they would be much use in a
biological attack in any case. The whole kit - trousers, jacket, overshoes,
hood, two pairs of gloves, face mask, respirator and haversack - would need to
be scrambled on, tucked in and airtight within 30 seconds. That takes practice,
and prob ably assistance from someone else. But the moment you open the packets,
the garments are useless for future use. In other words, as Bullock admits, you
really need to buy two of everything.

Maybe we should just retreat underground. "In Kent, at least, there are the
Chislehurst caves, which have something like 21 miles of underground tunnels,"
says Ian Johnston- Bryden, a security consultant for specialists Firetrench. "Or
in places like Norwich, there are extensive underground chalk caves that could
be used. Though they would need a lot of work, as they do have problems with
poisonous gases." There are still some nuclear bunkers around, he says, though
most have been stripped of anything that made them safe against nuclear attack.

I try Dominic Hawkin, who manages the Bunker, a cold-war shelter in Kent that
claims to be "the most physically secure non- governmental site on earth for
data storage". In theory, it probably could accommodate a couple of hundred
people for six months in the event of attack, he says. But the site is now used
for company data hosting, and is not equipped to take people. The companies that
used to make back-garden air raid shelters in the 70s stopped it long ago, says
Johnston-Bryden. He suggests I try boat repairers, who might be able to knock me
up a fibreglass drum that I could bury in the back garden. With an internet
connection it might be quite comfortable, he suggests.

So while the WHO and common sense suggest there is reason to be concerned about
a possible attack, I haven't managed to come up with any helpful advice
whatsoever. I'm reduced to looking on the internet, the last refuge of the
paranoid. Oddly, even here there seems to be little talk of chemical warfare
relating to the World Trade Centre attacks. I stumble across a site run by an
enthusiastic environmental pessimist - "where survivalism rocks!" - but it
hasn't been updated since December 1999. Perhaps he is still holed up in a
Norwegian cave somewhere, not daring to come out in case the millennium bug
strikes. God alone knows whether we should be joining him.


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 26, 2001

Brown steps up attack on terrorist funds

BYLINE: Michael Settle Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 360 words


GORDON Brown yesterday stepped up the economic war against international
terrorism by adding the American financial list of banned groups and individuals
to Britain's existing one.

The chancellor has told the Financial Services Authority to furnish banks and
financial institutions across the UK with the list issued by George W Bush,
which contained the names of 27 groups and individuals.

A Treasury spokesman explained last night that on Thursday it had, via the Bank
of England, recirculated the United Nations list against the Taliban regime.
This contained details of 160 Afghan nationals and seven corporations.

The spokesman told The Herald: "Some of the Bush list overlaps with our own. For
example, we both have Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda.

"Any financial institution which finds any transaction or asset in relation to
any of the proscribed groups or individuals should contact the National Criminal
Intelligence Service."

Any person or company on the extended list will have their UK assets frozen and
set aside in a separate account marked either "Taliban" or "bin Laden".

Funds held on behalf of the Taliban regime by banks, brokers, and accountants
will also be frozen.

The Taliban's British bank accounts have been frozen since sanctions were
imposed in 1999, after the regime refused to hand over bin Laden in the wake of
the US embassy attacks in Kenya and Tanzania.

Last week, Mr Brown announced that a Barclays Bank account in Notting Hill, west
London, which had been linked to bin Laden, had been closed.

US authorities have said they are already looking at accounts in the Isle of
Man, Gibraltar, and Switzerland.

The Bank Of England list of banned organisations contains a number of Afghan
organisations, including: Banke Millie Afghan, the country's national bank based
in the capital Kabul with several offices across the Middle East; Ariana Afghan
Airlines, Afghanistan's main carrier; the London-based Agricultural Development
Bank of Afghanistan, and the Central Bank of Afghanistan.

The individuals include bin Laden, who is the alliance's chief suspect for the
atrocities in America.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

ARTS: BECAUSE THE SHOW MUST GO ON...;
 IN THE WAKE OF THE TERRORIST ATTACKS, A HANDFUL OF TOP SHOWS ON BROADWAY HAVE
CLOSED. BUT THE GENERAL HEALTH OF THEATRE IN NEW YORK, AND ESPECIALLY ITS
MUSICALS, IS AS GOOD AS IT'S BEEN FOR YEARS, AS EDWARD SECKERSON DISCOVERS

BYLINE: Edward Seckerson Nathan Lane as Max Bialystock, left, and Matthew
Broderick as Leo; Bloom in the Broadway musical version of 'The Producers' Paul;
Kolnik/Reuters

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1310 words


The show did go on, just as it always has. Springtime for Hitler was the
unexpected hit of the season, a chorus girl became an overnight star, and just
when you thought they'd cleaned up the sleaze around 42nd Street, a show called
Urinetown moved into the neighbourhood. Mind you, with male strippers just down
the block promising "The Full Monty" or your money back, the prospect of a
return to Broadway's burlesque beginnings, albeit with a unisexual twist,
suddenly seemed like a very real possibility - something, perhaps, that Max
Bialystock, the fictional producer behind Springtime for Hitler, might cash in
on once his new show, Prisoners of Love (direct from Sing Sing) hits town.

Broadway, as epitomised by the Broadway musical, has always had difficulty
distinguishing fact from fantasy. But Broadway wouldn't - shouldn't - have it
any other way. A few years back, you could barely recognise the place, so
infested was it with foreign imports or clones of foreign imports. A crisis of
identity loomed, Broadway's legendary confidence was on the wane.

Broadway's rehabilitation couldn't have come at a better time to help the city
through its dark days. The balance between quality revivals and new shows is
looking healthier than it has for some time, and off-Broadway is taking itself
more seriously as the place where new talent gets its first bite of the Big
Apple. Would that there were an equivalent here in London, or indeed throughout
the country, where regional theatre was once the breeding ground for the new and
adventurous. British talent is out there, but it doesn't have a platform.

What a turnaround. The Yanks have even robbed us of The Full Monty. I can't
believe there wasn't a British bid to turn one of our most successful film
exports in years into a musical. For Sheffield, substitute Buffalo. Commission a
smart, streetwise book from Terrence McNally (who seems to have found a natural
niche in Broadway musicals) and a score from David Yazbek that sounds like Frank
Loesser has gotten funky, and what might have seemed like a very bad idea on the
drawing -board is proving quite the opposite at the box office. Everybody's
jostling for the coveted first eight rows of the stalls (in the movie, "the full
Monty", you may remember, was glimpsed only from behind).

Outside the theatre, programme- sellers are heard yelling: "The only Broadway
souvenir programme with tush-shots!" Inside the theatre, we gather like
gatecrashers on a hen-night, because we are the audience and it's precisely that
which makes the show such a riot. In the opening minutes, a professional male
stripper, from a group calling themselves "The Romeos", struts his stuff in the
semi-buff, and it's possible to believe that the women running down the aisles
screaming for his G -string are not cast members at all but overexcited
Manhattanites. And one speaks for all when she says: "My friend told me they
were fabulous - and she's a lesbian!"

This is about as close as Broadway gets to audience-participation. The
Americanisation of The Full Monty rings surprisingly true. McNally's book has
lost little of the original's homespun charm and/or sentimentality. But the
social realism strikes a more cynical, even mordant, tone with the famous dole
-office sequence now relocated to a funeral. And there's a terrific sequence
where the guys, desperate for moves for their act, unwittingly find inspiration
in basketball. But it's primarily a "verbal" show. The smart one-liners come
thick and fast - "You wanna be in show business, you should be spayed first" -
and Yazbek's ballsy song lyrics get my vote for the best rhyming couplet of the
season: "'Cos when you're swinging your cojones/ You'll show 'em what
testosterone is."

Plenty more like that from the master, Mel Brooks, whose manic alter ego Max
Bialystock, played by Nathan Lane, is first heard to exclaim: "Stop the world! I
want to get on!" Brooks, sorry Bialystock, will steal from anybody. Even
himself. It was only a matter of time before The Producers - a stage musical
trapped in a movie - would make it to Broadway. This is the flip-side of the
lullaby of Broadway: that is, the rude awakening. You like to think that
characters like Bialystock - void of talent, taste, or scruples - actually
existed, but if they didn't, that it was Broadway's duty to invent them.

Nathan Lane is a force of nature whose virtuosic slow burns, double takes,
silent exasperation, and hysteria (just the mention of money - especially his
own money - sends Bialystock into heart-attack mode) belong to a Broadway we
rarely encounter now outside of old movies. When the curtain rises on opening
night of Bialystock's latest project - a musical adaptation of Hamlet entitled
Funny Boy - we know precisely where we are. The wonderful thing about The
Producers - the musical (quite apart from seeing more of Springtime for Hitler)
- is the way in which it subverts the Broadway we know and love. Brooks and his
director/choreographer Susan Stroman spare no expense to give offence. A
pastiche of Busby Berkeley has scantily clad chorus girls in the formation of a
swastika. A glimpse of "Old Lady Heaven" (all Bialystock's backers are rich and
randy old ladies) builds to a huge tap number, familiar but for the fact that
the distinctive sound is produced not by feet but by Zimmer frames.

That sound nightly fills the theatre just two blocks away, on 42nd Street (how's
that for "on location") as the curtain partly rises to reveal row upon row of
perfectly synchronised tapping feet. You've heard of a call to arms - this is
Broadway's call to legs, a newly minted refit of Gower Champion's classic
production. "By this time tomorrow night, we'll either have ourselves a live
leading lady or a dead chorus girl". So says the big-shot producer when his star
takes the phrase "Break a leg!" rather too literally. Into the breech steps
eager out-of-towner Peggy Sawyer (the blissfully loose-limbed Meredith
Patterson), and the rest, as they say, is Broadway history. "Keep young and
beautiful" coos one of Harry Warren's great songs, and bang on cue a giant
tilting mirror descends to give us one of those eye-popping aerial Busby
Berkeley shots. "We're in the Money" all right. The big finish has a chorus line
of thousands appearing row by glittering row atop a giant stairway. This must be
the "stairway to paradise". In Bialystock's dreams.

His view of off-Broadway? "I hate it. Mimes, experimental theatre, no
parking..." And Batboy. Over at the Union Square Theatre, Laurence O'Keefe's
wacky little rock musical (a kind of Edward Scissorhands with fangs) has a
winning debut performance from Deven May in the title role, a couple of
reasonably good songs, and a monumentally silly spoof of The Lion King involving
what can only be described as an orgy of cuddly toys. That alone is worth the
trip downtown.

Moving uptown from the village is the success story of the season, Urinetown - a
musical about global warming, drought, the rising price of water, the ruthless
exploitation of those without a pot to piss in, so to speak. A powerful
corporation, UGC - Urine Good Company - is redefining the phrase "tax relief".
There's a lot of Weill and Brecht in this deliciously grubby confection, but
with better jokes. Mark Hollmann's quirky music and lyrics, and Greg Kotis's
devilish book have their cake and eat it. Urinetown is both social satire and a
parody of social satire. It lets us in on the joke and then mocks us for
laughing at it. "What kind of a musical is this?" asks Little Sally, the
smartassed kid. "What kind of a title is Urinetown? Nobody will come to see it."
Wrong.

'The Producers', 'Urinetown' and "The Full Monty', (001) 212-239 6200; '42nd St'
and 'Batboy', 212-307 4100. Edward Seckerson's 'Stage & Screen' is on Radio 3,
Mondays, 4pm

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERRORISM: PRECAUTIONS - WORRIED ABOUT AN ATTACK? POUNDS 30,000 BUYS A
SAFE HAVEN

BYLINE: Chris Gray The Kelvedon Hatch nuclear bunker in Essex, run by Mike
Parrish, was built at the height of the Cold War Neil Hall/Anglia Press Agency

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 703 words


FOR THOSE prone to apocalyptic fears, the terrorist crisis has provided all the
incentive they need to prepare for Armageddon.

Britain's nuclear bunkers and military equipment stores are reporting
unprecedented interest in their services while chemical suits are the latest
fashion accessories for survivalists.

Despite official reminders that no specific threat has been made against Britain
and expert warnings that easily available gas masks and suits may prove useless,
some people refuse to remain calm.

One chemical suit manufacturer said the number of inquiries from the public went
from zero to 200 in a week while a nuclear bunker in Scotland has seen the
amount of visitors double since the suicide hijacks in America.

The Secret Bunker, a former RAF bunker near St Andrews now used as a tourist
attraction, often has inquiries about using the shelter in the event of war. But
Susan Love, a spokeswoman for the shelter, which is 100ft below ground, said
there were nearly 200 visitors last Sunday, twice the normal figure.

The shelter is now considering setting up an insurance scheme whereby people pay
an advance fee to reserve a place.

A similar scheme is under way in Essex where Mike Parrish said he had received
dozens of inquiries about places at his private shelter in Brentwood.

Mr Parrish has reserved 40 places for his family and friends at the shelter,
which was originally made to house government officials. There are 200 more
spots to go at pounds 30,000 a go.

He denied he was scaremongering to make money, saying he was "just being
sensible" in the light of stories about nuclear or biological attacks. "Those
who look ahead stand a better chance of surviving in the event of a disaster,"
he said.

A third bunker near Sevenoaks in Kent has reported a "phenomenal" amount of
calls from companies wanting to ensure the survival of their data and records.
Dominic Hawkin, a director of AL Digital (Telecommunications) which bought the
shelter at a former RAF base four years ago, said: "People started to come to
terms with what happened about a week ago and felt they needed to protect their
data."

For those unable or unwilling to bag a place underground, protective chemical
suits are next on the shopping list. Liverpool-based International Safety
Products said the company had received a "huge" amount of interest. Its
marketing director, Chris Owen, said: "We've gone from receiving no inquiries
from the general public to over 200 e-mails in the space of a week."

The demand was repeated at military equipment shops across the country. At WH
Orchard, an army surplus supplier in Dobwalls, Cornwall, 50 chemical suits have
been sold in the past week, to the surprise of its owner, Graham Orchard. "I
will sell people the suits, although I tell them I don't think they are going to
be of any use," he said.

Barry Martin, who runs Leith Army Stores in Edinburgh, said he received more
requests for gas masks in 24 hours than he would normally expect in a year. He
said about 70 people had asked for gas masks and nuclear, biological and
chemical (NBC) protective suits normally worn by the armed forces.

Defence experts warned that for most people, buying military equipment was
likely to be as futile. John Eldridge, editor of Jane's Nuclear, Biological and
Chemical Defence, said: "If you buy a respirator or a suit, what are you going
to do - wear it all the time?"

He added that the equipment would be unlikely to protect against biological
weapons because of their tendency to spread slowly through the population.

Downing Street said that although it was important people remained vigilant,
there was no evidence of a specific threat against Britain. "There is no reason
why people should not carry out their normal day-to-day goings on in the usual
way," he said.

t An emergency goods company based in the western Japanese city of Osaka says
that it has been swamped with inquiries about its underground nuclear bunkers.
Seiichiro Nishimoto, president of the company, Shelter, said: "In the 10 years I
have been selling nuclear bunkers, I have only sold five. But since the attack
(in America), I've already sold three."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: POLICE - STEVENS SAYS ATTACK WAS 'EVIL IN ITS PUREST FORM'

BYLINE: Sam Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 164 words


BRITAIN'S MOST senior police officer branded the terror attack on America "evil
in its purest form" last night and urged Christians to take up the fight against
the perpetrators.

Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, was speaking at a prayer
meeting at Westminster Chapel in London. The event, called For London, was
organised before the New York and Washington atrocities by the Evangelical
Alliance to bring Christians together to pray for London's communities.

Sir John told the congregation: "Two weeks ago we saw evil in its most brutal
form. It defied anything that we have seen for some time.

"It is recognised that 6,400 people died in those buildings and these
perpetrators have the arrogance to say they did it in the name of religion, but
it is right that it is evil in its purest form.

"As Christians we will take up the banner, it will be a crusade against evil,"
he said. "By fighting evil, that is the best way we can triumph."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

RUC ATTACKS 'TERROR'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 35 words


THE RUC said it was too early to accuse the IRA over Monday's gun attacks on a
police patrol and on a Protestant home in north Belfast.

Sir Ronnie Flanagan condemned the attacks as "acts of terrorism".

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               September 26, 2001

LAST PICTURE OF SAFETY CHIEF KILLED EVACUATING TRADE CENTER AFTER TERRORIST
ATTACK

BYLINE: JULIE WHELDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 267 words


British hero died clearing doomed tower


A DISTRAUGHT wife today paid tribute to her British-born husband as a photograph
emerged showing him evacuating the World Trade Center moments before it
collapsed.

Rick Rescorla, who was born in Hayle, Cornwall, is missing, presumed dead, after
the terrorist attacks on New York. He worked as head of security for Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter and was in the World Trade Center when the second plane hit
the twin towers.  Colleagues last saw the decorated Vietnam War hero trying to
evacuate the building and although 2,700 employees got out, he is still missing.

Now a photograph taken by a secretary has been released showing 62-year-old Mr
Rescorla on the 42nd floor trying to clear the tower.  Survivors have described
how he had eased the growing panic by singing and saying God Bless America'' to
people as they left the building.

His American wife Susan today paid tribute to her husband's valour, integrity,
responsibility and wonderful enthusiasm for life''.  She said: Everyone who ever
met him said he touched their life in some special way.''

Mrs Rescorla said his sense of humour was unmatched.  She added: He was a song
and dance man. He seemed to know the words to every song ever written.'' She
told how they married three years ago after he developed inoperable prostate
cancer and was given six months to live.  The cancer had been in remission ever
since, and she said: I knew if I only had five minutes with him it would be the
best five minutes of my life.

Every day was a miracle.''


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LAST moments . . .  Rick Rescorla helps evacuate the World Trade Center

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                               September 26, 2001

Battle on terrorism "will last for years"
 More airline jobs shed in wake of terrorist attacks

SECTION: Crime: Terrorism, Pg.2

LENGTH: 833 words


US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld today revealed that the new war on
terrorism will be long and not start with a massive offensive.

He ruled out a major initial attack in the wake of the terror atrocities against
America and predicted the campaign to rid the world of terrorists would last for
years.

And he revealed that the anti-terror effort would not require a large scale
ground attack.

"It is by its very nature something that cannot be dealt with by some sort of
massive attack or invasion. It is much more subtle, nuanced, difficult, shadowy
set of problems.

"There is not going to be a D-Day as such, and I'm sure there will not be a
signing ceremony on the Missouri, as such," he told a Pentagon news conference,
referring to the final allied push in Europe in June 1944 and the signing of
surrender papers aboard the USS Missouri in Tokyo Bay in 1945.

"This is not something that begins with a significant event or ends with a
significant event. It is something that will involve a sustained effort over a
good period of time."

Rumsfeld predicted the campaign would last "not five minutes or five months,"
but years.

Rumsfeld's remarks continued the Bush administration's efforts to prepare the
public for a difficult, costly and sustained anti-terrorism campaign that is
likely to suffer deadly setbacks as well as secret successes.

"It will not be an antiseptic war, I regret to say. It will be difficult. It
will be dangerous. And the likelihood is that more people may be lost."

The September 11 terrorist attacks against the United States left nearly 7,000
people dead or missing in New York City, at the Pentagon and in Pennsylvania.

Insurance market Lloyd's of London today revealed its estimated losses from the
terror attacks would reach GBP 1.3 billion.

The Pentagon announced that another 1,940 reservists from 16 states, Puerto Rico
and the District of Columbia were called to active duty. They bring to 14,318
the number of Reserve and National Guard members called up so far under a
partial mobilisation order President George W Bush signed after the September 11
attacks. Bush authorised the Pentagon to call as many as 50,000 to active duty.

Also officials at Fort Campbell, Kentucky, said a small number of soldiers from
the 101st Airborne Division had been sent elsewhere in the United States to
provide extra security. They provided no other details.

The military campaign - separate from the financial, diplomatic and law
enforcement initiative against terrorism - has been codenamed Enduring Freedom,
Rumsfeld said.

The name first chosen, Infinite Justice, was scrapped after the administration
recognised that in the Islamic faith such finality is considered something
provided only by Allah, the Arabic word for God.

The US forces being assembled in the Gulf and Arabian Sea include at least two
aircraft carriers, with two more reportedly heading in that direction, from the
Atlantic and Pacific. Each ship carries about 5,000 sailors and 75 aircraft and
is accompanied by about a dozen warships, generally including attack submarines
capable of firing cruise missiles.

The United States also has warplanes at land bases in Saudi Arabia and elsewhere
in the Persian Gulf region, and it plans to put Air Force B-52 bombers on the
Indian Ocean island of Diego Garcia.

A key element of the military campaign is expected to be US special operations
forces, the clandestine warriors who operate behind enemy lines, sometimes in
helicopter-borne raids to kill, kidnap or sabotage. Rumsfeld, asked about
remarks by Russian President Vladimir Putin that Central Asian nations such as
Uzbekistan and Tajikistan have not ruled out allowing the use of their air bases
for anti-terror strikes into neighbouring Afghanistan, said the administration
had been in contact with Moscow on "a number of aspects" of the anti-terrorism
effort.

THOUSANDS more airline industry jobs were shed today in the aftermath of the US
terrorist attacks as fears of fresh redundancies in the UK mounted.

Air Canada, which had announced 4,000 layoffs, today increased the figure to
9,000 because of the impact on the industry of the September 11 outrage.

The Montreal-based airline said it will ground 84 aircraft and reduce flights as
part of "drastic and unprecedented action." Meanwhile unions feared job cuts
were imminent at the Shorts aerospace company in Belfast.

Shop stewards believe an announcement will be made by the factory's Canadian
owners Bombardier later today.

The plant, which employs 7,600 workers, builds the fuselage and engine coverings
for a range of Bombardier civilian aircraft.

Robert Milton, president of Air Canada, described the job cuts as a "last
resort".

He said: "The catastrophic events of September 11 and their unprecedented impact
on the airline industry have left Air Canada, like every other large global
carrier, with little choice."

Air Canada operates 105 flights from Heathrow and Glasgow to Canada every week.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SUBTLE: The word used by US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, pictured
left with Colin Powell

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               September 26, 2001

Terror attacker skipped his bail.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: Bromley



A BROMLEY man who abscondedfor two years while on bail has been convicted of
causing serious injury.

Steven Birnie, aged 21, of Shaw Road, was arrested in February 1998 after
causing terror in the Surrey Street area of Croydon.

He eventually pleaded guilty last week at Croydon Crown Court to two charges of
wounding and two of common assault and was remanded in custody for sentencing.

One of the victims, Paul Warren, had just left a nightclub with his friends when
he heard Birnie arguing with a girl and then a slapping sound.

When the group tried to calm Birnie, he got into a Ford Escort and drove off. He
later returned and pulled up alongside them, punching one man in the mouth.

He then reversed the car into Mr Warren. The impact threw him into the air and
broke his leg. He spent seven months on crutches. Another man, Ro-mero Romay,
was pushed into a shop window while his brother, Carlos Romay, rushed to the
assistance of the men on the ground but Birnie reversed into him, breaking both
his wrists and dislocating a finger.

Witnesses took down the registration number and police found Birnie at the
owner's registered address in The Crescent, Croydon. But he jumped back into the
car and led officers on a high speed chase, driving at up to 70 mph through
residential streets with no headlights on.

He eventually stopped and climbed into a garden, where he was caught. Birnie
later told officers all he could remember of that night was being bitten by a
police dog.

He absconded but was rearrested in May this year following an incident at a
Bromley club where a man fell out of a window.

Birnie will be sentenced on October 15.

September 17, 2001 9:54

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               September 26, 2001

Jewish and Muslim leaders meet in wake of terror attack.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 518 words

DATELINE: Hendon and Finchley



Barnet police commander Chief Superintendent Sue Akers met with leaders from
Jewish and Muslim communities in the borough on Wednesday morning to discuss the
impact of the tragic events in America.

Following the meeting of the Jewish and Muslim Community Concerns group, Chief
Supt Akers said: "Both communities have a good and close working relationship
with each other and with the police in Barnet which was re-emphasised at this
morning's meeting. We are fortunate to be able to carry on with business as
usual."

The Islamic community in Barnet condemned the horrific terrorist attacks in
America.

Mr Tariq Erlhi, of the Islamic Information Centre in Cricklewood Broadway,
Cricklewood, said the Muslims would be saying prayers for the victims of the
attacks.

"Islam does not teach you to kill innocent people," he said. "Whoever has done
this is very bad. Maybe they were Islamic, maybe they weren't. We just don't
know. Maybe in a few days we will know."

Exiled Pakistani political leader Altaf Hussain, currently residing in Edgware,
also condemned the attacks.

Mr Hussain, leader of the liberal secular Muttahida Quami Movement, the third
largest political group in Pakistan, has sent a letter of support to American
president George W Bush.

A MQM spokesman said: "Mr Hussain condemned the cowardly and brutal terrorist
attack upon different places in the United States including the World Trade
Centre in New York and the Pentagon in Washington.

"Mr Hussain prayed for the victims and their families and for the early recovery
of those wounded in these attacks."

Mr M Siddiq from the Mosque and Islamic Centre of Brent in Chichele Road,
Cricklewood, described the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington as a
"terrible act".

"It is not good to target innocent people," he said. "They have come to work and
they have been killed. It is terrible. No-one knows who is responsible for this.
They will have to find out who did this and punish them.

"Life is just not safe, if something like this can happen. It is just not
right."

The Jewish community is in shock following Tuesday's terrorist attacks.

Finchley Synagogue in Kinloss Gardens was due to hold an emergency prayer
meeting for all local synagogues last night.

The Chief Rabbi, Dr Jonathan Sacks, has ordered that special prayers be said in
Saturday's Shabbat services across Great Britain and the Commonwealth for those
that have been killed and injured in the terrorist attacks.

Security at prominent Jewish buildings in the borough was already tight due to
the volatile situation in the Middle East, yet security has been stepped up
where possible.

The Chief Rabbi's office in High Road, North Finchley, remains closed, but said
he made the following statement on his web site: "In their tragic dimensions,
these acts bring home the fact that terror has now become global and threatens
the future of our world. It must be fought globally and with every possible
resolve. We grieve with the families of the victims and pray for those whose
lives may yet be saved."

September 12, 2001 17:08

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          $%Financial Adviser adviser

                            September 27, 2001 2001

The US is still a great place to conduct business; Rupert Della-Porta is the
head of North American Equities for Aberdeen Asset Management and lead manager
of the Aberdeen North America Fund. He speaks to Nasreen Seria about the
economic fallout that resulted from the terrorist attacks on America america

SECTION: ISSN. 0953-5276 5276

LENGTH: 1035 words words


FA: What immediate action, if any, did you take after the terrorist attacks in
the US?

RD-P: The first thing we did was get into contact with our colleagues based in
the US. There was one who was in the vicinity of the financial district and we
tried to get through to him to find out if he was okay.

Also, Rupert Howard, my colleague was out there on holiday and we tried to make
sure everyone was okay. Frankly, that took the whole day. Wednesday was spent
checking with colleagues elsewhere, such as Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch
which are based in adjacent areas, to see that they were okay.  okay.

We were trying to assess the level of damage and it was only later in the week
that it was apparent. Since then, we have been taking stock of the
economicimpact and what should we be doing on our portfolios.

FA: What is your investment strategy for the short term over the next six months
to a year?

RD-P: Before we got to Tuesday, 11 September, we could sense the economy showing
some signs of recovery: industrial production was moving up a little bit, the
National Association of Purchasing Managers Index was still showing a
contraction of the economy but at a far lower rate than it had previously.
Therewere signs of nascent recovery. But we were concerned about the consumer.

Consumer strength had been surprisingly strong so far this year and we were not
confident we could see a stronger recovery in the economy next year unless we
saw a cooling off from the consumer. We saw unemployment go from 4.5 per centto
4.9 per cent, while on Monday, consumer confidence had fallen precipitously. WTC
events have exacerbated the situation and brought us to a much greater loss of
confidence and accelerated the job losses that we had been concerned about.

Our view of the economy has changed somewhat from a modest recovery next year,
which we thought would begin in the fourth quarter this year. We see a technical
recession in the third and fourth quarter this year in other words, two quarters
of negative GDP with a very slow first quarter next year, perhaps also negative,
but a much stronger recovery in the economy.

The brighter side of all of this is that the visibility on the economy has been
moved out. We can be more confident that, although we are going down at this
stage, the recovery will be stronger than we anticipated before. By this time
next year, we will be running at a 3.5 per cent to 4 per cent level of GDP.

For the markets, the timing of any recovery has been pushed out. The industrial
and consumer stocks, which have been valued as though there would be recovery in
the near term, have been reassessed. That is why they have fallen sodrastically,
but fallen in line with major earnings cuts.

In our portfolios, because we are confident of an economic recovery, but are
uncertain of the timing of that, we think it is appropriate to be more
defensiveover the next six months. We have sold some positions most notably,
Bombardier, a Canadian regional jet manufacturer and some of the stocks in the
hotel and leisure industries.

We have added more defensive areas, such as telecoms, and raised our cash
positions. The six-month situation is more cloudy, but we are more confident
about the situation over the next year.

FA: Is it a foregone conclusion that the US will slip into a recession?

RD-P: It was not a foregone conclusion on Monday 10th September. But we believe
it is far more likely. Consumer confidence is falling very quickly. The fallout
in the airline sector and the knock-on effect will be widely felt by many
households.

FA: How protracted will the recession be?

RD-P: It depends on the response from the authorities. There will be rate cuts
again and the liquidity impact of this should be very strong. Real rates are
running at 1 per cent so there is still room to cut rates. In addition, there
are still tax cuts to feed into the system and consumers will get alleviation
from that.

There will be a construction boom, although it will be concentrated around New
York. There will also be federal assistance given to various industries, such as
construction, infrastructure and airlines.

FA: Do you think there will be more interest rate cuts from the Federal Reserve?

RD-P: Rates are now at 3 per cent and we think they will probably go lower to
2.75 per cent or 2.5 per cent. We think there will be two more rate cuts in the
next six months.

FA: What sectors look attractive at the moment?

RD-P: The defence sector is attractive, some areas of financials also look good.
We are looking at some of the bank stocks the traditional banks did not fund the
dot.com bubble and do not have disastrous balance sheets. Those that dowill be
helped by interest rate cuts. We also like the healthcare groups.
Pharmaceuticals are very expensive and valuations do not look very attractive.

FA: Are US equity funds going to suffer quite a bit over the next few months?

RD-P: They will not suffer disproportionately to equity funds in general.
European markets are down, along with UK and Asian markets. The US is still a
fantastic place to do business. The entrepreneurial culture is entirely
unaffected.

FA: Do you think fixed-interest products and bond funds will become more
attractive to investors compared to equities?

RD-P: People have bought corporate bonds funds, but they are not impervious to
this situation. Sovereign bond funds are very defensive and have done well.
Bonds have outperformed equities, but valuations of equities are making them
seem much more attractive to bonds at the moment. Between now and the next two
years there will be attractive buying opportunities for the long-term investor.

FA: What key developments or statistics coming out of the US will you be keeping
your eye on?

RD-P: We will be looking at unemployment data, which we expect to be ticking up.
We will expect manufacturing data to show weak conditions again. We want to see
retail sales improve and consumer confidence stabilise. We will be watching the
stock market because it tries to discount future events. And once uncertainty of
future events is no longer at large, equity markets will begin tomake gains
again.  again.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 2001

LANGUAGE: English english

            Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited limited

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: PROTESTERS ATTACK US EMBASSY IN KABUL

BYLINE: Ibrahim Raza Afghan protesters storm the abandoned American embassy in
Kabul yesterday (above), before ripping down the US seal over the entrance;
(right)

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 604 words


Thousands of protesters attacked the abandoned American embassy compound in the
Afghan capital Kabul yesterday, setting vehicles ablaze and ripping down the US
seal above the entrance.

The raid came as US and Pakistani officials were said to have reached broad
accord on a plan for attacks on bases inside Afghanistan.

And in northern Afghanistan, heavy new fighting was reported as an opposition
alliance pressed on with its bid to seize territory from fighters of the
Taliban, the hard-line Islamic movement that governs the country.

The Kabul demonstration was the largest anti-American protest since the crisis
sparked by the terror attacks in New York and Washington.

Shouting 'Long live Osama bin Laden' and 'Death to America' the protesters
burned US flags and an effigy of President Bush before storming the old embassy
compound. The building has been abandoned since 1988.

Grey smoke billowed into the sky after five vehicles were set ablaze in the
compound, and several men used hammers to remove the large circular US seal
above the front entrance. Taliban authorities eventually dispersed the
protesters above the door, and the fires were put out.

In the Pakistan capital, Islamabad, senior local sources said Pakistani and US
defence and intelligence officials had reached broad agreement on an anti
-terror programme that included a plan to attack bases in Afghanistan. But some
sticking points remain.

The officials said both sides want to minimise the use of ground forces in any
strike. They also said some differences had emerged during talks between high
-ranking Pakistani officials and an American delegation including senior defence
and intelligence representatives.

The points of disagreement include whether or not to lend support to the
opposition alliance, something Pakistan has expressed public misgivings over.

Other points of contention included what action is warranted against Pakistan
-based militant groups and whether or not the United Nations should approve any
operation against Afghanistan.

In northern Afghanistan, new battles broke out in the provinces of Samangan and
Balkh between Taliban and opposition fighters. Mohammed Ashraf Nadeem, a
spokesman for the opposition's northern alliance, said both sides used
artillery, rocket launchers, tanks and machine guns, but neither had managed to
take over new territory.

Nadeem said the Taliban had rushed 3,000 new troops to the region from Kandahar,
the Taliban base in the south.

Meanwhile, attackers opened fire and hurled a grenade at hundreds gathering in
Karachi for a public meeting to pledge support for the Pakistan government's
stand in favour of the US war on terrorism.

At least 12 were injured, police and witnesses said.

The meeting would have been the first such public gathering in Pakistan since
the US attacks.

As hundreds were gathering in Karachi's Liaquot Bagh, the assailants opened fire
and hurled the grenade, police said.

Anti-government protests have taken place across the country since Pakistani
president General Pervez Musharraf pledged to support a US military strike on
neighbouring Afghanistan to target Osama bin Laden.

Islamic religious groups in Pakistan called the demonstrations in support of bin
Laden, and some have threatened to join a holy war against the US.

The meeting was called by the Muttahida Quami Movement, one of the main
political parties in Pakistan.

It first proposed a rally in Karachi, but authorities cancelled it at the last
minute, fearing violence. Instead, police allowed the public to meet in the
park.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: POLICE CONTINUE TO QUIZ TERROR ATTACK SUSPECTS

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 489 words


Detectives yesterday obtained a 48-hour extension from magistrates to question
two men arrested last week in connection with the US terror attacks.

The two men - Lotfi Raissi, aged 27, and Abu Imard, 44 - are being quizzed at
Paddington Green police station in west London. Anti-terrorist officers obtained
the extension from Bow Street Magistrates Court in central London but by the end
of the 48 hours they will have reached the end of the maximum time period they
are allowed to question the suspects without charge.

Detectives in the Midlands were also continuing to interview three men arrested
in Leicester yesterday over possible links to a planned attack on American
targets in Europe, including the US embassy in Paris.

Seven men, believed to be six Iraqis and a German, were arrested under the
Terrorism Act after several stowaways were discovered in a lorry outside an RAF
base yesterday afternoon.

Police were called to RAF Lakenheath, Suffolk, shortly before midday and found
six foreign nationals concealed in a lorry at the base gate.

A police spokesman said: 'Because of the circumstances surrounding their
discovery, all seven men were additionally detained.'

One of those men was a French national, the French Interior Ministry said.

A source close to the investigation in Paris said the suspect's name was Kamel
Daoudi - he was believed to have fled Paris when seven suspected Islamic
terrorists were rounded up there last week.

He and the other two men arrested in Leicester were linked to the arrests in
France and others in Belgium and Holland.

Those arrested in France are thought to have connections with a Osama bin Laden
associate.

who confessed to a plot to attack US interests in Europe after he was detained
getting on a plane in Dubai in July.

Seven men, believed to be six Iraqis and a German, were arrested under the
Terrorism Act after several stowaways were discovered in a lorry outside an RAF
base yesterday afternoon.

Police were called to RAF Lakenheath, Suffolk, shortly before midday and found
six foreign nationals concealed in a lorry at the base gate.

A police spokesman said: 'Because of the circumstances surrounding their
discovery, all seven men were additionally detained under the Terrorism Act
2000.'

Spanish police also arrested six men yesterday who belonged to a cell linked to
Osama bin Laden in a series of dawn raids.

The men, said to be all Algerian born, were picked up in several Spanish cities.

An interior ministry official declined to say if there was evidence the six were
involved in planning the suicide airliner attacks in New York and Washington.

The arrests were made in Almeria and Huelva in the south of Spain, Navarra in
the north and Valencia and Murcia in the east.

Police who made the arrests acted in coordination with colleagues in Germany,
France, Italy, the Netherlands, Britain and Belgium.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: LAST REMNANT OF TWIN TOWERS IS FITTING MEMORIAL;
 SCENE OF THE CRIME: 'BUILDING HANGING ON JUST LIKE NEW YORKERS' Floodlights
illuminate the smoke rising from the wreckage of the; World Trade Centre as work
continues at the site, two weeks after the terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 376 words


The last standing piece of New York's World Trade Centre towers - a seven
-storey twisted metal ruin that has come to symbolise the terrorist attacks -
has been saved for possible use in a memorial.

'We're going to preserve as much of that wall as possible,' Mayor Rudolph
Giuliani said before workers attached cables to the structure and began bringing
it to the ground. 'We may be doing a memorial with some or part of that wall.'

The remnants of the south tower - the one struck by the second jet and the first
to collapse - have been captured in scores of photos of ground zero since the
September 11 attack on the twin 110-storey towers.

Amanda Gallaghre, a Manhattan tour guide, was one of several people watching
near the site as the last chunk of the building came down. She was supposed to
lead a tour of the trade centre on the afternoon of the attack.

The metal wall 'should be part of a memorial, so it can stand as a lasting
memory to all the people who died there', she said.

Earlier, as New Yorkers voted in primaries for his replacement, Giuliani
encouraged residents to get on with life.

'Life is risky,' he said. 'You can decide to live your life afraid of that
happening, or you can decide to live your life the way Americans live their
lives, which is unafraid.'

Giuliani's comments came as workers started a third week of digging through the
ruins and as the families of the more than 6,000 victims began receiving help in
paying their bills.

The mayor cited statistics showing that violent crime has plunged in the two
weeks since the terrorist attack. New York was now the safest large city in
America, the mayor said.

The attack on the trade centre was 'a once-in-our-history incident', Giuliani
said.

Preserving the ruined tower as a memorial was suggested by Philippe de
Montebello, director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and by John Tierney in
his column in The New York Times, saying: 'It's the building hanging on, still
refusing to fall, just like New Yorkers.'

In Oklahoma City, granite salvaged from the bombed Alfred P Murrah federal
building in 1995 was used in a memorial to the 168 victims. Also, Berlin, London
and Hiroshima have erected monuments from wartime debris.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

BASKETBALL: BULLETS FIRE WITH BOTH BARRELS;
 SECOND COMING: AMERICAN HERO TIPS OFF AGAIN Michael Jordan is returning to play
for the Washington Wizards.; Jordan, who quit three years ago after leading the
Chicago Bulls to a sixth; NBA title and has been part-owner of the Wizards, is
giving his pounds; 870,000 salary for the new season to relief efforts for the
US terrorism attacksPicture/ALLSPORT

SECTION: Pg. 36

LENGTH: 392 words


Birmingham Bullets coach Lance Randall is joining the likes of Gerard Houllier
and Arsene Wenger in emphasising the importance of a strong squad for European
competition.

The Bullets' domestic campaign in the British Basketball League tips off under
the spotlight of the live television cameras tonight when the reigning champion
Leicester Riders travel to Aston Villa Leisure Centre. But the Bullets have a
double agenda this season, as they also tackle the Northern European Basketball
League Open competition.

That could mean hectic competition, with some stretches of four matches in six
days and Randall has been busy building a line-up that can cope with the
rigours.

Brant Bailey, Danny Craven, Emiko Etete and Rob Paternostro have all re-signed,
while former Bullet Shawn Jamison returns along with new signings Ben Walker,
Mark Lane and ex-Leopards guard Rashod Johnson.

'Part of the challenge of being in the NEBL is that you have to balance two
leagues, so you need to be a little better,' he said. 'We are just raising the
bar with what we are expecting.

'We have great fans and very high expectations, but we are realistic about where
we stand - we expect to make the BBL play-offs. I would be upset if we didn't -
but the Southern Conference is loaded.'

Riders' coach Billy Mims concedes that all the hard work of last season will be
undone if last season's Double winners fail to live up to expectations. 'Any
time you win a championship, you up the pressure and the responsibility,' he
said.

'It's part of why you love winning championships. I would rather have the
pressure of defending a championship than no pressure at all.'

The Riders have lost Malcolm Leak to Newcastle, but Billy Singleton, Ralph
Blalock and Karl Brown are all set to return, while former BBL All-Star Jon
Gaines comes back to the British game from California State Bakersfield and
forward Jermaine Brown moves from Derby.

Leicester have turned down the chance to compete in Europe this season because
of problems over the lack of a permanent venue in their home city, having
accepted the offer to continue to play at Loughborough University.

The Riders, though, have been making good use of their pre-season campaigns,
finishing third in the Smalandshamnar Cup in Sweden and hosting their own Euro
Challenge last weekend.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: WARNING OF GERM ATTACK

BYLINE: Tony Collins

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 229 words


A BIRMINGHAM expert in biological warfare urged the Government to test the
country's readiness against a possible germ attack by terrorists 12 months ago.

Professor Harry Smith, of Birmingham University's biosciences department, led
the UK's largest study into bio-terrorism, the findings of which were published
last year.

His report, which was discussed at a meeting with all Government departments,
carried 12 recommendations urging senior ministers not to underestimate the
threat of a biological attack.

He said an 'overall structure is needed within which attacks by specific agents
can be handled'.

Action

Prof Smith's report called for the intelligence agencies, clinical and hospital
services, military and police and public health agencies to form a concerted
plan of action at local and national level.

He said today: 'We recommended that the plans should be tested in simulated
attacks.

'I don't know if that's being done, but I suspect it is.'

Prof Smith said the risk of biological weapons, such as the likeliest candidate
anthrax, should not be over-exaggerated in case it caused panic.

But he added: 'This is a threat which must be looked at and guarded against even
if there is a big question mark as to whether these things will actually work.

'As we told the Government, it would be irresponsible to be complacent.'

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

USA TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 248 words


TEN Middle Eastern men have been arrested on suspicion of fraudulently obtaining
licences to transport hazardous materials.

Yesterday's arrests in Missouri, Michigan and Washington state followed FBI
warnings that terrorists may strike next using chemical or biological weapons.

POLICE are questioning seven men arrested under the Terrorism Act outside an RAF
base. Six Iraqis and a German lorry driver were arrested yesterday outside RAF
Lakenheath in Suffolk, the United States Air Force's biggest air base in Europe.

COUNCIL leader Nick Nolan will use leader's speech at Thursday's full Coventry
City Council meeting to address the tragic events. Tory leader Tim Sawdon and
Socialist leader Dave Nellist are also proposing motions.

TOMB RAIDER star Angelina Jolie has donated a million dollars - pounds 700,000 -
to the UN refugee agency to help people fleeing Afghanistan. She is a Goodwill
Ambassador for the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.

FOUR young Irishmen, thought to have perished in the World Trade Centre terror
attack are alive, being treated for multiple injuries in a New York hospital,.

Their families spent an agonising two weeks not knowing whether they had lived
because they were classed as illegal immigrants and feared deportation if they
contacted authorities.

SOME 300,000 Afghans have volunteered to defend their nation from US invasion.
Every man and woman is ready for a holy war, the country's ambassador to
Pakistan said.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

LLOYD'S LOSSES IN TERROR ATTACKS AT LEAST POUNDS 1.3BN

BYLINE: Megan Davies Business Correspondent

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 343 words


INSURANCE market Lloyd's of London estimates its losses from the terrorist
attacks on America will reach pounds 1.3bn.

Lloyd's said that while the amount would have a "significant impact" on its
market, the loss would be absorbed by its "strong capital base".

The market said it arrived at the figure after analysing estimated losses from
more than 100 of its syndicates.

Chairman Sax Riley said: "Arriving at an estimate for a marketplace as complex
as Lloyd's was always going to take longer than for a single insurance company -
especially for a situation which is still changing rapidly.

"While a figure of this size will have a significant impact on the Lloyd's
market, the market's strong capital base will absorb this loss. The size of our
asset base, the spread of the losses, and the resilience of the reinsurance
programmes in place, are important in coming to this conclusion.

"The long-term impact of the US attacks on the insurance industry is yet to be
fully appreciated. Lloyd's is open for business and trading forward.

"Clearly there will be a contraction of global insurance capacity which will
fuel the premium rate rises we've been seeing since the last quarter of 2000."

Lloyd's losses will arise from insurance relating to the collapsed World Trade
Centre property, aircraft, and lost business from firms affected.

However the 300-year-old London-based market - which is one of the centres of
aviation and terrorism insurance - said although pounds 1.3bn was a large loss
the market would survive.

"Lloyd's will survive - it will be okay, " a spokeswoman said.

The loss is larger than Lloyd's previous biggest single previous loss - which
amounted to pounds 929m paid out in 1989 following Hurricane Hugo.

But the figures are dwarfed by pounds 8bn of losses amounted between 1988 and
1992 following US asbestos and pollution claims, Hurricane Andrew, the Piper
Alpha disaster and UK storms.

The US losses will impact on some of the Lloyd's existing names - which amount
to around 2,800.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DISASTER: The second hijacked plane just before impact

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

Terror attacks prove Lloyd's biggest loss Bill 40pc larger than previous biggest
disaster

BYLINE: By Andrew Cave Associate City Editor

SECTION: Pg. 40

LENGTH: 563 words

THE terrorist attacks in America will cost Lloyd's pounds 1.3 billion, making it
the most expensive disaster in the London insurance market's 300-year history.

Lloyd's issued the forecast yesterday after analysing the exposure of its 108
syndicates, 890 corporate members and 2,800 Names.

The estimate of net losses after recoveries from reinsurers represents 12pc of
Lloyd's capacity to write pounds 11 billion of insurance this year.

Actuaries Tillinghast-Towers Perrins are forecasting global insurance losses of
$30 billion-$58 billion.

Lloyd's losses are 40pc larger than its previous biggest disaster - the pounds
930m bill it picked up after Hurricane Hugo battered America in 1989.

However, the market, which carries 23pc of the global aviation insurance risk
and insured the jets that crashed into the World Trade Centre plus the towers
themselves, says the losses are "manageable".

Lloyd's has made losses for five years but expects to return to profitability by
2002 or 2003, thanks to sharp rises in insurance rates.

Lloyd's chairman Sax Riley said: "While a figure of this size will have a
significant impact on the Lloyd's market, the market's strong capital base will
absorb the loss.

"The size of our asset base, the spread of the losses and the resilience of the
reinsurance programmes in place are important in coming to this conclusion."

Finance director Andrew Moss said Lloyd's managing agents have already called
for an extra pounds 1 billion this year from Names and corporate members to
bolster funds against expected losses of pounds 1.4 billion for 1999.

He said the latest losses could lead to further cash calls. He declined to
comment on reports that the terrorist attacks could prove the "last nail in the
coffin" of Names.

Their numbers have fallen from 34,000 in the late 1980s. About 2,000 Names still
have unlimited liability to losses.

Spokesman Caroline Wagstaff said: "This is not about capital provision. That is
a complete red herring. This is about the Lloyd's market being confident that it
can manage this loss."

Credit rating agency Moody's said the terrorist attacks "will have far-reaching
implications for the way that business is conducted at Lloyd's."

It added: "Lloyd's has significant exposure to insured losses arising out of
these events and it is expected that these losses, coming at the end of a
particularly marked downturn, will challenge the basis of the limited mutuality
of the market and put severe pressure on many of the weaker operating units
within it."

Nicholas Haskins, of ABN Amro, said the losses were "not disastrous" for
Lloyd's, which had "been in this position before".

However, Charles Landa, at SG Securities, said: "There are still some archaic
features in Lloyd's which will receive increased attention going forward."

Robert Hiscox, chief executive of Lloyd's insurer Hiscox, said the attacks have
created a "crisis of the strong," adding: "No weak reinsurance companies will be
left."

Lloyd's said its ability to pay claims stemming from the terrorist attacks is
supported by its pounds 10.6 billion premium trust fund and members' funds of
pounds 7.3 billion, which underpin 40pc of premiums underwritten.

This percentage has increased from 20pc since Lloyd's was brought to its knees
after $8 billion of asbestosis and hurricane losses between 1988 and 1992.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               September 27, 2001

TERROR CHIEF PLOTS NEXT ATTACK; BIN TRADES HEROIN FOR NUKES

BYLINE: by JERRY LAWTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 528 words


OSAMA bin Laden has traded heroin for germ warfare weapons from the Russian
Mafia, US intelligence agencies said last night.

They also fear he has set up a nuclear weapons lab hidden in the mountains of
Afghanistan.

And they say he has former Soviet scientists working on weapons that kill by
spreading radioactive dust.

The lab is now one of the prime targets for a US military strike after the FBI
received warnings that terrorists plan to retaliate for any US attack on
Afghanistan by using chemical or biological weapons.

The FBI believes terror chief bin Laden's al Qaeda group are producing nerve
agent Sarin and biological weapons made from anthrax spores.

One senior intelligence source said:

"There are signs the Russian Mafia has been supplying bin Laden with chemical
and biological materials, and nuclear components."

US officials have feared for years Russia's out-of-work biological weapons
scientists would sell their expertise to terrorists.

Larry Johnson, a former US State Department counter-terrorism official, said:
"There has been evidence in the past of links between the Taliban and the
Russian mob on opium. It is not surprising they are doing business." The State
Department's latest report on international terrorism says the group "continues"
to seek chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear capabilities.

Former bin Laden henchman Ahmed Ressam told a US court in July how trainees at
the warlord's Afghan camps were taught how to unleash poisons and build
explosives.

He told the court: "In regard to targets in general we were speaking about
America as an enemy of Islam."

Ressam was testifying in the trial of a man accused of conspiring with him to
bomb LA airport as part of a millennium terror plot.

He said those at the camp with him in 1998 learned how to place cyanide near
buildings' air intakes to kill as many people as they could without endangering
themselves.

Law enforcement authorities fear terrorists are planning more attacks using
crop-dusting aircraft or hazardous chemical tankers.

They have told police to guard against the hijackings of such vehicles.

In Britain Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon said yesterday that there was no
evidence of a direct threat from chemical attacks.

He spoke after panic buying of gas masks and radiation suits by people scared
that Osama bin Laden could target Britain.

But Mr Hoon told BBC Breakfast: "Whilst we obviously are aware of a risk, I
emphasise there is no direct specific threat to the UK."

But he added: "Nevertheless I would urge people to be vigilant, take care and
have regard to what is happening around them."

In Afghanistan yesterday an angry mob attacked the abandoned US embassy in the
capital Kabul - and set fire to derelict cars. The embassy has been empty for 12
years.

In the Middle East there was a massive breakthrough on the diplomatic front when
Palastinian leader Yasser Arafat and Israeli foreign minister Shimon Peres met
after pressure from the US and from Tony Blair. They hammered out a ceasefire
deal in a bid to end almost a year of violence that has caused hundreds of
deaths.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 Express Newspapers

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 27, 2001

MP'S WORDS ON TERROR ATTACK CAUSE OFFENCE

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 117 words


FOLLOWING the barbaric terrorist attack on America, Labour MP for Glasgow
Kelvin, George Galloway, has once again voiced his words of comfort for the
perpetrators and rogue nations who train and harbour such vile killers.

He stated that the USA was "reaping its just rewards" for its involvement in
Middle East conflicts.

This is the same British MP who regularly visits Iraq and accepts the
hospitality of dictator Saddam Hussein.

This MP openly condemned the British Government's action both during and after
the gulf War and makes regular appearances on Iraqi television with Hussein.

Galloway's attempt to legitimise this terrorist action is despicable.

John O'Hare, Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 27, 2001

On the brink of war: The background: IMF forecasts: Recession in America a 'done
deal': Terrorist attacks worsen precarious situation * Bleak outlook blamed on
end of hi-tech dream, rising oil prices and interest rate rises

BYLINE: Charlotte Denny and Larry Elliott

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 889 words


Even before the tragic events of September 11, the number-crunchers at the
International Monetary Fund were already deeply concerned about the outlook for
the world economy.

They had ripped up the forecasts made in the spring twice as they weighed up the
way in which the rapid slowdown in the US had started to infect Europe and add
to the travails of Japan, set for its fourth recession in a decade.

The destruction of the world trade towers and the damage caused to the Pentagon
have made a precarious situation even worse. The physical damage to the US is
estimated to be less than that to Japan caused by the Kobe earthquake, but the
fear is that the indirect effects on consumer and business confidence could be
far more severe, rippling out from North America to both the developed and
developing world.

In its biannual world economic outlook, the Fund holds hopes that those
responsible for managing the global economy have the situation in hand, and that
the cuts in interest rates pushed through by the Federal Reserve and 17 other
central banks could avert a full-blown slump. However, it is not certain that
this will happen.

"There is now no major region providing support to global activity," the IMF
noted in the WEO, which was largely drafted ahead of the terrorist attacks. With
a scaling-back of growth forecasts for every nation in the G7 group of
industrialised nations and for most developing nations, the report provides a
stark illustration of how globalisation transmits shocks from one part of the
world economy all over the globe.

Of the leading developed nations, the biggest downgrades to growth have been in
Japan and western Europe. Optimism in April that Japan was at last on the brink
of emerging from its decade-long trough have again proved unfounded, and the
Fund's previous forecast of 0.6% growth for 2001 has now been amended to show
economic contraction of 0.5%. Germany's growth forecast has been cut by 1.1
percentage points to 0.8%, while France and the UK are expected to expand by 2%,
both 0.6 points lower than the Fund forecast in the spring.

Somewhat surprisingly, the IMF projection for the US has changed little since
April, now standing at 1.3% compared to 1.5%. Officials have not even revised
their forecasts in the light of the attacks on the US, but chief economist
Kenneth Rogoff let the cat out of the bag at a press conference yesterday when
he said a recession in the world's biggest economy was now "a done deal",
remarks he later tried to retract. However, Mr Rogoff was undoubtedly voicing
the opinions of Fund insiders.

The WEO notes: "Clearly, recent events will have an impact on activity in the
short term, and add to the al ready significant downside risks both in the US
and elsewhere." As a result, the recovery that the IMF had been pencilling in
for the global economy in the second half of 2001 has now been pushed back into
2002. Growth for the global economy as a whole is put at 2.6% this year,
compared with 3.2% in the spring - with a recovery to 3.5% in 2002. However, Mr
Rogoff admitted that this was now unlikely to be met.

After years in which it has been bullish about the prospects for the global
economy, the Fund is now wor ried, warning that the world faces "unusually large
uncertainties and risks both in advanced and emerging market economies". In
particular, it blames three factors: the end of the new economy dream, which has
put the skids under overinflated share prices; rising oil prices, which have
added to cost pressures, and the raising of interest rates by central banks at
the end of 2000 and the start of 2001.

"Given the global nature of these shocks, as well as the increased trade and
financial linkages among countries, their impact has been more rapid and
widespread than expected," the Fund said.

Admitting that policymakers across the globe face "a particularly challenging
task", the Fund said there were still steps to be taken to alleviate the effects
of a synchronised slowdown. "Short-term macroeconomic policies need to remain
supportive of activity and confidence and, in some cases, a more proactive
stance would be desirable."

Despite the eight interest rate cuts by the Fed since the turn of the year, the
Fund said "there was some limited room for further reductions", adding that the
extra public spending to clean up after the disaster would help to boost demand.

In Japan, where interest rates are already almost zero, the Fund said there was
limited room for further cuts in the cost of borrowing, but that Tokyo should
continue to pump more money into the economy as a way of pushing up prices and
rescuing the economy from its deflationary spiral.

In the eurozone, the Fund welcomed last week's 0.5 percentage point cut to
interest rates but said that if the outlook were to worsen significantly, there
would be a case for further easing.

The Fund sets great store by the launch of a new trade round in Doha this
November, saying that if the world's largest trading blocs fail to agree a
negotiating agenda, the poorest countries will be the biggest losers. And it
warns that the 1.2bn people who live in abject poverty will suffer the most if
the global economy slips into recession.

Special report on global recession at guardian.co.uk/recession


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 27, 2001

Ray of hope for future;The terrorist attack on America could change the economy
of Aberdeen

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 815 words


GIVEN the sheer horror of this month's terrorist attacks on New York and
Washington, with the loss of thousands of lives, it seems almost shameful to
think about the economic rather than the human consequences of the outrage.

Yet the truth is that the world goes on, and that there is little doubt that the
economic fallout from the attacks will be immense. As the debris of the World
Trade Center and the Pentagon is slowly taken away, so minds are turning to how
the world's industries will be affected by the aftermath of what has happened.

Already we are seeing the first signs: plummeting stock markets, a move towards
traditional safe havens such as gold, and a further increase in the oil price.
The last of these is being watched with particular interest in Aberdeen, where
prosperity goes hand in hand with the market price of crude.

People in north-east Scotland are as appalled as anyone at the terrorist
outrages which appear to have killed more than 6000 people, and absolutely no
-one would choose to profit from them. However, commodity markets have their own
dynamic, and the effects locally of political and economic actions as a result
of the attack could be profound.

Even before the attack, the awareness of the volatility of energy supply was a
prime consideration in the US. Oil is the lifeblood of the American economy, and
President Bush is manifestly aware of its importance and the issues surrounding
it.

The president has already signalled that it would be wise for the US to reduce
its dependence on supplies from the Middle East and to look to more home-based
production. What he really means is that he would like America to draw more oil
from provinces which it sees as being both stable and friendly.

It goes almost without saying that Aberdeen will feature towards the top of that
list. Over recent decades, the UK government has worked hard to ensure that its
oil tax regime is both fair and stable. As a nation, our political stability is
also beyond question. In short, the US would have no qualms about drawing more
of its oil from the North Sea.

Pat Pocock of PriceWaterhouseCoopers points out that a high oil price is good
for Aberdeen. "There will also be an increasing requirement to squeeze every
last drop of oil out of the North Sea. The Americans are now going to want to
source oil from places other than the Middle East."

There is also a potential downside for the north-east resulting from the changed
economic and political world in which we now live. The apparent change in US
policy comes at a time when local oil service companies were beginning to spot
and exploit opportunities in the Middle East. There is now clearly a question
mark hanging over this business.

Another senior figure within Aberdeen's financial community makes the point that
the area looks set to benefit from the new economic order.

"Everyone was absolutely horrified by the terrorist attacks in America, and it
would be abhorrent to regard anything flowing from it as positive. It is a fact,
however, that political and economic landscapes are now dramatically changed,
and Aberdeen cannot avoid its position within that new landscape.

"The fact is that both America and Europe will now be keen to maximise their
domestic production, and the UK continental shelf currently accounts for a
significant part of that production.

Hywel Ball of Ernst and Young also sees the outlook as being positive for
Aberdeen. "The oil industry is grappling with the question of where it should
spend its money. It has a number of opportunities throughout the world and it's
a matter of trying to balance these against places like Aberdeen, which is a
difficult environment technically in which to work.

''However, in the medium term, it may be that other parts of the world are
considered to be more risky politically. This in turn means that the big
companies may choose to spend more rather than less in low-risk environments
such as Aberdeen."

Even regardless of the current political tension following events in the US,
however, there are likely to be profound changes in the global oil industry in
the years ahead.

Alec Carstairs of Ernst and Young says that improved technology and cost
-cutting will mean that there will inevitably be fewer people employed in the
industry, and particularly in the North Sea."Conversely, the demand for energy
grows each year", he adds. "The average person in India uses 3% of the energy
consumed annually by a North American. If the energy requirements per head for
India, China, Russia and others were to match that of North America, the world's
supply is unlikely to cope.

"Advances in technology are essential and Aberdeen is among the best placed to
exploit this opportunity. It is essential to act now if Aberdeen and the north
-east is not to lose its hard-won advantage."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BRIGHT FUTURE: Alex Carstairs of Ernst and Young says Aberdeen is well
-placed to exploit the international demand for oil.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERRORISM: TERROR ATTACKS 'ARE TIPPING THE WORLD ECONOMY INTO RECESSION'

BYLINE: Philip Thornton Gordon Brown: May have to scale back spending

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 724 words


THE TERRORIST attacks on the United States will tip the global economy into
recession, the world's leading financial watchdog warned yesterday.

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) said a recession in America was a "done
deal", while the rest of the world was on the brink of a slump even before the
suicide plane attacks on New York and Washington.

The bleak outlook came as the first survey of the British economy since the
outrage showed that confidence among British consumers had plunged to its lowest
since the previous recession 10 years ago. Meanwhile the toll of job cuts
continued to mount, with Shorts Brothers, the Belfast- based aerospace company,
announcing 2,000 redundancies. More than 140,000 workers in America alone have
lost their jobs since 11 September.

The IMF cut its forecast for world growth from 3.2 per cent to an eight- year
low of 2.6 per cent. Economists regard global growth of 2.5 per cent as a
recession. The IMF said its forecasts were drawn up before the 11 September
attacks, which it warned could drag growth below even that low level. The 2002
forecast was cut to 3.5 from 3.9 per cent.

Kenneth Rogoff, its chief economist, said: "There is no doubt the attack is
having a negative effect in many regions of the globe. It has increased what
were significant downside risks to the short-term global outlook."

The main casualties will be Japan, which is expected to shrink 0.5 per cent this
year, and America, which is now set to grow by only 1.3 per cent.

Mr Rogoff said an American recession was a "done deal", although he tried to
retract the statement as the implications of it sank in.

The IMF said Britain would grow by only 2 per cent this year - the lowest growth
since 1992. The revised figure means the Government will miss its target of
between 2.25 and 2.75 per cent. This in turn could jeopardise its spending
plans, which are based on growth of 2.25 per cent a year, experts said.

John Butler, UK economist at HSBC, said Gordon Brown would have to cut his
forecasts in November's pre-Budget report, perhaps to 1.75 per cent.

He said the Chancellor risked breaking the rules - which prevent him racking up
huge deficits - if growth stayed at 2 per cent in 2002. "Were that to happen, Mr
Brown would be under pressure to scale back his spending plans or raise taxes in
the approach to the next general election," he said.

A Treasury spokesman said it was too early to speculate, adding: "The IMF shows
us to be the fastest-growing country in the European Union both this year and
next."

Further interest rate cuts in America and Britain are now a certainty, most
economists believe. The Bank of England was criticised last week for not
following the US Federal Reserve and cutting rates by only 0.25 points to 4.75
per cent.

Richard Iley, UK economist, forecast that rates would fall to 4 per cent by the
end of the year, their lowest for half a century. "The collapse in world trade
and sharply lower share prices will force the Bank to shore up consumer demand,"
he said.

There was more gloom for Britain with news of further job cuts and a warning
that the tourism industry could lose as much as pounds 2.5bn from the effects of
the terrorist attacks and foot-and-mouth disease.

Shorts Brothers is cutting 900 jobs by February and said that a further 1,100
would go unless the world economy recovered markedly. Delta Air Lines announced
13,000 redundancies. Air Canada will cut 5,000 jobs, Scandinavian Airlines
Systems 1,100, and Bombardier, Shorts' Canadian parent, up to 6,500. British
Airways and Virgin Atlantic will cut 8,200 jobs and Boeing, the giant American
aircraft manufacturer, as many as 30,000.

The British Tourism Authority (BTA) said the airlines' decision to cut flight
schedules would lead to a sharp fall in overseas visitors to this country.
Spending by overseas tourists, which was originally forecast at more than pounds
13bn for 2001, was now likely to be about pounds 10.8bn, the BTA said.

David Quarmby, its chairman, said: "It's been something of a double whammy year
for tourism. It's the cumulative effect of the foot-and-mouth outbreak since
March and the terrorism attacks in recent weeks." He said the situation would
worsen if military strikes were launched and predicted 75,000 jobs were at risk.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERRORISM: SPANISH POLICE CLAIM TERRORIST CELL WAS PLANNING SUICIDE
ATTACKS IN EUROPE

BYLINE: Elizabeth Nash And Andrew Bumcombe

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 286 words


POLICE IN Spain claimed yesterday to have smashed a terrorist cell linked to
Osama bin Laden that was involved in planned suicide attacks against American
targets in Europe.

There is speculation that some of the men may have met Mohamed Atta - one of the
key hijackers involved in the 11 September attacks - when he visited Spain this
summer.

At least 11 of the hijackers who carried out the suicide attacks in America also
passed through Britain and may have stayed here, according to information given
to Scotland Yard by the FBI.

Amid growing signs that European governments are involved in an aggressive and
co-ordinated campaign against terrorism, Spain said six Algerians were seized in
cities throughout the country and held on suspicion of forging documents and
raising funds for Islamic terrorists.

The Spanish Interior Minister, Mariano Rajoy Brey, said the Algerians were
alleged members of Daawa Wal Jihad (The Salafist Group for Call and Combat) - a
faction of Algeria's Armed Islamic Group (GIA) and one of the groups whose
assets were frozen this week by President George Bush for having links to Mr bin
Laden and his al -Qa'ida network.

Mr Rajoy said: "Behind this network and these groups is the organisation of the
Islamic terrorist Osama bin Laden that gives them financial support, organises
training of their members in camps he controls, and gives them targets."

Meanwhile, as the UN appealed for help to enable 7.5m Afghan refugees to survive
the winter, the Taliban leader told his people to stay put. Mullah Mohammad Omar
ordered them to return home, saying an attack from America was unlikely. "(They)
have no reason or justification for attacking," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

LLOYD'S TO POST HEAVY LOSSES AS TERROR ATTACK BILL TOPS POUNDS 1.3BN

BYLINE: Katherine Griffiths

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 622 words


LLOYD'S OF London unveiled yesterday the long-awaited estimate that the
terrorist attacks in America would lead to net insurance claims of pounds 1.3bn
- its largest ever single payout in its 300-year history.

The estimate is the second highest estimate from an organisation, following the
devastating attacks in America. It is due to the fact that Lloyd's writes 23 per
cent of the world's aviation business and specialises in covering catastrophe
risks. Its largest liability before now was the pounds 930m it paid when
Hurricane Hugo battered America in 1989.

Lloyd's is now expected to face a heavy loss in 2001. This has come at a bad
time for the historic London insurance market as it had hoped to return to
profit either this year or next, after four years of losses.

But it does expect to return to profitability in 2002 and will probably see its
results substantially enhanced by the environment of dramatic insurance rate
increases, which the attack on America has accelerated.

Premiums on aviation insurance have already shot up by 400 per cent, while the
average premium increase at Lloyd's stands at 20 per cent.

Most analysts expressed confidence that Lloyd's would be able to meet its
liabilities. One said: "Lloyd's is a completely different place now to the bad
old days - it has proper reinsurance cover and confidence- inspiring checks and
balances."

Sax Riley, Lloyd's chairman, said: "A figure of this size will have a
significant impact on Lloyd's, but the market's strong capital base will absorb
this loss."

In the mid-1990s, Lloyd's made itself far more resilient to massive liabilities
by improving its reinsurance and ending the practice of "spirals", where its
syndicates reinsured each other. This followed unprecedented claims for
asbestosis, a chronic lung disease caused by breathing in toxins from asbestos,
and other claims between 1988 and 1992. Those nearly collapsed the whole of
Lloyd's.

But the costs of the latest claims will put some of its member insurance
syndicates under severe financial pressure and will pose yet another financial
strain to the individual Names, who provide capital to the historic London
market.

Lloyd's is made up of 108 syndicates, which each write insurance business and
are together liable to pay out most of the pounds 1.3bn. It is widely expected
that a few of these syndicates will either be bankrupted, or they will use up so
much of their capital that they will not be able to write significant amounts of
new business in the future.

Lloyd's acknowledged that the market will see "contraction" and said that it
expects some of its central reserves would be used to pay claims that individual
syndicates are unable to pay.

The organisation has a pounds 323m central fund that will probably be called on,
as in some cases syndicates' cash reserves, and the assets of their backers,
will be insufficient. It is unlikely that the entire central fund will be
exhausted.

One group who may suffer is the small number of Names who still underwrite
syndicates on an unlimited liability basis.

The system of unlimited liability led to many Names going bankrupt when
insurance claims from asbestosis in the US created liabilities of pounds 4bn
over that four-year period. Since then, many Names have left the market. Lloyd's
now derives 80 per cent of its capital from corporate backers.

Lloyd's predicted that the cost of the attacks on New York and Washington would
continue the exit of Names from the market, but would not lead to another round
of bankruptcies. "Names could decide not to underwrite business, or they may
choose to move over to limited liability," a Lloyd's spokesman said.

Outlook, page 19

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               September 27, 2001

Shearings scraps sale after US terror attack

BYLINE: KEVIN FEDDY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 411 words



DIRECTORS at Wigan-based tour operator Shearings Holidays have abandoned plans
to sell the business in the wake of the terrorist attacks on America, it was
announced today.  Chief executive John Slatcher said the board had called off
the search for a buyer because of uncertainty in the travel sector.  Clearly, in
the current economic climate, potential purchasers will be unable to undertake
major acquisitions.  It, therefore, makes sense for management to focus instead
on running the business which remains on target to grow in the current year.''

Earlier this month, the MEN told how venture capitalists Bridgepoint Capital,
which heads a private equity consortium that owns 65 per cent of Shearings, was
seeking an exit nearly five years after it financed an GBP 83m management
buyout. It is thought the business could fetch up to GBP 130m.  Potential
bidders, thought to include rival coach firm Wallace Arnold, First Choice and
Manchester-based holiday giant Airtours, began circling before the September 11
terror attacks on New York and Washington.

Shearings was bought from Rank in December 1996.  It is on course to make record
pre-tax profits of GBP 10.4m this year on a GBP 110m turnover.

The firm, which employs 2,400, will carry a record 530,000 passengers this year
on coach and air holidays in the UK, Europe and beyond.  It operates 259 coaches
and owns 37 hotels in Britain.

Mr Slatcher said Shearings' business does not experience the volatility
associated with, say, the airline sector. Indeed, the number of bookings it took
last week was up by 25 per cent on the equivalent period last year.  But the
mood of the deals market has shifted considerably since the American attacks,
which prompted heavy falls on stock markets across the globe.

Robert Levy, executive partner at corporate and commercial law firm Kuit
Steinart Levy, of Manchester, said today many individuals and organisations were
postponing planned cash injections until the current climate of instability
subsides.  Mr Levy added: Any prudent businessman is now being forced to
evaluate deals, and question whether there is, currently, sufficient stability
in the market and, indeed, industry in general, to warrant any element of risk
at all.''

Companies already doing business in the US and other markets affected by the
fallout will be looking to protect their current exposures before embarking on
new ones, he said.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: JOBS AXED: PLANE CRAZY;
 2,000 SHORTS WORKERS FACE THE DOLE AS TERROR ATTACKS LEAVE AIR INDUSTRY IN
CRISIS

BYLINE: Helen Cook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 754 words

HIGHLIGHT: BLOW: Around 900 jobs will go at Shorts in the next five months and;
1,000 are expected to be cut before next Christmas; GUTTED: Workers leave the
Belfast headquarters of Bombardier Shorts yesterday after being told of the job
cuts. The 7,600 workforce will be cut by 2,000; SHOCK: Workers chat outside the
factory yesterday; ACTION: Acting First Minister Reg Empey;; EXIT: Workers are
interviewed as they leave Shorts


DEVASTATED politicians last night demanded action from Tony Blair after 2,000
jobs were axed at Shorts.

Workers were told yesterday the American atrocities were to blame for the
redundancies.

Acting First Minister Sir Reg Empey called for an international coalition to
fight the economic effects of the terrorist attacks.

He wrote to the Prime Minister calling on the Government to respond quickly to
the threat developing in the airline and aerospace industries.

Sir Reg said: "I believe that a national response is required, bearing in mind
that, as the Prime Minister has said, there is a war against terrorism it seems
appropriate the local community is not left to take on the burden on its own."

He said 2,000 well-paid manufacturing jobs in Northern Ireland equated to 70,000
jobs in Britain.

"That is the extent and scale of the threat to the regional economy.

"Just as people have been building a coalition against terrorism we have to
build a positive response to the economic effects of terrorism.

"There is no point in talking tough on terrorism if you are going to leave the
workforces in the coalition countries to suffer the consequences. I don't
believe we should lie down and accept this."

He said Northern Ireland had worked its way through 30 years of terrorism and it
was a "cruel irony" that another act of terrorism had led to the job cuts.

Around 890 jobs will be cut before next February - 480 of them permanently.

A further 410 contractors' jobs will be axed and another 1,000 jobs are expected
to be slashed around Christmas.

Canadian-based Bombardier is Northern Ireland's largest private employer with
7,600 workers producing small civilian aircraft.

A total of 3,800 staff in the UK, the US and Canada will be laid off and a
further 2,700 will go unless markets make a good recovery.

The worldwide gloom deepened last night when US giant Delta Air Lines announced
13,000 job cuts.

Bombardier president Robert Brown said yesterday: "We are saddened to have to
take such measures but we will do everything we possibly can to create the
conditions we need to bring these employees back to work.

"We are striving, through both our decisions and our actions, to protect the
Corporation from the shockwaves that are now rocking the markets."

A Shorts spokeswoman said: "The cuts are because of the dramatic downturn in the
airline industry because of the American terrorist attacks and the knock-on
effect it's had on the manufacturing industry."

Union officials hit out at Bombardier for forcing the cuts on Belfast workers.

Roger Lyons, general secretary of the Manufacturing Science and Finance Union,
said: "This is an unacceptable knee-jerk reaction and we will be asking some
serious questions about how the company got from a solid order book and good
prospects to 2,000 job cuts in two short weeks.

"Bombardier operate in a specialist market and it is hard to see how they will
suffer from the current crisis in such a severe way."

Unions are due to meet with company bosses tomorrow.

Irish regional secretary of the Amalgamated Engineering and Electrical Union,
Peter Williamson, said: "This is very disappointing news and could be a real
blow, not only to the 2,000 workers and their families directly affected, but to
the community as well.

"It is vitally important that the aviation industry holds its nerve during the
current turmoil and looks to the long term and a more secure future."

Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble said he hoped the downturn would be
temporary and that "the measures being taken on the other side of the Atlantic
to assist airlines by President Bush will be adopted by the Government here".

One worker from West Belfast said: "It's disgusting. There's very little we can
do. I've got a young child.

"It came as a bolt out of the blue. I think the company was going bad due to the
recession but what happened in America didn't make matters any better."

Many staff who have mortgages will face the prospect of losing their homes if
they don't have insurance.

Nick Langely at East Belfast's Langley Hill Financial Advisers said: "The lack
of job security in the area will affect the housing market. If permanent workers
at Shorts have insurance cover they will be able to get help with their
mortgages but if they haven't they may find themselves in difficulty.

"But many of the contract workers will not have this cover as it would be
difficult for them to get it."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: REFUGEE DESPAIR: NUCLEAR THREAT OF ATTACK ON TERROR

BYLINE: James Hardy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 314 words

HIGHLIGHT: RECALL: PM Tony Blair


AMERICA warned last night that the war against terrorism could mean conflict
with nations having weapons of mass destruction.

US deputy defence secretary Paul Wolfowitz told Nato ministers in Brussels of
the link between states harbouring terrorists and those developing nuclear,
biological and chemical weapons.

His words appear to point directly to Iraq.

Mr Wolfowitz has been saying the war on terrorism should be extended to Saddam
Hussein's regime, it has been reported.

And Tony Blair will today brief the Cabinet of the build-up to military strikes
and of the evidence against Osama bin Laden.

The emergency session of the Cabinet will be at 5pm in Downing Street.

The PM's official spokesman said the timing of the meeting - nearly seven hours
later than normal - was "purely logistical".

The PM has also scrapped plans to fly out to the Commonwealth Heads of
Government Meeting in Australia next week.

Deputy PM John Prescott will instead go with the Queen to the gathering in
Brisbane.

The almost unprecedented decision is thought to indicate imminent military
action.

But Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon refused to say when the operation will start.

"I don't want to put a timescale on this," he said on BBC radio.

"You are right to expect military action.

"But this is a very different kind of enemy than one that can be dealt with in
terms of, say, a D-Day landing."

Mr Hoon also indicated Britain may help anti-Taliban rebels to topple the
regime.

He said: "Elements in Afghanistan are determined to abandon terrorism - they
deserve support," he said.

And Nato defence ministers met yesterday to offer the US any help required.

Officials said no formal requests for assistance had been lodged.

But they added the US is hoping to forge a "series of alliances" involving
different help from different nations.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 27, 2001

Coffee giant made terror attack rescuers pay for water;

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 131 words


COFFEE giant Starbucks charged rescue workers in New York GBP 88 for water to
treat victims of the World Trade Centre attacks, it was revealed yesterday.

One of the branches close to the World Trade Centre forced an ambulance crew to
hand over the money when they asked for three cases of water to help treat
victims of shock after the towers collapsed.

The manager of the shop in Battery Park Plaza refused to comment.

Embarassed company president Orin Smith sent a refund and free coffee to the
ambulance workers after the incident was revealed.

Starbucks closed stores across the country on the day after the attacks,
although several premises close to the World Trade Centre and New York hospitals
served coffee - and water - to rescue workers for free.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                               September 27, 2001

Chopper bid halted by US terror attack.

BYLINE: Steve Rogers (author email steve.rogers@theargus.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 391 words

DATELINE: brighton__hove


Helicopter pilot Simon Oliphant-Hope has arrived back in Sussex after flying
around the world. Simon was attempting to smash the record for circumnavigating
the globe single-handedly in a chopper and left Shoreham in high spirits three
weeks ago. But due to the terrorist attacks in America, he found himself
grounded first in Russia and then in Alaska and unable to complete the scheduled
route. Although he travelled around the world in fewer days than the existing
record, he did not complete the required number of miles so the attempt is not
valid. However, he and his colleagues at Shoreham-based helicopter firm Eastern
Atlantic have vowed to try to break the record next year. They are dedicating
the failed attempt to the thousands who perished in New York, Washington and
Pennsylvania. Project operations manager Jamie Chalkley said: "We only had five
days leeway on our schedule but we were grounded for seven. "Simon was in the
east of Russia when the towers went down. We were held there for a day, then we
were allowed to go into Alaska. There were days he could fly and days he
couldn't. "Realising the record could not be beaten on this attempt was very
difficult to swallow. There really was no way forward - we explored every single
option." The original route would have seen Simon fly down the west coast of
United States and up the east coast. It was necessary to take this path to clock
up the correct amount of mileage for the record attempt. In the end, Simon had
to complete the journey in Canadian air space, meaning his journey was not long
enough to be a valid record. After Canada, Simon flew via Greenland and Iceland.
In the latest leg this week, he flew from Scotland down to Manchester and then
on to Shoreham. Jamie said the crew were still pleased as there had only been a
handful of people who had gone around the world by helicopter but it was a shame
not to have broken the record. The start of the attempt seemed promising as the
MD 900 Explorer helicopter completed the first few legs to Germany and Sweden
ahead of schedule. The chopper, which has no tail rotor, was reaching ground
speeds of around 155mph with a good tail wind. American Ron Bower, who still
holds the record, sent messages of support to the Eastern Atlantic team during
the attempt. His record of 24.5 days was set in 1994.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 27, 2001

Baseball attack man terror.

BYLINE: Pauline Hawkins (author email phawkins@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 145 words

DATELINE: Bury



A PRESTWICH man suffered a suspected fractured skull when he was repeatedly
struck with a baseball bat after an argument with a car driver.

The vicious attack took place seconds after the 52-year-old victim had accused
the driver of going through a puddle and splashing him.

Detectives are investigating the attack which took place outside the Metrolink
Station in Stanley Road, Whitefield.

The injured man was treated in Fairfield General Hospital for a suspected
fractured skull and multiple cuts and bruises to his head and body.

The man police are hunting is white, aged 25-35, 5ft 9ins tall with short fair
hair and stocky build, around 13 stone in weight. He was driving what police
only describe as a white saloon car.

Anyone with information about the attack, which happened at 9.20pm on Friday, is
asked to ring Whitefield CID on 856 8240.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 27, 2001

Lloyd's bill for terror attack is set at GBP 1.3bn

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.3

LENGTH: 510 words


<SUBHEAD>Analysts say insurance market will survive impact of latest setback
despite sizeable loss

INSURANCE market Lloyd's of London yesterday said its estimated losses from the
terrorist attacks on America would reach GBP 1.3 billion.

Lloyd's said that while the amount would have a "significant impact" on its
market, the loss would be absorbed by its "strong capital base".

The market said it arrived at the figure after analysing estimated losses from
more than 100 of its syndicates.

Chairman Sax Riley said: "Arriving at an estimate for a marketplace as complex
as Lloyd's was always going to take longer than for a single insurance company -
especially for a situation which is still changing rapidly.

"While a figure of this size will have a significant impact on the Lloyd's
market, the market's strong capital base will absorb this loss.

"The size of our asset base, the spread of the losses, and the resilience of the
reinsurance programmes in place, are important in coming to this conclusion.

"The long-term impact of the US attacks on the insurance industry is yet to be
fully appreciated.

"Lloyd's is open for business and trading forward.

"Clearly there will be a contraction of global insurance capacity which will
fuel the premium rate rises we've been seeing since the last quarter of 2000."

Lloyd's losses will arise from insurance relating to the collapsed World Trade
Centre property, aircraft and lost business from firms affected.

However the 300-year-old London-based market - which is one of the centres of
aviation and terrorism insurance - said although GBP 1.3 billion was a large
loss the market would survive.

"Lloyd's will survive - it will be okay," a spokeswoman said.

The loss is larger than Lloyd's previous biggest single previous loss - which
amounted to GBP 929 million paid out in 1989 following Hurricane Hugo.

But the figures are dwarfed by GBP 8 billion of losses amounted between 1988 and
1992 following US asbestos and pollution claims, Hurricane Andrew, the Piper
Alpha disaster and UK storms.

This had a tremendous impact on the Lloyd's names - private investors who
provided capital in hopes of returns on their investment - many of whom suffered
losses, even bankruptcy.

The US losses will impact on some of the Lloyd's existing names - which amount
to around 2,800.

Names, however, make up a small proportion of Lloyd's backing, with 80 per cent
of finance provided by corporate members - including a number of big US
insurance firms.

And since a number of names had their fingers burnt during the late 1980s and
early 1990s, a number have moved into less volatile insurance syndicates - the
companies which trade at Lloyd's, selling insurance to clients.

Analysts said the forecast GBP 1.3 bn losses were slightly above expectations,
but not markedly.

However, one analyst said the question remained how much the figure would be
when including re-insurance - when one insurer passes on some of the risk it has
accepted to another insurer.

LOSSES: The Lloyd's Building in London

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 28, 2001

Minister warns of more terror attacks;
 Terror in America

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 73 words


MINISTER for Europe Peter Hain has warned Osama bin Laden is planning fresh
terrorist attacks over the coming weeks.

Speaking on BBC Question Time last night, Mr Hain did not say where intelligence
agencies believed the likely targets were. He told the programme: "I understand
he is preparing for highimpact terrorist attacks in the coming weeks, if he's
able to.

"We've got to track him down. We've got to stop him."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: BIZARRE URBAN MYTH ON ATTACK DISMISSED

BYLINE: Boris Worrall Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 141 words


WEST Midlands Police today dismissed a bizarre rumour suggesting that a terror
attack on the region was imminent.

The force and media outlets have been inundated with fictional reports about a
man telling people not to be in the city on October 1.

The urban myth centres on stories that a woman gives the man change in a shop as
a favour and, as a gesture of thanks, he warns her about the attack.

But today West Midlands Police posted the following message on its website:
'This rumour, with an implied security threat, bears all the hallmarks of a so
-called 'urban myth', having no apparent basis in fact nor any evidence to
support it.'

Up to pounds 200,000 is to be sent to the New York Fire Department thanks to
generous West Midlanders.

Prestige Middle Eastern airline Emirates has axed two Birmingham flights.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: HAIN WARNS OF NEW ATTACKS;
 EUROPE COULD BE THE NEXT TARGETALERT: Minister Peter Hain POSSIBLE TARGET: The
European Parliament building in Brussels

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 313 words


MINISTER for Europe Peter Hain has warned that terrorist leader Osama bin Laden
is planning fresh attacks over the coming weeks.

Mr Hain did not say where intelligence agencies believed the likely targets
were.

But he said: 'I understand he is preparing for high-impact terrorist attacks in
the coming weeks, if he's able to.

'We've got to track him down. We've got to stop him.'

The warning came as it was revealed that the US government's global manhunt has
thwarted two terrorist attacks since September 11 and gathered evidence
suggesting collaborators were working on several other plots to harm US
interests.

Evidence seized in raids in the United States and in Europe included plans or
materials for an attack on the US Embassy in Paris and an attack with explosives
on a military site in Brussels, Belgium, the officials said.

The European Parliament and Nato headquarters in Belgium were also believed to
be targets.

The officials, who work in law enforcement and intelligence, said about two
dozen arrests had been made across Europe of people suspected of being involved
in planning those attacks.

The arrests have resulted from a global manhunt led by the FBI and aided by CIA
intelligence that has produced dozens of raids and searches in the last two
weeks.

Captured

Information about the overseas attacks first emerged this summer, well before
the September 11 hijackings, which cost 6000 lives, when authorities captured an
alleged associate of Osama bin Laden and he began co-operating, officials said.

The alleged bin Laden associate, Djamel Begal, provided overseas authorities
with information about possible targets and the names of others who might be
involved, officials said.

A senior government official said US intelligence urged its European
counterparts to begin rounding up suspects before September 11.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

USA TERROR ATTACK: IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 144 words


MINISTER for Europe Peter Hain warned on BBC Question Time last night that Osama
bin Laden is planning fresh terrorist attacks.

"We've got to track him down. We've got to stop him."

POLICE across Europe have arrested at least 20 people and shadowed dozens of
others to crack down on terror cells.

THE Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Australia has been postponed and
the Queen has called off a tour of Australia and New Zealand.

A DELEGATION of Pakistani religious leaders and government officials left today
for talks with the Taliban in a new attempt to break the deadlock over Osama bin
Laden.

THE US does not know where Osama bin Laden is hiding, said Secretary of State
Colin Powell.

BRITISH AIRWAYS executives have agreed to cut their pay by up to 15 per cent in
a move to help the airline through "difficult times."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

TERRORISTS 'PLANNED ATTACKS ON EUROPE'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1002 words


TERRORISTS linked to Osama bin Laden planned attacks on Nato headquarters in
Belgium and the European Parliament in Brussels, it was claimed yesterday.

The plot to target the buildings, as well as the US Embassy in Paris and the
country's consulate in Marseilles, was foiled by the arrest of a key part of the
terror cell planning the attacks, American sources have reported.

Twenty people are still being sought after the arrest of 30 of the cell's
members, which included some in Britain as well as France, Spain and the
Netherlands.

The plot was known to French and US authorities before September 11 after Djamel
Begha, a key associate of bin Laden, was arrested in Dubai with a forged French
passport.

The Algerian citizen was interrogated by French authorities and revealed the
list of targets and the other members of the terrorist cell, intelligence
sources said.

Authorities across the Continent kept the terrorists under surveillance before
making the raids which led to the arrests over the past two weeks, following the
attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

But the attacks had not been planned to take place until much later this year.

Among the arrests were six Algerians detained in Spain who had "links" to two
other men, Nizar Trabelsi, a Tunisian, and Jerome Courtailler, a Frenchman, who
were arrested on September 13 in Belgium and the Netherlands.

Ten other people were also detained by Spanish authorities on suspicion of
collaborating with the six Algerians.

The six arrested belonged to a bin Ladenbacked dissident faction of the Armed
Islamic Group, Algeria's hard-line insurgency movement, Spanish interior
minister Mariano Rajoy said.

The Algerians were arrested in Spain's northern province of Navarra, southern
provinces of Almeria and Huelva, and eastern province of Valencia.

They were travelling with forged passports and sophisticated computer equipment
for producing forgeries, as well as airline tickets for trips to Algeria and
France, authorities said.

The cell's main task in Spain was to obtain optical, electronic, computer and
communications equipment and send it to colleagues in Algeria.

They also produced fake documents to help other members of the group travel
undetected and made bogus credit cards to finance their activities, Spanish
authorities said.

And Spanish authorities have revealed Mohamed Atta, suspected of being the
ringleader in the September 11 terror attacks, visited Spain in July and may
have met then with other Islamic extremists.

The plot to attack Nato and the European Parliament was revealed after it
emerged bin Laden had planned a mass assassination of world leaders at the G8
summit in Genoa in July.

Italian intelligence foiled the plot, which was reported to involve a small
plane packed with explosives, and banned flights over Genoa and installed anti
-aircraft defences around the conference.

Meanwhile, investigators in the United States believe the hijackers who smashed
two passenger planes into the World Trade Centre may have practised their deadly
route in rented aircraft.

FBI agents are studying records to see whether the terror gang hired small
planes and made test flights to the twin towers.

The route is said to be popular with light aircraft pilots, and at least one
flight school has said it believes it rented planes to the hijack suspects.

The latest inquiry line of the complex investigation emerged as 10 men were
arrested in connection with claims they had fraudulently obtained licences to
transport hazardous materials.

The arrests in Missouri, Michigan and Washington followed FBI warnings that the
terror gang could have been planning to spray chemicals or bacteria from crop
-dusting planes.

Detectives were also checking claims that trucks rented from firms before the
September 11 attacks had not been returned.

Fears that trucks loaded with explosives could be headed for New York led to a
massive stop-and-search operation on Tuesday, according to media sources. The
FBI was said to have visited every flight school in New Jersey to check if
suspect hijackers had rented planes to fly to the World Trade Centre.

The Federal Aviation Authority has banned small planes from flying over the area
of the terrorist attacks. Investigators have detained more than 350 people and
carried out more than 300 searches since the attacks.

The FBI's New York bureau chief, Barry Mawn, told reporters that agents were
making "good progress" in identifying the hijackers and their associates and
added he was confident the investigation would lead to charges.

President Bush yesterday sought to coax Americans back on to airliners by
putting the government in charge of airport security and pledging pounds 350m to
upgrade security features in hopes of thwarting future hijackings.

Bush urged state governors to call up National Guard units to protect US
airports while he implements a long-term airline security plan: "Get on the
airlines, get about the business of America, " Bush told hundreds of flag
-waving airline workers at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, one of the
world's busiest.

Bush's plan includes expanding the use of federal air marshals aboard commercial
airliners; plane modifications, including efforts to restrict the opening of
cockpit doors during flights, fortifying cockpit doors to deny access from the
cabin, alerting the cockpit crew to activity in the cabin and ensuring
continuous operation of the aircraft transponder.

However, yesterday it was also revealed that two US Air Force generals have been
authorised to order the military to shoot down any civilian airliner that
appears to be threatening American cities.

Seeking to reassure America's travellers, Secretary of Defence Donald Rumsfeld
said:

"There are a lot of safeguards in place." He said he had crafted the new rules
of engagement with General Henry Shelton, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STILL BURNING: Firemen spray water on to the smouldering ruins of the
World Trade Centre yesterday, more than two weeks after the outrage

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

Terrorists are under attack even before a shot is fired Analysis

BYLINE: By John Keegan

SECTION: Pg. 08

LENGTH: 875 words

THERE is a danger that America's worldwide war on terrorism risks declining into
a phoney war, as the Second World War did in its early months, and for the same
reason, lack of action.

Many in the West have already expressed a lack of support for the Americans'
campaign. Even some fervent supporters may begin to lose heart if the president
and his team are not seen to achieve concrete results soon.

It is worth reviewing what positive effects of the mobilisation of the
anti-terrorist coalition can be claimed so far.

The identities of many in the terror network are now probably known to the
security services and they are under pursuit. A large number of accomplices,
both in America and Europe, have been arrested.

The probability is, therefore, that the primary network has been very severely
damaged.

That would be a severe blow to the umbrella organisation controlling it, since
the New York and Washington outrages took months of preparation and the trained
personnel involved cannot easily be replaced.

Moreover, precautions against a repetition now in place make the launching of a
similar operation improbable. The terrorist networks are now undoubtedly
examining other possibilities.

Because the security services are now operating at full pressure, the terrorists
are under another disadvantage.

Much of the energy they would want to devote to offensive operations now has to
be invested in defensive measures.

Individuals are trying to create new identities, find new hiding places and
establish new channels of communication, which they will fear have been
penetrated. Secure communication is as essential to terrorists as it is to a
national security organisation and has to be achieved with much less ample and
sophisticated means.

Though it may not seem so to the public, which is now in a state of alarm and is
tending to exaggerate terrorist capability, the terrorist organisations are
currently in disarray. One of the main aims of the security services at present
is to sustain that disarray and profit from it.

It is important to remember that in a contest between a developed state and a
terrorist organisation, there is an enormous disparity of force in the state's
favour.

Terrorists are weak. They succeed only by exploiting chinks in a state's armour.
Such chinks are few.

States are far richer than any terrorist organisation, have far greater numbers
of trained personnel at their disposal and, if they successfully mobilise their
populations, an enormous resource in the vigilance and powers of observation of
ordinary people. Democratic populations are slow to slough off the easy
assumptions of everyday security from danger but, when they do, provide the best
shield of all against terrorist activity.

The Taliban, it must be remembered as well, is also a weak organisation. Its
numbers are small - a few tens of thousands at most - its fighters are poorly
trained and ill-equipped, and it has no capacity to operate outside its own
territory.

It does not even control the whole of Afghanistan, where it has made itself
widely disliked by the majority, who are conventional Muslims with a strong
aversion to the fundamentalism to which the Taliban subjects them.

Although the Taliban is supported by the Pakistani army and intelligence
service, that support is likely to wither if it succeeds in driving large
numbers of refugees over the border to join the several million already present
who are trying ordinary Pakistanis' sense of tribal brotherhood to the limits.

America's refusal to make clear its operational intentions, though it
contributes to the public's sense of involvement in a phoney war, has an
unrecognised advantage.

It creates a sense of insecurity in states which are involved in the terrorist
web. It is said that there are 60 states in which bin Laden's organisation has
cells.

While America gathers its forces and plans its attack, none can be sure that it
is not in focus.

That will encourage states to declare themselves on the right side, as the Ivory
Coast did recently by denying that any Islamic training camp was located on its
territory, and by making good its disclaimers by taking appropriate action to
expel or arrest suspects. It may indeed be the intention of the United States
government in this early stage of its war against terrorism to create a climate
of insecurity equivalent to that associated with terrorism, but strengthened by
having international law on its side.

The purpose would be to separate the sheep from the goats.

The number of black sheep is, in reality, quite small. The rogue Islamic states
- Iraq, Libya - are well known. Those with serious Islamic conspiracies - Yemen,
Egypt, Sudan - are not more numerous. Those with dissident Islamic minorities
are known also.

America's current intention, while it stays its hand, may be to put the rogue
states on warning, while strengthening the hand of moderate Muslim governments
against their internal dissidents and intransigent minorities.

Washington is displaying a remarkable coolness. Its current passivity should not
be mistaken for weakness but as the masterly inactivity of a great power,
provoked but not shaken, while it prepares a terrible reckoning.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 28, 2001

London suburban rents set to fall after terror attacks

BYLINE: Lucy Barnard

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 175 words


Rents are poised to fall in the most exclusive London suburbs in response to the
terrorist attacks on the US.

Despite the received wisdom that when house prices fall, rents rise, analysts
are predicting confusion in areas of the market dominated by Americans.

Robert Orr-Ewing, partner in charge of Knight Frank's lettings department, said:
"In locations that are heavily dependent upon American tenant activity, the
impact is uncertain.

"Over the past year we have seen US companies sending over less senior members
of staff who tend to rent flats in central London. Consequently, in the most
exclusive properties, in suburbs such as Wimbledon, Esher and the Surrey
commuter belt, we expect to see both demand and rents falling by as much as
10%."

Guy Nixon of upmarket short-term lettings agent

Go Native said: "Our enquiries fell to essential calls only during the week of
the attack and now we are seeing a fall of around 10% on our usual levels.

"We are expecting a downward pressure. There is definitely more supply than
demand," he said.

EGi News 28/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 28, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Report on building repairs

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 123 words


Of the 22 buildings and 2.7m sq m (29.1m sq ft) of office space damaged in New
York, more than half will be repaired and ready for occupation within 3-12
months.

But, according to a report on the New York office market, it will take over five
years for the citys inventory of office space to return to its pre-disaster
level.

The report, by agent Grubb & Ellis, describes the citys office market as "tight
as a drum" and predicts that rents will rise, despite an agreement from
landlords to hold rents constant at pre-disaster levels.

"We think office rents in New York City are likely to rise during coming months,
even as the US economy slips into recession and office rents in other markets
edge down," the report states.

EGi News 28/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 28, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Assistance package drawn up for tenants

BYLINE: Anna Minton

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 262 words


A package of assistance is being put together for tenants hit by the New York
disaster.

The Real Estate Board of New York has asked brokers to forgo their fees on
short-term transactions for the next year.

Landlords have also agreed to hold rents at pre-disaster levels, although agent
Grubb & Ellis said: "While no one has said so, we presume that this magnanimous
gesture applies only to the tenants who were displaced by the terrorist attack."

However, the boards voluntary request has not been unanimously taken up, with
some firms preferring to set up their own charitable funds instead. "Some
brokers are being collegiate about it and others are doing their own version of
it," a source said. Another expressed surprise at the plan: "Markets are amoral.
Maybe property is different, but I dont think so."

John Coppedge, international operations director at Cushman & Wakefield, said:
"The Real Estate Board made a request that on leases of less than 12 months the
agent does not accept a fee from the landlord. Its a request not a law.

"Some of the firms are doing that, making it a cheaper deal for landlords. We
prefer to form a fund which well put money into from a lot of different sources
and give to charities. I suspect well pay way in excess into that."

Richard Sexton, global liaison adviser at Grubb & Ellis, which is waiving its
fees, said: "Its our role to act as compassionately as we can. Were helping our
fellow New Yorkers where possible."

In addition, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has asked members of the REBNY to contribute
to a Twin Towers Fund.

EGi News 28/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 28, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Office reliance on London exaggerated

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 312 words


Forecasts of big relocations by US firms to London in the aftermath of the New
York disaster have not materialised, writes Anna Minton and Robert Gibson.

New York-based banks are transferring a clutch of functions and some personnel
to London but the expected flight across the Atlantic predicted by figures such
as Canary Wharf chief executive George Iacobescu has not happened on any major
scale.

In the days immediately following the 11 September destruction in New York,
Iacobescu said: "It is quite possible that US banks will bring tenants over to
London because we have the brainpower and the technology."

But Chris Bolton, development director at serviced office provider Regus, said:
"We had some contact from companies looking at relocating in the immediate
aftermath but it seems to have died down."

Sources say that Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse First Boston,
Cantor Fitzgerald and Goldman Sachs have all moved some functions to London,
including bond trading, money market and currency, some equity market,
settlement and global custody.

"Whether these moves will be sustained is the $64,000 question," one source
said. "Everyone is being a bit cagey. Im hearing from New Jersey that the rooms
are too hot and the machines are slow. People can put up with the bunker
mentality for a month, but six months to a year is different."

A source close to Nomura said 200 traders were moving here and it was unlikely
that the bank would be able to house them at its St Martin Le Grand HQ.

However, a spokeswoman for Nomura denied the report. "There are no plans to move
anybody and there never have been," she said.

John Travers, senior partner with Healey & Baker, which is owned by US broker
Cushman & Wakefield, said: "I dont see people coming to London because of what
happened on 11 September because office space is available in New York."

EGi News 28/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 28, 2001

Crave death, attackers told;
The Terrorist Crisis: Hijackers

BYLINE: James Langton

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 372 words


TERRORISTS involved in the 11 September hijackings left copies of a document
giving them step-by-step instructions for their suicide mission.

The five-page document, mostly handwritten in Arabic, is thought to have been
left behind by Mohamed Atta, suspected of organising the group and flying into
one of the World Trade Center towers. It contains prayers, instructions for a
last night of life and reminders to bring: "Knives, your wills, IDs and
passports.''

It also calls on the hijackers to crave death and "be optimistic". A
translation, in American newspapers today, adds: "Everybody hates death, fears
death, but only those, the believers, who know the life after death and the
reward after death, would be the ones seeking death.'' Another section is headed
"The last night" and begins: "Remind yourself that in this night you will face
many challenges. But you have to face them and understand it 100 per cent. Obey
God, his messenger, and don't fight among yourself where you become weak.''

The hijackers are also told to: "Make sure that you are clean, your clothes are
clean, including your shoes. You will be entering paradise. You will be entering
the happiest life, everlasting life.'' It warns them to "check your weapon", say
morning prayers together and: "If you take a taxi to the airport, when you
arrive smile and rest assured, for Allah is with the believers and the angels
are protecting you." They are told to pray as they set foot on the plane and
again once in their seats, remembering: "It is a raid for Allah."

The book also contained this passage: "When the time of truth comes and zero
hour arrives, then straighten out your clothes, open your chest and welcome
death for the sake of Allah. Seconds before the target, your last words should
be 'There is no God but Allah.

Mohammed is his messenger'."

One copy of the document was found in luggage left behind by Atta, said a law
enforcement official. Another was found in the wreckage of the United Airlines
jet that crashed in Pennsylvania and a third was in another hijacker's car, the
official said.

The documents provide the most jarring insight yet into the mindset of the 19
men who boarded the four planes.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 28, 2001

Ministers show division over threat of follow-up attacks on Britain;
The Terrorist Crisis: Politics

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 355 words


SOME division has opened up in Westminster about the seriousness of the
terrorist threat to Britain.

Last night, junior Foreign Office minister Peter Hain appeared to suggest that
the Government has evidence of a specific threat.

Speaking on the BBC's Question Time he referred to intelligence reports which
warned that associates of chief terror suspect Osama Bin Laden and his al Qaeda
network were preparing follow-up attacks in the wake of the 11 September
atrocities.

Mr Hain did not specify where these follow-up attacks might take place but
Foreign Secretary Jack Straw agreed this morning on BBC Radio's Today programme
that Britain "might be attacked".

Mr Straw claimed it would be "irresponsible and complacent" not to warn people
of the risks.

However, later today, Downing Street briefers said there was no warning of any
specific terrorist attack on Britain, and seemed dismissive of the Foreign
Office line.

The mixed signals from ministers appear to echo those coming from intelligence
and law-enforcement agencies.

The Security Service is heavily playing down suggestions that many of the 11
September hijackers had British links.

It is also sceptical about terrorist cells in this country having specific
attack plans. The police, however, are warning of the real danger of a terrorist
operation here.

The truth seems to be that the Government and its security advisers recognise
that Britain is a potential high-profile target for terrorists, especially if
Britain participates in military retaliatory action with the United States. But
Whitehall has no explicit intelligence about any group already poised to deliver
an attack.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said there was no evidence of a specific
threat against Britain although a high state of general vigilance needed to be
maintained.

Mr Blair's spokesman added: "People should treat reports like this with caution.
What you should pay attention to is that we do not lightly say we have no
evidence of any specific threat to this country.

"We have evidence of an ongoing threat internationally."


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 28, 2001

Blunkett seeks to play down fears of attack on Britain;
The Terrorist Crisis: Politics

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 410 words


DAVID BLUNKETT today played down speculation of a possible terrorist attack on
Britain by claiming there no was no imminent threat to this country. In what
appeared to be a concerted effort, Mr Blunkett joined forces with Downing Street
to reinforce the message that people should get on with their normal lives -
although with a high state of vigilance.

The Home Secretary's intervention appeared to be an attempt to heal the division
which has opened up in Westminster over the seriousness of the threat of an
attack by associates of Osama bin Laden. The stance taken by Mr Blunkett and
Tony Blair's official spokesman contrasted with earlier warnings by Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw and Europe Minister Peter Hain.

Last night on the BBC's Question Time, Mr Hain referred to intelligence reports
which warned associates of Bin Laden and his al Qaeda network were preparing
follow-up attacks to the 11 September atrocities.

Mr Hain did not specify where these attacks might take place but Mr Straw agreed
this morning on Radio 4's Today programme that Britain "might be attacked".

Mr Straw claimed it would be "irresponsible and complacent" not to warn people
of the risks. He added: "We have to work on the basis that this organisation is
still there around the world ... and that there continues to be a risk of them
making further attacks."

Mr Blunkett, however, said: "There continues to be a global threat. We're not
going through what we're going through now for the sake of our health.

There is a threat - imminently not in Britain.

"We believe that global threat remains but we do not wish to frighten people.
They must go about their normal lives, doing their normal business, ensuring
that our economy and our social life are not undermined. Being alert, being
active, being prepared for such a threat doesn't mean it's about to happen."

Downing Street's line was much closer to Mr Blunkett's than to the Foreign
Office ministers'. Mr Blair's spokesman repeated that there was "no evidence of
a specific threat against the UK" He added: "We do not make such assertions
lightly."

* Mr Blunkett today became the first British minister to openly condemn Italian
prime minister Silvio Berlusconi for claiming Western civilisation was superior
to Islam. Mr Berlusconi's comments were "offensive" and "culturally inaccurate",
and Italy's part in the international coalition had been damaged by the remarks,
he said.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 28, 2001

Japan on ropes even before US terror attacks

BYLINE: Jane Padgham;Ray Heath

SECTION: Pg. 41

LENGTH: 388 words


RECESSION in Japan looked inevitable today after a raft of disastrous economic
figures and profit warnings showed that the world's secondbiggest economy was in
an appalling state even before the 11 September terrorist attacks on the US.

Unemployment rose for the fifth month in a row in August to 3.36 million, a
record 5% of the workforce.

Consumer spending fell 0.8% compared with a year earlier, making a fifth
consecutive month of decline.

Weak consumer demand was reflected in retail prices, which fell for the 23rd
month in succession, down 0.9% from a year earlier. Capping the bad news was a
0.8% rise in factory output, well short of the 2.8% to 3% increase predicted by
economists.

"The figures show how severe economic conditions were before 11 September and it
is difficult to assess how much shock the events since then have caused to the
economy," said Economics Minister Heizo Takenaka.

A flurry of profit warnings from some of the country's biggest companies
indicated that the outlook is no brighter. Japanese consumer electronics giant
Sony plans to slash jobs in Europe, Japan and the US as it braces itself for the
impact of slumping sales in the key American market. The company-today warned
that profits this year will be almost 90% below earlier forecasts, and 40% down
on last year.

Sony, under chairman and chief executive Nobuyuki Idei, said the fall in demand
for electronic products means it will make only 10 billion yen (£57 million) in
the year to end-March, against earlier estimates of 90 billion yen.

The fall in demand will leave Sony with severe overcapacity at its consumer
electronics and semiconductor factories around the world. The company said it
planned to cut back on 48 product lines and reduce what it described as
"redundant assets".

The warning was followed by a similar woeful forecast from smaller rival Aiwa.

NEC, the third largest chipmaker, said it would make a net loss in the current
year and Toyota said its car sales in the US would fall 7% this year.

Japan's economy shrank by 0.8% in the second quarter. Another contraction in the
third, as seems certain, would fit the definition of a technical recession. The
Bank of Japan intervened again in the foreign exchanges today, driving the yen
to a low of 119 against the dollar.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: HARD TIMES: SONY'S IDEI HAS ORDERED JOB CUTBACKS WORLDWIDE AS SALES
SLUMP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 28, 2001

WORLD ON THE BRINK COMPANIES FEAR COLLAPSE AS 100,000 JOBS GO BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE
TOO FRIGHTENED TO FLY AFTER THE US TERROR ATTACK; MORE AIRLINES SET TO AXE
FLIGHTS IN CRISIS -BRITISH PLANES MAY CARRY MARSHALS

BYLINE: FROM TOBY MOORE IN NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4 5

LENGTH: 432 words


THE Government is considering placing armed guards on British flights after
President Bush announced that they will be used on US aircraft to combat
terrorism, it was revealed last night.

A spokesman for the Department of Transport said:

"The Government review of airport security is wide-ranging and covers all
measures announced by George Bush. We are in touch with our counterparts in the
US and are in discussions with the airline industry but no decision has yet been
made." Britain has already increased airport security, limiting hand luggage and
asking passengers to go through two security checks before boarding.

The American guards, who are trained to kill hijackers, will sit anonymously
among other passengers.

President Bush said he wanted to "convince the American public it is safe to
fly". He has authorised two named air force generals to order the shooting-down
of any airliners that threaten cities.

The president also wants to improve screening at airports for weapons, employees
and terrorists and the US government will provide GBP 400million in grants to
airlines to pay for the measures.

They will include fortifying cockpit doors with stronger locks and video
monitors for flight deck crew to watch what is happening in the passenger
cabins. "Our pilots will always be in command of the airplane, " said Mr Bush.

Passenger numbers, already slipping as the economy slowed, are down to 35 per
cent of normal for this time of year following the suicide attacks. Mr Bush
added that he wants central government to take over responsibility for passenger
and bag-screening. He also wants the governors of all 50 states to deploy armed
members of the national guard at airports as a visible presence to reassure
travellers.

The administration said it was also looking at "technology to enable controllers
to take over a distressed aircraft and land it by remote control."

Mr Bush said: "We're making a strong statement that together, the government and
private sector will make flying a way of life again in America." Marshals were
introduced in the 1970s, regularly travelling on flights to London. But they
have gradually been replaced by a reliance on metal detectors.

They practise shooting at computer-controlled targets which resemble both narrow
and wide-bodied jets.

There are reservations about the use of guns. A hole through the hull could
depressurise an aircraft with catastrophic consequences. So marshals would be
armed with .357 calibre hollowpoint bullets that expand after hitting a body and
do not emerge from it.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 28, 2001

TERROR ATTACK ON PARLIAMENT; 14 DEAD IN SWISS GUN RAMPAGE

BYLINE: FROM FIONA FLECK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 420 words


A GUNMAN disguised as a policeman shot 14 people dead then killed himself during
a rampage of revenge in an idyllic Swiss resort's local parliament yesterday.

Armed with an assault rifle and explosives, Friedrich Leibacher stormed into the
parliament chamber in Zug, near Zurich.

Firing slowly and methodically, Leibacher stalked the room full of 80 people for
five minutes - killing 14 and seriously wounding 14 more. He reloaded 20 times.
Officials said later that Leibacher had a left a note entitled "Day of Reckoning
for the Zug Mafia", complaining of injustice at the hands of the local
authorities.

MP Robert Bisig saw Leibacher enter the chamber wearing a black waistcoat with
the words "Police" on it.

"I heard a shot and instinctively dived under my government bench which must
have saved my life, '' Mr Bisig said.

Three of the dead were members of the local government. The other 11 were MPs.
"It was like an execution, " said MP Hanspeter Hausherr.

A police spokesman said that after the shooting Leibacher, 57, "left the room
briefly then returned and detonated something like an explosion. He was found
lying on the floor by firefighters and rescue workers".

Leibacher appeared to have taken his own life.

Police said that Leibacher's grievances dated back to a row with a bus driver
two years ago. A blizzard of accusations then flew flew between Leibacher - a
bus driver himself - and the local transport department. He was recently
informed of the most recent rejection of a complaint.

"He did this purely out of revenge and fury, " said investigator Kurt
Bloechlinger.

Police found the note and more arms and explosives in the killer's car.

There had been fears until the note was discovered that the attack was linked to
the atrocities in America.

Schools, office and shops in Zug, a tourist haven 20 miles south of Zurich,
closed and flags flew at halfmast on public buildings. A church service was held
last night for the victims and a crowd placed flowers and candles on the steps
of the parliament building.

Student Gabor Borka, 19, said: "I was totally shocked when they announced over
the loudspeaker at school that there had been this shooting. It's affected all
of us. I never thought something like this could happen here."

Margret Rosenberg, 77, said: "It's terrible. He can't have been right in the
head.'' Swiss gun laws are among the most liberal in the world and men who serve
in the nation's citizen army keep their weapons at home.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERRORISM: TACTICS - INITIAL AIR ATTACKS MAY FORCE TALIBAN TO RETHINK

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta And Rupert Cornwell In Washington

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 728 words


MILITARY STRATEGISTS are considering the launching of air strikes against the
Taliban in an attempt to force the handover of Osama bin Laden.

But despite a massive military build-up in the region, an imminent military
onslaught against targets in Afghanistan is becoming, if anything, less likely.
For all the media speculation on the airwaves and in the press, the White House
and the Pentagon have provided no more information of what they have in mind to
senior congressmen and top allied diplomats here than did Paul Wolfowitz, the US
Deputy Secretary of Defense, in his anticlimactic meeting with Nato defence
ministers in Brussels.

Perhaps this vagueness - so different from the fanfare surrounding preparations
for the Gulf war 10 years ago - is deliberate, to keep the foe off balance,
while a precise operation, on which President George Bush has already signed
off, goes into effect. "We're not going to discuss the timetables we're thinking
about for any aspect of this operation", Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said
yesterday.

At the weekend, everything seemed to be falling into place. A military strike
looked days away at most. In selective briefings, officials were sketching out a
broad battle plan: first go after Osama bin Laden himself and his henchmen in
Afghanistan; then the Taliban regime, and the al-Qa'ida network. Then would
follow a wider campaign likely to last years and employing diplomatic,
intelligence and financial weapons as well as military might to fight terrorism
across the world.

President Bush's address to Congress on Thursday evening bristled with
confidence and determination, as he called on countries to stand up and be
counted: "Are you with us or against us?" Since then certainty has receded. The
prospect of imminent military strikes is being talked down on all sides, by no
one more vigorously than by Mr Wolfowitz after meeting Nato representatives on
Wednesday.

"It can't be stressed enough that everybody who is waiting for miltiary action
needs to rethink this thing", said the man regarded as the biggest hawk in the
administration, who sees the crisis as grounds for a new offensive against
Saddam Hussein, and who has called for "ending states" which sponsored
terrorism.

Yesterday Gen Hugh Shelton, the outgoing chairman of the joint chiefs of staff,
again implicitly warned against the "quick-strike, quick-fix" expectations and
described the anti-terror campaign as "one of the most difficult missions the US
military has ever been given." As of yesterday there was no sign the US knew the
whereabouts of Mr bin Laden. If it did, an attack would almost certainly have
happened already. Instead the emphasis has shifted to building up the opposition
Northern Alliance in its struggle with the Taliban, beefing up surveillance and
getting special units into place.

But the latter forces will need time to familiarize themselves with the terrain.
A setpiece attack (if there is to be one) against obvious Taliban targets such
as airbases, air defence facilities and aircraft, may have to wait until these
preparations are complete - and may thus be weeks away.

An extra complication is the already immense refugee crisis in and around
Afghanistan which, the US authorities know full well, a frontal military assault
would only worsen. Then there is the approaching Afghan winter, which
traditionally slows military operations on the ground. All these factors are
being mulled by US planners. There is no sign they have reached a conclusion.

Under proposals discussed in Washington and London, the first attack, whenever
it comes, would be followed by the Afghan leadership being allowed "time to
recant" about Mr bin Laden if they want to avoid a second, full- scale,
offensive. But any decision to target the Taliban directly will be seen as a
major shift in policy by the Western coalition, which had, until now, stated the
primary aim was the capture of Mr bin Laden and the destruction of his al-Qa'ida
terrorist network.

The plan would face some opposition within the administrations in both
Washington and London. An air attack on the Taliban would put a great strain on
the international alliance against terrorism President Bush is organising. There
is also the prospect of it adding to the thousands of refugees already
attempting to flee the country.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

BLAIR DENIES UK TERROR ATTACK FEARS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 260 words


THERE is no reason to believe there were any "significant" British connections
to the US suicide hijackings, Downing Street said today.

Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman also insisted there was no
evidence of a specific threat against the UK, despite comments made by Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw and his junior minister Peter Hain.

In what seemed a concerted bid to dampen speculation, the spokesman said:
"Speculation about UK connections to the attack on the US is exaggerated.

"At this stage in the investigation, both the US and the UK authorities have no
reason to believe there were significant British connections to these attacks.
We do believe a number of the hijackers transited the UK."

The spokesman cautioned against the widely reported figure of 11 hijackers
passing through Britain but would not elaborate further.

He added: "People should treat reports like this with caution. There is going to
be a period when there is claim, counter-claim and disinformation.

"We are going to be faced with wild claims and we need to be aware of it."

Earlier, Mr Straw had been asked on BBC Radio 4's Today programme whether Osama
bin Laden might be planning further attacks which might affect this country; he
replied simply: "Yes."

Speaking last night on BBC TV Mr Hain said: "I understand he (bin Laden) is
already preparing for highimpact attacks in the coming weeks."

Mr Blair's spokesman said: "It is not accurate to say that Peter Hain said there
was a new threat in Britain. He did not say that."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JACK STRAW: Earlier warning

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                           September 28, 2001 Friday

TERRORIST ATTACKS IN AMERICA - THE IMPACT ON SCHOOLS

SECTION: ARTICLE; Families; Finance and Corporate Services; Policy and Politics;
News

LENGTH: 675  words



HIGHLIGHT: Advice from the National Union of Teachers      ...


Advice from the National Union of TeachersThe National Union of Teachers is
advising teachers to be prepared for increased tension between pupils from
different ethnic and religious groups, already seen in some areas, following the
terrorist attacks in America.Minority ethnic teachers may  also be particularly
vulnerable both from some pupils and some parents, says the Union.It has also
advised of further problems arising following any military action, which may be
taken in the coming days and weeks.Advice from the Union on dealing with these
issues will arrive in schools throughout England and Wales in the coming days.
It can already be seen on the NUT's website at www.teachers.org.uk.Doug McAvoy,
NUT General Secretary, said:'Pupils and teachers, particularly those from
minority ethnic groups, must be protected from the abuse and threats which can
arise out of ignorance and prejudice. The best way to deal with such problems is
to bring them out in the open, to discuss them and ensure that all involved
understand that racism is not acceptable.

The Prime Minister has made it clear that the campaign is against terrorism, not
Islam.'Pupils and teachers must be able to carry on their normal lives free from
fear. Each member of our community has the right to be treated with respect and
to have the freedom to carry on their normal lives without  any apprehension for
their own safety and well being because of their membership of a particular
minority ethnic grouping or religion.'The Union says that the greatest threat
comes from negative and stereotyped views of Islam and Muslims. Teachers should
be especially vigilant for signs of name calling, abuse and bullying,
particularly of Muslim pupils, and any signs of tension between pupils from
different ethnic groups.Early recognition and intervention by teachers will help
diffuse the situation before it escalates.The Union emphasises that no attempt
should be made to take a politically partisan approach or one which belittles a
particular set of opinions. A balanced approach to any discussion will allow all
pupils to participate and benefit.It is vitally important that schools enable
pupils to understand that fundamentalism, fanaticism and terrorism can and do
exist within all religions, and the differences between those concepts.Schools
should reiterate to teachers, pupils and parents, their rejection of racial
harassment and procedures for tackling it. Any racist or religious taunting
should be firmly and sensitively dealt with by teachers immediately.Some pupils
may need individual counselling particularly the targets and the perpetrators of
racial harassment.Pupils' factual knowledge and understanding of events can be
improved through the curriculum. World studies and education about world faiths
could provide opportunities for information and discussion at both primary and
secondary levels.The aim must be to ensure that every child feels valued and
secure and that school is a safe place to explore differences and conflicting
views. Above all, prejudice should be countered and replaced with information,
and respect should be fostered throughout the school.Many pupils may have fears
for the safety of relatives or friends caught up in the events in America,
particularly in New York and Washington. These may affect their emotional
well-being and ability to concentrate or participate fully in school life. Help
from outside agencies such as bereavement counsellors may be available.As the
situation develops, schools are likely to have pupils whose relatives or close
family friends are in the armed forces. Such pupils will worry about their
safety.Helping pupils express those fears may help them cope. It may also be
useful to give pupils a chance to discuss their worries openly and get the
dangers into perspective.Teachers dealing with pupils' emotional difficulties
arising from the events may need assistance in coping with the emotional demands
made on them. Support from other members of staff should be built into the whole
school approach.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

F&M TERROR ATTACK FOILED

BYLINE: Jenny Friel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 277 words


ANIMAL rights activists are trying to infect Ireland with foot and mouth in an
effort to stop fox hunting, the Irish Mirror can reveal.

Gardai have interviewed two British anti-blood sports extremists who it is
believed were planning to spread the disease throughout the Republic.

They hoped it would lead to a ban on hunting - not caring about wiping out our
pounds 11billion-a-year food industry.

A Department of Agriculture source said: "We heard these people were arriving
here - but the Garda already knew about them and lifted them."

The two men are notorious hunt saboteurs with past convictions for assault. In
recent weeks they told animal rights groups in England they would bring foot and
mouth to every corner of Britain.

But they moved here because a total hunt ban is in force in the UK due to foot
and mouth.

A source said: "The hunting season opens here on November 1 and they came here
to see what damage they could do. There were interviewed in Dublin by Gardai but
then let go."

The two men arrived in Dublin earlier this week.

Gardai from the National Bureau of Criminal Investigation are now monitoring the
men's movements.

However, it is believed the pair are due to return to Britain in the next couple
of days.

Raymond O'Malley, head of the Irish Farmers' Association in Co Louth, said he
was "horrified" at the plot.

He added: "These people are the bin Ladens of the animal world and they are not
welcome here."

An Irish Farmers' Association spokesman said he was aware the activists had been
questioned by Gardai.

He added: "We are satisfied that the Gardai are on top of the situation."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK TARGETS: WE'VE TOLD OSAMA TO GO SAY TALIBAN

BYLINE: Graham Brough

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 183 words

HIGHLIGHT: SON: Hamza bin Laden


THE Taliban said yesterday they have delivered their message to Osama bin Laden
asking him to leave Afghanistan.

Information Minister Qudrutullah Jamal confirmed that the edict from Muslim
clerics had been delivered in person by messenger.

He said: "It's not like we can pick up the phone and talk to Osama or fax a
message. He has no such facilities, so the message had to be sent through a
messenger who probably took some time to find him.

"We believe that by now he has found Osama and delivered it to him."

He added: "I have no reason to believe that Osama has left Afghanistan. He is
still here."

Meanwhile the Taliban are trying to use American human rights veteran Jesse
Jackson as a mediator over the fate of bin Laden.

Jackson said he is considering taking a team to Pakistan to meet Taliban envoys
in the hope that he may also help free eight aid workers - including two
Americans - held in Kabul accused of trying to convert Muslims to Christianity.

But the US government branded the move a delaying tactic, saying it would not
negotiate over bin Laden.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK TARGETS: I AM WARNING AMERICA ITS PEOPLE WILL FACE
TERRIBLE CONSEQUENCES IF THEY CHASE MY FATHER HAMZA BIN LADEN, 10,

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 75 words

HIGHLIGHT: SON: Hamza bin Laden


THE 10-year-old son of Osama bin Laden issued a chilling warning to the US to
leave his father alone.

Hamza bin Laden, one of the terrorist warlord's 17 children by four wives, made
the astonishing outburst at the wedding of his 19-year-old brother, Muhammad.

The youngster said: "Take it from me. I am warning America that its people will
face terrible consequences if they chase my father. Fighting Americans is the
base of faith."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK TARGETS: FOILED;
 30 HELD ACROSS EUROPE AS EVIL NEW BIN LADEN PLOT IS EXPOSED

BYLINE: Mark Ellis, Foreign Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 569 words

HIGHLIGHT: 1; Euro parliament, Brussels; 2; Nato headquarters, Brussels; 3;;
American embassy, Paris; 4; US consulate, Marseilles


I am warning America its people will face terrible consequences if they chase my
fatherPOLICE raids in Europe smashed the Osama bin Laden terror cell plotting a
wave of destruction.

Main targets for attack were the European Parliament and Nato headquarters in
Brussels, the US Embassy in Paris and the US consulate in Marseilles.

But 30 suspects have been arrested in Britain, France, Spain and Holland, and 20
more are being hunted.

The plot was exposed by America's ABC television network.

An ex-fighter for bin Laden's al-Qaeda network claimed the terrorist chief
planned to unleash havoc in Europe in the wake of the September 11 atrocities in
New York and Washington.

Bin Laden had already plotted a mass assassination of world leaders at the G8
summit in Genoa in July, using a small plane packed with explosives.

Italian intelligence foiled that operation, banning flights over Genoa and
installing anti-aircraft defences around the conference.

But the Afghanistan-based fanatic had other plans.

On TV the informer, known only as Max, told of a plot to free the Egyptian
cleric Omar Abdel Rahman, known as the "blind sheik," from jail in America.

Rahman was jailed for life in New York for the 1993 bombing at the World Trade
Center which killed six and injured 1,000. Max claimed bin Laden planned to
kidnap a US ambassador and threaten to kill him unless the murderous sheik was
released.

In the interview at an undisclosed destination, Max said: "The next plan is to
release Omar Abdul Rahman. Maybe they kidnap an ambassador and bring him to
Afghanistan and ask for his release."

The claims, so far unconfirmed by US authorities, gave nothing away about
details of the operation in Europe.

But the EU plot was known to French and US authorities before September 11 after
Djamel Begha, a key associate of bin Laden, was arrested in Dubai with a forged
French passport.

The Algerian citizen was interrogated by French authorities and revealed the
list of targets and the other members of the terrorist cell, intelligence
sources said.

Authorities across Europe kept the terrorists under surveillance before swooping
on suspects over the past two weeks.

Among those arrested were six Algerians detained in Spain who had links to a
Tunisian and a Frenchman held on September 13 in Belgium and the Netherlands.

Ten other people were seized by Spanish authorities on suspicion of
collaborating with the six Algerians.

The six belonged to a bin Laden-backed dissident faction of the Armed Islamic
Group, Algeria's hard-line insurgency movement.

They were reportedly travelling with forged passports and sophisticated computer
equipment for producing forgeries, as well as airline tickets for trips to
Algeria and France.

Five people arrested in Britain - near Heathrow Airport, Birmingham and in
Leicester - were still being questioned last night.

Meanwhile, CIA agents have offered a pounds 100,000 bounty for Stinger missiles
which have fallen into the hands of the ruling Taliban in Afghanistan.

The CIA fear the fanatical regime has up to 80 of the anti-aircraft missiles
which they will use against the US.

The Stingers were originally supplied by the Americans to rebel Afghan forces
fighting the Russians.

Now they pose a dangerous threat to US warplanes and helicopter gunships in any
American attack on the terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK TARGETS: I AM WARNING AMERICA ITS PEOPLE WILL FACE
TERRIBLE CONSEQUENCES IF THEY CHASE MY FATHER HAMZA BIN LADEN, 10,

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 82 words

HIGHLIGHT: SON: Hamza bin Laden


THE 10-year-old son of Osama bin Laden issued a chilling warning to the US to
leave his father alone - or else face terrible consequences.

Hamza bin Laden, one of the terrorist warlord's 17 children by four wives, made
the astonishing outburst at the wedding of his 19-year-old brother, Muhammad.

The youngster said: "Take it from me. I am warning America that its people will
face terrible consequences if they chase my father.

"Fighting Americans is the base of faith."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

F&M TERROR ATTACK FEAR

BYLINE: Jenny Friel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 132 words


ANIMAL rights activists are trying to infect Ireland with foot and mouth disease
in an effort to stop fox hunting, it was revealed yesterday.

Police have interviewed two British anti-blood sports extremists who it is
believed were planning to spread the disease throughout the Republic.

They hoped it would lead to a ban on hunting - not caring about wiping out the
south's pounds 11billion-a-year food industry.

But a Department of Agriculture spokesman said hunting was currently banned in
Northern Ireland.

The season was due to begin shortly but "a ban has been imposed due to the
difficulty in defining the areas where hunting and horseback activity takes
place", he said.

The spokesman added: "Obviously if there was such a threat it would be a huge
concern."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK TARGETS: SHORT SHARP SHOCK

BYLINE: Tom Newton Dunn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 332 words

HIGHLIGHT: POWER: Royal Navy vessels on Exercise Safe Sword II yesterday;;
READY: A Royal Marine yesterday


COALITION defence chiefs will order short, devastating bursts of force against
the Taliban, a defence source said yesterday.

Planners at the Pentagon and at the Ministry of Defence in London have decided
against a large-scale invasion of Afghanistan.

Instead, precision attacks on specific targets will be used.

Strategists hope to break the Taliban's will to harbour Osama bin Laden and the
al-Qaeda terrorist network he runs.

And the first attacks could be launched within days.

The source said: "We want to send a clear signal to the Taliban regime. We want
to give them some time to recant."

An ultimatum has been issued to Afghan leaders but the deadline was being kept
secret yesterday.

US and British governments have settled on three priorities for the coming
conflict.

Number one is to bring the terror leaders responsible for the American attacks
to justice.

Second is to smash al-Qaeda and affiliated terrorist networks in Afghanistan.
The third priority is to deter states from harbouring and cooperating with
terrorists.

The source added: "We are poised and ready to go - action could easily come at
any time.

"If it is not tomorrow or the next day, it will certainly be sooner rather than
later."

But he warned that coalition strategy could be affected by public opinion in the
United States.

Three weeks after the attacks, calls for revenge attacks on the perpetrators
have begun to grow.

Defence officials also highlighted the Taliban's role in drugs.

The source said: "More people die in the UK from heroin production in
Afghanistan than died in the World Trade Center attacks.

"That is another good reason to look more closely at the Taliban."

Meanwhile, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon yesterday said 20,000 troops on exercise
in Oman could be sent into combat.

Although Safe Sword II will continue for now, determined defence chiefs are
prepared to deploy them 1,000 miles north to Afghanistan if necessary.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK TARGETS: REVEALED: ALL THE HIJACKERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 92 words

HIGHLIGHT: Satam Al Suqami; Waleed M. Alshehri; Wail Alshehri; Abdulaziz;
Alomari; Hani Hanjour; Salem Alhazmi; Nawaf Alhazmi; Khalid Al-Mihdhar;; Saeed
Alghamdi; LEADER: Mohamed Atta; Majed Moqed; Ahmed Al Haznawi; Ahmed; Alnami;
Zaid Samir Jarrah; Marwan Al-Shehhi; <Mohald Alshehri; Hamza; Alghamdi; Fayez
Banihammad; Ahmed Alghamdi


THESE are the 19 faces of the suspects behind the terrorist attacks on America -
pictured in full for the first time.

The photos were released by Attorney General John Ashcroft in the hope somebody
may recognise the men.

He said the move was part of a "national neighbourhood watch" to find some of
the hijackers' true identities.

Mr Ashcroft believes some of them may have used false ID in the US.

FBI chief Robert Mueller said there was evidence at least one of the men had
links with Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda terror network.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK TARGETS: SHORT SHARP SHOCK TACTICS

BYLINE: Tom Newton Dunn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 428 words


COALITION defence chiefs will order short, devastating bursts of force against
the Taliban, a defence source said yesterday.

Planners at the Pentagon and at the Ministry of Defence in London have decided
against a large-scale invasion of Afghanistan.

Instead, precision attacks on specific targets will be used.

Strategists hope to break the Taliban's will to harbour Osama bin Laden and the
al-Qaeda terrorist network he runs.

And the first attacks could be launched within days.

The source said: "We want to send a clear signal to the Taliban regime. We want
to give them some time to recant."

An ultimatum has been issued to Afghan leaders but the deadline was being kept
secret yesterday.

US and British governments have settled on three priorities for the coming
conflict.

Number one is to bring the terror leaders responsible for the American attacks -
primarily Osama bin Laden and his lieutenants - to justice.

Second is to smash al-Qaeda and affiliated terrorist networks in Afghanistan.

The third priority is to deter states from harbouring and cooperating with
terrorists.

The source added: "We are poised and ready to go. It all depends on a
combination of factors, but targeted action could easily come at any time.

"If it is not tomorrow or the next day, it will certainly be sooner rather than
later"

But he warned that coalition strategy could be affected by public opinion in the
United States.

Three weeks after the atrocities, calls for revenge attacks on the perpetrators
have begun to grow.

Defence officials also highlighted the Taliban's role in drugs.

The source said: "More people die in the UK from heroin production in
Afghanistan than died in the World Trade Center attacks.

"That is another good reason to look more closely at the Taliban."

Meanwhile, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon yesterday said 20,000 troops on exercise
in Oman could be sent into combat.

Although Safe Sword II will continue, determined defence chiefs are prepared to
deploy them 1,000 miles north to Afghanistan if necessary.

Mr Hoon added that British casualties in the war with terrorism could not be
ruled out.

Pope John Paul last night arrived back in Italy following his visit to
Kazakhstan and Armenia. Some military strategists believe conflict has been
delayed until he is safely back in the Vatican.

Meanwhile, Pakistani religious leaders were preparing for talks with the Taliban
in Kandahar today.

Pakistan is the only country to still have diplomatic relations with
Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: THE TRUE COST: WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK TARGETS GET ON AIRLINES,
DUBYA TELLS US

BYLINE: Oonagh Blackman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 285 words


PRESIDENT George Bush yesterday appealed to Americans to stand up to the
terrorists and "get on the airlines".

Thousands of jobs have been lost in the airline industry around the world as US
passengers decide not to fly.

Speaking to airline workers at Chicago's O'Hare Airport he said: "We are
returning American airlines back to the American people.

"We are going to make our security stronger and more reliable.

"America understands these have been tense days for the people who work in the
industry.

"But we will not surrender our freedom to travel.

"Our goal is to get the airplanes flying again all across America."

Mr Bush revealed:

NEW laws to put federal government in charge of tightening baggage screening and
safety inspections

NATIONAL guard will be stationed at airports across America to boost security

INCREASES in "highly-skilled, fully equipped" plain-clothes air marshalls to sit
alongside passengers

$ 500MILLION to step up security with grants to airlines to boost cockpit
protection including fortified doors and stronger locks

VIDEO cameras in cockpit to alert pilots to trouble in the main cabins

Mr Bush said some of the new measures can be implemented quickly by the Federal
Aviation Administration, while others will have to be approved by Congress.

One aviation expert said yesterday: "These measures will have to be followed in
the EU and Britain.

"You can't have one part of an international system operating with controls and
not the other."

President Bush also asked US state governors to mobilize National Guard units to
protect airports and introduced steps to throw a federal security blanket over
commercial aviation.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

BOTH'S MUM TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Geoffrey Lakeman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 99 words


CRICKET hero Ian Botham's terrified mother has called in the police after a
third attack by vandals.

Tyres on Marie Botham's car have been slashed in a series of hate attacks over
the last three months.

Mrs Botham, 75, a councillor in Yeovil, Somerset, said: "It seems a vendetta and
I can only think it is something to do with my role as a councillor.

"I don't know their identity but I know they're cowards. It may be someone
doesn't agree with my views as a councillor, but I'm entitled to my opinion."

Two other councillors in the area have suffered similar attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                               September 28, 2001

ATTACKED - FOR A FIVER
 Newsagent terrorised during raid by two baseball bat-wielding robbers

BYLINE: Mike Green

SECTION: NEWS:999:Theft, Pg.1

LENGTH: 395 words


MASKED baseball bat-wielding attackers robbed a shop and left a newsagent
terrified for just GBP 5.

Newsagent John Barley (29), of the Stockshill Road Corner Shop, Ashby, was
forced to lock himself in the store's back room as one of the robbers, disguised
with a black stocking on his head, burst into his store at 7.30pm last night.

Mr Barley, who is engaged and has two children, said: "It was crazy, like
something out of a Hollywood film.  I was in the back room having a coffee.  I
just heard a lot of shouting, something like 'open the f****** till now'.

"We have CCTV, so I could see a person running towards the counter wielding a
baseball bat."

Explaining that he only kept petty cash in the till, he said: "I suppose people
could say 'why didn't you have a go' but it's not worth the risk.  I actually
had far more money in my wallet."

Adding that the whole robbery took less than five minutes, he said: "What I
can't work out is why they didn't take anything else."

There were no customers in the shop at the time and one of Mr Barley's friends
was also in the back.

He said he was unable to get a good look at the two men, but a friend had seen
them running from the shop on foot towards the Queensway, and believed they were
only about 19.

He was very shaken by the incident and said the robbery had definitely forced
him to review security in the shop. He added: "You certainly don't expect to see
this sort of thing in Scunthorpe."

The first man is described as 5ft 10 to 5ft 11in tall, of medium build, wearing
a dark jacket and trousers. The second is of similar height and build, wearing a
blue bomber-style jacket and dark trousers.

Insp Tony Forbes, who is head of the local policing teamd, said: "It is worrying
that we have got people committing crime with baseball bats and stockings on
their heads.

"Regardless of what was stolen, the fact that they were willing to use baseball
bats and threaten people is very intimidating for people in shops - that is the
greatest concern. It is the implication of what they may be willing to do."

Insp Forbes appealed for anyone who saw the incident or knew who carried out the
robbery to come forward. He said the saving grace of the incident was no-one was
injured.

"It is a very serious matter whether GBP 5 was stolen or GBP 500," he added.

mike.green@scunthorpetelegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                               September 28, 2001

Terrorists may be planning attacks on Britain, says Straw
 BA bosses take pay cuts

SECTION: Crime: Terrorism, Pg.2

LENGTH: 871 words


BRITISH Airways executives have agreed to cut their pay by up to 15 per cent in
a move to help the airline through "difficult times" in the aftermath of the
terrorist attacks in the United States.

Their decision comes after the airline announced big cuts in services and a halt
to flights between Heathrow and Belfast in the aftermath of the attacks.

A total of 190 flights will be scrapped or suspended, including 36 to the United
States, leading to a nine per cent reduction in capacity. The move was the
latest blow to the aviation industry, which has seen more than 100,000 jobs axed
and hundreds of planes grounded around the world since September 11.

The executive pay cuts will see chief executive Rod Eddington, who suggested the
move, have his

OSAMA bin Laden, the prime suspect in the American terrorist atrocities, may
well be planning further terror attacks - possibly on Britain, Foreign Secretary
Jack Straw warned today.

Mr Straw said: "There are two reasons why we have to have both a military
coalition and then a broader international consensus in support of that to root
out the terrorism by Osama bin Laden and the al-Qaida organisation and to break
it up and to deal with those states or semi-states who are sponsoring it.

"One is in order to bring those who caused the terrible events of September 11
to justice. The second is to stop them doing it again.

"You can't negotiate with these people. The best historical parallel I'm afraid
to say is those at the top of the Nazi regime. It wasn't possible to negotiate
with Hitler, although some people understandably but naively thought that it
was."

Mr Straw continued: "We have to work on the basis that this organisation is
still there around the world and that there continues to be a risk of them
making further attacks.

"None of us wish to raise anxiety, but we would be complacent and irresponsible
not to warn of the risks."

However, in an apparently contradictory statement, a Downing Street spokesman
today said there was no reason to believe there were any significant British
connections to the US suicide hijackings.

Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman also insisted there was no
evidence of an specific threat against the UK, despite comments by Mr Straw and
his junior minister Peter Hain.

In what seemed a concerted bid to dampen speculation, the spokesman said:
"Speculation about UK connections to the attack on the United States is
exaggerated. At this stage in the investigation, both the US and the UK
authorities have no reason to believe there were significant British connections
to these attacks."

Meanwhile, Pakistan is to receive an extra GBP 11 million from the Government to
ease the deepening humanitarian crisis caused by refugees fleeing neighbouring
Afghanistan.

International Development Secretary Clare Short has set aside the extra money to
support the delivery of public health services, including the supply of drugs,
health equipment, water and sanitation services.

The assistance will focus on the most affected areas - North West Frontier
Province and Balochistan, which are closest to Afghanistan - but will also look
at humanitarian needs countrywide.

It is thought one million Afghans will arrive in Pakistan in the next few weeks
- fleeing from anticipated US-led military attacks and from a food crisis caused
by aid workers forced to leave their country.

Estimates suggest there are already 2.2 million Afghan refugees in Pakistan -
1.3 million in camps and the remainder integrated in the community.

President George Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair have both targeted
Afghanistan's ruling Taliban regime for harbouring Osama bin Laden, prime
suspect in the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington on September 11.

But Mr Blair has also urged the international community to form a "humanitarian
coalition" to help ordinary Afghans caught up in the crisis.

The aid package brings the total amount given to Pakistan by the UK since the
atrocities to GBP 36 million and is in addition to the current GBP 15 million
annual programme for poverty reduction there.

Announcing the assistance, Ms Short said: "Pakistan has hosted refugees for many
years through a period of conflict and, more recently, drought.

"The current crisis is placing new pressures on an already difficult economic
situation.

"The international community must do more to help not only with the immediate
refugee situation but also to ensure that poor and vulnerable communities in
Pakistan are adequately protected."

The additional aid comes as United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan warned
that more than 500 million dollars (GBP 339 million) was needed to save refugees
if the United States attacked Afghanistan. While Mr Blair and Mr Bush sent out
messages urging people to get on with their daily lives, the timing of a
retaliatory attack on Afghanistan and prime suspect Osama bin Laden remained
unclear.

Yesterday Afghan authorities said they had delivered a message to bin Laden
advising him of a decision by the country's clerics recommending that he leave
the country voluntarily.

The recommendation was made on September 20 by a council of clerics, or the
Ulema, during a

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               September 28, 2001

Terror attack fears for son-in-law.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 768 words

DATELINE: West Essex



AN Epping woman has spoken of her sheer horror at seeing live pictures of the
aftermath of the terrorist strike on the Pentagon knowing that her son-in-law, a
U.S army major, was inside the massive complex.

Fortunately, for Penney Northover Smith, her fears were eventually alleviated
five hours later when she learnt that her daughter's husband Ted Wandsworth was
not in the damaged part of America's military headquarters.

Mrs Northover Smith, of Theydon Grove, told the Guardian: "I can't describe my
horror at seeing those pictures live on television. But the wait was even worse,
I couldn't contact my son-in-law or my daughter because the phone lines were
down.

"It was five long hours before we heard from my son-in-law, who called to say he
was safe. I wouldn't wish that time on anyone."

And it was a further two hours before she was able to contact her daughter
Joanna, a nurse working in Virginia, where the couple have lived since marrying
last July.

Joanna had been unable to contact her husband after the Pentagon was hit.

Mrs Northover Smith said: "Joanna was beside herself with relief after hearing
from me, she had been so worried."

However, after being assured about her son-in-law's safety Mrs Northover Smith's
anxiety did not end because one of her stepsons, Geoff Fallows, Joanna's
half-brother, works as a paramedic in New York.

She said: "I wanted to know immediately that Geoff was safe but again I couldn't
phone him. I was so worried I sent them both an email, asking them to email me
as soon as possible to tell me they were safe."

She eventually received emails from both men on the Tuesday night.

Mr Fallows reached the devastation in New York just an hour after the twin
towers collapsed.

He is still helping in the massive recovery operations going on in New York with
his volunteer group, New Jersey Volunteer Paramedics.

Mrs Northover Smith concluded: "I feel very lucky that my family has come out
unscathed from this terrible atrocity but I do feel awfully sorry for the
victims my heart goes out to their families."

Mrs Northover Smith now lives in Epping with her second husband, Ian. Joanna is
her daughter from her first marriage.Looking ahead: Penney and Ian Northover
Smith. And picture inset, Geoff Fallows

s=7(F241-21A)Major Ted Wandsworth with wife Joanna s=7(c)Plus mugs of son-in-law

s=10AN Epping woman has spoken of her "horror" at seeing live pictures of the
aftermath of the terrorist strike on the Pentagon knowing that her son-in-law, a
US army major, was inside the massive complex.o

Fortunately, for Penney Northover Smith, her fears were eventually alleviated
five hours later when she learnt that her daughter's husband Ted Wandsworth was
not in the damaged part of America's military headquarters.

Mrs Northover Smith, of Theydon Grove, told the Guardian: "I can't describe my
horror at seeing those pictures live on television. But the wait was even worse,
I couldn't contact my son-in-law or my daughter because the phone lines were
down.

"It was five long hours before we heard from my son-in-law, who called to say he
was safe. I wouldn't wish that time on anyone."

And it was a further two hours before she was able to contact her daughter
Joanna, a nurse working in Virginia, where the couple have lived since marrying
last July.

Joanna was unable to contact her husband after the Pentagon was hit.

Mrs Northover Smith said: "Joanna was beside herself with relief after hearing
from me, she had been so worried."

However, after being assured about her son-in-law's safety Mrs Northover Smith's
anxiety did not end because one of her stepsons, Geoff Fallows, Joanna's
half-brother, works as a paramedic in New York.

She said: "I wanted to know immediately that Geoff was safe but again I couldn't
phone him. I was so worried I sent them both an email, asking them to email me
as soon as possible to tell me they were safe."

She eventually received emails from both men on the Tuesday night.

Mr Fallows reached the devastation in New York just an hour after the twin
towers collapsed.

He is still helping in the massive recovery operations going on in New York with
his volunteer group, New Jersey Volunteer Paramedics.

Mrs Northover Smith concluded: "I feel very lucky that my family has come out
unscathed from this terrible atrocity but I do feel awfully sorry for the
victims my heart goes out to their families."

Mrs Northover Smith now lives in Epping with her second husband, Ian. Joanna is
her daughter from her first marriage.

September 21, 2001 15:19

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               September 28, 2001

United in mourning - Merton remembers US victims of terrorist attacks.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 398 words

DATELINE: Wimbledon



Community leaders across Merton have united in their condemnation and grief at
the terrorist atrocities in America.

Books of condolence have been opened and prayers said at the boroughs churches,
while on Friday people met to honour the three minute silence to remember the
thousands of people who died in the attack.

Some nuisance telephone calls and threats have been received by members of
Mordens Ahmadiyya Muslim mosque following the destruction of the World Trade
Center, believed to have been carried out by suicidal Muslim extremists led by
Osama bin Laden, but there is collective abhorrence.

A mosque spokesman said: Were absolutely devastated by the events of last
Tuesday. As a community we absolutely abhor terrorist activity. Were a very
peace-loving religion. Suicide in particular is one of the most reviled and
unacceptable crimes in Islam.

Our sympathies go out to the families and everyone who has been affected by
these incidents. Weve had a few phone calls of abuse and threats but you cant
judge all Muslims by Mr Bin Laden, thats not what Muslims believe. He hasnt done
Muslims any favours and I fear Muslims will die because of an incident which has
nothing whatsoever to do with Islam.

Merton Council leader, Councillor Andrew Judge, said September 11, 2001, will be
one of the days that will live in our memories forever.

The world community must now join hands to show that their suffering will lead
to a better world, he said.

Mayor of Merton, Councillor Stuart Pickover, said: While we mourn those who have
died, we must look forward and strive to create a world where everyone can put
their differences aside and live in peace and harmony.

Wimbledon MP Roger Casale has offered to visit schools in the area to discuss
the tragedy.

Fire-fighters at New Malden Fire Station have started a New York Fire-fighters
appeal, which has so far raised GBP 7,000, to help their US counterparts, many
of whom died in the rescue.

Station sub-officer John Blackman said: After the tragic events in New York we
decided we wanted to start an appeal. Present and retired fire-fighters around
the world are really like a brotherhood and we wanted to do something to help
our New York brothers.

To make a donation go into your bank and quote Abbey National

account 00050005, sort code 090000,

reference R15316915FIR or call

020 7587 4557.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 29, 2001

Top cop reassures British Muslims after race attacks;
 Terror in America

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 173 words


METROPOLITAN Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens has moved to reassure the
country's Islamic community following a spate of racist attacks in the aftermath
of the terrorist atrocities.

Sir John met community leaders at London's Central Mosque - and said that an
extra 1,500 police officers would again be on the streets of the capital this
weekend to protect Muslims from antiIslamic attacks.

"This is a very worrying time for Muslims and other communities, " he said.

"There will be an extra 1,500 police officers on the streets to give reassurance
and make sure we can protect the communities that need to be protected."

He had been told of a series of racist incidents ranging from physical attacks
to racist e-mails and insulting words.

"There are concerns about the way people are being harassed.

"Sometimes it's only on a minor scale, but, of course, that's massively
insulting.

"They talked about the need to protect the Mosques and schools in particular and
we're going to be doing all that."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 29, 2001, Saturday

WOMAN CAUGHT UP IN US TERROR ATTACK;
 SHOCK AND DISBELIEF AS HOLIDAY TURNS TO HORROR

BYLINE: Duncan Gibbons TRAGEDY SCENE: The crumpled remains of the World Trade
Centre after the terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 419 words


A RUGBY woman has spoken of the terrifying moment she realised she was caught up
in the terrorist attacks on New York.

Sarah Rush has just returned to the UK after being stranded in the Big Apple for
an extra week following the kamikaze jet strikes on the World Trade Center on
September 11.

She and her boyfriend had been enjoying a shopping and sightseeing holiday in
the city and were staying in a hotel two miles from the disaster scene.

Miss Rush, aged 33, of King Edward Road, said: "We were just waking up when it
happened and it started to come on the TV," she said.

"I looked out the window and saw thick black smoke rising up.

"We went down for breakfast and people were talking about it and shrugging it
off, but then we heard that the towers had fallen down and everyone just started
crying and staring up at the sky.

"We did not realise how bad it was - it did not sink in at first.

"After it all happened it looked like a warzone. People and cars were covered in
bricks and dust and there were police and soldiers everywhere.

"It was like when Princess Di died but 3,000 times worse - just a complete and
utter sense of shock and disbelief."

Miss Rush, manager of the Rugby branch of the Citizens' Advice Bureau, in North
Street, had planned to visit the World Trade Centre the previous day.

"We could easily have been close by when the planes hit.

"I had never really taken much notice of them before but when they were gone
there was this big space in the sky - it was quite chilling. That night the fire
alarm went off in the hotel and everybody was running around in their pyjamas
worried that we were being attacked again."

She said the city that never sleeps was like a ghost town the following day.

"We felt like we didn't belong. We were not American and although we could share
their horror and sadness we just wanted to come home.

"People were filling water bottles up with rubble as souvenirs which was pretty
upsetting, as was the anti-Muslim feeling building up."

She was relieved to come home. "I suppose it was the safest time to fly because
security was on red alert. I didn't really think about the hijackings but I did
give a sigh of relief when the plane landed.

"We came home in debt because our holiday insurance didn't cover terrorism but
money isn't important at the end of the day.

"Things like this make you realise what's important in life, such as being with
your friends and family and respecting one another."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 29, 2001

Super-rich take a beating in wake of terrorist attacks;Bill Gates may have
dropped (pounds) 6bn in a year but is still world's richest man

BYLINE: Vicky Collins

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 760 words


BILL Gates is the richest person in the world for the eighth year running, but,
like many of America's super-rich, his fortune has been hit by the terrorist
attacks on the United States which led to a severe downturn in stock

markets.

A list of the richest Americans released yesterday by Forbes magazine, was
adjusted to recalculate the financial effect of the attacks on September 11 on
50 of the list's most famous names.

It showed that Mr Gates, the co-founder and chairman of software giant
Microsoft, lost 13.3% of his net worth, or (pounds) 4.9bn, in the two weeks
after the attacks.

Mr Gates and the 49 other well-known people on the list collectively lost more
than (pounds) 29bn in the aftermath of the attacks - with some individuals
losing as much as 37% of their fortune.

Bill Baldwin, editor of Forbes, said: "By looking at the impact of recent events
on the working capital of a group of America's top business people and
investors, we thought we could provide one measure of the shock the American
financial system sustained."

The full list of the wealthiest people in America was not recalculated to
establish the effect of the terror attacks, but was based on figures compiled on
August 27.

It showed that Mr Gates had already suffered a reduction in his fortune of
(pounds) 6bn in comparison to last year.

His wealth comes largely from the strength of Microsoft's shares. However, it
was the diversity of his portfolio, which includes significant investments
beyond Microsoft, which kept him in the top spot for the eighth straight year.

At (pounds) 37bn, Mr Gates's holdings were still (pounds) 15bn above those of
the investor Warren Buffett, of Berkshire Hathaway, a holding company which saw
its stock price rise by 14.4% last year.

He moved into second place, replacing Larry Ellison, chief executive of Oracle
and Mr Gates's arch-rival, who dropped to fourth place.

Mr Ellison's net worth dropped by more than half over the last year, from
(pounds) 39bn to (pounds) 14bn, largely as a result of the crash in the
technology sector.

The crash, taken apart from the terrorist attacks, meant that the 15 richest
people in America lost (pounds) 43bn between them.

Paul Allen, Microsoft's other co-founder, was third on the list. Mr Allen sold
millions of Microsoft shares over the last year to finance his wired-world
investment strategy, a portfolio of dozens of internet, media and technology
companies.

Despite breaking out on his own, almost a third of his wealth still stems from
his remaining stake in Microsoft.

The rest of the top 10, except for Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive,
was a family affair, made up of relatives of the late Sam Walton, founder of the
Wal-Mart chain.

Apart from its stranglehold on the American retail sector, the supermarket chain
has acquired 700 stores outside the US and recently entered the British

market, merging with the Asda chain.  The list's average financial heavyweight
is worth (pounds) 1.6bn, down (pounds) 400m from last year.

The line-up includes 236 billionaires, down from 274 last year.

Just to make it into the top 400 took a minimum net worth of (pounds) 407m, down
(pounds) 83m from last year.

The ranking includes fortune-makers spread across the age spectrum, from Daniel
Ziff, the 30-year-old heir who joined his brothers and turned a family
publishing fortune into an even bigger investment portfolio, to Max Fisher, 93,
who reaped his fortune from oil.

There are 46 women on the list. Apart from the two women related to the late Mr
Walton who entered the top ten, Barbara Cox Anthony and Anne Cox Chambers, first
time entrants to the top 15, are the two highest-ranking women.

The two sisters own Cox Enterprises, the American media empire.

AMERICA'S MEGA-WEALTHY

The top ten richest people in America are:

1 Bill Gates

45, co-founder of Microsoft: (pounds) 37 billion

2 Warren Edward Buffett,

71, Berkshire Hathaway

investments: (pounds) 22 billion

3 Paul Gardner Allen,

48, co-founder Microsoft: (pounds) 19 billion

4 Lawrence Joseph Ellison,

57, Oracle chief: (pounds) 14 billion

5= Alice Walton,

52, Wal-Mart: (pounds) 12 billion

5= Helen Walton,

82, Wal-Mart: (pounds) 12 billion

5= Jim Walton,

53, Wal-Mart: (pounds) 12 billion

5= John Walton,

55, Wal-Mart: (pounds) 12 billion

5= Robson Walton,

57, Wal-Mart: (pounds) 12 billion

10 Steven Anthony Ballmer,

45, Microsoft chief executive: (pounds) 10 billion

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LUXURY PAD: Home for the world's richest man, Bill Gates's sprawling
mansion in Medina, Washington State, is set in five acres of grounds. Picture:
Harley Soltes/AP;BILL GATES: Worth (pounds) 37bn.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 29, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERRORISM: ARSON - ATTACK ON RESTAURANT WAS 'RACE INCIDENT'

BYLINE: Chris Gray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 261 words


AN INDIAN restaurant was attacked yesterday, hours before the head of the
Metropolitan Police sought to reassure Muslims that they would be protected from
attacks.

Two petrol bombs were thrown at the Beckash restaurant in Wickford, Essex, just
before 1am, setting the front of the building alight. The five people upstairs
in the restaurant, who were all Muslim, were unhurt and the fire did not spread.

A white man was seen fleeing. Although Essex Police have not officially linked
the arson to the terrorism attacks on America, they are treating it as a
racially motivated attack.

It is the latest in a series of attacks on mosques and Muslims since the
hijacks. The worst left an Afghan taxi driver paralysed after he was beaten up
in London, while in Swin- don an Asian woman was hit on the head with a baseball
bat and in Glasgow a Muslim woman was attacked with a bottle. Several mosques
have received abusive phone calls or have been daubed with graffiti and a petrol
bomb was thrown into a mosque in Manchester.

Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, met Muslim leaders at
the Central Mosque in London yesterday and told them 1,500 extra police would be
patrolling this weekend. One community leader, Ibrahim El Nour, said: "There are
a lot of concerns in the Muslim community about victimisation and harassment,
and it is good that the police are taking these fears so seriously."

The National Union of Teachers warned members yesterday to expect tension in
classrooms and attacks on Muslim teachers by pupils.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 29, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: COALITION - BLUNKETT ATTACKS BERLUSCONI FOR 'OFFENSIVE' COMMENTS
ON ISLAMIC CULTURE

BYLINE: Paul Waugh Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 512 words


DAVID BLUNKETT, the Home Secretary, launched a bitter attack on Silvio
Berlusconi yesterday while the Italian Prime Minister apologised for his comment
that the West was "superior" to Islamic states.

Mr Blunkett said Mr Berlusconi's comments were "offensive" and put at risk the
carefully constructed coalition of nations against terrorism. In remarks that
had the clear approval of Tony Blair, Mr Blunkett said Mr Berlusconi's part in
the alliance had been damaged by his "inappropriate" outburst.

Mr Berlusconi triggered outrage when he said on Wednesday that Western
civilisation was superior to Islamic because it had guaranteed respect for
human, political and religious rights.

"We must be aware of the superiority of our civilisation, a system that has
guaranteed well-being, respect for human rights and, in contrast with Islamic
countries, respect for religious and political rights," he told a Berlin news
conference.

Mr Berlusconi later told Italy's upper house of parliament that his remarks were
taken out of context, and he meant no offence. "An artificial controversy has
blown up based on nothing and fed by irresponsible comments from the
opposition," he said.

Egypt, a key coalition member, warned yesterday that it wanted clarification of
the remarks from the Italians. And Iran attacked Mr Berlusconi as "ignorant" and
"irresponsible".

Mr Blunkett told BBC Radio 4's The World At One programme that Mr Berlusconi's
comments risked fracturing the consensus being built up by the US and Britain.
"Berlusconi's remarks were offensive and offence has been taken. They were
inappropriate and they were culturally inaccurate," he said.

Downing Street insiders privately referred to Mr Berlusconi as a "moron" after
his remarks, but Mr Blunkett is the first British minister to go on record
attacking the Italian leader.

Downing Street moved yesterday to dampen speculation that terrorists were
planning attacks in Britain and distanced itself from warnings by the Foreign
Office.

Tony Blair's official spokesman seemed to contradict warnings by Foreign Office
ministers that Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect for the attacks on America,
might be preparing more terrorist acts, and on Britain in particular. Mr Blair's
aides feared that comments by Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, and Peter Hain,
the Europe minister, could undermine Mr Blair's call for people to carry on with
their normal lives and prevent the threat of terrorism harming the economy.

Mr Hain said: "We are in a very dangerous situation ... I understand that he (Mr
bin Laden) is preparing already for high-impact terrorist attacks in the coming
weeks, if he's able to ... We would be irresponsible not to warn of the risks."

However, Mr Blair's spokesman insisted: "We have no evidence of a specific
threat to this country. That is not lightly said. We have evidence of a threat
internationally."

Mr Blunkett also denied that Mr Straw and Mr Hain had "talked up" the threat to
Britain while insisting that such a threat was not imminent.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 29, 2001

100m tourism shock;
 NNew York terrorist attacks set to keep American visitors away from West

BYLINE: Flavia Munn

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 411 words


THE South-west is set to lose 100 million a year in tourism revenue as overseas
visitors stay away in the aftermath of the American terrorist attacks.

And the aftershocks of the tragedy are expected to be far worse than the legacy
of the foot-and-mouth epidemic.

Bath, Bristol, Wiltshire and the Cotswolds are likely to be the hardest hit
because of their popularity with American holidaymakers.

Tourism chiefs are urging the Government to help attract people from the United
States back to the West Country.

And they have sent out a warning to the tourist industry not to give up on the
300,000 American visitors who come to the West each year.

Industry bosses from across the South West met yesterday in Bristol to assess
the effect the catastrophe has had on the region and come up with an action
plan.

Chief Executive of South West Tourism, Malcolm Bell, said that although the
foot-and-mouth crisis had cost the area 300 million, the reverberations of the
American tragedy could last far longer.

"I think this has put foot-andmouth in perspective. We can get over foot-and
-mouth - that's yesterday's news, " he said.

"If we don't have another outbreak we can get the business back next year. But
the difficulty is the overseas market and that's being added to by the incidents
in America."

Business in Bath - a favourite for American visitors - is already 15 per cent
down because of foot-andmouth disease and the Roman city is expected to be
further affected by recent events.

Mr Bell said: "One third of tourists in Bath are from overseas and a third of
those are American and the same would apply with good quality hotels around the
Cotswolds."

The tragedy has also dealt a further blow to a countryside which is struggling
to get over foot-and-mouth disease.

The rural areas of Wiltshire and the Cotswolds which attract Americans for their
beautiful British landscape are expected to suffer particularly badly.

And the current picture shows it is the middle-aged overseas travellers who are
staying away.

"The feeling at the moment is the younger, fearless, long-haul visitors will not
be deterred and the senior ones are not likely to be put off. It might be that
they went through the war and are not going to be put off by this, "Mr Bell
said.

But while some areas are suffering, Devon and Cornwall have seen an increase in
visitors from the South East of England who are looking for a break.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                               September 30, 2001

Germans gambled on BA share plunge;
REVEALED: Lufthansa struck mystery deals before US terror attacks

BYLINE: Russell Hotten;Matthew Fletcher

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 514 words


GERMAN airline Lufthansa has been unmasked as the speculator behind a bizarre
attempt to make money by gambling that the share price of British Airways would
fall.

City analysts are astonished that an airline had dared to use shareholders'
money on what was a highrisk gamble on a competitor's shares. 'I don't think
I've ever come across this sort of thing before,' said one stockbroker.

Lufthansa has done nothing illegal.

But the news will not endear it to BA, where a source said: 'We were amazed.'
Two weeks ago, market regulators in London began investigating a series of
suspicious share trades in airlines just before the US attacks.

There was speculation that in the days before September 11, terrorist groups
engaged in sophisticated share trading. This involved 'short-selling' airline
shares selling the stock, waiting for the price to drop, then buying it back and
pocketing the difference.

The Financial Services Authority investigated a large trade in BA involving put
options share options giving the right to sell at a fixed price. In effect, this
was a bet that BA shares would fall.

The FSA found no evidence of terrorist involvement and said the deals were not
linked to the attacks.

It said: 'A sizeable put option in the shares of a British airline turned out to
have been on behalf of another airline, as part of an overall hedging strategy.'
Lufthansa this weekend denied the company was involved. But share traders have
confirmed the German operator's connection.

A stockbroker said: 'Speculating like this is an odd way for a company to use
shareholder funds.' It is also surprising that Lufthansa and its advisers
speculated at a time when the industry was already facing recession.

The head of one of Europe's most successful airlines told Financial Mail: 'I
don't know why one airline would be punting on a rival's shares.

It's hard enough just to run an airline-without doing this fancy stuff.'

BA shares, which closed at 264p the night before the attacks, ended on Friday at
180p after a strong rally because of the announcement of a big cost-cutting
programme.

The European Commission is weighing up a multibillion pound bailout of Europe's
airlines in the wake of the attacks. Brussels' aim is to stop member governments
using the outrage as an excuse to prop up their ailing flag carriers.

The plan looks set to be put to a meeting of EU transport ministers in
Luxembourg on October 16.

Concerns are growing that European governments with big stakes in their national
carriers including Italy's Alitalia, Portugal's TAP, Greece's Olympic Airlines
and Ireland's Aer Lingus will demand the EC's blessing so that they can inject
fresh cash into their airlines.

Belgium recently won EC support for a cash lifeline for national carrier Sabena.
Irish Transport Minister Mary O'Rourke is to meet Isabel Durant, head of the
Council of EU Transport Ministers, to sound out the likely response to a demand
for financial support from Brussels.

Additional reporting: Dan Atkinson and Andrew Leach

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 30, 2001

US and Britain to strike terror camps 'in 48 hours': Attacks limited to targets
found by special forces

BYLINE: by Ed Vulliamy Washington Jason Burke Peshawar Peter Beaumont and Paul
Beaver

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1066 words


DEVASTATING attacks on bases controlled by Osama bin Laden are set to be
launched in the next 48 hours as part of a tightly focused military operation
approved by US President George Bush and backed by Britain.

The strategy, which is a victory for pragmatists in both Britain and America, is
designed to kill bin Laden and his forces, and will be launched in tandem with
strikes against air and ground forces of the Taliban regime supporting him.

The operation, which British and US sources say could be launched as early as
today, would begin with air and missile strikes to destroy the Taliban's
20-aircraft air force, remove anti-aircraft missile batteries, and destroy
Taliban tanks and other armour.

In a clear sign that strikes were imminent, Bush declared last night, after a
meeting with military advisers at Camp David: 'America will act deliberately and
decisively, and the cause of freedom will prevail.'

In a live radio address, he added: 'We did not seek this conflict, but we will
end it. This war will be fought wherever terrorists hide, or run, or plan. Other
victories will be clear to all.'

The aim of the first phase, likely to be launched from aircraft with US and
British ships in the Arabian Sea, would be to remove any threat from the Taliban
for the substantial incursion that would follow.

Sources say this would be in the form of a so-called desant operation - an
airborne assault deep into Taliban-held territory - led by helicopter-carried
troops of the US 82nd Airborne Division. Sources said that the 101st Air Assault
Division has also been ordered to be ready for action.

Also fully mobilised was the 10th Mountain Division, which would be the main
ground force in what Bush called an upcoming 'guerrilla war' fought by US and
British forces. Although soldiers of the 82nd Airborne Division are trained for
low-level parachute jumps, any assault is likely be made by first abseiling down
fixed lines from helicopters.

American forces would be supported by US Special Forces - including US Army
Rangers and Green Berets, and by British Special Forces. British units
understood to have been earmarked include mountain warfare cadres of G-troop, 22
SAS Regiment; the Special Boat Service's Mountain Troop - which is trained for
cliff assault and Arctic warfare - and the Mountain Leaders' section of 4/5
Royal Marine Commando. All are trained and equipped to operate in mountainous
terrain for periods of up to a fortnight without being resupplied.

The US troops are equipped with a specialised version of the Black Hawk attack
helicopter and long range MH-47 Chinooks armed with rotary cannon. They would
also be able to call on support from AC-130 aircraft - nicknamed Puff the Magic
Dragon - which can give ground support with an artillery cannon in its belly.

Initial targets earmarked for the air assault and desant operation include bases
controlled by the al-Qaeda around Kabul, in particular those with usable air
strips.

Crucial evidence that links bin Laden to the terrorist attacks on New York and
Washington nearly three weeks ago has been obtained by The Observer . A secret
intelligence dossier compiled by an Arab state with a longstanding interest in
bin Laden last night revealed that at least one of the 19 hijackers was trained
in a camp in Afghanistan run by al-Qaeda and that another is 'close to bin
Laden'.

American security sources told The Observer they believe four of the hijackers
had spent time in Afghanistan with the Taliban and possibly with al-Qaeda. One,
Wali Mohamed al-Sherhi, is believed to have been taught urban warfare and
terrorism in al-Farooq training camp in eastern Afghanistan, close to the
Pakistan border.

He is thought to have left Afghanistan 18 months ago. The dossier, for the first
time, definitely links al-Farooq to bin Laden, naming four men who are bin Laden
aides who it says administer and train those at the camp.

Back in Washington, the tight focus of the planned military operation is a
victory for the pragmatists in Bush's cabinet, notably Secretary of State Colin
Powell. Powell has been involved in a battle of wills with hawks gathered around
the figure of Deputy Defence Secretary Paul Wolfowitz, who would like to see US
strikes against a wide range of targets, including Iraq.

It also follows words of caution from America's key ally, Britain. Tony Blair
has advised that the only target of military action should be bin Laden's
network and, if necessary, the Taliban.

The location of the bases was revealed yesterday by Russian intelligence, which
has provided the Pentagon with the most detailed intelligence so far on the
network of bin Laden camps.

The news came as British sources claimed that the Taliban was set to flood the
west with heroin in an attempt to destabilise its enemies.

US Special Forces were last night already active in Afghanistan, almost cer
tainly involved in scouting and preparing a secure forward airbase in territory
held by the opposition Northern Alliance.

There were claims from Afghanistan yesterday that a team of five US commandos
has been captured by al-Qaeda. The Qatar-based al-Jezeera television station
said al-Qaeda claimed to have captured a unit 'armed with modern weapons and
maps of al-Qaeda's bases' in the south-western Helmand province.

The Taliban and the Pentagon denied the report. US officials, however, confirmed
on Friday that special forces units - possibly from the US Green Berets or the
elite Rangers regiment - had been deployed in Afghanistan on reconnaissance
missions.

They hinted that soldiers from the British SAS were also involved. The special
forces had been deployed 'in the last few days', the sources told US reporters,
and were there to gather information on Taliban positions and strengths, not to
search for bin Laden.

Sources in Washington said that with British and American reconnaissance and
Special Operations teams already working on the ground to locate targets with
laser-guidance and sensor systems, US forces were ready to 'go into the first
breach' in territory controlled by al-Qaeda.

Planning groups at the Pentagon will now increase pressure on the White House to
expand the action to attack locations in Iraq, Syria and Lebanon, with the
elimination of Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein as 'a precondition' to defeating
terrorism.


LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Life

                               September 30, 2001

Adams in attack on terrorism

LENGTH: 216 words


THE US terror attacks have set back the cause of other struggles around the
world, Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams said yesterday.

Mr Adams told his party's annual conference, in Dublin, that the attacks on the
World Trade Centre in New York, on Washington and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania were
inexcusable, and he called on those behind them to be brought to justice.

He also declared: "Terrorism is ethically indefensible.

"Those responsible for the atrocities in the United States must be brought to
justice.

"What happened in New York and Washington and Pennsylvania was, as the UN Human
Rights Commissioner and former Irish President, Mary Robinson, said a crime
against humanity.

"Progressive struggles throughout the world have been set back by the attacks in
the USA.

"There is no excuse, no justification for those type of actions, but neither
should anyone, who is truly concerned with world peace, be deflected from the
task, or be carried away, by the notion of a clash between civilisations.

"The real challenges is for dialogue, not retribution. That is the lesson of the
peace process on this island."

In a presidential address, he reaffirmed his commitment to achieving a day, when
all armed groups in Ireland, including the IRA, ceased to exist.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                               September 30, 2001

LONDON RESTAURANTS AND HOTELS ARE BEARING THE BRUNT OF A DOWNTURN IN SPENDING IN
THE WAKE OF THE US TERRORIST ATTACKS AND A WEAKENING ECONOMY.

BYLINE: Matthew Goodman;

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 264 words


London restaurants and hotels are bearing the brunt of a downturn in spending in
the wake of the US terrorist attacks and a weakening economy.

Vincent McGrath, head of sales at Che, an upmarket London restaurant, says the
fears "have had an impact on business" and that the restaurant has been
noticeably "quieter" in the evenings. It is a similar tale at Six13, a
kosher-fusion restaurant in the West End where Kenny Afin, a director, says
business has slowed.

Chez Gerard, the restaurant group, reported last week that the outlook was
"uncertain" and has frozen expansion until the picture is clearer.

Hotel companies have been hit by recent events, with occupancy levels down at
many London hotels. Hilton, for example, has seen occupancy at its 15 London
properties fall more than 15%, though there is wide variation among the
different sites. In the provinces, there has been little drop-off in occupancy
levels.

David Michels, the chief executive, says: "Of course we have seen an impact. The
question is how long will it last. Who knows? We are going to cut down on our
marketing in the US and put more into our marketing budget for UK weekend breaks
and German weekend breaks."

Other parts of the leisure industry, such as health clubs and discotheques, seem
relatively unaffected by the gloom. Nightclubs report that there has not been
any particular change in trading since the terrorist attacks.

Fred Turoc, chief executive of LA Fitness, the gym chain, says: "We have not
seen any impact of a downturn in consumer confidence."

Matthew Goodman


LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Sunday Business Group

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                               September 30, 2001

DIPLOMATS FROM THE 15 EUROPEAN UNION NATIONS WILL MEET IN BRUSSELS TOMORROW TO
DISCUSS WHETHER - AND HOW - TO FREEZE THE ASSETS OF THOSE SUSPECTED OF BEING
INVOLVED IN THE TERRORIST ATTACKS IN AMERICA.

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 137 words


Diplomats from the 15 European Union nations will meet in Brussels tomorrow to
discuss whether - and how - to freeze the assets of those suspected of being
involved in the terrorist attacks in America.

The United States government has named 27 individuals and organisations whose
assets they want frozen. Earlier this year, the EU passed laws freezing assets
of those named in a UN order of sanctions against the Taliban. But only five of
those cited by the US feature are on that list. The EU must now assess whether
to take action against the other 22.

Under the EU treaty, either the council of governments or an individual nation
acting unilaterally, can "for serious political reasons and on grounds of
urgency" take unilateral measures against a third country to freeze capital
movements and payments.


LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Sunday Business Group

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 30, 2001, Sunday

DON'T PANIC!  Do you feel twitchy about possible terrorist attacks? Do you
wonder how you would deal with the aftermath of a bio-chemical strike? David
Thomas presents a family-friendly guide to surviving Armageddon

BYLINE: By David Thomas

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 2554 words

Girls will be girls, even at times of impending global disaster. As we struggled
into our gas masks, the complaints began. "Why do I have to wear one of these?"
asked Lucy, aged 12.

"Because we're the next target, silly," explained her 13-year-old sister, Holly.

Holly's air of calm superiority was short-lived, though. "Ugh, the rubber is
horrible," she gasped, pulling the gruesome-looking implement over her face.
"I'd rather die of gas than have to put one of these on."

A 13-year-old, of course, would always rather expire than look unfashionable.
And Holly was no exception. "Can we flip for the cool mask?" she said, casting
envious looks at Lucy.

"It's just a gas mask, Holly," came the muffled retort.

"I know, but yours is so much cooler. It's got a really great nose."

Lucy took off her mask in disgust. "Why can't we just be a normal family?"

Because we're preparing for Armageddon, sweetheart, that's why.

I've always been a sucker for apocalyptic fantasies. As a boy, growing up in the
shadow of the Bomb, I used to imagine that our cosy suburban house was a
fortress under siege. I'd daydream about where I'd put up my machine-gun posts,
or how long we could survive on the cans of food in the larder.

Now that I'm a grown-up, nothing much has changed. I've long had a sneaking
admiration for all those crazy American survivalists, sitting up in the
mountains of Montana, with their guns, their solar power and their conspiracy
theories. As the bumper-sticker says, "Just because you're paranoid doesn't mean
they're not out to get you."

And now they really are.

I knew it wasn't just tabloid scaremongering when I read in the authoritative
Newsweek magazine that President Bush had last week told a gathering of American
clergymen at the White House: "Another crisis could hit us more terrible than
this one - biological, chemical or plutonium. I don't have direct evidence. But
I have enough evidence." In effect, the born-again Christian George Dubya was
letting the nation's religious leaders know that the end of the world really is
nigh.

No wonder I've been walking around the vegetable garden, assessing our supplies
in case we have to hunker down for the long haul. We grow several different
herbs, as well as lettuce, rocket, spinach, asparagus, courgettes, peas, French
and runner beans, cabbage, sprouts, purple-sprouting broccoli, potatoes and
corn. There are raspberries, strawberries and wild blackberries, as well as
apple, plum, cherry and fig trees, and a plentiful supply of hazelnuts.

According to the invaluable SAS Survival Handbook, the dandelions, stinging
nettles and dog roses that I usually spend hours clearing away will all provide
vitamin-rich food, as will the bark of our maple tree. And all the slugs and
snails that plague my herbaceous borders are a rich source of protein for humans
and chickens alike. So, indeed, are worms.

Indoors, the larder is pretty well stocked, thanks to my wife Clare's admirable
fruit-preservation policy. We may get thoroughly sick of home-made plum jam, but
we won't starve for a while. We've got tins of tomatoes, tuna, assorted beans,
olives, anchovies and soup. We've got pasta, flour, lentils and rice. And there
are freezers filled with ready-made curries that will have to be eaten in a
hurry the moment the power grid blows.

At times like these, the old maxim about property - location, location, location
- is truer than ever before. The good news is, we're no longer living in
south-west London, which would be uncomfortably close to any likely terrorist
target. The bad news is we're only 65 miles away, in West Sussex, rather than
the place I really want to be: the Scilly Isles.

You may, by now, be feeling that this is a little over the top. But I'm not
alone in my neuroses. Gas masks are selling out everywhere. People have even
been going into Army surplus stores asking for masks for their dogs.

I can save them the bother. It is extremely hard to get a gas mask on a dog - it
certainly was on Rowdy, our seven-year-old black Labrador. He let Clare slip it
over his head for about 30 seconds. Then he wagged his tail in lunatic fashion,
thrashed around in a desperate attempt to shake it off, succeeded, and emerged
with a mad gleam and a foam-flecked mouth.

And you can forget about saving the nation's toddlers, too. Our lad Fred, three,
rejected all attempts to make him put on what we tried to call his "funny
elephant face". He compromised by agreeing to wear a toy plastic badger mask,
acquired at a recent birthday party. But somehow I don't think that would have
the same protective effect.

Or maybe it would. Because gas masks may be even more useless than all those
experts - who say it's pointless using a mask if you don't also have a full gas,
germ and nuke-proof body-suit - are claiming in the papers.

In the experience of the Thomas family, there are only two ways of wearing a gas
mask: either you can have it really tight on your face, in which case it does
indeed keep gas out - including oxygen, so you immediately start asphyxiating -
or you can wear it loose enough to breathe. In which case, it's as useful as
Fred's badger, protection-wise.

Apart from that, the eyes steam up within about 30 seconds, leaving you totally
blind. You'd better hope that when the first gas attack hits town there aren't
any open manholes, cellar doors or cable-laying roadworks. Because if there are,
believe me, we'll all be falling in them.

More bad news on the bio-warfare front: there's no point in vaccination. There
is, in theory, a jab against anthrax. It's made by the Centre for Applied
Microbiology and Research and is used by British service personnel, among
others. But it requires four separate injections, over an eight-month period,
and it has proved hugely controversial, with many health experts arguing that
its side effects may include Gulf War syndrome. And, anyway, private citizens
can't buy it.

No wonder, then, that official Government advice on how to cope with catastrophe
remains what it has always been since the Cold War: "Stay indoors, shut all
doors and windows, turn on your radio and await any further information."

Does that reassure you? Me neither. But there is good news on the way. I told
Bob Mousley, my friendly neighbourhood architect, who had previously only been
required to design and build us a new kitchen: "I need a bomb shelter, pronto."

Could Bob fix it? Yes, he could! "It wouldn't be difficult at all," he declared,
with breezy confidence. And then he came up with a stroke of genius: "Just dig a
hole. Drive your car into the hole and cover it up with the earth you dug out of
the hole. It's effectively the same thing as an Anderson shelter. Given half a
day's work, you could probably have an effective shelter and a weird and
wonderful habitation. If you buried a coach, you could make a community centre."

The flaw in Bob's plan is that it only really works for two-car families: should
you ever have to make a speedy getaway, you can hardly have all your wheels
buried under two feet of topsoil. Other than that, though, it's brilliant.

And there's more good news: People have been going on about imminent chemical
and biological attacks for ages. Before the Gulf War, Saddam Hussein was said to
be preparing an horrific assault, which is why all those soldiers got anthrax
jabs in the first place. Aum Shinrikyo, the Japanese terrorist group that
nerve-gassed the Tokyo subway with surprisingly uncatastrophic results, has
spent fortunes trying to buy a bio-bomb.

However, in the words of Marie Isabelle Chevrier, of the University of Texas,
"The empirical evidence regarding terrorist attempts to acquire and use
biological warfare is marked by striking evidence of few attempts at mass
destruction and overwhelming failure."

In other words, this stuff is incredibly hard to make, and even harder to
deliver where you want it. Still, you can't be too careful. If I'm to keep my
family safe and self-sufficient, it's not just a matter of sitting in our
underground car-shelter - I'll need to think about food, water, power and heat,
not to mention self defence.

And, frankly, I'm not particularly well qualified for the task.

On the home page of the Rocky Mountain Survival Group (www.artrans.com), an
organisation which provides detailed advice on every conceivable aspect of
self-preservation, there is a quote from the science fiction author Robert A.
Heinlein. "A human being should be able to change a diaper, plan an invasion,
butcher a hog, handle a boat, design a building, write a sonnet, balance
accounts, build a wall, set a bone, comfort the dying, take orders, give orders,
co-operate, act alone, solve equations, analyse a new problem, pitch manure,
program a computer, cook a tasty meal, fight efficiently, die gallantly.
Specialisation is for insects."

I can manage about a dozen of those. Unfortunately, the talents that are beyond
my grasp include hog-butchering, wall-building, bone-setting and computer
programming. Which is to say, virtually everything that is of specific,
practical use. Somehow, I don't think that sonnet-writing is going to be a
priority.

So I'm going to need help. And the funny thing is, when you telephone people in
authority and ask them to help you create a Good Life-style eco-family, just in
case the Apocalypse is round the corner, they don't hang up, or pass you on to
endless automated answering systems. No, the very same bureaucrats who normally
spend their days dreaming up new ways to frustrate the tax-paying public went
out of their way to provide ever-more bizarre solutions to my increasingly
improbable hypothetical difficulties.

I think it must be part of being British. We just love having long, involved
conversations about the worst disasters that could possibly befall us.

Thanks to that national trait, I now know that I am allowed by law to extract
200 cubic metres of water per day from my land, absolutely free. And a nice man
from the local water company (to whom I have hitherto paid money) went to
considerable trouble to explain why my local geology would make this a doddle.
My water table is so high, down here on the Sussex coastal plain, that I can
start digging anywhere in my garden and be sure of creating my very own well.
The water would, admittedly, be full of pollutants and bugs, whose potential for
causing organ-damage, cholera and dysentery was described in long and lavish
detail, but you really don't want to know about that. Not on a Sunday morning.

I'd far rather describe the joys of the Biolet. This is a lavatory suspended
above three buckets that rotate like the discs on a multi-CD changer, and it
will enable my family to go about their daily business without using any water,
power or chemicals. And each of those buckets will, given time and oxygen, then
produce dry, sweet-smelling compost that can go straight on to my vegetable
patch.

"It's the best thing since sliced bread," said George Mansfield, who imported
the first Biolet from Sweden some 20-odd years ago. I presume he was talking
about the strength of the concept, rather than the taste of the finished
product.

Speaking of bread, there is no point trying to buy Oxfam-style sacks of
emergency flour, to sustain the family in the event of post-disaster famine.
When I tried to stock up with 25-kilo bags of sugar and flour at my local cash
and carry, I was told in no uncertain terms that it didn't matter how much cash
I had, they wouldn't let me carry anything away.

The chap behind the counter insisted, "We need proof of business, plus a record
of anything you've purchased in the past, plus something that links you with
your business: solicitor's letters, perhaps. We believe in promoting and
supporting local retailers and we don't want to take business off our customers
by letting Joe Public in."

That, truly, is the helpful approach to service that has made the British retail
experience the envy of the world. But who cares about these dog-in-the-manger
meanies? I've got a better alternative. According to David Bland, who is both
one of the country's leading poultry experts and a supplier of pedigree birds to
the Thomas family, chicken feed is not only far cheaper than flour, it also
makes an excellent basic diet for human beings: "It is basically cereals with
roughage - a good, strong, high-protein diet."

And that's not all. "We ate cow-cakes during the War, when I was a kid," says
Bland. "They never did us any harm - they were a nice, balanced ration."

With a dozen chickens, a couple of pigs and the odd goat, a family could live
perfectly well for months on end. "As long as there's a few country folk left,
we'll be all right," says Bland, with a contented rural burr.

Sadly, I don't feel we are truly "country folk". If we were, I would already
have a gun with which I could shoot for the pot or ward off marauding looters
(true country folk have always taken a robust view about the rights of
landowners to defend their property). Were I American I could by now have bid
for the mint-condition Uzi machine gun, complete with 42 bullet-packed
magazines, currently up for auction on one US website. British law is rather
more lily-livered.

When I approached a couple of smart Mayfair gunmakers, with a view to acquiring
a pair of 12-bores, they confirmed that the process of getting a British gun
licence takes many months, thanks to the political parties' hysteria following
the Dunblane killings. So the only people who have guns are baddies. "If you
want a gun quickly," said one salesman, in perfectly plummy tones, "your best
bet is Brixton market."

My lack of firepower aside, I'm almost looking forward to the collapse of
Civilisation As We Know It. I've even started to develop a new, more manly,
mechanical side to my nature. I scour the internet for diagrams of home-made
wind turbines and bicycle-powered generators. Apparently, if you attach your
bicycle to a mini-generator and start pedalling, a good, hard workout should be
enough to power a hand-held food-mixer or even an electric drill.

Admittedly, the girls are having a hard time seeing the appeal of a world
without Friends, Britney Spears or easily-available haircare products. But the
more I check the levels in our calor-gas and heating-oil tanks, or size up
surplus trees for their firewood potential, the more I feel like telling the
terrorists to come and get it if they think they're hard enough.

Perhaps I'm overdoing it. Maybe President Bush is wrong and society will never
have to confront biochemical weapons of mass destruction, wielded by homicidal
fanatics. John Gisby, at West Sussex Emergency Planning Unit, assured me there
was no need to worry. "The Government's risk-assessment is that the likelihood
of biological, chemical or nuclear terrorist attack is still very low," he told
me without a tremor in his voice. "They have stated that there is no such
specific threat to the UK at this time."

However, as New York recently discovered, the whole point about a terrorist
attack is that it comes as a total surprise. So I think I'll get in a biolet and
stock up on some chicken feed, just to be on the safe side. And you see that
hump in the lawn? Well, that'll be our Volkswagen Passat estate. Or bomb
shelter, as it now is.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 30, 2001, Sunday

Families flee capital for fear of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: BY ANDREW ALDERSON AND DANIEL FOGGO

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 544 words

AN EXODUS of families from London has begun because of fears that the capital is
a prime target for a terrorist attack.

Many are leaving for the countryside or making plans to switch their children to
the perceived safety of rural schools.

Some people with second homes are moving to them on a permanent basis, while
others aim to relocate to the country once they sell their city properties. Many
more are preparing to move out of London in the event of a significant terrorist
attack.

Britons living in America are also returning and heading for rural areas. One
British family, who fled their home near New York city after the terrorist
attacks, initially considered living in London but thought that too dangerous
and instead moved to Cornwall last week. The couple's sons, aged seven and nine,
have started at a new school in Truro.

The couple, who asked not to be identified, stand to lose pounds 30,000 in
relocation costs, but said the peace of mind from knowing they were safe made it
worthwhile.

They decided to return to Britain even though the husband runs a consultancy
firm employing 32 people and they had planned to live in America for at least
two years. They are now staying in their two-bedroom holiday home.

"We were terrified by the whole thing," said the 33-year-old man. "As soon as
the politicians started talking about further attacks - possibly chemical or
biological - we decided to come home."

Russell Hollins, the headmaster of Treliske private school in Truro, which the
two sons now attend, said that there had been a build-up of interest in the past
fortnight from parents wanting day and boarding places for their children. "I
have had at least half a dozens calls from people in the London area looking for
places at the school," he said. "Many have holiday homes in the area and are
planning to live in them."

St Minver primary school, near Rock, north Cornwall, has had two inquiries in 10
days from London couples planning to move to the area.

"I can understand why people should want to relocate if they have the means to
do so," said the headmaster, Nick Lane. "There are parallels with Afghanistan,
where the population is also moving to the countryside because of the
possibility of war."

Alex Roads, a partner with John Bray estate agents in Rock, said some clients
with second homes had decided not to rent them out as usual. "They are going to
be using them a lot more themselves," he said. "The whole perspective of how we
choose to live will change if there is a long, gruelling terrorist campaign.
There could be a complete flight to the countryside. There is definitely an
anti-urban feeling."

Mr Roads believes that house prices in country areas could rise and those in
urban areas, particularly London, could fall.

Jonathan Leigh, the headmaster of the independent Blundell's School in Tiverton,
Devon, has placed an advertisement in a London school circular in an attempt to
attract families worried in the aftermath of the New York suicide attacks.

His advert, in the magazine Bulletin Board, which is distributed to independent
nurseries and schools in south London, describes Devon as a "safe environment",
while the capital is branded "dangerous".
[PS]News: [ES]

THE WEST AT WAR:

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                           September 30, 2001, Sunday

ADAMS - US TERROR ATTACKS A SETBACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 225 words


THE United States terror attacks have set back the cause of other struggles
around the world, Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams said yesterday.

Mr Adams told his party's annual conference in Dublin the attacks on the World
Trade Centre in New Y ork, on Washington and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania were
inexcusable and he called on those behind them to be brought to justice.

He also declared: "Terrorism is ethically indefensible. Those responsible for
the atrocities in the United States must be brought to justice.

"What happened in New York and Washington and Pennsylvania was, as the UN Human
Rights Commissioner and former Irish President Mary Robinson said a crime
against humanity.

"Progressive struggles throughout the world have been set back by the attacks in
the USA.

"There is no excuse, no justification for those type of actions but neither
should anyone who is truly concerned with world peace be deflected from the task
or be carried away by the notion of a clash between civilisations.

"The real challenges is for dialogue, not retribution. That is the lesson of the
peace process on this island."

In a presidential address reaffirming his commitment to achieving a day when all
armed groups in Ireland, including the IRA, ceased to exist, the West Belfast MP
acknowledged the peace process w as in a "mess".

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                      $%Investment Adviser adviser adviser

                           October 1, 2001 2001 2001

Markets were languishing before the terrorist attacks in America america america

SECTION: ISSN. 1361-1593 1593 1593

LENGTH: 587 words words words


Most of the funds in the North America sector heavily invest in the US and will
continue to be affected by the stock market sentiment.

According to the latest data from the Conference Board, a business research
network established in 1916, concerns over rising unemployment and weakening
business conditions have fuelled the biggest one-month drop in US consumer
confidence since the 1990-91 recession.

The Conference Boards Consumer Confidence Index, which had declined in August,
plummeted in September. It slid to 97.6 from 114.0 in August.  august.  august.

Furthermore, the Conference Board emphasised expectations for the next six
months were even more pessimistic. In a statement it said: "The percentage of
consumers anticipating business conditions to worsen increased from 10.7
percentto 15.0 percent. Those expecting fewer jobs increased from 17.7 percent
to 21.9 percent. Consumer income prospects were also less optimistic. Today,
only 21.1 percent expect an increase in their families income, down from 23.2
percent in August."

The research body also warned that consumer spending may no longer prevent the
US economys slide to a recession.

So, it seems the North America sector could experience a bumpy ride in the
coming months both in sales and in terms of performance.

In fact, even before the terrorist attacks of 11 September, markets across the
world were languishing. The latest statistics from Autif, which were published
at the end of last month, showed fund inflows fell by 22 per cent as total
industry sales slowed to (GBP) 3.6bn in August.

But how did the reversal of fortune seen last year since the peak of Nasdaq on
10 March 2000 affect the sector?

It achieved gross retail sales of (GBP) 6.14bn between July 1998 and June 2001.
Intermediaries were the predominant retail sales channel over the three-year
period, with a 77 per cent market share worth (GBP) 4.7bn.

The remainder of the retail market was split between sales forces and tied
agents who accounted for 9.2 per cent of the sales (GBP563m), direct sales (7.1
per cent) and private client managers who registered sales worth (GBP) 400m.

Intermediaries also dominated retail sales over the 12 months to August, with an
80 per cent market share.

The highest volume of sales by intermediaries over the same period was
registered in November last year, worth (GBP) 301m.

Total sales during this period amounted to (GBP) 3.1bn, representing about half
of the three-year sales. Total repurchases were (GBP) 3.2bn below retail sales
over the three years to June while they amounted to (GBP) 1.5bn between
September 2000 and August 2001.

The Autif figures also show that, as with retail sales, most repurchases were
made through intermediaries. The amount of repurchases handled by IFAs was
GBP1.3bn over 12 months, compared with (GBP) 2.2bn over three years, accounting
for 75 per cent of the total. Private client managers share for repurchases was
6.3 per cent over three years, compared with 7.1 per cent registered by tied
agents and sales forces.

Total retail sales were at their lowest point (GBP134m) in the third quarter of
1998, but rapidly picked up to reach a peak at (GBP) 896.4m in the last quarter
of 2000, despite the market decline which was exacerbated by the de-rating of
technology related sectors, including internet, semiconductors and telecoms.

Overall sales in the North America sector mirrored the volatility in underlying
security of funds.

Ayse Ferliel is Investment Advisers fund analyst analyst analyst

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 2001 2001

LANGUAGE: English english english

            Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited limited
                                    limited

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Banker

                                October 1, 2001

Globalisation - Globalisation Is Not A Win-win Equation - After The Terrorist
Attacks On The US And The Subsequent Postponement Of The IMF's Annual Meeting In
Washington, Anti-globalisation Campaigners Have Suspended Their Protests But
Will

SECTION: Cover Feature

LENGTH: 3281 words


As the world struggles to absorb the enormity of the terrorist attacks on the US
and the broader ramifications, a pall has fallen over those heatedly involved in
the globalisation debate. By all accounts, this month was going to be a
clamorous culmination of anti-globalisation protesters facing off with those who
utter the globalisation mantra - the World Bank and IMF. Now thatthe two
institutions have cancelled this month's annual meeting in light of the intense
security risks, the question arises: will the scope of current events impact on
the parameters of the broader debate?

Yes and no. Some in the World Bank say most longer-term issues remain the same,
although one official believes there are two new challenges to confront: the
heightened risks of international violence and the greater risk of a world
recession.

"Violence is a development issue that rises up more prominently in the agenda
with the risk of global recession; what we can do with countries that face a
decline in commodity prices, for instance," the official says.

Street protests on hold

That brings those people who have challenged the World Bank and IMF's track
record of promoting growth in the developing world full circle. At a time when
the US is mourning, some protesters have lost their appetite for taking their
fight on to the streets. For now, anyway.

Robert Weissman, a key organiser in the anti-globalisation movement and co-
director of the activist group Essential Action, says: "We are in the mode of
suspending our organisation and forward-looking discussions. People are
mourning." But there is, inevitably, the future and, looking in that direction,
Mr Weissman says nothing much will change. "I don't think these events are
fundamentally going to change the IMF and World Bank policies or our views of
them."

Those views have been plain. The painfully slow process of redressing core
issues such as poverty, economic inequities, environmental destruction and the
third-world HIV/Aids pandemic has spurred a backlash from thousands of people
who feel such issues have been lost in bureaucratic tape and bad policy. So,
when protesters watch limousines delivering well-coiffed government dignitaries
to the IMF and World Bank doorsteps, they find a ready target for their wrath.

Kevin Danahar, a co-founder of Global Exchange and one of the people behind the
mass anti-globalisation demonstrations since the Seattle World Trade
Organisation meeting two years ago, claims such officials are out of touch and
have only made problems in the developing world worse. "You have third- world
economies being controlled by first-world economies - guys who never ride the
bus. They don't live in these places."

His answer? "Shut the IMF and World Bank down." This is extreme talk, yet it is
rhetoric that is being embraced by a growing number of people. Before the annual
meeting was postponed this month, an estimated 100,000 people were due
toconverge on the Washington DC headquarters of the IMF. Many will have to wait.
But it is safe to assume that they will not be giving up.

For many people who have assumed the complicated job of addressing such
problems, even the word globalisation is fraught with difficulties. Take
JeffreySachs, global economist and director of the Center for International
Developmentat Harvard University. He looks strained when asked to produce an
assessment of globalisation. "It is so much more complicated than thinking it is
a scorecard. I keep telling people that a pathology textbook doesn't have one
page - there are many diseases that afflict societies," he says.

IMF and World Bank answer critics

After two years of intensifying protests, the latest culminating in the death of
a protester who was shot in Genoa this summer, the IMF and World Bank are
feeling pressed.

Eager to stem criticism that it is a secretive, elitist institution that is out
of touch with the countries it is chartered to assist, the IMF recently posted
an open letter inviting protest leaders to debate the issues, provided they
renounce violence.

The World Bank is launching a website on globalisation, examining the issues and
opening a dialogue with the public. David Dollar, a senior World Bank economist
who is posting a lengthy paper on that site, has recently published a book
defending the track record of globalisation and offering evidence that millions
of people in developing countries are now better off. And that is wherethe
debate begins.

Where has growth gone?

In a report called The Emperor has no growth, the Center for Economic and Policy
Research (CEPR) - a Washington-based non-governmental (NGO) group of economists
- gives a scathing assessment of the World Bank's and IMF's globalisation track
record that revolves around the question: "Growth is good for the poor but are
World Bank and IMF policies good for growth?"

In the report, it criticises the IMF and World Bank tendencies to apply
universal economic laws concerning trade, capital flows, privatisation and the
size and scope of government to the problems of economic government. Two
decadesof such policies, the CEPR economists say, has set the living standards
of millions of people back 10 or more years and plunged as many into poverty.
The GDP figures that the CEPR quotes look bleak.

When considering the rate of growth of GDP for the various regions of the
developing world, comparing results since 1980 with the previous two decades,
every region except east Asia shows much slower growth. In Latin America, for
example, GDP per capita grew by 75% from 1960 to 1980, while it rose just 6%
from 1980 to 1998. For Sub-Saharan Africa, GDP per capita grew by 36% in the
first period and has since fallen by 15%.

Looking at growth rates for high income countries, it becomes clear that
developing countries have shared some pain - although the degree of pain has
arguably been far less acute. High income countries grew by 99% from 1960 to
1980 then dropped to a 51% growth from 1980 to 2000, while developing countries
grew 87% and 37% for the two respective periods.

The big gap between these two periods does not necessarily tell the whole story,
though. The two decades of GDP per capita growth until the early 1970s was a
record time, triggered by a rebound from World War II and led by countrieslike
the US. In the early 1970s, that rebound began to lose steam. Some people
believe policies of "beggar thy neighbour" were responsible - US and Western
European policies that involved raising tariffs and protecting home markets to
raise domestic living standards.

No shoulder for blame

Nobody has a clear answer. But the IMF and World Bank refuse to take the heat.
"The IMF and World Bank plausibly didn't have any role in this," says the IMF's
outgoing chief economist Michael Mussa. "If you go back to the birth of Christ
and divide the time into 20-year intervals, 1950 to 1970 was the strongest
growth period in 2000 years. So, to assume it can be sustained is a bit much."

Robert Naiman, senior policy analyst at the CEPR, says his group is not blaming
the IMF and World Bank for the slowdown but is criticising them for imposing
policies that impeded growth in the developing world and thus implicitly
contributed to a slowdown. "The point is these institutions claim constantly
that they promote economic growth. So if they don't, they have no right to
exist," says Mr Naiman, one of the authors of The Emperor has no growth.

Such comments do not win Mr Naiman many friends in high places. Also, some in
the IMF are quick to dismiss him because he infamously threw a pie in the face
of the departing IMF chief Michel Cameduss in Thailand early last year. What
washe thinking? "I didn't plan it. It's just that nobody else would do it," he
says. "There was some notion that after Seattle there would be reform. The fact
that Mr Cameduss was the UN Conference on Trade and Development's (UNCTAD)
valedictory speaker was a slap in the face. The IMF didn't get religion."

"Rubbish", says the World Bank, which has taken pains to spread its message more
clearly to the public in recent months. Ironically, those efforts have now
started drawing criticism, too, from the likes of former US Treasury secretary
Larry Summers to a smattering of academics, economists and some in the
financialpress who are accusing the World Bank and IMF of going soft on analysis
and listening too much to NGO critics.

Nicholas Stern, who joined the Bank as chief economist a year ago, defends his
employer, saying: "My view is that the work we've been doing over these pastfew
years is hardheaded and serious economics, which is deeper and tougher than the
kind of superficial stuff that some of our critics are producing."

Penchant for change?

However, he says the Bank is listening to critics more carefully than in the
past. "Open discussion is not only right for democratic reasons - it is also
about development effectiveness. We have to engage with our critics; many of
them have something to bring to the table," he says.

Others are cynical about the World Bank's penchant for change, though. "There's
a saying that whenever you criticise the World Bank, it expands," one NGO
half-jokes.

Some of the criticism is bubbling from within, to the chagrin of the Bank.
William Easterly, a senior economist who has worked on anti-poverty strategies
for 16 years at the Bank, is the subject of a disciplinary investigation for
writing a scathing criticism of his employer's record on combating poverty in a
recent book and newspaper opinion article - primarily because he did not
receivethe necessary permission to write the article in a general interest
publication.

Weighing up the evidence

As critics line up on either side, the World Bank is putting on a brave face and
continuing to publish evidence that globalisation works, with the implicit
message that it is doing its job just fine, thank you. In David Dollar's latest
report on globalisation, published to coincide with the annual meeting in
Washington, he says 3 billion people living in the globalising countries -
thosethat are integrating their economies and are involved in international
trade - have enjoyed a better growth rate than the non-globalisers and
higher-income countries.

Some 24 developing countries with 3 billion people have doubled their ratio of
trade to income in the past two decades. But the rest of the developing
worldtrades less today than it did 20 years ago. During the 1990s, the
globalisers grew at 5% per capita compared with 2% for the rich countries,
suggesting there is greater scope for growth in the economies that reform.

The other part of the story is the 2 billion people who have sunk into poverty
or seen their living standards fall in the 49 developing countries that are not
embracing globalisation. They are countries that have failed, for various
reasons, to seize on international trade opportunities. During the 1990sthese
economies in aggregate had negative growth.

The scorecard on poverty has been spotty at best. The good news is that poverty
has ebbed. Between 1987 and 1998, the number of people living in extremepoverty,
on less than $ 1 a day, slipped slightly from 1.18 billion to 1.174 billion,
according to World Bank figures. In China, the world's most populous country
with 1.3 billion people, the number of rural poor declined from 250 million in
1978 to 34 million in 1999.

"If you were to point to one overwhelming success story of globalisation, it is
clearly China. This is the most important development phenomena over the
pasthalf-century," says Mr Sachs. China's GDP as a percentage of world GDP, at
12%, is second only to the US at 24%. It has also advanced rapidly in the United
Nation's Human Development Index.

When countries such as China and India improve, it looks great in aggregate -
and for the people in those countries. The World Bank is pleased. "We have seen
in the past 20 years a reduction in poverty for the first time in 200 years,"
says Mr Stern. "That has been clearly associated with a number of big countries
and clearly related to policy moves in those countries where trade has been
central."

NGO groups such as the CEPR, on the one hand, and the World Bank and IMF, on the
other, are not disputing one another's numbers but are disputing data
significance. It is something like the conundrum in Alice Through the Looking
Glass, the children's story in which reality varies depending on which side of
the mirror you look. It is a conundrum that has engulfed a growing number of
people across the spectrum - from politicians to economists to people on the
street. Part of the puzzle has been determining the right recipe of policy,
action and financing. Beyond that, there are issues of geographic advantage,
theimpact of disease and environmental problems, good governance and - perhaps
the biggest intangibles of all - honesty and goodwill.

Russian globalisation gets an 'F'

As far as well-known IMF critic Joseph Stiglitz, Columbia University professor
and former World Bank chief economist, is concerned, some issues are clear cut
and relate directly to poor policy. "The big negative is the capital market
liberalisation story. In Russia, the move from communism to integrating them to
the global economy - well, that gets an 'F' by anyone's standards," he says.
Russia's GDP is 60% of what it was before liberalisation and poverty has soared
from 2% to 40%. One out of every two children now lives in poverty.

This is the other side of the poverty scorecard. Countries such as China, India,
Uganda and Vietnam are on the winning side but the majority of
developingcountries remain in the losing camp. Between 1987 and 1998 the number
of people living on less than $ 1 a day in eastern Europe and central Asia rose
from 1.1 million to 17.6 million; in south Asia the number has risen from 474.4
million to 521.8 million; and in Sub-Saharan Africa the number has risen from
217.2 million to 301.6 million.

Mr Stiglitz lays much of the blame for Russia's fall at the doorstep of the IMF,
which he says forced privatisation too soon on a country that was handicapped by
government corruption. "Rather than leading to wealth creation, this led to
massive asset stripping. People estimate something like $ 200bn went out of the
country. Privatisation was an important part of the failure," he says.

He believes the IMF should establish a fund to forgive the debt of countries
like Russia, which do not qualify for the Highly Indebted Poor Country (HIPC)
programme, because of its "moral responsibility" in making poorly advised loans
in the first place. According to activist groups such as Jubilee 2000, such
loans are sapping the life-blood from dozens of economies.

Charade or stranglehold?

In Latin America, debt service consumes more than half of the government budget
in several countries. The region's overall foreign debt stands at $ 706bn. That
is $ 646bn higher than it was 40 years ago. According to World Bank statistics,
the region spent $ 739bn on debt servicing - $ 33bn more than it owes today -
between 1982 and 1996 alone.

Then there is Africa. At the end of 1998, according to Jubilee 2000, annual debt
service payments from the world's poorest region - Sub-Saharan Africa - were $
15.2bn (15% of exports). The total debt stands at about $ 230bn. UnitedNations
secretary-general Kofi Annan has publicly said that in some countries upto 40%
of government revenue is being allocated to servicing foreign debts; revenue
that could otherwise be spent on public education and health. If Russia gets an
"F" for globalisation, Africa is not even on the globalisation map. According to
the July 2000 United Nations' Human Development Index, 24 of the lowest 25
ranked countries are in Africa.

Mr Mussa, at the IMF, says critics have distorted the debt relief problem and
many of the poor countries are receiving other forms of assistance to service
their debts. Add it all up and then look at a recent three-to-five-year period
for how much assistance was provided compared with money spent on servicing
debtand, in many cases, that assistance exceeded net payments, he says. On the
one hand, countries would be better off having the extra assistance without the
debt. On the other, as the reasoning goes, countries might have less incentive
to clean up governance problems if debt was written off too soon.

Mr Mussa admits there are problems and calls the debt relief conundrum "an
elaborate charade". Others call it a stranglehold on millions of poor people.

What debt relief can buy

For many of the poor countries, the extra money from debt relief would go some
distance to fighting another critical problem: the ravages of the HIV/Aids
pandemic and the alarming spread of malaria and tuberculosis.

Mr Sachs says disease is the single biggest problem facing the developing world.
"We have the world's worst pandemic in history. It's tearing Africa apartand
hopes of economic development in that continent until it gets under control," he
adds.

There are 36.1 million people living with HIV/Aids, the vast majority of them in
Sub-Saharan Africa, where 3.8 million people became infected last year
alone.There are more than 10.4 million orphans from Aids around the world and
more than 90% of them live in Sub-Saharan Africa.

To tackle the crisis effectively, some big bucks are needed. Mr Sachs, who is
heading a World Health Organisation commission that is addressing the issue,
says the commission has determined it would cost $ 25bn from the donor world
toenable the low-income countries to fight their diseases. "That's one-tenth of
1%of GNP. That would save millions of lives every year and help impoverished
countries to get back on their feet so they have a chance of economic
development," he says. That would mean billions rather than hundreds of
millionsof dollars in contributions from the US - a sum that does not seem
forthcoming at this juncture.

As one of the IMF and World Bank's more vocal critics, Mr Sachs, agrees that
both institutions must face up to change. But change also has to go beyond IMF
and World Bank policy, which he says is only a "modest" part of the story. "I
don't know, in the end, whether the world can hold together but what I do know
is that globalisation won't solve itself," he says. Addressing himself more
broadly to the G-8 countries, he says: "We need honesty. But honesty would cost
money - not the kind of money that would bankrupt us - probably not even the
type of money we would notice. But we don't seem up to that."

It is still far too early to say how the US and other nations of the world will
emerge from the current crisis - and what the economic and political
ramifications will be. But some people sense change in the air. Cal Cohen,
president the Emergency Committee for American Trade, says: "I would say the
events that are still so fresh and ongoing have added to the resolve of those
responsible in the US and overseas for international affairs - that they need
tobe more involved internationally. They have to get on with it and make
improvements in the world trading system."

It is unclear if greater international resolve will lead to more money for the
poor. That may take time. Protesters, meanwhile, will be watching warily
andprobably will not wait long to act again.

However, one thing is for sure - as street politics and boardroom politics
collide, the globalisation debate is shifting to include what critics say has
long been missing: more honesty in addressing the deep inequalities that have
come to characterise globalisation.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

AGENDA 2001: THEY SAID IT . . .;
 QUOTATIONS FROM POLITICIANS AND THE MEDIA IN THE WAKE OF THE TERRORIST ATTACKS
ON THE UNITED STATES

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 75 words


We are not going through what we are going through now for the sake of our
health

Home Secretary David Blunkett

No country can afford to shy away from fighting terrorism.

But we cannot be blinded by maniacal vengeance. It is essential to examine hard
evidence before striking

The Egyptian newspaper Al-Abram

This campaign is unpredictable. Once US forces begin to engage terrorist
targets, anything can happen

The Miami Herald

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK RISK 'WILL INCREASE'

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 92 words


The US Attorney-General yesterday warned the risk of more attacks on the country
will increase as it steps up its war on terrorism.

John Ashcroft, who as attorney-general is in charge of the investigation into
the attacks, warned that terrorism had still to be destroyed.

His warning came at the end of a week in which a series of other alleged plots
by groups linked to suspected terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden have been
revealed, including a plan to buy crop-dusting planes which could have been used
to launch a chemical attack.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: US ATTACKS SET TO INCREASE

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 93 words


THE US Attorney-General today warned the risk of more attacks on the country
will increase as it steps up its war on terrorism.

John Ashcroft who, as attorney-general, is in charge of the investigation into
the September 11 terror attacks, warned that terrorism had still to be
destroyed.

His warning came after a week in which a series of other alleged plots by groups
linked to suspected terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden have been revealed,
including a plan to buy crop-dusting planes which could have been used to launch
a chemical attack.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

US TERROR ATTACKS LEAD TO CAUTION OVER HOUSE PRICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 154 words


BRITAIN'S biggest building society said today it was too early to predict what
impact the US attacks would have on the property market despite sharp increases
in house prices during September. Nationwide said house prices rose by 2.8 per
cent last month, the highest monthly increase since June 1993.

The jump put annual house price inflation for the year to the end of September
at 14.6 per cent, and increased the average price of a property to pounds
92,432.

But the society said despite the strong gains, it was leaving its forecast for
house price growth for 2001 unchanged at 11 per cent due to the uncertainty
following the terrorist strike.

Alex Bannister, Nationwide's group economist, said: "The tragic events in the US
on September 11 will have an impact on the housing market, but much depends on
the outlook for the US economy and its impact on economies across the world
including the UK."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

REPORTER UNMASKS HIS OWN KILLER;
 HE SHOUTS OUT TERRORIST'S NICKNAME DURING ATTACK

BYLINE: Ted Oliver

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 514 words


MURDERED journalist Martin O'Hagan named a man involved in his shooting moments
before he died.

He called out the nickname of the well-known loyalist terrorist just before he
was shot in the back.

The 51-year-old was gunned down as he walked home from his local pub with his
wife, Marie.

O'Hagan pushed his wife to safety as a car drew up beside them and the shots
rang out and shouted: "There's Mackers."

The Friday-night killing in Lurgan, County Armagh, is thought to have been
ordered by the leader of the Loyalist Volunteer Force.

This man had chillingly said: "There are a number of journalists who deserve to
be shot and O'Hagan is top of the list."

The RUC have vowed to track down the killers. Loyalist terror group the Red Hand
Defenders have claimed responsibility for the murder but the group in the past
has been used as a cover name for the LVF and the UDA.

RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flannigan said: "I utterly condemn this cowardly
brutal murder of a fearless journalist. His only crime was getting too close to
the truth.

"It definitely carries the hallmark of an LVF killing. No stone will be left
unturned in this investigation."

O'Hagan, who worked in Belfast for the Sunday World, was the first reporter to
be murdered in the 30 years of the Ulster troubles.

He had been threatened many times in the past 15 years, mainly over his
investigations into the criminal activities of the LVF based in the area near
his home.

He had also been kidnapped and interrogated by the Provisional IRA and had at
one stage been given a personal protection weapon by the RUC.

He was forced to move out of Northern Ireland with his family a few years ago
because of increasing threats to his life.

He named LVF leaders as drugs dealers and racketeers involved in demanding
protection money and running prostitution rings in numerous articles.

Ten years ago, O'Hagan coined the nickname "King Rat" for the feared LVF chief
Billy Wright, who was later murdered by republican inmates inside the top
-security Maze prison.

Following Wright's death, he got a phone interview with a terrorist from the
Irish Nationalist Liberation Army who shot the loyalist leader.

Soon after that, the man who took over the leadership of the LVF listed the
reasons why he should be killed.

He felt that O'Hagan had not shown sufficent respect to Wright by coining the
nickname which was picked up by other journalists.

O'Hagan, who was jailed in the 1970s for possessing guns when he was involved
with the now-defunct Official IRA, was also a Catholic who dared to live right
in the middle of what they saw as their patch.

Only last week, an associate of the LVF leader saw O'Hagan walking near his home
in Lurgan and told him: "We have clocked you walking up and down this street."

Northern Irish editor of Sunday World Jim McDowell said that the man who had
spoken to his reporter last week was "a loyalist fanatic".

He said that O'Hagan had been working on a fresh story exposing the loyalists'
illegal activities in the area.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                                October 1, 2001

WH Smith confirms sales fall after US terrorist attacks

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 178 words


Newsagent group WH Smith today warned the recent terrorist attacks had hit
trading at its 500-plus shops in the US.

The Swindon group said following the events of 11 September, it had seen a
"material adverse impact" on trading at its 180 airport stores and 393 hotel
gift shops across US.

WH Smith, which operates more than 1,500 shops around the world - including
around 700 in the UK - added it could not assess the expected impact on profits.

"Whilst we continue to evaluate the potential longer-term impact of these
events, at this early stage it is not possible to assess with any degree of
certainty what the full effect on sales and profits in the current financial
year will be," it said.

In the groups last financial year the US stores - which generate less than 10%
of group sales and profits - reported sales of £192m and operating profits of
£12m.

Shares in WH Smith slid 6% to 410p following the announcement, valuing it at
£1.02bn - £65m less than yesterday.

WH Smith will report its full-year figures for the year to 31 August on 18
October.

EGi News 01/10/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Estates Gazette

                                October 1, 2001

Towers lose power in face of finance and zoning issues The planning and design
of skyscrapers across the Continent could be affected following the US terrorist
attacks with companies looking to occupy "safer" premises

BYLINE: X

SECTION: X; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 325  words


The construction of skyscrapers across Europe could be affected by the attack on
the World Trade Center's Twin Towers on 11 September.

The attack is expected to have a long-term impact on how tenants choose to
occupy space. This could include a move away from high rise buildings; choosing
decentralised space and dispersing activities among several buildings to avoid
damage to businesses. Frankfurt has plans for 20 new towers over the next 10
years while in London at least three towers are going through the planning
process.

Angus McIntosh, head of research at King Sturge, said avoiding towers was not
the answer as the threat of terrorism could not be contained: "All business
districts are at risk from terrorist attacks, whether high rise or low rise.
This can be seen from the terrorist explosions in both London and Manchester.
Although events in the US may provoke a knee-jerk reaction about skyscrapers,
any building can potentially be a target."

Jones Lang LaSalle said that financing of towers is likely to be hit:
"Stand-alone high-rise buildings will be more difficult to finance and stricter
zoning requirements will be implemented," the company said in a statement,
adding that there was likely to be a decline in premiums paid for the highest
floors in buildings.

Chris Bull-Diamond, managing director of FPDSavills in Frankfurt, said: "There
has been a lot of talk, not just about high rise buildings, but about the wisdom
of having all your staff in one building. Everyone is still in a state of trauma
over the events in America and everyone is reassessing things, but I don't
expect that there will be a reappraisal of the fundamentals. If you want to
build in Frankfurt then you have to go high."

The attacks could also speed up decentralisation, said Jacques Gordon, co-chair
of global research for JLL: "The firm does not foresee a flight of occupiers and
capital from CBDs; however, demand will be stronger in suburban markets."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright 2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 1, 2001

U.S. TO DROP BOMBS AND LEAFLETS;
The Terrorist Crisis: Missiles then attackers will go for 'hearts and minds'

BYLINE: Keith Dovkants

SECTION: Pg. 1;4

LENGTH: 987 words


AMERICA intends to target Afghan military installations, including air bases,
when it launches its retaliatory strikes against the Taliban, Pakistani military
sources believe.

But alongside bombs and cruise missiles, America is expected to be firing .

. . paper. The Pakistanis understand that Washington is planning a twin-strategy
for dropping explosives and propaganda leaflets side by side.

The Americans are launching a big hearts-and-minds campaign, supported by
massive food aid deliveries, to try to convince Afghans that America's fight is
with Osama bin Laden and the Taliban, not with the population of Afghanistan.

The Islamabad government expects American action to come within days, and to aim
chiefly to destroy Taliban military assets such as aircraft, helicopters, radar
towers and a new airbase south of Kandahar, in the absence of bigger targets in
a country dominated by rubble.

A three-man American military delegation has been holding talks in Pakistan for
days now, but President Musharraf still refuses to commit his own nation to
participating in action against Afghanistan, which he knows will be bitterly
unpopular with many of his own people. The Pakistanis are resentful, however,
that since they refuse to take part in the Western strikes, the American team
has not confided detailed intentions to them.

Instead, the Americans have secured an agreement to use Pakistan's airspace
which will provide a route from the Arabian Sea into Afghanistan. The Bush
administration believes that an effective strike has to happen before the
American festival of Thanksgiving on 22 November, with some experts believing it
should take place well before 17 November, the beginning of the Islamic month of
fast, Ramadan.

The American strategy is to avoid at all costs "collateral damage" - casualties
among the civilian population. Reliable sources here indicate that a short
campaign aimed at grounding the Taliban will be followed by an intensive wave of
strikes against antiaircraft installations to clear the skies.

However, the first bombers will drop paper - pamphlets explaining to the general
population that America is not at war with them, but is conducting a campaign
against terrorism. The pamphlets will say that a coalition of nations wishes to
help Afghanistan by expelling the so-called Arab-Afghans, Islamic fundamentalist
volunteers who have flocked to terrorist suspect Osama bin Laden.

This will be accompanied by a series of food and aid drops. From the talks held
here it seems certain that the US airforce will try to repeat its exercise in
Bosnia when food was parachuted into Muslim enclaves.

Pakistan's ISI - InterServices Intelligence - has been at pains to persuade the
Americans that there is a moderate faction inside the Taliban with which the
United States can do business. Sources suggest American officials have also
taken on board the ISI Afghan section's motto: you cannot defeat Afghanistan,
but you can buy it.

Contacts are being made to explore the possibility of bribing influential
personalties inside Afghanistan, and the sums being discussed are extraordinary.
The Americans have been told that at an awkward stage in the Taliban's conquest
of Afghanistan it bought off an opposing military commander with a $ 10 million
bribe. The ISI men have suggested they double that, at least.

There is already evidence that the CIA is taking a hand. Six Afghan nationals
were arrested over the weekend after being caught with a large number of
pamphlets calling on people to resist Taliban rule and consider the US and its
allies as friendly powers which wished to liberate the country from tyranny.

The Taliban was reported to be desperately trying to recover some leaflets -
called "night letters" - which had been distributed among people in the towns of
Gardez and Khost. The local governor Mullah Abdul Rauf said he expected the six
people who had been arrested to be hanged for "colluding with infidels".
American intelligence agents are also keen to reach key people who operate the
Taliban's war machinery. According to officials here - who are in a position to
know - the Taliban use a number of foreign nationals to fly aircraft and
maintain equipment, including tanks and heavy weapons.

They are not described as mercenaries as such but these individuals are believed
to be among those most likely to respond to opportunities elsewhere.

The Pentagon team is expected to be reinforced this week with military experts
who will further debrief ISI agents. The ISI, which played godparent to the
Taliban, has unique intelligence on the regime and its military infrastructure.

But what the Americans have learned so far is not encouraging. The Taliban has
vastly extended the network of underground bunkers and caves used by the
Mujahideen during the Soviet occupation. An important command centre in the
Haruti heights, for example, is reckoned to be impregnable.

A key part of America's strategy, of course, is to keep the Taliban guessing.
There is said to be quiet satisfaction with the way the Taliban has reinforced
positions on the Pakistan border, especially near Peshawar and Quetta, which
leaks here suggested would be used by the USAF. The Taliban rushed down heavy
weapons to its side of the border near Chaman, outside Quetta, and has been
staging a show of strength over the past few days. Four rocket propelled
grenades were fired into an empty patch on the Pakistan side yesterday,
apparently to demonstrate that it means business.

This is thought to have made the Pentagon team chuckle. Pakistan is out of the
plot as far as use of its territory is concerned, sources here say. The
Americans have been more prolific with questions than answers.

When the missiles go in, the news will break in Washington, not Islamabad.

THE TERRORIST CRISIS More reports: Pages 4, 5, 6, 7, 16 & 17

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MISSION: THE AIRCRAFT CARRIER USS KITTY HAWK LEAVING JAPAN FOR AN
UNDISCLOSED DESTINATION

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 1, 2001

US 'ready to deal with a germ attack';
The Terrorist Crisis: Defence

BYLINE: Jeremy Campbell

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 149 words


PRESIDENT BUSH has put his health minister on primetime television to calm fears
of a biological or chemical attack.

Tommy Thompson said the US has set up eight sites, each containing 50 tons of
medical supplies including vaccines, antibiotics, gas masks and ventilators.

Appearing on the CBS Sixty Minutes programme, he said: "We are ready to perform.

We have 7,000 doctors and medical assistance teams throughout America."

A new poll reveals more than eight out of 10 Americans think an attack with
biological or chemical weapons is at least likely, but fewer than half think the
government is prepared.

Experts say doctors do not have the training to spot symptoms of diseases
expected to be used - such as plague and anthrax - and many hospitals are not
set up for an attack. Iran, Iraq, Syria and Libya all possess chemical and
biological weapons programmes.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 1, 2001

Cash transfers 'link Bin Laden to attacks';
The Terrorist Trial: Money Trial

BYLINE: Patrick Mcgowan

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 592 words


INVESTIGATORS in the United States are said to have discovered the crucial
connection linking Osama bin Laden to the terrorist attacks on 11 September.

The connection is a financial one and has been described as the "smoking gun"
sought by America's allies to justify their support for military action.

Sheikh Saeed, who was Bin Laden's financial adviser when he was based in Sudan
and who is still paymaster for his al Qaeda organisation, is reported to have
had direct contact with Mohammed Atta, the ringleader of the hijackers.

Investigators have traced money transfers to Florida - where the hijackers were
living and learning to fly - from an account under Saeed's name. He is also
known as Mustafa Mohamed Ahmad.

The transfers were made on 8 and 9 September. Atta and his co-hijackers are also
said to have sent money back to the account just before launching their suicide
mission - a typical piece of tradecraft from the al Qaeda organisation, which
closely controlled expenses of its would-be martyrs.

Although evidence of Bin Laden's involvement was growing it was largely
circumstantial until investigators uncovered the electronic trail of financial
transactions involving Saeed. He was based in Dubai and from there sent tens of
thousands of dollars to terrorists living in Germany and Florida. Saeed is said
to have fled from Dubai on a flight to Karachi on the day of the attacks in the
United States.

In Dubai, the UAE central bank has now ordered the freezing of accounts linked
to Saeed and other organisations named by the US Treasury last week as being
linked to al Qaeda. Intelligence chiefs in Europe and the US are said to be
almost certain that the al Qaeda terrorist network is likely to mount another
major outrage soon. The question for the planners in the Bush administration is
whether the attack will come before America and its allies can strike at Taliban
and al Qaeda bases in Afghanistan.

It is feared that another atrocity before US forces are seen to hit back could
cause major civil unrest in the US, according to some Bush advisers.

US, British and European intelligence and police have been taken aback at the
sheer extent of the militant groups associated in one form or another with Bin
Laden's al Qaeda network and subversive activity against western governments.
Meanwhile, a worldwide hunt is under way for 14 young Muslims said to have been
trained in secret to fly Boeing airliners at an airbase in Afghanistan.

A senior pilot for the Afghan state-owned airline Ariana has told how he and
four colleagues were forced by the Taliban regime to train the men who are now
thought to be hiding in Europe and the United States. The 14 men, seven of whom
are said to speak fluent English, are described as "dedicated Muslim fanatics"
who spoke of being involved in a holy war.

They are thought to have left Afghanistan a year ago. All had close links with
the Taliban and some had fought for the regime.

Today police are continuing to question a terrorist suspect arrested at Gatwick
on Friday as he prepared to board a flight to the United States. The 36-year-old
was following a similar route to the 11 suicide hijackers who passed through
Britain from Dubai earlier this year.

Detectives also hope to question further Algerian pilot Lotfi Raissi, said in
court on Friday to be a key figure in the training of the hijackers. They want
to know who he may have trained to fly in recent months.

The US is hoping to extradite Raissi, who lived near Heathrow.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: IN A NEWLY-RELEASED PICTURE, GEORGE BUSH IS SHOWN TAKING A MOMENT ALONE
IN THE SPEAKER'S CEREMONIAL ROOM BEFORE HIS RALLYING ADDRESS TO CONGRESS 10 DAYS
AGO

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 1, 2001

America aims to limit terror attack lawsuits;
The Terrorist Crisis

BYLINE: James Langton

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 450 words


THE UNITED States government is taking urgent action to stem what it fears could
be an unprecedented flood of lawsuits from people claiming they are victims of
the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington.

In the first step, a new law will stop potential claimants taking action
anywhere other than the Federal District Court in Manhattan, whose jurisdiction
covers the World Trade Center.

"What this will do is stop claims suddenly popping up in places like Louisiana,"
said a spokesman for the insurance industry. Insurers are anxious to avoid cases
like the £300 million awarded to an elderly couple in Arkansas two years ago
after they were overcharged for a satellite TV system.

A second move is the creation of a Victims Compensation Fund by Washington, to
fast-track claims from those injured in the attacks and the relatives of the
dead. The fund will pay damages without the need to prove negligence to anyone
who agrees to forego legal action.

America's compensation culture still opens the possibility of lawsuits worth
billions of dollars. The insurance industry is already facing a bill it
conservatively estimates to be $ 40 billion, making 11 September the most
expensive manmade disaster the world has ever seen.

The claims include the World Trade Center towers and surrounding buildings, and
the lost wages of those killed and injured, as well as life insurance policies.
Tens of thousands of New Yorkers who fled the falling rubble or who watched the
destruction from the city's streets are eventually expected to seek compensation
for trauma.

Insurers are only beginning to grasp the magnitude of the disaster, which could
eventually generate thousands of lawsuits, including actions against the two
airlines who allowed the hijackers on board and the airports where security
measures failed to detect the weapons they were carrying.

Insurance companies have said they will meet claims in full, but also joined
President Bush at the White House last week for talks about the future of the
industry, including the setting up of a special fund to cover future
catastrophes.

Some companies have warned that premiums could rise by as much as 30 per cent
next year.

Unusually, America's normally rapacious legal eagles seem to have abandoned
their habit of " ambulance chasing'', when lawyers seek out those they feel have
a valid claim and offer to take cases on a "no-win, no-fee'' deal. The American
Association of Trial Lawyers is calling for a moratorium on civil suits.

In a statement, the organisation called instead for: "A time for healing, with
our focus on bringing to justice the terrorists who perpetrated this tragedy.''


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 1, 2001

America is too scared to attack, says Taliban leader;
The Terrorist Crisis: Afghanistan

BYLINE: Patrick Mcgowan

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 376 words


THE leader of the Taliban has told his people they need not fear US military
strikes because the Americans are too scared to attack.

Mullah Mohammed Omar said in a radio interview: "Americans don't have the
courage to come here," and repeatedly warned the US to "think and think again"
about attacking Afghanistan, which drove out Soviet invaders between 1979 and
1989.

"If you attack us, there will be no difference between you and the Russians," he
said. He also warned former king Mohammad Zahir Shah not to meddle in
Afghanistan's affairs.

"Forget Afghanistan, you won't be able to solve the issue of Afghanistan in your
lifetime," he said. "How dare you think you can return to Afghanistan backed by
the United States. How are you going to rule the country? How can you think of
such things?"

The former king met a delegation from the Northern Alliance, the Taliban's main
opposition, and members of the US Congress in Italy yesterday to see if a deal
on cooperation could be reached.

The Taliban is now admitting for the first time it knows where Bin Laden is and
that he is under their control. However, the response of US Defence Secretary
Donald Rumsfeld was scathing. "Of course, it was just a few days ago that they
said they didn't know where he was," he said. "So I have no reason to believe
anything a Taliban representative has said." Last week, Taliban officials said
they could not locate Bin Laden to ask him to leave, a statement which Mr
Rumsfeld described at the time as "laughable".

Asked whether the Taliban would pay the price if it did not comply with US
demands, Mr Rumsfeld said: "I would think that that ought to be self-evident at
this point."

The President of Pakistan, General Pervez Musharraf, who has been trying to
broker a handover of Bin Laden, has acknowledged chances of the Taliban giving
him up were "very dim".

In an effort to head off a humanitarian disaster in Afghanistan a convoy of
eight trucks carrying 218 tonnes of wheat left the frontier city of Peshawar,
crossed the Khyber Pass early yesterday and arrived in Kabul today. A second
convoy of six trucks carrying 200 tonnes of wheat crossed the frontier north of
Quetta. Half was destined for Kabul and half for Herat.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 1, 2001

First UN food trucks reach Kabul since attacks on US;
The Terrorist Crisis: Refugees

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 478 words


MEASURES to avoid a humanitarian disaster in Afghanistan intensified today as UN
food aid trucks returned to Kabul for the first time since last month's attacks
on the US.

Continuing the twin track Western policy of providing food aid to the people
while making military threats to the ruling Taliban, 218 tonnes of wheat arrived
in the Afghan capital for use by city bakeries. It will be the first in a
succession of aid consignments.

Afghan relief workers are expected to spearhead the aid deliveries because
Western colleagues have been urged to stay clear amid the threat of an imminent
attack by the US-led coalition.

Commenting on today's deliveries, UN World Food Programme spokesman Khaled
Mansour said: "This is a positive sign and we will continue to ship more food
into Afghanistan. This food will be very vital for programmes such as the
bakeries in Kabul that help about 350,000 Afghans."

At the same time plans to help neighbouring countries which may be swamped by
refugees once military action starts were also advanced. A humanitarian aid
delivery of 40 tonnes of food and other vital supplies arrived in the city of
Turkmenabat in eastern Turkmenistan. It is earmarked for starving Afghan
children. Calculations by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees indicate that
Turkmenistan could expect up to 50,000 refugees from Afghanistan, with which the
former Russian state shares a 459-mile border.

The shipment to Turkmenistan arrived from Copenhagen and was the second in the
past week.

Senior UN officials are heading for the region to assess the scale of the
operation that will be needed to avert catastrophe.

The worst scenario suggests that 1.5 million people may try to leave the country
and join 3.5 million who have fled to Pakistan and Iran over the last 23 years.
Today Kenzo Oshima, a senior emergency-relief co-ordinator, arrived in Islamabad
on a fact-finding tour. UN spokeswoman Stephanie Bunker said: "He is meeting
officials all day and will meet the President of Pakistan, General Pervez
Musharraf."

Mr Oshima, the UN under-secretary general for Humanitarian Affairs, is expected
to fly to the western Pakistani city of Quetta, one of the main destinations for
Afghans trying to flee southern Afghanistan. Last week Mr Oshima told a news
conference that "an already dire situation is approaching crisis point". He said
the situation worsened after the 11 September attacks.

UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan has also launched an emergency appeal for £365
million in international aid to help Afghanistan cope with the coming winter.

While the Taliban has attempted to stem the flood of refugees heading for
Afghanistan's borders, the numbers continue to grow. Pakistan has been turning
back new refugees, but it has indicated it may reopen the border if a US attack
triggered a mass influx.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TALIBAN FIGHTERS SIT ON AN ARMOURED PERSONNEL CARRIER IN THE AFGHAN
CAPITAL, KABUL, TODAY. THEIR LEADER HAS SAID THEY NEED NOT FEAR AMERICAN
MILITARY STRIKES

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 01, 2001

Prime target;
 Labour MP ALICE MAHON ponders the future of National Missile Defence and the
blockade against Cuba in the wake of the terrorist attack on the United States.

SECTION:  Pg. 9

LENGTH: 882 words


THE terrible deaths of thousands of innocent civilians as a result of the
suicide attacks against the United States on September 11 are abhorrent.

These events have touched the lives of people in many countries, including
Britain, and added to the many international tensions which already exist.

It is deeply distressing to watch the flood of people trying to cross the Afghan
border, as ships, planes and troops head for the Middle East and the Indian
Ocean.

The Bush administration is squaring up for reprisals and I greatly fear that
British troops may participate.

Military attacks in which more civilians are slaughtered are not the answer.

Terrorism cannot be eradicated without eradicating its underlying causes.
Reprisals by the US and NATO allies will not address the poverty and oppression
that people around the world are suffering as a result of US policies - which
form terrorism's breeding ground.

The strains in international relations include those generated by the
development of a national missile defence (NMD) programme by the US.

As many commentators have pointed out, NMD would have neither detected nor
prevented the attacks which took place on the World Trade Centre and other
targets. Nevertheless, the Bush team has announced a redoubled intention to
pursue missile defence.

Even before the events of September 11, Bush's determination to press ahead with
NMD was having a destabilising effect on international relationships.

The Prime Minister could play an important part in helping avert a further
unravelling of international relations.

Tony Blair must reconsider the dangers of NMD in the light of the September 11
events.

If Britain supports the US missile defence programme, the chances of halting the
US will be zero. If Blair withholds endorsement, there is at least a chance that
Bush will have serious pause for thought.

At the end of August, Bush gave the go-ahead for a missile testing site in
Alaska.

At the same time, he announced that the US was prepared to withdraw unilaterally
from the Anti-Ballistic Missiles (ABM) Treaty in November.

Russia reacted to this de-facto ultimatum by calling for talks to continue.

By the beginning of September, it was being suggested that the US would not
object if China expanded its small nuclear missile force, so long as it drops
opposition to NMD.

What sense does it make for the US to spend billions developing NMD while, at
the same time, beginning to unravel the very treaties which are designed to
limit the development of the weapons which missile defences are supposed to
protect the US from?

The ABM treaty has been the cornerstone of international arms control for three
decades. Tearing it up is not an act best designed to eliminate the dangers from
weapons of mass destruction.

If Bush does unilaterally pull the US out of the ABM Treaty, US and Russian
strategic nuclear arms control is likely to be brought to an end.

China could react by seeking to increase its strategic nuclear forces - a
decision which will depend on its assessment of whether its national interests
are effectively safeguarded by the existing mechanisms of international arms
control, not on US permission.

As the destabilising potential of NMD has become clearer, so opposition has
grown.

Recent polls in Britain and Europe show large majorities against NMD and 279 MPs
have signed a parliamentary motion expressing their concerns.

A Parliamentary Labour Party briefing circulated by Jack Straw during the summer
regurgitates the discredited line of the Bush administration that NMD is a
defence against rogue states.

Serious analysts - including the US joint chiefs of staff, the CIA and the
Ministry of Defence - give little weight to this.

The actions and documents of the US government make clear that NMD is an
offensive development, not simply a protection against a hypothetical future
threat.

In a statement on July 19, the Prime Minister recognised this. He told a press
conference during Bush's visit to Chequers that he accepted that US plans would
"encompass defensive and offensive systems."

If facilities such as Fylingdales and Menwith Hill are used as part of US plans,
this country would become a prime target of attack in any future conflict.
Surely, there can be no greater consideration for the British government than
the safety of its population.

Our involvement would also be likely to mean a large increase in Britain's
military expenditure. The Pentagon already accounts for over one-third of the
world's total military spending and its budget is set to rise.

NMD remains one of the most important issues of international politics facing
the British government today.

A growing number of organisations and individuals in the trade union and labour
movement are taking a stand. I urge you to join them.

Let's tell the British government - No more violence, no to Star Wars, no new
arms race.

Alice Mahon will be among the speakers at the Labour CND/Labour Action for Peace
fringe meeting at Labour Party conference, held at 7pm today in the Beach Hotel,
1-4 Regency Sq, Brighton.

Others speakers include Tony Benn, Tam Dalyell MP, CND vice-chairwoman Helen
John and Malcolm Savidge MP.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

GRAPHIC: LIKE THIS: US air force Lt-Gen Ronald Kadish demonstrates NMD

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          Nutraceuticals International

                                  October 2001

US terrorist attacks lead to slowdown in sales at Numico

SECTION: Vol 6, No 10

LENGTH: 340 words


1 of 7 Royal Numico of the Netherlands, the world's largest producer of vitamins
and food supplements, has issued a preliminary results statement for the third
quarter of 2001 (ahead of full figures to be released on November 7), which
reveal a negative impact on performance in the USA since the terrorist attacks
on September 11.

The supplements business in the USA is facing a slowdown since the attacks, the
company said, noting that domestic sales at its General Nutrition Companies unit
were running 3.4% above last year's third quarter before September 11. In the
weeks following the attacks, they have fallen 8%-9%. Numico's Rexall Sundown
business has seen a 50% drop in orders in the last three weeks, "further
worsening its results in the weak food, drug and mass market environment for
vitamins and herbs."

Turnover up just 0.5%

Given these factors, Numico now expects third-quarter turnover to rise just 0.5%
to 1.05 billion euros ($ 962 million), and the nine-month total will be in the
region of 3.25 billion euros, an increase of 19%. In light of the situation in
the USA, the firm noted that it has become uncertain as to whether it can reach
its previous sales and earnings estimate for full-year 2001 of at least 15%
growth.

In geographic terms, sales in northern Europe for the third quarter should
increase 8% to 148 million euros, while turnover in southern Europe is due to
rise 11% to 81 million euros. Sales in North America are now projected to
decline 3% to 615 million euros.

Vitamins and herbs to fall 14%

Numico added that sales in the infant nutrition group are forecast to grow 7% to
245 million euros, in line with expectations, while its clinical nutrition and
diets unit will post turnover of 122 million euros, an increase of 15%, thanks
to strong performances in Germany, the UK, the Netherlands and France. The
consumer diets and sports nutrition division is expected to climb 11% to 298
million euros, but sales of vitamins and herbs will fall 14% to 343 million
euros.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2001 Marketletter Publications Ltd.

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 1, 2001

Terror attacks condemned.

BYLINE: Claire Fearn

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 274 words

DATELINE: Accrington



MUSLIMS in Accrington have strongly condemned the suicide hijack terror attacks
on the United States -- and their MP Greg Pope has passed their views on to the
Prime Minister.

The Labour back bencher reassured Muslims at Higher Antley Street Mosque that
the war against terrorism was not a war against Islam.

He was one of several senior MPs who met Prime Minister Tony Blair this week to
be briefed on the international situation.

He pointed out that it was vital to make clear to the British Muslim community
that it was terrorists and not their religion that was being targeted and to
keep them fully in support of any action.

He also told Mr Blair it was important to thank and support Pakistan for its
solidarity with the West in the wake of the attacks.

Now both mosques in Accrington -- Higher Antley Street and Grimshaw Street --
have written to Mr Pope telling him: "As British Muslims, living in Hyndburn, we
feel we must join forces to combat terrorism, regardless of whatever form it may
be existing in whether religious or otherwise.

"The events of September 11 shocked all Muslims in the local community and we
condemn this behaviour."

The letters adds: "We, the British Muslims, share the grief of all the people
around the world who lost their loved ones in this American tragedy."

Mr Pope said: "This is a really important statement and I was very pleased and
moved to receive it. It makes very clear the revulsion and horror of
Accrington's Muslim community at the despicable acts in New York. It makes it
clear that killing of innocent people and suicide missions are both deeply
un-Islamic acts."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    VNU NET

                                October 1, 2001

Management week - Analysis - Remote working to rise.; The US terrorist attacks
will encourage firms to consider wider use

SOURCE: News Service

BYLINE: Mark Street.

SECTION: Pg.36

LENGTH: 463 words


The recent terrorist attacks in the US have forced firms to make difficult
decisions on several fronts, including disaster recovery, business travel,
security and remote work.

Analysts predict firms will double their spending on systems for business
continuity and disaster recovery plans and will increasingly use online
conferencing, following the events of 11 September. This is certainly the view
of Benjamin Tartaglia, executive director of the International Disaster Recovery
Association (IDRA). "Businesses now realise that one location and network for
all transactions has become obsolete," he said.

In the days following the destruction of the World Trade Center,
teleconferencing firms saw growing business as travel bans were instigated - a
development which many believe will become engrained. Graham Titterington, a
security expert at analyst firm Ovum, said, "Firms will be more willing to look
at alternatives to sending executives abroad, and conferencing technologies have
come a long way and are now credible."

Oil companies Schlumberger and BP are just two organisations that have imposed
travel restrictions on staff, and airlines have announced job cuts, partly in
anticipation of fewer executives travelling.

Darren Thomas, marketing director at conferencing firm Genesys Conferencing,
said, "The last time we saw such an intensity of interest was during the Gulf
War, when people weren't travelling due to the perceived threat of terrorism and
the high price of fuel." An IT manager at a large recruitment firm said his
organisation had reduced travel before the attack in response to economic
conditions. "As for video conferencing (as an alternative), we'd probably want
to use a Net pipe with quality-of-service guarantees to our American office in
New York," he said.

Ovum believes security will also rise up the agenda. Financial institutions such
as Barclays Bank and Lloyds TSB have confirmed IT security has already been
reassessed as a result of the New York attacks.

Mark Blowers, senior research analyst for market watcher Butler Group, said
there may be a rethink of remote-working policies. "Firms may consider that
executives do not need to come into a central office every day, opting instead
to work from home," he said.

He added that any such trend could promote the use of virtual private networks
(VPNs), making corporate data securely accessible from remote locations.

- www.idra.com

- www.genesys.com


OUT OF HARM'S WAY

- Following the US attacks, there will be more demand for off-site backup, and
teleconferencing may be used more as an alternative to travel.

- IT managers should prepare for increased interest in remote working, with
staff accessing office data via virtual private networks.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 VNU Business Publications Ltd

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 1, 2001

Planning for the day of disaster TERROR attacks on the World Trade Centre have
bought the need for business disaster planning into sharp focus. While the human
tragedy will never go away, firms based in the Twin Towers must return to
business if they are to show, as President Bush wants, that the Western world
will not give in to terrorism. The need for businesses to protect themselves has
never been greater. Robert Buckland looks at how West firms are preparing for
events they hope will never happen.

BYLINE: Robert Buckland

SECTION: Business, Pg.24/ 25

LENGTH: 742 words


FLOODING, fire, total power failure, terrorist attack, mainframe meltdown
whatever the disaster, businesses must get back to normal as quickly as
possible.

That means more than just a back-up generator on site and an uninterruptable
power supply for the IT department. It means having a plan for wholesale
evacuation of buildings and the movement of thousands of people to alternative,
secure locations.

It also means looking at how every part of the business will cope with a
disaster, manmade or otherwise.

Major businesses have already updated their business continuity or recovery
plans in the wake of the September 11 atrocities.

With London said to be a likely target for future terror strikes, companies in
the capital have been looking at how they can move people quickly away in the
event of an attack.

A number with Bristol links have drawn up contingency plans to bring the
business, including staff, to the West. Others have set up offices in some cases
whole buildings which are exact replicas of their existing bases ready to take
over should disaster strike.

The market for underground bomb shelters has taken off in recent weeks with
former MoD sites soaring in value as companies seek ever safer havens for vital
data and often as bunkers for key staff.

But while the aftermath of the U.S. attacks has sparked a flurry of activity,
experts are warning that all businesses should be vigilant at all times.

John Dyte, partner in charge of property management at Bristol property agents
Hartnell Taylor Cook, believes many firms are now panicking after putting
disaster recovery to one side in recent years.

His 21-strong team advises major clients such as Marks aand Spencer and Tesco on
continuity and recovery issues. Its offices in London and Bristol look after
property valued at more than 2 billion.

"Sadly, many companies in the World Trade Centre hadn't thought about disaster
recovery. They didn't think they would ever be targets, " he said.

"But it isn't just terrorism that affects businesses. Fire, flooding, even a
serious theft can have huge implications. A small fire in an office building can
be put out quickly and without much damage, but it often happens that the fire
brigade find there's asbestos in the building and won't let anyone back in even
those unaffected by the fire. Old buildings may be unsafe after a fire.

"The smallest company needs to monitor these situations. Manufacturers have lost
their edge in the market because fire destroyed their production lines. You
can't just set up somewhere else if what you make is unique." Fire is a huge
risk to businesses and Mr Dyte estimates his team handles at least two cases a
year where a business has seen its premises totally destroyed by fire.

"Many businesses think they're all right because they have insurance on the
building.

But how long does it take to build a new one?

They forget to take out consequential insurance which would allow them to get
back to business straight away." Disasters can have an impact on companies years
after the event. According to Mr Dyte, firms affected by the 1992 Boeing 747
crash in Amsterdam were going bust up to five years later. Physical security
measures are also being stepped up to operate alongside existing measures such
as closed circuit TV.

According to Guardian Security Group, the Bristol-based physical security
specialists, interest in secure safes has soared as businesses seek to preserve
vital paperwork and data in the event of an attack.

Guardian usually receives three or four inquiries a year for a Finnish-made safe
it stocks. In the past two weeks it has had more than 20 inquiries for the safe,
which can withstand temperatures of 1,700 degrees F , being dropped ten metres,
the impact of 300 grammes of dynamite and being submerged in water.

"Companies need to know their data is secure, " said a guardian spokesman.

"They can back up everything on a few floppy disks and lock them in this safe.

Whatever happens, they will be able to get back to work straight away." Putting
in place a proper recovery can be expensive, but there could be cost benefits.

"The events of recent weeks may lead to insurance and re-insurance premiums
increasing, " said Mr Dyte.

"Premiums for collateral losses and business disruption could well be reduced by
the provision of an agreement to a satisfactory disaster recovery plan."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 2, 2001

Blair warning to Taliban over military action;
 Terror in America: KEYNOTE SPEECH: attacks to begin soon against terror bases

BYLINE: Jon Smith PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 542 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair was today warning Afghanistan's ruling Taliban regime
that military strikes would begin after they had failed to surrender Osama bin
Laden to justice.

Mr Blair was telling Labour's annual conference in Brighton that, although
civilian casualties would be avoided if humanly possible, attacks would begin
soon against bases, supply lines and troop deployment.

The Prime Minister was set to say that strikes would be directed at the military
installations and training camps of bin Laden and the Taliban troops' supplies
and finances.

He was expected to tell the conference that the Kabul regime had had the chance
to surrender the "terrorists" and had chosen not to do so.

He will explain that the strike will be aimed at eliminating the military
"hardware" inside Afghanistan, setting the scene for a major military campaign
involving US and possibly British forces.

But he will also use his speech to stress the importance of some good arising
from the "evil" event of September 11, with the world community drawing together
in the wake of the US suicide hijackings.

Mr Blair will emphasise the importance of the "humanitarian coalition" formed in
the wake of the terror attack, to deal with the Afghan refugee crisis.

He will also stress the need for the Middle East peace process to be driven
forward.

But acknowledging the public's fears about what may lie ahead, Mr Blair will say
that the dangers of inaction are now greater than the dangers posed by military
action.

Mr Blair is said to have written his speech, expected to last just under an
hour, in a single session at 10 Downing Street one evening last week.

It will also focus on the domestic agenda, with the Prime Minister insisting his
public service reform package must go ahead to match the extra investment in
schools, hospitals and transport systems.

Sources said that as much of his speech will focus on the domestic agenda as on
the international situation.

The insights into Mr Blair's speech were given by a spokesman for him, speaking
on condition of anonymity.

The premier's speech this afternoon will follow speeches by Foreign Secretary
Jack Straw, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon and International Development Secretary
Clare Short.

The Labour conference will also debate a special motion designed to reflect the
international crisis. Mr Blair is expected to return to London tonight to resume
talks with world leaders over the international crisis.

Meanwhile, four men arrested under the Terrorism Act over the past seven days
were today still being questioned by anti-terrorist officers.

In a new development yesterday, one man was detained by officers from the
Metropolitan Police Anti-Terrorist Branch at premises in central London, said a
Scotland Yard spokeswoman, but she refused to confirm if he was suspected of
links with the US atrocities.

A residential address in south east London was also searched by officers, the
spokeswoman added.

The man remains in custody at a central London police station, believed to be
the high security station at Paddington Green.

"We are not prepared to speculate on any link with the World Trade Centre
incidents, " said the spokeswoman.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 2, 2001

Fan denies terror attack taunts at US soccer star

LENGTH: 238 words


A BRITISH football fan accused of using the terrorist attacks on New York and
Washington to taunt an American soccer player has denied he was making a
reference to the atrocities of September 11.

Celtic supporter David Munro (32) was pictured on television pictures with his
arms outstretched, appearing to mimic an aeroplane, as Glasgow Rangers
midfielder Claudio Reyna prepared to take a corner kick in the Old Firm match at
Ibrox stadium on Sunday.

But Mr Munro, from Johnstone near Glasgow, said last night he was sorry and said
he hoped to apologise to the US international in a letter.

Reyna, from New Jersey, said yesterday he was sickened by the supporter's
actions which came less than three weeks after the terrorist attacks.

Reyna told STV's Scotland Today programme how he saw the fan apparently making
the gesture.

The US international said: "It's disgusting to think about it because of how
horrible the tragedy was and how someone could stoop that low."

Mr Munro described his actions as a "moment of madness", but insisted he only
realised they could be seen as referring to the terrorist attacks afterwards.

He said: "It's been blown out of all proportion. I lost the plot for a moment
and did something I shouldn't have done.

"Henrik Larsson celebrates like that. It was nothing to do with America. If I
can get hold of Claudio Reyna I will send him a letter of apology."


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 2, 2001, Tuesday

BUSINESS: MG ROVER DEFIES UK SALES SLUMP;
 BOOST SINCE TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Jon Griffin

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 366 words


RESURGENT MG Rover is bucking a 40 per cent showroom slump in car sales after
the US terror outrages - with a morale-boosting increase.

A survey by price monitor CarPriceCheck reveals the Longbridge car firm saw its
UK dealers bump up sales covering more than a third of its range since September
11.

By contrast, car buying across the UK has slowed following the terrorist
attacks, despite major price cuts on new models.

The CarPriceCheck monitor reveals that purchasing activity currently stands at
60 per cent of the levels seen before the September 11 hijackings.

The number of consumers indicating an intention to buy a new car within three
months had fallen by 71 per cent, it said. But despite the difficult trading
conditions, dealers representing MG Rover and Volkswagen recorded an increase in
transaction prices on 34 per cent and 30 per cent of their total ranges
respectively, said CarPriceCheck.

MG Rover spokesman Kevin Jones said today: 'Although we cannot comment on
figures at this stage, it does appear sales will be up on September 2000.

'It certainly looks encouraging for September, which is traditionally the best
-selling month of the year.

'Undoubtedly, the introduction of the Rover 75 estate and the new MG range will
have played their part in September's increase.'

Official car sales figures for the UK are due out on Thursday.

Steve Evans, chief executive of CarPriceCheck, said: 'In traditionally the
busiest month of the car-buying calendar, consumer confidence has been visibly
dented, with stories reaching us of BMW and Mercedes customers surrendering
their deposits just so that they can cancel their orders.'

CarPriceCheck said car-buying activity had fallen 'despite the attempts of UK
dealers to rally consumer confidence with a year-high average price cut of 3.6
per cent on leading models.'

It added that 62 per cent of all Ford models, 45 per cent of Renaults and 74 per
cent of Citroens displayed a significant downward change in price.

Mr Evans said manufacturers may have to resort to heavy discounting in an
attempt to attract buyers - or re-adjust the end of year target of 2.3 million
unit sales.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 2, 2001

House prices rise 14.6pc in one year;
U.S. terror attacks expected to halt the surge

BYLINE: Sean Poulter

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 397 words


HOUSE prices rose at their fastest rate for eight years last month, according to
the country's biggest building society.

Figures from the Nationwide show a jump of 2.8 per cent in September and put the
annual increase at 14.6 per cent.

However it warned the impact on the world economy of the terror attacks in the
U.S.

will inevitably affect the market this winter.

Nationwide chief economist Alex Bannister said: 'The tragic events in America
will have an impact on the housing market.

'It may slow more quickly and recover more slowly than we originally envisaged.'
The society put the average house price in September at GBP 92,432 compared with
GBP 80,672 in the same month last year an increase of GBP 11,760, or GBP 226 a
week.

The study also looks at the figures on a quarterly basis covering July to the
end of September which confirms that the market prospered during the normally
quiet summer months.

This put the UK average percentage rise at 12.5 per cent.

East Anglia was the best performing region showing an 18.6 per cent rise.

London ranked second with a 14.7 per cent rise and, perhaps surprisingly given
the downturn in manufacturing, the North West was third at 14.1 per cent.

There is no clear guide as to the reason for the rise in the North West, but the
rejuvenation of Manchester and Liverpool and preparations for the Commonwealth
Games may be a factor.

Lancashire in particular reported some spectacular increases of more than 20 per
cent, including the boroughs of Hyndburn, covering Accrington, Halton, covering
Runcorn and Widnes, Oldham and Burnley.

Other regions with high rises included the Hertfordshire district of Three
Rivers, Suffolk Coastal, Kennet in Wiltshire and Mid Devon.

The London market has been the engine of price rises of the last two years, but
analysts believe it is now most vulnerable following the terror attacks.

The Stock Market turmoil is likely to lead to job losses and lower bonuses and
salaries in the City, and tourism is also expected to suffer.

Last week research published by Reuters suggested job losses and lower earnings
in and around the City of London may bring a fall in prices next year.

Estate agents claim the housing market in central London 'fell off a cliff'
immediately following the attacks on September 11.

s.poulter@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 2, 2001

Altman savages Hollywood after US terror attacks;
londoner's diary

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 593 words


FILM DIRECTOR Robert Altman has made an astonishing attack on America's film
industry in the light of the 11 September terrorist attack.

"I hope it destroys Hollywood as comprehensively as it destroyed the World Trade
Center," the M*A*S*H director told me after the premiere of A Day In The Death
Of Joe Egg at the New Ambassadors theatre last night. Altman, who famously
satirised Hollywood in his

1992 film The Player, also suggested that the days of the adrenaline-fix action
movie could now be numbered. "If you'd put up $ 100 million for a film which had
Spiderman scaling the World Trade Center, would you release it?" he said. "Well
maybe you would, but only in Asia."

Spiderman is, of course, now being reedited and the trailer depicting that scene
has been pulled.

Altman has already made his views clear on President Bush - last year he
threatened to leave America if Bush won the election.

Comedy moment

UNSUNG HEROINE of the Labour conference must be the interpreter who translated
Gerhard Schroeder's agonisingly dull speech yesterday.

For some reason she was not given a text of the German Chancellor's remarks, so
had to jot down a shorthand version of his words and then regurgitate them
seconds later.

In her struggle she unintentionally inserted a rare joke into Schroeder's
address. He announced "profound solidarity with my many old friends in Labour".
She translated this as "profound solidarity with Old Labour".

This got a huge whoop of delight from leftwing delegates, utterly baffling
Schroeder but bringing a rueful smile to the face of the decidedly New Labour
Tony Blair.

Culture gap

FOUR MONTHS after Robin Young, the flamboyant Permanent Secretary at the
Department of Culture, moved to Trade and Industry, his successor is yet to be
appointed.

Now I hear of a candidate who could satisfy minister Tessa Jowell's often
repeated call for more women in positions of influence.

She is Pam Alexander, who said recently that she was leaving her post as chief
executive of English Heritage 18 months early.

When Alexander announced her unexpected departure from EH in July, this was
attributed to a clash of personalities with the new chairman Sir Neil Cossons.

"I have heard Pam Alexander is a candidate for the job," says a DCMS spokesman.

"The appointment is made by the Cabinet Office and the selection process is a
wellkept secret."

TRY as he might, Neil Kinnock can't disguise the fact he would love a berth in
the House of Lords once he retires as an EU Commissioner in three years' time.
"Oooh, I doubt they'd offer it," Kinnock blustered at the Metropole Hotel in
Brighton last night. "I really, honest to God don't know if I'd accept, but it
will make me feel awfully old if I do."

TODAY programme presenter James Naughtie seemed unusually animated this morning
as he discussed a "very important" ruling by the European Court of Human Rights
about noisy night flights into Heathrow.

Could this be the same James Naughtie who recently bought a new home in Kew -
directly under the Heathrow flightpath?

WHAT a strange way to spend a honeymoon. Jennifer Lopez (pictured) and husband
Cris Judd, who got married in California over the weekend, are guests of honour
tonight at a huge party thrown by Donatella Versace at Villa Fontanelle, the
baroque palazzo designed by her late brother Gianni on the shores of Lake Como.
Clearly, Donatella has no ill feelings towards J-Lo who enlisted rival Italian
designer Valentino to make her lace wedding dress.


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ALTMAN: "I HOPE IT DESTROYS HOLLYWOOD" SCHROEDER: COMRADES AMUSED BY
ACCIDENTAL GAG IN HIS SPEECH

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 2, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERRORISM: AFTERMATH - ATTACKS EXPECTED TO COST NEW YORK AT LEAST POUNDS
40BN

BYLINE: Matthew Beard The destroyed remains of the World Trade Centre

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 360 words


THE TERRORIST attacks on the World Trade Centre could cost New York as much as $
60bn (pounds 40bn).

The cost - the equivalent of the annual GDP of Hungary - could rise even more in
future years, insurance industry sources told New York's Daily News yesterday.

Insurance payouts were expected to reach $ 25bn, passing the previous record
payout of $ 19bn for Hurricane Andrew in 1992.

Claims on life insurance policies will total an estimated $ 5bn and the US
government will also pay $ 151,635 to each family of an emergency services
worker lost in the tragedy.

Relatives of those who died were believed to be in line for a $ 5bn (pounds
3.4bn) payout in damages, legal experts told the newspaper.

City authorities yesterday reported high demand for a scheme to buy city bonds.
It was reported in the first two days of the scheme - under which citizens in
effect lend their city cash towards the rebuilding programme - that a total of $
66.5m "New York City recovery notes" had been sold.

That figure is due to increase significantly today when the bonds are offered to
institutional investors - many of whom were directly affected by the strikes on
the twin towers.

New York's Transitional Finance Authority will issue bonds worth $ 1bn initially
in a scheme aimed at contributing to the cost of the clean-up and repair
efforts.

The overtime bill for police officers and firefighters is expected to be
enormous.

The bond scheme was yesterday boosted by support of the New York Mayor Rudolph
Giuliani. He said the bonds were "an interesting way of showing your confidence
in the city". He added: "I'm not usually in the business of selling bonds, but I
think it would be a very nice, symbolic gesture."

Bill Mason, the head of municipal sales at David Lerner Associates, which is
helping to administer the scheme, said: "We are getting a large number of calls
on these (notes) and the first question is, 'How can I get some?' not, 'What's
the rate?'."

New York authorities may choose in the longer term to buy back the bonds using
some of the $ 20bn aid package announced by President George Bush after the
attacks.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 2, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERRORISM: AFTERMATH - ATTACKS EXPECTED TO COST NEW YORK AT LEAST POUNDS
40BN

BYLINE: Matthew Beard The destroyed remains of the World Trade Centre

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 393 words


THE TERRORIST attacks on the World Trade Centre could lead to insurance payouts
of up to $ 60bn (pounds 40bn) - the equivalent of Hungary's gross domestic
product, industry experts forecast yesterday.

Payouts on properties in lower Manhattan may be as high as $ 30bn, which would
dwarf the previous highest claim of $ 19bn after Hurricane Andrew in 1992.

A breakdown of the financial damage, compiled by insurance experts for the New
York Daily News, showed the devastating effect of hitting at one of the world's
financial and commercial centres: the property value of the twin towers is
estimated to be as high as $ 8bn while hotels are expected to file claims for
daily losses of $ 7m.

Claims on life insurance policies will total an estimated $ 5bn, and legal
experts forecast that relatives of the dead may file lawsuits amounting to $ 5bn
(pounds 3.4bn).The US government will also pay $ 151,635 to each family of an
emergency services worker lost in the tragedy.

Municipal authorities have turned to their own citizens in an attempt to raise
funds towards repairs through a bond scheme. Authorities yesterday reported a
high demand for the city bonds, or "New York City recovery notes". In the first
two days of the scheme, a total of $ 66.5m bonds had been sold to individual
investors. That figure is due to increase significantly today when the bonds are
offered to institutional investors - many of whom were directly affected by the
strikes on the twin towers.

New York's Transitional Finance Authority will issue bonds worth $ 1bn initially
in a scheme aimed at contributing to the cost of overtime for police officers
and firefighters.

The bond scheme was boosted yesterday by the support of New York's Mayor,
Rudolph Giuliani. He said the bonds were "an interesting way of showing your
confidence in the city". He added: "I'm not usually in the business of selling
bonds but I think it would be a very nice, symbolic gesture."

Bill Mason, the head of municipal sales at David Lerner Associates, which is
helping to administer the scheme, said: "We are getting a large number of calls
and the first question is 'How can I get some?' not 'What's the rate?'" New York
authorities may choose in the longer term to buy back the bonds using some of
the $ 20bn aid package announced by the President after the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 2, 2001, Tuesday

LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE: THE 'INDEPENDENT' DEBATE - TERROR ATTACKS WERE A
WAKE-UP CALL TO THE WEST, SAYS MANDELSON

BYLINE: Ben Russell Political Correspondent Alan Simpson, left, and Peter
Mandelson at the Labour fringe meeting last night David Sandison

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 648 words


THE FORMER cabinet minister Peter Mandelson warned last night that the West
should heed a "pretty powerful wake-up call" in the aftermath of terrorist
attacks on the United States.

He called for the reform of international institutions and warned that there was
"animosity, resentment and hatred" of the West.

Mr Mandelson told a Labour Party fringe meeting organised by The Independent
that there were countries and cultures which felt overwhelmed by Western
cultural domination.

Mr Mandelson insisted there was "overwhelming" justification for action against
international terrorism. But he cautioned that, for many, the images of the West
"generate aspirations among the poor, but equally it breeds animosity, and in
other cases breeds resentment and hatred of the West". He said the world should
wage a humanitarian as well as a military campaign against terror, to give the
Afghan people freedom from poverty.

Mr Mandelson criticised the description of the campaign as a "war on terrorism".
He said: "It is emotive, it is misleading, it's almost certainly
counter-productive." He said Britain was right to stand "shoulder to shoulder"
with the Americans, but warned that economic sanctions and international
pressure should be applied against state sponsors of terrorism, rather than
military strikes.

He insisted the campaign against terrorism was not a war against Islam, nor a
war against the Afghan people. Instead, it was a campaign against specific
people and training camps involved in global terrorism.

He said: "It is a campaign that is being planned for a set of values and beliefs
that are as much part of the Islamic faith as any other.

"I think that if one message above all comes out of this conference it is that
Islam is fully part of the civilisation whose beliefs, whose values and decency
we are trying to engage in this military campaign in the weeks to come; a
campaign which is being taken just as much on behalf of those who are Jews and
Christians."

Mr Mandelson described Osama bin Laden's followers as an occupying force in
Afghanistan but also attacked the country's Taliban leadership. He said: "Let us
be clear about the regime. I do not think there is any set of people whose
attitudes, whose sheer disbelief in any comprehensible set of human rights
exists in any country elsewhere in the world. They are an extraordinary,
exceptional, oppressive set of people."

He added: "It is the liberation of the Afghan people which is so desperately
needed in the circumstances."

Alan Simpson, MP for Nottingham South and chairman of the Labour Campaign Group,
said there had been no coherent justification for direct attacks on Afghanistan.
He said: "We have not bombed Afghanistan, nor should we." He called for evidence
against Osama bin Laden to be presented to an international tribunal and warned
the West was at risk of "hanging without a trial".

Mr Simpson said: "We keep hearing there is incontrovertible evidence to try bin
Laden for these atrocities. If this is so, then convene an international panel
of justice to weigh the evidence."

He said that both the Taliban and Saddam Hussein had been supported by the West
in the past, warning that it would be helpful if today's enemies were not
"yesterday's friends". He also warned against the Government imposing fresh
curbs on civil liberties in the wake of the attacks on America.

Carol Naughton, chairwoman of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, speaking
from the floor, warned of civilian casualties if military strikes go ahead. She
said: "We need to look to the United Nations. We cannot look to more violence."

But David Aaronovitch, the broadcaster and columnist for The Independent,
criticised anti-war campaigners. He said: "Where are the banners about Osama bin
Laden? Where are the banners about the people who actually do these things?"

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 02, 2001

Schroeder exploits terror attacks to promote EU;

SECTION:  Pg. 7

LENGTH: 201 words


GERMAN Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder cynically exploited the United States
terrorist attacks yesterday in a bid to promote European Union propaganda.

He told the Labour Party conference: "Europe is the most successful political
project in our varied and sometimes bloody history.

"Europe is not only the people's answer to war.

"I am convinced that Europe will also play a vital role in the peoples' answer
to terrorism, " Chancellor Schroeder declared.

Speaking in German, he said that, in view of new forms of threat, "we should do
more to advocate the successful form of co-operative security practised in
Europe as an idea to be emulated by other regions of the world."

He added that it was important "for Great Britain, under the leadership of Tony
Blair and Labour, to join us and our European partners without competitive
squabbling and petty jealousies."

And Chancellor Schroeder insisted that the recent terrorist atrocities in the US
had increased the need for European security services and military forces to
intensify their exchange of experiences.

He said that the "first objective" must be to "develop the Euro-Atlantic
community as an anchor for security."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

GRAPHIC: MINI SUMMIT: Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder addressing conference.

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            October 2, 2001, Tuesday

THREE ARE JAILED AFTER WOMAN'S TERROR ORDEAL;
 ATTACKERS BEAT AND TORTURED THEIR VICTIM

BYLINE: Fred Brenton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 407 words


THREE attackers have been jailed for a total of more than six years after nearly
drowning their Cardiff victim in a vicious three-hour attack.

Survivor Dawn Harman told today how she thought she would die at their hands.

Homeless Dawn was set upon by her so-called friends Anthea O'Sullivan, Michael
Farr and Adrian "Chico" Day after they invited her back to O'Sullivan and Farr's
highrise flat in Loudon Square, Butetown.

Once there, they attacked the 44-year-old, kicking and beating her - at one
point with a metal bar - for hours in the bedroom and bathroom of the 14th
-floor council home.

At one point, Day repeatedly held her under bathwater until she thought she
could breathe no longer.

"I just thought, 'How long can I hold my breath'?" Dawn told the Echo.

"I thought they would kill me. When you're held under the water and you can't
breathe any more and you fall unconscious - of course you think you're going to
die.

"I can't remember falling unconscious - all I can remember is my head being
pulled back by the hair and people trying to revive me and wake me up."

The three assailants even threatened to throw her out of the window of the flat.

"They didn't open the window but they threatened to throw me out of it, " said
Dawn. "I thought I was surely going to die because there's no way you can
survive a fall from 14 storeys up."

O'Sullivan, 24, Farr, 36, both of Loudon Square, and Day, 44, of Compton Street,
Grangetown, were sentenced for their parts in the attack by Judge Christopher
Morton in Cardiff Crown Court yesterday.

"This was a prolonged, continuing, bullying act of violence, " said Judge
Morton.

"You each played a full part in it and that's what makes it such a serious
offence and that is why it has got to be prison for each of you."

All three pleaded guilty to the offences of false imprisonment, unlawful
wounding and causing grievous bodily harm and were each told they would serve
half of their given sentences, serving the remainder under licence.

O'Sullivan was jailed for 20 months, Farr for 24 months and Day for 30 months.

Hearing of her attackers sentences Harman, who lives in the Tresillian House
homeless hostel in Tresillian Way, told the Echo: "I don't think Chico got
enough for what he did.

"What's going to happen to me when Chico gets out? I won't be safe when he gets
back out and I'm sure he'll come after me when he does."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 2, 2001, Tuesday

TERRORIST ATTACK HITS WH SMITH'S PROFITS;
 NEWSAGENT: DROP IN TRADING WIPES POUNDS 65M OFF VALUE OF COMPANY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 177 words


NEWSAGENT group WH Smith warned the recent terrorist attacks had hit trading at
its 500-plus shops in the US.

The Swindon group said following the events of September 11, it had seen a
"material adverse impact" on trading at its 180 airport stores and 393 hotel
gift shops across America.

WH Smith, which operates more than 1,500 shops around the world, said it could
not assess the expected impact on profits.

"Whilst we continue to evaluate the potential longer term impact of these
events, at this early stage it is not possible to assess with any degree of
certainty what the full effect on sales and profits in the current financial
year will be, " it said.

In the group's last financial year the US stores - which generate less than 10pc
of group sales and profits - reported sales of pounds 192m and operating profits
of pounds 12m.

Shares in WH Smith slid 6pc to 410p following the announcement, valuing it at
pounds 1.02bn - pounds 65m less than the previous day.

WH Smith will report its fullyear figures on October 18.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           October 3, 2001, Wednesday

UNCERTAINTY AFTER TERROR ATTACKS TURNS THE TABLES;
 TOM MORRIS-JONES ON THE LATEST UPS AND DOWNS IN MIDLAND BUSINESS

BYLINE: Tom Morris-jones

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1220 words


Reflecting on economic developments over the last few months reveals a picture
of both uncertainty and imbalance, which has been intensified after recent
events in the United States.

Speculation has grown over the depth and duration of the US slowdown and the
extent this will affect the UK economy. Imbalance has been demonstrated by the
relative strength of the consumer sector compared with the weakening performance
of manufacturing.

According to the latest Royal Bank of Scotland Quarterly Economic Update, UK
gross domestic product (GDP) grew at a much slower level during the second
quarter of 2001 than in quarter one - by 0.3 per cent, down from 0.5 per cent in
the first quarter.

Manufacturing output has experienced a marked fall over the summer, reporting a
decline of 2.1 per cent between June and August. The most significant impact has
been realised in electrical and optical equipment output, incorporating the
production of telecommunications and computing equipment.

Figures released by the Office for National Statistics show that exports have
reached their lowest level for a year in July, recording a fall of 1.9 per cent
to pounds 21 billion. A recent survey by the Confederation of British Industry
confirms that 50 per cent of manufacturers reported that export order books were
below normal, with overall output expected to decline further in coming months.

Growth in the services sector remained strong during the second quarter,
recording 0.8 per cent. This view of a buoyant service economy is further
supported by the findings of the CBI distributive trades survey, which indicates
higher sales for almost half of the retailers surveyed.

Yet, despite these encouraging reports, there is evidence that the global
downturn has begun to affect some areas of the sector, including management
consultants, advertising and recreational services. In addition, the economic
impact of events in the US is clearly apparent in the retail sector, as the
British Retail Consortium have confirmed sales were down by between 20 and 30
per cent in the first few days following September 11. Consumers are gradually
returning to shopping centres, but the full impact of these events on the high
street will not be noticeable until further data is released next month.

The most recent meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee resulted in a further
25 basis points reduction in UK interest rates, marking the fifth cut so far
this year. The decision was arrived at after a series of cuts in overseas
markets, initiated by the Federal Reserve's 50 basis points reduction and
swiftly followed by the European Central Bank and others. Despite this move,
underlying inflation has exceeded the Government's 2.5 per cent target for the
first time in over two years. As the current situation raises uncertainty over
market confidence, the outlook for economic growth and inflation is yet to be
determined.

Similar to the turnaround in inflation figures, the Government has confirmed
that unemployment has risen this month for the first time since autumn last
year. The number of people reported to be seeking work but unable to find
employment peaked at 1.491million in the three months to July. Compared to the
results for the previous three months, this total marks an increase of 13,000
unemployed people and is the first rise since September to November last year.
In conjunction with this, the Office for National Statistics reported a slowdown
in earnings growth, indicating that the weakening economy is beginning to feed
through to wages and increases the risk to consumer confidence.

Turning to the tables, Enterprise Inns has retained premier position in the
larger companies' table for the third consecutive month. The Solihull-based
leased and tenanted pub company, is planning to rapidly expand its pub chain in
Scotland as part of a multi-million investment programme. This latest
announcement to increase the company's presence north of the border, follows the
recent purchase of 432 Scottish and Newcastle pubs.

Britax International has climbed up two places this month to second place. The
automotive and aerospace group divested its automotive mirrors unit to focus on
higher margin businesses such as aircraft interiors, specialised vehicle systems
and child safety products. Most recently, the company accepted a pounds 441
million recommended cash bid by Seton House Acquisitions that propelled the
company into the private equity market.

Aggregate Industries remains firmly in third position for a second month. One of
the UK's largest aggregates groups, Aggregate Industries has aggregate
production facilities serving about ten states in the US. These expanding
overseas markets have resulted in approximately 55 per cent of sales being
derived from the US.

First position in the medium sized companies' table is awarded once again to the
cider-maker HP Bulmer. The Hereford-based company has been experiencing strong
growth in Europe and has sustained good top-line growth in its home market since
the year ended in April. These confident results are attributed to the
performance of the company's Strongbow and beer brands.

The property developer A&J Mucklow has risen one place this month to take second
position. The firm has undertaken a 15 per cent share buyback scheme this year,
which resulted in an increase in net asset value of 12 per cent to 308p a share
in the year to 30 June. In addition, the group has completed four new projects
in recent weeks at Wednesbury, Coleshill, Leamington Spa and Halesowen.

Third place is occupied by another of the region's property developers, St
Modwen Properties. The company has recently announced plans to initiate a pounds
100 million mixed retail, leisure and residential development that will
regenerate Dudley's Castle Hill area.

Moving to the smaller Shareleague table, Norman Hay has climbed up 15 places
this month to take the lead position. Despite the difficulties facing many
manufacturers, Norman Hay has remained robust and its largest subsidiary,
Ultraseal, has won a number of motor industry orders from Japan, Korea and the
US.

Second position is occupied by the Warwick-based storage products manufacturer
and automotive parts supplier, Wagon. After releasing healthy results at the
beginning of June, shares in the company are reported to have outperformed the
market by 56 per cent. Trading in most of the group's operations was ahead of
last year and with the recent appointment of Mr Graeme Walford from GKN, the
company intends to realise its vision of becoming Europe's leading design and
build engineer for the large car manufacturers.

Finally, S&U has moved up two places to third position in the Shareleague table.
Interim financials for the period ending 31 July 2001 revealed a 30 per cent
rise in the company's pre-tax profits and productivity for the last twelve
months increased by 13 per cent. One of S&U's new ventures, the motor subsidiary
Advantage Finance, contributed pounds 436,000 to the profits for the first half
of the year. Although changes are expected in the economic climate, the company
envisages continued progress from the home collected credit side of its
operation.

Tom Morris-Jones is a consultant at Old Mutual Securities.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           October 3, 2001, Wednesday

POLICE DISMISS TERROR ATTACK RUMOUR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 113 words


POLICE in Warwickshire have moved to allay fears that the county is being
targeted by terrorists following the attacks in America.

The force has been inundated with calls from people concerned after hearing
rumours of a possible attack in the county.

Officers believe people are worried after hearing rumours of people being told
to stay out of parts of Warwickshire and the West Midlands because of bomb
threats.

But they said there have been no warnings of any terrorists targeting the area.

The Army nationally is investigating hoax call-up letters to some part- time
recruits, saying they had been chosen to take part in the war against terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 3, 2001

Blair's shuttle to 'seal deal' for attacks;
the terrorist crisis

BYLINE: Robert Fox;Jeremy Campbell

SECTION: Pg. 1;4

LENGTH: 614 words


IN LAST-MINUTE diplomatic moves before US strikes, Tony Blair was set to fly to
Pakistan to make an appeal through General Musharraf to the Taliban to surrender
Osama bin Laden.

At the same time, US Secretary of Defence Donald Rumsfeld has left for the
Middle East on a hastily organised three-day trip intended to "seal the deal" of
an antiterrorist alliance and nail down the co-operation needed to enable
American forces to stage their long expected attack on terrorist redoubts in
Afghanistan.

The Prime Minister, who will visit Moscow en route, will be accompanied by Lord
Guthrie, the former Chief of the Defence Staff, who has been in regular contact
with Pakistan's leader since the terrorist attacks of 11 September.

Pakistan is now the only country which recognises the Taliban regime in
Afghanistan. Last week General Musharraf said he still had seen no proof that
Bin Laden was behind the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

Tony Blair is expected to furnish him with the evidence garnered by US
intelligence agencies, which he and his Nato allies believe show a direct link
between Bin Laden and the attacks.

Last weekend General Musharraf showed his exasperation with the Taliban
authorities when they said they had got Bin Laden after saying previously they
did not know where he is. The Pakistani leader told the Taliban to give up the
Saudi renegade, or face the near certainty of attacks by America and its allies.

The same message will be delivered by Mr Blair. If the Taliban do not comply,
attacks by American and British aircraft and cruise missiles could start next
week.

A message from the Taliban last night asking for talks with the Americans
offered a small glimmer of hope for negotiations but diplomats have been
treating the overture from Kabul with caution and scepticism.

During his visit the Prime Minister is also likely to offer the Pakistanis help
with the huge refugee crisis, which now threatens to get out of control.

Mr Rumsfeld's tour, which includes Saudi Arabia, Oman, Egypt and Uzbekistan, is
being compared to the stage-setting trip made by Dick Cheney, then Secretary of
Defence, to the Persian Gulf just before the start of Desert Storm.

Near the top of his list of priorities is to talk his way to an agreement with
Uzbekistan, on the northern border of Afghanistan, to use the country as a
staging area for the attack.

Uzbekistan is now regarded as a potential key asset in the comimg showdown, but
is rated the coalition's single most fragile link. Highly attractive to the US
are the abandoned air bases, once used by the Soviet Union.

This will be Mr Rumsfeld's first faceto-face meeting with the regime there.

Tony Blair is also expected to make a stopover in Oman and meet thousands of
British service men and women now on a major exercise there. Oman is regarded by
the US as an important support base for a ground incursion into Afghanistan.

One notable omission on Mr Rumsfeld's itinerary is Pakistan. "The last thing
Pakistan needs is a high profile visit by a US Secretary of Defence," said a
Pentagon official. The country is contending with ferocious anti-American
demonstrations, with Mr Bush burned in effigy and hordes shouting: "Death to
America! Let Americans come here to be buried!"

As the military build up continued the Pentagon announced that 2,263 National
Guard and Reserve troops had been called to active duty, bringing the total
reserves mobilised to more than 22,400. About 30,000 American servicemen are in
the region, including two aircraft carrier battle groups and 350 planes. Two
additional aircraft carriers are under way.


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 3, 2001

Mossad tries to link Hezbollah man to attacks;
the terrorist crisis

BYLINE: Philip Jacobson

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 521 words


MOSSAD INTELLIGENCE experts suspect that a Hezbollah terrorist is a key
accomplice to Osama bin Laden Years before any secret service opened a file on
Bin Laden, the most wanted terrorist was Imad Mugniyeh. From the street fighting
of the Lebanese civil war, Mugniyeh became a leader of the Iranian-backed
Hezbollah organisation dedicated to destroying western influence in the Middle
East.

From the start, America was his target: the truck bombs that he perfected killed
240 US Marines (and almost 60 French paras) in Beirut on the same day in 1983.

Then he picked off American civilians in Lebanon as hostages, later kidnapping
John McCarthy and Terry Waite. Before long, the CIA considered Mugniyeh so
dangerous it decided to abduct him on a Middle East flight but the plan was
aborted at the last minute.

And now Mugniyeh is emerging as a suspected key accessory to the 11 September
atrocities whose ruthlessness strikes a chord with the western intelligence
agencies that have hunted him for decades.

American and Israeli officials have long suspected that from his base in Tehran
-- where he serves as Hezbollah's head of foreign operations protected by
hardline Iranian political factions -- he had opened clandestine contacts with
Bin Laden, offering his expertise in special missions.

According to the Israelis - whose troops suffered repeated suicide attacks
before Hezbollah drove them from South Lebanon - Mugniyeh is behind the periodic
kidnapping of their soldiers along Israel's frontier with Lebanon.

"This guy knows exactly what he's doing," said one official. "When he's got
enough of our kids in the bag, he'll demand the release of every Islamic
terrorist we're holding in prison."

Intelligence files also show that Mugniyeh has visited most of the countries
classified by America as sponsors of terrorism -Syria, Sudan and Afghanistan
among them -- and link him to attacks around the world.

The destruction of American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, which
claimed 250 lives, bore all the hallmarks of his earlier truck bomb operations
in Beirut, while unconfirmed reports have claimed he had a hand in bombs in
Moscow allegedly carried out by Islamic militants from Chechnya.

A trial that has recently opened in Buenos Aires is expected to hear evidence,
from the FBI among others, of Hezbollah's involvement in the explosion of the
Israeli embassy in the Argentine capital in 1994 when 29 people died, and the
suicide bomb that pulverised a crowded Jewish community centre in the city two
years later leaving 85 dead and hundreds injured.

Earlier this year, Argentina's Supreme Court issued a warrant for Mugniyeh's
arrest as the alleged mastermind of the atrocities and he was formally indicted.

"Whatever the Bin Laden investigation throws up, there's absolutely no doubt in
our mind that Mugniyeh is still very active," said one Israeli security
official.

"His career demonstrates what we have warned for so long that international
terrorism constantly recycles itself and is always looking for the means to
inflict more terrible blows."


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 3, 2001

After three weeks, that's enough war talk;
Media: The terror attacks are no longer selling extra papers, discovers Donald
Trelford

BYLINE: Donald Trelford

SECTION: Pg. 54

LENGTH: 432 words


READERS of tabloid newspapers appear to have tired of waiting for the shooting
war to begin. Unofficial circulation figures show that sales have fallen back to
where they were before the disasters of 11 September in New York and Washington.
The same is true of most regional papers.

"It's only human nature," says one circulation manager.

"People are reading more or less the same story every day and they're getting a
bit weary of it. Mind you, if hostilities start, we can expect the figures to
shoot up again."

This pattern appears to hold true for all the tabloids except the Daily Mail,
which claims that at least 40,000 of its circulation increase over last year's
figure can be attributed directly to war coverage (as opposed to seasonal
promotional efforts). Sales of The Sun, The Mirror and the Daily Express are all
roughly back to their pre-11 September figures.

The Guardian and The Observer, which appear to have cornered the market among
opponents of a heavy military response, are bucking the trend by holding on to a
10 per cent gain.

Bob Steadman, general manager for circulations, says they have put many
thousands of "extras" into the market, climaxing on Saturday 14 September, with
a record sale of 654,000 for The Guardian. (The average daily sale in August was
390,000.) The Telegraph and The Times claim to have held on to a small portion
of their extra readers, but the graph is well down on the fortnight after the
disaster. David Green, the circulation director of The Independent, claims to
have held a four per cent gain, although the paper started from a much lower
base than its rivals. He expects the growth to continue as students return to
universities this month.

The audited circulation figures for September, to be published next week, will
show massive gains all round, with averages inflated by freak sales in the
immediate aftermath of the disaster.

These averages will not reveal the sudden turnoff by readers over the past week.

One circulation manager admits: "We hit a wall over the past weekend." This does
not mean readers are any less shocked or frightened by the events in the US, but
they may now suspect that newspapers have no real inside knowledge of America's
intentions and they have had more than enough armchair speculation.

If and when something does happen, newspapers will quickly recapture their
readers' attention.

Donald Trelford, editor of The Observer 1975-93, is visiting professor in the
Department of Journalism Studies at Sheffield University and president of the
Media Society.


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 3, 2001

Sign of attacks were there, admits Powell;
THE TERRORIST CRISIS

BYLINE: Patrick Sawer

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 762 words


MORE details of the US intelligence debacle in the run-up to 11 September
emerged today when it was revealed that days before the attacks, the Justice
Department turned down an FBI request to search the computer of a man now being
held for questioning in connection with the outrages.

The embarrassing procedural failure came as Secretary of State Colin Powell
admitted the US had received "a lot of signs" that attacks were being planned,
but the intelligence agencies failed to pick up enough information to stop them.

The proposed search warrant would have targeted the computer of Zacarias
Moussaoui, now being held as a material witness in the investigation.

When the FBI carried out a search of his home after the attacks, Moussaoui's
computer was found to contain data on jetliners and crop-dusters. Fearing a
potential threat, US officials temporarily grounded all cropdusters.

Newsweek magazine reported today that before 11 September, investigators lacked
enough information to justify the warrant under the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act.

The French-Algerian was taken into custody on 17 August after instructors at a
Minnesota flight school became suspicious when he told them he wanted to fly a
jetliner, but did not need to know how to land. He also asked about opening
cabin doors while planes were in flight. While subsequently being held on
suspicion of immigration violations, his alleged colleagues hijacked four
jetliners and crashed them into the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and a field
in southwestern Pennsylvania, killing more than 5,000 people.

Police officials say France's internal security service had placed Moussaoui on
a 1999 watch list of those linked to militant Islamic groups.

The rejection of the warrant has led to tensions between the Minneapolis FBI
field agents and the Justice Department and FBI chiefs in Washington, who said
there was no necessary evidence that the suspect was an "agent" of a foreign
power or terrorist group.

Local FBI men insist a more agressive investigation of Moussaoui might have
yielded further clues about the impending plot.

One investigator told Newsweek: "The question being asked here is if they put
two and two together, they could have gotten a lot more information about the
guy - if not stopped the hijacking."

Details about Moussaoui emerged as Attorney General John Ashcroft said US
officials have told their allies that some of the same terrorists involved in
the 11 September attacks have been linked to the East Africa embassy bombings
and the attack on the USS Cole.

The links, contained in a detailed summary of evidence sent to allies on Monday,
connect the hijackers to fugitive Saudi millionaire Osama bin Laden, who has
been indicted in the embassy bombings and is thought by US officials to have
masterminded the Cole attack.

In an interview with the New York Times, Mr Powell expressed frustration that,
despite a summer of warnings of possible actions against American civilian and
military sites around the world, the information was not precise enough to
identify the intended targets.

He said: "There were a lot of signs that there was something going on. But we
never got the fidelity and the information that we would have liked to, some
warning of what did actually happen."

Mr Powell suggested that the State Department and the intelligence agencies had
been on high alert against terrorism, and had been trying, though its embassies
abroad, to hone in on Bin Laden's plans.

"There were a number of reports that we were worried about but that never
crystallised," he said.

The newspaper said that last June and early July, intelligence officials warned
that Bin Laden and his al Qaeda terror network appeared to be planning attacks
against American interests.

Those warnings prompted public alerts by the administration of possible attacks
timed for Independence Day on 4 July, but when no attacks took place,
intelligence officials began to assume the immediate threat had passed.

In the interview, Mr Powell made it clear that the administration is still at
the early stages of winning full co-operation from allied and other nations for
retaliatory action.

He said "all paths" led to Bin Laden and al Qaeda, although he cautioned against
seeing things in terms of a case "that's going to go to trial in a court".

Administration officials have been briefing allies on what the Secretary of
State called "pretty good information" establishing the link between the
hijackers and Bin Laden.


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 3, 2001

Stars shine for New York in Lennon tribute;Music's biggest names in tune to help
city recover after terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 215 words


The stars came out for a concert paying tribute to John Lennon and to the people
of New York, the city where he died.

Performers from Lou Reed to Lennon's son Sean played at Radio City Music Hall in
a night when his music and words were aimed at uplifting the spirit of the city,
still reeling from the September 11 terror strikes on the World Trade Centre.

The show, broadcast live on American TV, also raised money for charities helping
families of police and firefighters killed or injured in the aftermath of the
attacks.

Actor Kevin Spacey hosted the event and the musicians included Alanis
Morissette, Craig David and Nelly Furtado.

The Come Together show had been planned before the attacks, but was postponed by
a week as organisers,

including Lennon's widow Yoko Ono, worked out what to do.

Songs included Come Together, Imagine and Revolution, while 80s singer Cyndi
Lauper sang Strawberry Fields live from the area in New York's Central Park
named after the song in memory of Lennon.

One of the films screened of Lennon and Ono showed them looking at the towers of
the World Trade Centre as they were being built.

Spacey paid tribute to firefighters, police and rescue workers, using Lennon's
phrase to describe them as "working class heroes".

LOAD-DATE: October 04, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TUNING UP FOR TRIBUTE: Moby ;LOOKING GOOD: country singer Shelby
Lynne;IN LOVING MEMORY: Lennon's wife Yoko and son Sean;RAP KING: chart topper
Shaggy

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                October 3, 2001

Blunkett reveals new moves to stop hate crime
 Guns peppering bin Laden Terror attack on US speeds up job losses at airport

BYLINE: BY SENTINEL REPORTER

SECTION: Crime: Terrorism, Pg.2

LENGTH: 851 words


MEASURES to combat anti-Moslem hate crimes in the wake of last month's terror
attacks were being announced today by Home Secretary David Blunkett.

Mr Blunkett was outlining the proposed legislation - which includes measures to
counter illegal immigration into the UK - in his keynote speech at the final day
of the Labour Party conference in Brighton.

He said he hoped to have the details of the proposed laws drafted and ready to
take to Parliament in two or three weeks.

"I shall be spelling out changes which I hope will prevent incitement by
ensuring that people cannot promote hatred on the grounds of religion as well as
race. It's about recognising that our community, our citizenship is built on
understanding that we have in common the most basic of all tenets which is
security, order and freedom from fear."

Meanwhile, as the hunt goes on to catch terrorists, a man, alleged to be a key
member of an Osama bin Laden cell, which was set to unleash mayhem in Europe,
has admitted that he recruited followers at mosques in Britain.

French authorities said Djamel Beghal, 35, a French-Algerian, confessed during
interrogation last month in Dubai to being involved in a bin Laden-backed plot
to blow up the US embassy in Paris.

He told them he frequented mosques in London and Leicester to recruit several
Islamic militants for bin Laden's al-Qaida network.  In Britain yesterday,
anti-terrorist officers released without charge a 36-year-old man arrested at
Gatwick Airport on Friday.  The man, believed to be an Arab, was travelling from
the Middle East to the US.

It was reported that he was attempting to follow the same route to the US as 11
of the 19 suicide hijackers who attacked New York and Washington.

But a police spokesman said last night: "The man arrested under the Prevention
of Terrorism Act has been released without charge and is now with the
immigration authorities."

Officers in London were today continuing to question a 43-year-old man, arrested
on Monday, over whether he raised funds for the extremist group Islamic Jihad,
which is banned in Britain.  They obtained a 48-hour extension yesterday to
continue questioning him.

The Taliban today pronounced themselves "ready for negotiations" over Osama bin
Laden's fate - something the United States says is now impossible.

But the US has turned down Taliban offers to negotiate, which President George W
Bush reiterated yesterday. He said the Taliban must shut down bin Laden's
al-Qaida network in Afghanistan "otherwise there will be a consequence. There
are no negotiations," he said.

The US president has also approved assistance to groups within Afghanistan that
oppose the Taliban.

Mr Blair told a Labour Party conference yesterday that the Taliban "can
surrender the terrorists or face the consequences.

He added: "There is no diplomacy with bin Laden or the Taliban regime."

Today the first major consignment of Britain's GBP 25 million humanitarian aid
package was arriving in Afghanistan.

The DC8 cargo plane took off on its 14 hour journey from London Manston Airport
in Kent at 9.30pm last night, bound for Mashhad in Iran.

Chartered by the Department for International Development, it was given
clearance to land near to the Afghan border.

The cargo plane is loaded with more than 400 tents capable of sheltering 15 to
20 people each.

UP to 90 jobs are to be lost as part of a restructure set to take place at
Manchester Airport.

Bosses say the move was planned weeks ago but has been speeded up because of the
impact on the airline industry of the terror attacks on America.

About 500 people work in the management, operational and administrational areas
affected, including people from South Cheshire.

But it has not been confirmed how many people from the area will be affected.
Officials at the airport claim the changes are part of a drive to re-focus the
airport's activities towards customer service, quality and passenger safety.

Managing director John Spooner said the restructuring was one element of an
extensive programme designed to make the airport more competitive in the global
industry.

He said: "Our airline and tour operator customers expect the highest standards
and they demand value for money. The challenges of achieving growth were already
significant and recent events in the US present the airport and our customers
with even more challenges.

"The changes were planned before the recent terrorist attacks, but clearly the
business imperative is even stronger now.

"I greatly regret the loss of jobs, but I have no doubt that they are necessary
for us to achieve our business objectives.

"The new structure will provide greater focus, more accountability and
efficiency, enabling us to deliver enhanced quality of service and operations."

Some functions are to be combined to achieve efficiencies.

The airport is in discussions with trade unions and individual employees about
how the reductions can be achieved.

It says it wants to achieve as many changes as possible by voluntary means, with
early retirement seen as an option for some employees.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: NEW LAWS: David Blunkett Jake Smith lines his rifle up with an effigy
of Osama bin Laden at a gun shop in Riviera Beach, Florida. Customers can
purchase a bin Laden target to shoot on the gun range for 10 dollars and some
leave their results on show in the shop. The money raised is donated to the
American Red Cross.

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 3, 2001

Using religion to muddy the waters over terror attack .

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 212 words

DATELINE: Bolton



FOR a terrorist organisation to say they have committed an act of violence in
the name of their God should be given as much creedance as serial killers who
claim to have murdered after hearing voices in their head from God telling them
to do so.

As such, we should dismiss any religious references connected with the tragedies
in the US. These have been brought into the argument by the terrorists to muddy
the waters and to try and create a schism between the Moslim world and the
predominantly non-Moslim western world.

What we should examine and what requires a major shift in policy is to examine
the disparity between nations (a sure breeding ground for contempt). This is a
long term objective but for the short term I have to disagree with the pacifists
-- action must be taken.

Negotiation is not an option. These men made no demands when they hijacked the
planes, they asked for nothing, their motive was hatred.

Most people must surely agree that action must be taken. I do not consider the
impending Allied action an agressive act but more a defensive measure to
hopefully avoid an escalation of terror on our shores.

Remember: "All it takes for evil to flourish is for good people to do nothing".

Marek Kamella

Glade Street

Bolton

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                      $%Financial Adviser adviser adviser

                           October 4, 2001 2001 2001

Terror attacks may harm funds funds funds

SECTION: ISSN. 0953-5276 5276 5276

LENGTH: 75 words words words


Pensions funds may face shortfalls of millions in the wake of the US terrorist
attacks.  attacks.  attacks. Bacon & Woodrow warned that with the continued fall
in share prices, many firms would have to inject significant sums to meet
minimum funding requirements. Meanwhile, the NAPF said it was considering asking
OPRA tosuspend the minimum funding requirement (MFR) to ease the pressure on
pension funds. The MFR was intended to be phased out gradually.  gradually.
gradually.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 2001 2001

LANGUAGE: English english english

            Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited limited
                                    limited

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 4, 2001

Thatcher raps Muslim response to terror attacks

LENGTH: 418 words


BARONESS Thatcher has today criticised Muslim leaders in Britain over their
response to the terror attacks in America.

The Conservative former premier told The Times that Muslim leaders had not
spoken out strongly enough about the September 11 atrocities.

"The people who brought down those towers were Muslims and Muslims must stand up
and say that is not the way of Islam," she told the paper.

"Passengers on those planes were told that they were going to die and there were
children on board. They must say that is disgraceful.

"I have not heard enough condemnation from Muslim priests."

Her intervention has come at an acutely sensitive time as Tony Blair was
embarking on a new round of shuttle diplomacy to bolster support for the
international coalition against terrorism.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld is also in the Middle East trying to
reassure key Muslim allies such as Saudi Arabia and Egypt who are deeply
concerned about the fall-out in the Islamic world of any military action against
Afghanistan.

Although it is more than a decade since Lady Thatcher left office, her
international stature ensures that her views still attract attention around the
world.

At home, Mr Blair and other British Ministers have gone out of their way to
reassure Muslims that any action would not be directed at Islam but at the
terrorists responsible for the attacks in America.

Ministers have been alarmed by a sharp upsurge in the incidence of racist
attacks on Muslims in Britain since September 11.

The matter is causing such concern that yesterday Home Secretary David Blunkett
announced at the Labour Party Conference in Brighton that he would be
introducing legislation to make incitement to racial hatred an offence.

Conservative Central Office refused to comment on Lady Thatcher's remarks but
Muslim leaders expressed their sadness.

They said they had immediately and unequivocally condemned the terrorist
attacks.

Dr Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, leader of the Muslim Parliament, said: "I am very sad
and surprised that she has said this sort of thing.

"Coming from a person like Baroness Thatcher, it is very hurtful.

"People need to know that out of over 6,000 people who died in this terrible
incident, over 1,500 of them were Muslims.

"The Muslim community has had to suffer twice - once when someone dear to them
died, the second time when people say things like this.

"On the question of terrorism, we are all on the same side."


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

NEW DATE: SHAGGY BRUM CONCERTS HIT AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Andy Coleman

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 218 words


TWO more Birmingham pop concerts have been hit following the terrorist attacks
in New York, it was announced today.

An NEC show by chart topper Shaggy has been re-scheduled to next year, while
American rock band Weezer have cancelled their gig at the Que Club.

Shaggy's concert, scheduled for October 12, will now take place at the NEC Arena
on February 23.

The Jamaican-born, New York raised singer, has recently enjoyed UK number ones
with It Wasn't Me and Angel.

Weezer had been due to perform on October 31 as part of Radio 1's week in the
city which also includes shows by The Charlatans, Pulp and Asian Dub Foundation
at various venues around the city. Weezer admitted that the events of September
11 had some bearing on their decision to postpone their visit to the UK,
although an explanation posted on their website asserts that other unspecified
factors made a European infeasible.

It said: 'While the recent tragic events have indeed played a part in the fate
of this tour by making world travel and airfreight more expensive, difficult,
and (as many have warned) more risky, it is not those events that have led to
this decision. A whole bunch of factors have come into play in the last week or
so, rapidly making the tour more and more infeasible for the time being.'

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

HAMMER ATTACK TERROR AT POST OFFICE

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 128 words


MASKED raiders armed with sledge-hammers smashed their way through a security
screen during a raid on a post office in Birmingham.

Staff fled in terror as two men hammered on the glass screen before climbing
through the hole to snatch money from the counter.

Detectives at Bournville Lane are now hunting for the raiders and appealed for
witnesses. The men had burst into the Arden Road post office, Frankley, shortly
after 4pm yesterday and attacked the counter window while an accomplice stood
guard at the door.

They stole a 'large' quantity of cash, although police have declined to say how
much.

The staff took refuge in a room at the back of the store during the raid.

Detectives at Bournville Lane can be contacted on 0845 113 5000.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

PEACE WALK'S EXTRA MEANING;
 MORE PARTICIPANTS EXPECTED IN WAKE OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Krysia Diver RELIGIOUS HARMONY: Peace walk organiser the Rev Supriyo
Mukherjee; (left) and Osman Sheikh; PEACE AMBASSADORS: 'Lady Godiva' Pru
Porretta and the Bishop of Coventry, the Rt Rev Colin Bennetts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 318 words


THE annual peace walk in Coventry is expected to attract more participants than
ever this year as a way of demonstrating solidarity among different faiths in
the wake of last month's terrorist atrocities in New York.

The walk, which will take place on Saturday, is a two-hour event which includes
visiting city mosques, temples and churches.

It will start in Priory Gardens and end with a meal at the Harnall Lane East
Sikh Temple.

It will be attended by a range of religious leaders, including Osman Sheikh, of
Cambridge Street mosque, and the Bishop of Coventry, the Rt Rev Colin Bennetts.

Organiser of the walk the Rev Supriyo Mukherjee said: "This is a gesture to
spread the message that there is harmony in Coventry between people of different
religions.

"The walk is especially important this year, because of the situation regarding
terrorism.

"Religions are in conflict all over the world, so we want to let the world know
that there is peace in this city."

The walk is also designed to be of educational value to adults and children in
Coventry.

Mr Mukherjee explained: "People normally only visit their own church or temple
and they are not aware of the ways in which other people worship. So the
educational benefits of the peace walk are huge and we hope to see lots of
Methodists, Muslims, Catholics, Protestants and Hindus coming together to send
out a message of peace."

Coventry's modern-day Lady Godiva, Pru Porretta, has visited several city
schools to raise the profile of the walk.

She said: "I feel this walk could reinforce the city's role as a special place
of reconciliation.

"Together, the people of Coventry will be a shining light of hope to lift the
veil of gloom, sending Coventry's message of joy and peace to the world."

Anyone wishing to join the walk should meet at the Multi Faith Centre, in Priory
Gardens, at 10am on Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 04, 2001, Thursday

Blunkett attacks judiciary in fight over terrorism

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 519 words

DAVID BLUNKETT took a swipe at the judiciary yesterday as he outlined his plans
for new anti-terrorism laws.

The Home Secretary complained that judicial review had become "a lawyers'
charter" and he suggested that the courts were paying too much attention to the
rights of minorities.

The law should protect the community as a whole as well as individuals, he said.

His new measures would include an overhaul of the extradition system that would
be designed to speed up the removal of terrorist suspects.

"What a farcical situation we face that it can take five, seven or 10 years to
extradite someone known to have been engaging in or perpetrating terrorism," he
said.

"Removing the constant use of judicial review, which frankly has become a
lawyers' charter, will not remove the basic freedom to apply due process of
law." His plans would not threaten basic freedoms "but they do threaten those
who seek to take away our freedoms".

His speech reflected the concern felt by many in government about the way judges
can overturn decisions taken by ministers. The Home Secretary was particularly
angry when a court ruled recently that detaining asylum seekers in the Oakington
reception centre went against the Human Rights Act.

Mr Blunkett told the conference: "It was not the lawyers and judges who secured
democracy and freedom for our people. It was political action by those who
sought to bring about change.

"Our judiciary is, and will remain, independent. It is their job to interpret
laws and to protect freedoms.

"But they are surely there to protect the majority from the minority as well as
the minority from the majority. "In seeking justice, not just the justice for a
small few who use our democracy to hide in but the justice that comes from
ensuring protection for all, we need to remember this - it is justice we seek,
not just the primacy of jurisprudence."

The Home Secretary announced that his anti-terrorism legislation would give the
police and Customs the right to demand to see passenger lists held by airlines
and ferry companies.

He also confirmed that financial institutions would have to report transactions
when there were grounds for suspecting a link with terrorist activity. This was
tighter than the current rule, which imposed only a duty to report when
institutions knew or suspected a terrorist link.

His other measures included widening the law on incitement to include religious
hatred as well as racial hatred and amending the Immigration and Asylum Act to
ensure that those suspected or convicted of terrorism could not be considered
for asylum.

John Wadham, of Liberty, the human rights group, said judicial review in the
extradition procedure was "essential" in preventing people from being wrongly
returned to persecution overseas.

"It's hard for politicians always to protect the minority from the majority when
they need the majority's votes to be re-elected," he said.

"That's why we have human rights and judges to ensure that in times of panic and
fear impartiality and fairness survive for everyone."
[PS]News: [ES]

Labour at Brighton:

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 04, 2001, Thursday

How to be a sensitive journalist (US style) The terrorist attacks on America
have focused attention on how the media treats victims and the bereaved. The
Columbia Journalism Review, America's premier media monitor, has published these
helpful hints entitled 'Practical suggestions for journalists covering
catastrophe' by Anne Nelson, of the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism and
Dr Daniel Nelson, of the University of Cincinnati

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 694 words

Interviewing People Experiencing Primary Trauma

The term "primary trauma" applies to individuals who have had first-hand
experience of a catastrophic event. It would include those who survived or
witnessed a catastrophe as well as those who have lost someone close to them.

A journalist, like a doctor, should uphold the principle: "First, do no harm.

The biggest determining factor is whether the affected person is ready to talk,
and feels some measure of control over the situation.

1. You should ask permission. You may ask a potential interview subject: "Would
you like to tell me about it now?" If he or she says no, you should accept it.
You may leave an opening for them to speak to you later. A person who is not
ready will not be able to tell her story in a coherent way; the information will
be fragmented.

2. If the person agrees to talk, give him a sense of the parameters of the
interview. This includes the time frame. ("I'd like to talk to you for a few
minutes" or "I'd like to ask you a few questions.") If you need to move on after
a bit, this will help the person accept it without feeling abandoned.

3. Your tone of voice and body language matter.

Show empathy, not detachment. But strive to maintain control of your own
emotions. Empathy is not so much about joining a person in his emotions, as
about appreciating and validating those emotions.

Don't expect any single reaction. Different people manifest trauma in different
ways, ranging from the stoic and wooden to the hysterical. Do not judge the
condition by the reaction.

Physical posture

Adopt a posture that shows empathy. If it is a long, seated interview, you may
consider sitting beside the person. Some people find that it is helpful not to
make eye contact, but to look at the same abstract spot on the floor or the wall
that the interviewee is looking at, literally, "to see things from his
perspective." Leaning slightly forward expresses openness. Crossed arms and
crossed legs can be interpreted as closed or hostile. Do not be surprised if you
feel awkward or uncomfortable. This is natural.

Crying

If the interviewee cries, this is not necessarily a bad or harmful thing.

Carry paper tissues at all times, and offer them as a caring gesture. One reason
people feel self-conscious about crying is nasal discharge, and offering them a
paper tissue can help. A friendly touch on the arm is also often good.

You may want to help them with a sense of purpose for the moment. It might help
to say: "I know this is really traumatic for you to talk about, but people need
to know about it because . . ." Do have a good reason at hand as to why people
need to know.

Questions

Avoid stupid questions. First among these is: "How does it feel?" Psychologists
say that a less direct approach is sometimes better. "What do you want people to
know about what happened?" Tread carefully.

Don't project. Do not say: "I know how you feel." You don't. Don't say: "You
must have felt . . ." You should be helping the person to articulate her own
narrative, whatever it is, and by reflective listening, to legitimize it. Avoid
pat responses. These include: "It could have been worse," or "You're lucky."

Respect silence.

If they ask: "Why did it happen?" do not try to give a direct answer. An
appropriate response is an echo: "Yes, why did this terrible thing happen?"

If they express denial, don't challenge it. Denial is a legitimate and useful
stage of the grieving process.

Ending the interview

Be supportive. End up with a warm handshake when possible, with thanks and
comforting words, such as: "I wish you well." If it is a long, major interview,
consider a follow-up call after a week or so, to say: "I just wanted to see how
you're doing."

Sometimes people will feel violated or show anger, even if you haven't done
anything wrong. It can be their experience talking, not their reaction to you.
Examine your conscience. If it is clear, move on.

Anne Nelson has developed a curriculum in human rights reporting at Columbia. Dr
Nelson (her brother) is a child psychiatrist who led the Family Notification
Unit at the Oklahoma City bombing.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 4, 2001

What use is the freedom to come under attack?;
The Terrorist Crisis: Those who fear losing their civil rights in the fight
against terrorism ignore the fact that the world has changed, says George Walden

BYLINE: George Walden

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 726 words



DAVID BLUNKETT'S promise in Brighton yesterday to protect human rights while
toughening laws against terrorism will do little to reassure the civil liberties
lobby.

To listen to some you would think we were more at risk from New Labour and its
designs on our freedoms than from the perpetrators of terror. I am alarmed by
the moral conceit and neoimperialistic afflatus of Tony Blair's conference
speech, and I see no benefit, only needlessly enhanced risks, in Britain getting
ahead of the Americans in dealing with the Taliban, but I do not believe the
Prime Minister is conspiring to do our liberties down.

When Blair and Blunkett insist that the Government must have the legal powers it
needs to protect us I am naive enough to believe them. I assume that what they
know makes them worry about terrorists abusing our asylum system, our unfettered
free speech, our lack of identity cards and grossly indulgent extradition
procedures to murder thousands of our people.

The civil liberties lobby's response to the attack on America was the same as to
any act of terror: human rights are what distinguish us from them, we must not
lower ourselves to their level, any curtailing of civil liberties-would be a
victory for the terrorists.

Blunkett's confirmation that ID cards are still on the long-term agenda will
excite more criticism. The most persuasive case against them is one of practice
rather than of principle - what would they do to help? - yet listen to some of
the exotic arguments that are used on the civil liberties front.

In Brighton the campaigns director of Liberty, Mark Littlewood, warned that ID
cards could be used by the police to check up on the identity of demonstrators.
But the police are not that keen on ID cards - one of the reasons they are on
the back burner.

Bill Morris sees them as "the seed for tomorrow's two-tiered society with
entitlement cards for those with full citizen rights while access to services is
denied to asylum seekers" - whom the Government would presumably be happy to see
expire on the streets. Meanwhile it is gravely objected that action to stop
Muslim clerics preaching mass murder-could have led to the prosecution of Salman
Rushdie.

Listening to these voices one wonders what exactly it would take to make them
understand that the old absolutes no longer apply. A cloud of nuclear dust
wafting through the City? If that sounds alarmist, remember that for the first
time in human history atavistic forces with no rational agenda and a supply of
recruits eager for self-immolation have access to the technical means of mass
extermination.

And amidst this genuinely real and present danger we chunter about the
theoretical possibility that some democratically elected British Government
could one day misuse legislation designed to protect us. In the war many
temporary restrictions were placed on civil rights, and later dismantled,
including ID cards.

Of course we are not at war in any traditional sense. Yet the historian Michael
Burleigh has said that our civilisation is at a turning point, in which "being
intolerant of those who preach violence and allowing governments to operate in
grey areas that we will probably never know about" will be essential. I rather
doubt that the acclaimed author of The Third Reich is a proto-fascist. In their
response to a new situation our civil libertarians can behave like reactionaries
in the dictionary sense of the term, refusing to acknowledge that everything has
changed.

They too are inclined to moral vanity, convinced they are the only ones who
care. Others care too, they just try to bring balanced judgment to bear in an
unprecedented situation. I blinked when I saw that the Government was thinking
of detaining suspected terrorists indefinitely and, as an opponent of the death
penalty, I disliked the idea of extraditing someone to the US who might face
execution. Then I measured the infringement of my conscience against the scale
of the terrorist threat to human lives.

The Cold War taught me that the vulnerability of the democracies lies in their
greatest strength: freedom. The irrationality of the fundamentalists makes this
a more dangerous time in many ways, yet I still believe that democracies are
condemned to fight with one hand tied behind their backs. But surely not both?


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DAVID BLUNKETT: ANTI-TERRORISM MEASURES HAVE LED TO CRITICISM FROM
CIVIL LIBERTARIANS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

SICK JIBE MOCKED US TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Brendon Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 264 words

HIGHLIGHT: SORRY: Pegler


A SICK prankster who pretended to be a plane and "divebombed" his American ex
-boss to imitate a terrorist attack has told of his "deep regret".

Gerald Pegler, 53, was fined pounds 150 yesterday for taunting American Craig
Smith with the jibe - just a day after the terrorist atrocities in the US.

Pegler, 53, was picketing with 87 workers after factory boss Mr Smith sacked
them.

The worker suffered a "rush of blood" and targeted Mr Smith as he drove into the
Friction Dynamics factory in Caernarfon, north Wales, at the time.

Pegler pretended to be a plane to imitate the terrorist attacks.

He was charged with Public Order Act offences and yesterday fined pounds 150 by
Bangor magistrates.

Speaking before the court case, embarrassed Pegler said: "I can not explain or
excuse my behaviour.

"It's something that happened that I bitterly regret. I have let myself down."

Pegler, from Bangor, lost his job after serving 33 years at the factory.

He was one of the workers sacked by Mr Smith for refusing to accept a 15 per
cent pay cut.

Pegler - who admitted disorderly behaviour - added: "It was a rage inside my
head that just manifested.

"It lasted no more than two seconds. But the timing of it was very unfortunate.

"I have been really down since. I was rounded on by my colleagues, who
immediately chastised me on the picket line."

Pegler's prank was captured on CCTV.

Court chairman Dr Eurwyn Evans ordered Pegler to pay pounds 35 costs and added:
"It's caused extreme embarrassment to yourself, your family and colleagues."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 04, 2001

No truce at home;
 MICK RIX attacks bosses for exploiting the terrorist crisis to push through
sackings.

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 461 words


TRAIN drivers' union ASLEF general secretary Mick Rix accused ministers at the
Labour conference this week of failing to protest at big business for exploiting
the terrorist attacks on the US to axe jobs.

Mr Rix told the Tribune rally at the party's conference in Brighton that
airlines had used the crisis in the wake of last month's attacks as an excuse to
push through restructuring of the industry.

"We have seen since September 11 excuse after excuse for bosses to make workers
redundant, " Mr Rix noted.

He said that, during a recent trip to the United States, he had counted 70,000
jobs being axed by three different airlines to protect profit margins.

Mr Rix pointed out: "In the UK, we have seen the same thing with the airline
industry.

Within three days of September 11, BA made a crucial economic decision to pull
out of Gatwick.

"These companies have been waiting for an excuse to restructure.

"I have not heard one government minister condemn that atrocity that is taking
place, " he stated.

Mr Rix complained that ministers were continuing to promote plans for greater
use of the private finance initiative in the health and education services, as
well as Tube privatisation.

He told the audience at Tuesday's rally: "You can't ask workers to go to war and
stab them in the back at the same time."

Mr Rix insisted that major issues about the role of the private sector in the
public services should not be neglected because of the current international
crisis.

He also called for the government to adopt consistently high standards in its
foreign-policy dealings.

The ASLEF leader told the audience: "What I find really hypocritical is that
Western governments built some of these people up, armed them in some of their
conflicts and then, some years later, called them terrorists for some of their
actions.

"We have helped create these terrorists.

"In future, it would be better to stick to an ethical foreign policy at all
times, " Mr Rix declared.

Labour MP George Galloway condemned Prime Minister Tony Blair's conference
speech as a "political narcotic."

Mr Galloway warned that the anti-terrorist coalition would perpetuate the
endless cycle of violence and counter-violence.

The Labour MP for Glasgow Kelvin mocked Britain's role as "head of the dirty
dozen" and said that he rejected the war on which Britain was about to embark.

Mr Galloway told the rally: "I believe the Prime Minister's speech was
essentially a political narcotic to stun the party and the public, who want to
know the details of the secret war upon which we are about to embark.

"Secret wars have no place in a democracy. Secret wars cannot be conducted by
democratic governments, " Mr Galloway insisted.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Media Age

                                October 4, 2001

Online ad sales fall in wake of terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 153 words


The online advertising market is in full retreat following the events of 11
September.

Soon after the attacks in the US, big traditional advertisers started pulling
campaigns from print and broadcast ad slots. New findings from LemonAd have
shown that the UK's online advertising market has also been seriously affected.

In the 12 days after the atrocities there was a 10% reduction in the total
number of ads on UK Web sites. The online tourism sector has been the worst hit,
with a 72% decline in the number of ads placed.

In line with the current fears of a slowdown in consumer spending, the depressed
e-commerce sector saw a 28% slump in the number of new campaigns launched in the
week following the attacks.

ISPs and search engines also felt the pinch, with a 23% slump in campaigns and a
12% drop in the total number of advertisers.

www.lemonad.com

See newmediazero.com/data

Magazine

LANGUAGE: English

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

                   Copyright 2001 Centaur Communications Ltd.

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Post Magazine

                                October 4, 2001

OFFSHORE CAPTIVE INSURERS SET TO BENEFIT FROM US TERRORIST ATTACKS.

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 223 words

DATELINE: UK


Offshore captive insurers look set to be one of the few beneficiaries of the
devastating terrorist attacks on the US last month, as fears mount over the
solvency of reinsurers, according to Clive James, chairman of the Guernsey
Insurance Company Management Association.

He said the captive market looks set to capitalise on concerns over the security
of some smaller reinsurers, as well as offering capacity and pricing unavailable
through the traditional insurance route.

"It will obviously impact the US captive market, but how much it will affect the
UK remains to be seen," he commented, before adding: "but I've seen enough
activity over the last two weeks to suggest there will be movement in the area."

Mr James said he expects companies to use the captive model to assume the "up
front end of risk" while higher levels will still be absorbed in the reinsurance
market.

He echoed comments made at the annual Risk 2001 conference by Carl Modecki,
president of the US-based Captive Insurance Companies Association, on the
subject. Mr Modecki said major corporations in the US have already revised their
insurance structures to place a greater emphasis on captives ahead of
traditional insurance and that some US players may look to establish their
operations in domiciles such as Guernsey.

- US Tragedy News, p2.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                 Copyright 2001 Timothy Benn Publishing Limited

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                October 4, 2001

Thatcher hits out at Moslem leaders
 Terrorists could poison food imports to attack Britain

BYLINE: BY SENTINEL REPORTER

SECTION: Crime: Terrorism, Pg.2

LENGTH: 730 words


BARONESS Thatcher was today at the centre of a storm of controversy after
criticising Moslem leaders in Britain over their response to the terror attacks
in America.

The Conservative former premier told The Times that Moslem leaders had not
spoken out strongly enough about the September 11 atrocities.

"The people who brought down those towers were Moslems and Moslems must stand up
and say that is not the way of Islam," she told the paper. "Passengers on those
planes were told that they were going to die and there were children on board.
They must say that is disgraceful.

"I have not heard enough condemnation from Moslem priests."

Her intervention has come at an acutely sensitive time as Tony Blair was
embarking on a new round of shuttle diplomacy to bolster support for the
international coalition against terrorism.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld is also in the Middle East trying to
reassure key Moslem allies such as Saudi Arabia and Egypt, who are deeply
concerned about the fall-out in the Islamic world of any military action against
Afghanistan.

Although it is more than a decade since Lady Thatcher left office, her
international stature ensures that her views still attract attention around the
world.  At home, Mr Blair and other British ministers have gone out of their way
to reassure Moslems that any action would not be directed at Islam but at the
terrorists responsible for the attacks in America.

Ministers have been alarmed by a sharp upsurge in the incidence of racist
attacks on Moslems in Britain since September 11.

The matter is causing such concern that yesterday Home Secretary David Blunkett
announced at the Labour Party Conference in Brighton that he would be
introducing legislation to make incitement to racial hatred an offence.
Conservative Central Office refused to comment on Lady Thatcher's remarks but
Moslem leaders expressed their sadness.

They said they had immediately condemned the terrorist attacks.

Dr Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, leader of the Moslem Parliament, said: "I am very sad
and surprised that she has said this sort of thing. Coming from a person like
Baroness Thatcher, it is very hurtful. People need to know that out of over
6,000 people who died in this terrible incident, over 1,500 of them were
Moslems.

"The Moslem community has had to suffer twice - once when someone dear to them
died, the second time when people say things like this. On the question of
terrorism, we are all on the same side. We all want the people who did this to
be identified, brought to trial and given whatever punishment they deserve.

"All Moslem organisations expressed immediately their horror and shock at what
happened. We have said it once, why do we need to keep on saying it? We have
also been mourning our dead." Sher Azam, president of the Bradford Council of
Mosques, said: "I am not aware of any Moslem leaders in Britain who did not
condemn this attack. Many Moslem lives have been lost in America. We don't see
this attack in terms of nationality, colour or creed, just as loss of lives."

THE president of the British Veterinary Association was today expected to call
for tighter controls on meat imports to foil a terrorist biological attack using
food supplies.

David Tyson was to tell vets at their conference in Winchester, Hants, he fears
terrorists could use foreign food to attack Britain.

The foot-and-mouth epidemic has shown how easy it is for infection to get into
the country and infect large parts of it, he was saying.

If terrorists took advantage of what he considered to be weak import controls
then a human catastrophe could occur.

In a transcript of his speech to the three -day conference, Mr Tyson was saying
the Government needed to review the role of vets in the assessment of the
quality of animals and animal products. He said: "The recent horrific events in
America point to a much wider dimension concerning the need for adequate
controls on imported food both on the hoof and on the hook.

"Terrorism could strike at people via food supplies as well as buildings. A
major review of the conditions of import controls is called for."

Consideration should be given to the benefits of home production as a counter to
any threat.

Most of the address was being focused on foot-and-mouth with Mr Tyson again
called for a national veterinary service to be set up.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: STORM: Baroness Thatcher who has criticised Moslem leaders in Britain
for their response to the attack and, above, workers at the World Trade Center
look up at a cross put up close to the rubble of the buildings

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                October 4, 2001

Refugees live in fear after terrorist attacks.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 207 words

DATELINE: breaking news



Bromley: The terrorist atrocities in America have left many of the borough's
refugees in a state of shock.

News of revenge attacks on foreign citizens in Britain has fuelled the crisis,
with many refugees fearing for their safety.

Bromley Refugee Network (BRN) told of how the tragedy had triggered bitter
memories for a 10-year-old boy from Afghanistan who had witnessed horrific
attacks in his homeland.

A spokesman for the network said: "His family contacted us to say he was very
upset by what he had seen.

"There's no doubt if you have witnessed terrorist attacks in your own country
this is going to bring back bad memories. When he came to this country he
believed he had put all the troubles behind him and then this happens.

"I'm sure this child is not the only one who is living in fear but, thankfully,
this is the only case I have heard about."

The BRN looks after refugees from a host of countries, including Iraq and
Afghanistan.

Based in Maple Road, Penge, the organisation helps reassure refugees by offering
advice and guidance and helps to settle them into schools, housing and jobs.

"We must constantly strive towards an ideal where everyone respects each others
lives," the spokesman added.


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                October 4, 2001

Musical cancelled in the wake of terrorist attacks.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 267 words

DATELINE: cultural capital



A musical has been cancelled in the wake of the terrorist attacks which have
rocked America and the world.

The Ruislip Operatic Society (ROS) had planned to perform 'Oh What a Lovely War'
at The Winston Churchill Theatre in Pinn Way, Ruislip, but have cancelled
because it was thought insensitive.

Even though the content of the musical drama is very anti-war, producers felt
that people unfamiliar with it may be offended or get the wrong impression after
seeing the title in newspaper and poster adverts.

A spokeswoman for the ROS said: "All the members felt that the show's title
could be unintentionally provocative, which could have been inflammatory in the
community."

Ruislip-Northwood MP John Wilkinson and the Mayor of Hillingdon, Catherine Dann
both advised that it was a matter for members to do what they felt was right.

After a week of seeing the terrible footage on the news, a meeting was called
for Monday last week and the committee made the 'difficult' decision. The
cancellation was officially announced on Wednesday.

Although the total cost of the show is likely to be 'in the thousands' members
of the society are resigned to the fact that the show will not be performed in
the near future and have yet to make a decision on rescheduling.

The spokeswoman said: "We certainly hope to perform the show as soon as possible
because it has such a strong message that lays the blame on warmongers."

Refunds or to exchange tickets for the society's next production in March next
year, 'Anything Goes', are available from the box office on 020 8582 7733.


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                October 4, 2001

GLA member witness to US terror attack.

SECTION: Gla

LENGTH: 173 words

DATELINE: london mayor



Former Haringey Council leader Lord Toby Harris witnessed the terrorist attack
on the World Trade Center first hand.

Lord Harris, a Haringey councillor, was in New York last week for a series of
meetings with the City's Mayor Rudi Giuliani and police commissioner Bernard
Kerik in his role as the chairman of the "http:/ /www.met.police.uk/"
target="_blank"Metropolitan Police Authority.

He watched in horror as the skyscrapers collapsed, leaving thousands dead.

Cllr Harris said: "The scale of the human tragedy is unbelievable. Our two great
cities share so much both are vibrant, culturally diverse and dynamic centres of
civilisation.

"Now we share the devastation and horror of terrorism. But I know we also share
a spirit, determination and deep sense of community which can not be destroyed.

"I especially want to add my voice of sympathy and admiration to the New York
Police Department and the city's emergency services, many of whose members we
know died at the scene as they tried to save others."


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 4, 2001

High street shrugs off terror attacks

SECTION: FEATURES: ARTS, Pg.5

LENGTH: 302 words


THE US terrorist attacks had little impact on the British high street, where
shoppers continued to spend despite the disaster, figures showed yesterday.

Data from the CBI showed retail sales volumes grew at their fastest pace for
five years in September despite the atrocities.

The survey showed 62 per cent of high street retailers said sales were up in the
month compared with a year ago while eight per cent recorded a fall, giving a
balance of plus 54 per cent - a figure that was higher than the plus 49 per cent
recorded in August.

Grocers reported the sharpest increase, followed by stores selling footwear and
leather, specialist food and household goods.

Alastair Eperon, chairman of the CBI's panel and a director of Boots said: "The
attacks in the US may have dented UK consumers' confidence but so far there is
little evidence of any effect on their spending."

However, the CBI said despite the upbeat figures, retailers remained anxious
about the future and the Bank of England still needed to cut interest rates
again to boost the economy.

Mr Eperon added: "These results are more upbeat than many had feared.

"However, retailers remain anxious that external pressures, brought about by a
global slowdown, will have an impact on their trading prospects.

"So far consumers seem willing to spend, thereby helping to stave off an
economy-wide recession.

"But with inflation under control, another cut in interest rates is needed to
steer the economy through difficult times."

The Bank's Monetary Policy Committee will today to make

its monthly decision and economists are divided over whether it will

follow the US Federal Reserve's

ead - which trimmed rates half a point on Tuesday night to 2.5

per cent, their lowest in 40

years.

The decision will be announced later today.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

MORE AIRLINE JOBS ON THE LINE AS INDUSTRY FACES UP TO CRISIS;
  UNCERTAINTY: FRESH LOSSES AND FALLING CONFIDENCE IN AFTERMATH OF TERROR
ATTACKS

BYLINE: Patrick Fletcher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 524 words


THOUSANDS more jobs could go as the crisis deepens in Britain's airline
industry.

The country's two biggest carriers, British Airways and BMI British Midland,
yesterday reported fresh losses in the wake of last month's terror attacks on
the US.

British Airports Authority, which owns Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted airports
among others, also reported a drop in passenger numbers passing through
terminals.

On the continent, Belgium's flagcarrier Sabena filed for protection against
bankruptcy as a Swissair crisis threatened to sink them both.

The Swiss national carrier owes Sabena pounds 83m. Without the cash Sabena could
follow Swissair and be forced to ground its entire fleet.

However, last night the Swiss government agreed to help its national airline.

Industry analysts predicted that the crisis had still not reached bottom and
warned of further rounds of job cuts in Britain and abroad.

Yesterday British Airways revealed that passenger numbers to the US had slumped
by more than 30pc since September 11. Overall traffic had fallen by almost 12pc
and October's figure could be even worse at more than 25pc below last year's.

Britain's second-biggest carrier, BMI British Midland, said it was forced to cut
600 jobs and ground eight planes after a slump in business passengers after the
September 11 attacks.

BMI British Midland chairman Sir Michael Bishop said, "The airline industry is
in a volatile phase at the moment and it is impossible to predict if our
prospects will deteriorate or be improved by the actions of other carriers."

GMB leader John Edmonds, who represents many of the staff at BMI facing
redundancy, warned last night the situation could spiral out of control.

"This is a further body blow to the industry. It is vital that companies hold
their nerve during the current crisis."

But there was little sign of that, and Professor Peter Thornbull of Cardiff
Business School said further redundancies among airlines was inevitable.

"Labour represents 30pc of operating costs and, more importantly, it's one of
the variables, " he said. "In a situation like this the one thing an airline can
do that will have an impact on its losses quickly is to make people redundant."

Probably the only ray of light on a terrible day was the announcement by EasyJet
that it was planning to take over BA's Heathrow-Belfast route.

That will be good news for Walesbased TBI, owner of Belfast International which
had feared a drop in profits of pounds 1.6m this year if it could not find a
replacement.

Ticket prices likely to increase PASSENGERS will face higher ticket prices if
the decline in the airline industry continues, analysts said last night.

Plummeting revenues following the attacks in the United States will lead to
fewer carriers charging more for flights, said Justin Urquhart Stewart from 7
Investment Management.

"In the short term there will be some incredible deals for consumers as they
fight to fill the seats available.

"This will change, however, and eventually there will be fewer flights from
fewer carriers which will mean higher prices."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

SIX BUS PASSENGERS DIE IN TERRORIST-STYLE ATTACK;
 TENNESSEE: ATTACKER HAD CROATIAN PASSPORT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 362 words


US bus company Greyhound suspended all services across the nation yesterday in a
terror alert after a driver's throat was slashed by a passenger.

Six people were confirmed dead and 34 injured in the ensuing crash near
Manchester, Tennessee.

The driver was able to crawl from the wreckage through a window of the bus and
tried to flag down help from passing vehicles.

The attacker who had a Croatian passport was thrown through the windscreen and
did not survive, according to the FBI. Federal agents were among the
investigators at the crash site.

"We're interviewing passengers and are not saying anything more until we're sure
what happened, " said Dana Keeton, Tennessee Department of Safety spokeswoman.

US Justice Department spokeswoman Susan Dryden said it was too early to tell if
the accident was terrorist-related, but the agency did not believe it was.

The bus on a long-haul trip from Chicago to Tampa, Florida, had left Louisville,
Kentucky, earlier in the day, destined for Atlanta, Georgia.

It was near Manchester, 50 miles from Nashville, when it crashed.

Medical Examiner Dr Al Brandon confirmed that the driver's throat had been slit
with a "sharp instrument similar to a razor blade."

Brandon said the driver told him one passenger on the bus, who had been polite
and spoke with a foreign accent, got up several times to talk to him.

He told the medical examiner the passenger then "accosted" him, using a box
cutter, before grabbing the steering wheel, forcing the bus into the oncoming
lanes of the interstate highway before it crossed the road and tipped over onto
its right side, the medical examiner said.

The driver, whose name was not released, was in a stable condition after surgery
and treatment for a neck laceration, said Bobby Couch, chief executive for
Manchester Medical Centre.

Greyhound stopped all services as a precaution after the crash.

But buses already en route were allowed to continue to their destinations said
spokeswoman Kristin Parsley.

About 1,900 of its 2,300 buses had been on the road when the crash occurred, she
said.

Services were scheduled to resume last night.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAGIC: Rescue services at the scene of the overturned coach near;
Manchester, Tennessee, in which six people were killed

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 4, 2001

BA joins casualty list;
 Airlines in crisis worldwide as passenger numbers slump after terror attacks

BYLINE: Sam Dunn

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 305 words


THE airline industry hit more turbulence yesterday as falling passenger numbers
hit British Airways for six and forced a rival carrier to ground its aircraft.

BA said it suffered a huge dip in passenger numbers last month as it grappled
with the full extent of the crisis facing air travel after the jet hijack
atrocities in America.

Regional rival bmi british midland also announced that it was grounding eight
aircraft and could cut up to 600 jobs.

Figures from UK airport operator BAA compounded the gloom, showing passenger
numbers at Heathrow down by more than a fifth in the week after the September 11
attacks.

And there were fresh doubts over the future of two European airlines - Swissair
and Belgium's Sabena - after more details emerged of a severe financial crisis.

Swissair has suspended all flights and Sabena, which is owed 83 million by
Swissair, is seeking bankruptcy protection and possible aid from the Belgian
government.

The world's economic downturn had already begun to hit the major airlines but
the fallout from the terrorist assault on the World Trade Centre has left long
-distance travellers unwilling to take to the skies.

BA was already experiencing a fall in passenger numbers before the hijackings,
but yesterday it said that it carried 11 per cent fewer travellers last month
than in September 2000.

It revealed that passenger numbers to the U.S. dived by a third - from 720,000
in September 2000 to just 488,000 last month.

BA also warned that forward bookings for this October suggested passenger
traffic would be down by as much as 25 to 30 per cent on October 2000.

Bmi, which flies to America from Manchester and to many European cities, said
there had been a reduction in Business Class travel and less business across its
network since September 11.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 5, 2001, Friday

BIN LADEN: THE EVIDENCE;
 BLAIR UNCOVERS PROOF THAT IT WAS HIM TERROR CHIEF HAD TALKED OF 'MAJOR ATTACK'
ASSOCIATES TOLD TO RETURN TO AFGHANISTAN

BYLINE: Tariq Tahir Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 911 words


OSAMA bin Laden was clearly behind the September 11 terror attacks on the United
States and retained the will and resources to carry out further atrocities -
possibly against the UK, the Government said yesterday.

Downing Street published a previously confidential document in which No. 10 made
out part of its case against the Saudi dissident and his al Qaida network.

Tony Blair earlier told the recalled House of Commons that since the attacks
intelligence showed Bin Laden told associates a major operation was being
mounted against targets in the US.

The document said that the Government's "clear conclusions" were that bin Laden
and his network carried out the attacks, that they retained the will and
resources to carry out further atrocities, and that the United Kingdom and her
nationals were potential targets.

It added that bin Laden and his network were able to commit the atrocities
because of "their close alliance with the Taliban regime" in Afghanistan.

The document said that the detailed planning for the September 11 attacks was
carried out by one of bin Laden's close associates, although it did not name the
individual.

It added that it had been established that bin Laden personally asserted shortly
before September 11 that he was preparing a "major attack" on America.

The document said: "There is evidence of a very specific nature relating to the
guilt of bin Laden and his associates that is too sensitive to release."

The document carried a cautionary note that the information it contained did not
amount to a prosecutable case against bin Laden.

But it said that, on the basis of all the information available, the Government
was confident of its conclusions.

The document stated: "The attacks of September 11, 2001, were planned and
carried out by al Qaida, an organisation whose head is Osama bin Laden. That
organisation has the will, and the resources, to execute further attacks of
similar scale.

"Both the United States and its close allies are targets for such attacks.

"The attack could not have occurred without the alliance between the Taliban and
Osama bin Laden, which allowed bin Laden to operate freely in Afghanistan,
promoting, planning and executing terrorist activity."

In the section dealing specifically with the September 11 atacks, the document
said that, of the 19 hijackers, "at least three of them have already been
positively identified as associates of al Qaida. One has been identified as
playing key roles in both the East African embassy attacks and the USS Cole
attack (in Yemen)."

The document continued: "From intelligence sources, the following facts have
been established subsequent to September 11; for intelligence reasons, the names
of associates, though known, are not given:

"In the run-up to September 11, bin Laden was mounting a concerted propaganda
campaign amongst like-minded groups of people - including videos and
documentation - justifying attacks on Jewish and American targets; and claiming
that those who died in the course of them were carrying out God's work.

"We have learned, subsequent to September 11, that bin Laden himself asserted
shortly before September 11 that he was preparing a major attack on America.

"In August and early September, close associates of bin Laden were warned to
return to Afghanistan from other parts of the world by September 10.

"Immediately prior to September 11, some known associates of bin Laden were
naming the date for action as on or around September 11.

"There is evidence of a very specific nature relating to the guilt of bin Laden
and his associates that is too sensitive to release."

During the debate that followed Mr Blair's Commons statement, former minister
and Labour Walton MP Peter Kilfoyle questioned the quality of intelligence
information.

"Can you tell the House what convinces you, given the tragic failure of the
intelligence community before September 11, that their competency has improved
since September 11, " he asked.

Another North West MP Dave Watts, later said he doubted whether bin Laden could
be captured alive and brought to face justice in an international court.

"I think it will be very difficult to mount an operation to bring him to
justice, " said Mr Watts, MP for St Helens North.

"We have the best special forces in the world but I would question if they would
be able to do it."

During a later debate on terrorism, another Liverpool MP Bob Wareing - a past
critic of Government foreign policy - said there should be a re-think of defence
policy and arms sales when the conflict was over.

Mr Wareing criticised British arms sales abroad and the "obscenity" of a London
international arms fair taking place on the day of the terrorist attacks. The
Prime Minister's official spokesman described publication of the document as
"exceptional".

He said Mr Blair would discuss the evidence that was in the public domain with
President Putin in Moscow later, but not the more sensitive intelligence
material.

The US administration was aware of the contents of the document, he added.

The spokesman added it was "of necessity" that the document was not complete.
"We obviously cannot put into the public domain intelligence material that could
jeopardise intelligence sources or methods."

Asked whether the Government knew where bin Laden was, Mr Blair's spokesman said
simply: "We believe he is in Afghanistan."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROOF: Tony Blair makes his statement to the House GUILTY: The;
Government claims it has conclusive proof that Osama bin Laden was behind the US
terror attacks

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 05, 2001, Friday

Bin Laden told friends: flee before Sept 10 Case against al-Qa'eda: Downing
Street publishes dossier containing 'firm evidence' of involvement in US
atricities and intelligence documents warn that Islamic terrorists may try to
attack targets in Britain

BYLINE: By Sarah Womack Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 1602 words

TONY BLAIR published a 21-page dossier yesterday containing "firm evidence"
about last month's attacks in the United States and saying that they bore all
the hallmarks of previous atrocities carried out by Osama bin Laden.

Close associates of bin Laden were warned in August and early September to seek
refuge in Afghanistan no later than September 10.

And bin Laden himself said shortly before September 11 that he was preparing a
major attack on the United States.

Of the 19 men identified as hijackers on the four planes seized on September 11,
at least three have already been "positively identified as associates of
al-Qa'eda".

One hijacker (not named) has been identified as a key player in earlier attacks
on embassies in East Africa and the warship USS Cole.

The dossier, bereft of sensitive intelligence detail so as not to compromise
sources, was released after Mr Blair told Parliament the time was approaching
for retaliatory action. It sets out the following "clear conclusions":

Osama bin Laden and al-Qa'eda, the terrorist network which he heads, planned and
carried out the atrocities.

Bin Laden and al-Qa'eda retain the will and resources to carry out further
attacks.

Britain and its nationals are potential targets.

Bin Laden and al-Qa'eda were able to commit the attacks because of their close
alliance with the Taliban, which allowed them to pursue their activities with
impunity.

It also states as "relevant facts":

Immediately before the attacks, known associates of bin Laden were naming the
11th as the date for action.

No organisation other than al-Qa'eda had the motivation and the capability to
conduct such an operation.

It sought to acquire nuclear and chemical materials for use as terrorist
weapons.

The document, separate from material presented to Nato and elsewhere by the
Americans as their evidence, said there was "evidence of a very specific nature"
relating to the guilt of bin Laden and his associates that was too sensitive to
release.

A spokesman for Mr Blair said it was not a legal document but was "the best
explanation we are able to give under the constraints within which we have to
operate".

The dossier carried a disclaimer stating: "This does not purport to provide a
prosecutable case against Osama bin Laden in a court of law. But on the basis of
all information available, Her Majesty's Government is confident of its
conclusions as expressed in the document."

Material relating to the September 11 attacks has come from "intelligence and
the criminal investigation to date".

Britain had only learned after the September 11 attacks that bin Laden had
previously indicated he was about to launch a major attack on America. However,
in June 2001, the United States warned the Taliban that it had the right to
defend itself and it would hold the regime responsible for attacks against
American citizens by terrorists sheltered in Afghanistan.

The American government had already made it clear to the Taliban regime that
al-Qa'eda, founded in 1989, had murdered American citizens and planned to murder
more. Before September 11, America had provided evidence to the Taliban of the
responsibility of al-Qa'eda for the terrorist attacks in East Africa.

"This evidence had been provided to senior leaders of the Taliban at their
request."

The document listed the similarities between the September 11 attack and others
involving al-Qa'eda as:

Use of suicide attackers

Total disregard for other casualties, including Muslims

Meticulous long-term planning

Absence of any warning

The co-ordinated nature of the attacks.

"Al-Qa'eda retains the capability and the will to make further attacks on the
United States and its allies, including the United Kingdom," the document said.

Evidence also showed that bin Laden had been able to kill up to 6,000 people in
the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon only because of his close ties with the
Taliban.

While bin Laden and his group were based in Afghanistan, the network ran
operations around the world including training camps, warehouses, communication
facilities and commercial operations used to raise money. That activity included
substantial exploitation of the illegal drugs trade.

"From the early 1990s, Osama bin Laden has sought to obtain nuclear and chemical
materials for use as weapons of terror. Although United States targets are
al-Qa'eda's priority, it also explicitly threatens the United States' allies."

References to "Zionist-Crusader alliance and their collaborators" and to
"Satan's US troops and the Devil's supporters allying with them" - made by bin
Laden in a 1996 declaration of jihad - were references which unquestionably
include Britain.

"There is a continuing threat. Based on our experience of the way the network
has operated in the past, other cells, like those that carried out the terrorist
attacks on September 11, must be assumed to exist."

The report argued that al-Qa'eda did not operate in isolation. "It functions
both on its own and through a network of other terrorist organisations.

"These include Egyptian Islamic Jihad and other North African Islamic extremist
terrorist groups and a number of other jihadi groups in other countries
including the Sudan, Yemen, Somalia, Pakistan and India.

"Al-Qa'eda also maintains cells and personnel in a number of other countries to
facilitate its activities.

"Osama bin Laden heads the al-Qa'eda network.

"Below him is a body known as the Shura, which includes representatives of other
terrorist groups, such as Egyptian Islamic Jihad leader Ayman Zawahiri and
prominent lieutenants of bin Laden such as Abu Hafs al-Masri. Egyptian Islamic
Jihad has, in effect, merged with al-Qa'eda.

"In addition to the Shura, al-Qa'eda has several groups dealing with military,
media, financial and Islamic issues.

"Mohamed Atef is a member of the group that deals with military and terrorist
operations. His duties include principal responsibility for training al-Qa'eda
members.

"Since 1989, Osama bin Laden has provided training camps and guest houses in
Afghanistan, Pakistan, the Sudan, Somalia and Kenya for the use of al-Qa'eda and
associated terrorist groups.

"We know from intelligence that there are currently at least a dozen camps
across Afghanistan, of which at least four are used for training terrorists."
According to the dossier: "Since 1989, Osama bin Laden has established a series
of businesses to provide income for al-Qa'eda and to provide cover for the
procurement of explosives, weapons and chemicals, and for the travel of
operatives.

"The businesses have included a holding company known as 'Wadi al Aqiq', a
construction business known as 'Al Hijra', an agricultural business known as 'Al
Themar Al Mubaraka', and investment companies known as 'Ladin International' and
'Taba Investments'.

"In the months before the September 11 attacks, propaganda videos were
distributed throughout the Middle East by al-Qa'eda, in which Osama bin Laden
and others were shown encouraging Muslims to attack American and Jewish targets.

"Similar videos, extolling violence against the United States and other targets,
were distributed before the East African embassy attacks in August, 1998."

The dossier quotes a Qatar television interview with bin Laden in which he said:
"Our enemy is every American male, whether he is directly fighting us or paying
taxes."

Asked by Time magazine in December 1998 what America could expect of him, bin
Laden is quoted as saying: "The United States knows I have attacked it, by the
grace of God, for more than 10 years now.

"God knows that we have been pleased by the killing of American soldiers (in
Somalia in 1993). This was achieved by the grace of God and the efforts of the
mujahideen. Hostility towards America is a religious duty and we hope to be
rewarded for it by God.

"I am confident that Muslims will be able to end the legend of the so-called
superpower that is America."

In December 1999, a terrorist cell linked to al-Qa'eda was discovered trying to
carry out attacks inside America.

An Algerian, Ahmed Ressam, was stopped at the American-Canadian border and more
than 100lb of bomb-making material was found in his car.

"Ressam admitted he was planning to set off a large bomb at Los Angeles
International Airport on New Year's Day. He said he had received terrorist
training at al-Qa'eda camps in Afghanistan and then been instructed to go abroad
and kill US civilians and military personnel.

"On Oct 12, 2000, the Cole was struck by an explosive-laden boat while
refuelling in Aden harbour. Seventeen crew were killed and 40 injured.

"Several of the perpetrators, mostly Yemenis and Saudis, were trained at bin
Laden camps in Afghanistan. Two commanders of the attack on the Cole
participated in the planning and preparation for the East African embassy
bombings."

Mr Blair's spokesman described publication of the document as "exceptional" and
dismissed descriptions of it as a political rather than judicial piece of work.
"There is an iron determination to bring those responsible to justice. Bin Laden
is obviously at the head of the al-Qa'eda organisation but we have made clear
that this is not just about one individual. It is about a network of terror.

"Obviously this is not a situation that we have found ourselves in before. But
it would have been perfectly possible to have released absolutely nothing and
for us to have made the case as we have done against bin Laden and al-Qa'eda."

Asked whether the Government knew where bin Laden was, Mr Blair's spokesman said
simply: "We believe he is in Afghanistan."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 5, 2001

Mortgage rates cut;
Bank acts to stave off a slump after terror attack

BYLINE: Rebecca Paveley

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 653 words


INTEREST rates were cut for the second time in a fortnight yesterday as the Bank
of England moved to shield the British economy from the backlash caused by the
U.S.

terror attacks.

The cost of borrowing fell by a quarter per cent to 4.5 per cent the lowest
since 1964.

It is the sixth time this year that the Bank has cut rates, and the second since
terrorists attacked t h e World Trade Centre on September 11.

Most major mortgage lenders passed on the cuts to homeowners immediately,
dropping the cost for those with an average GBP 60,000 mortgage by around GBP 9
a month.

Some are now enjoying the cheapest mortgage rates for more than 45 years.

Borrowers have seen the monthly cost of repayments drop by around GBP 90 since
the beginning of the year.

But the cut was further bad news for savers. As mortgage rates fell, so did
savings rates. Cheltenham & Gloucester announced it was cutting its saving rates
by 0.20 per cent and Abbey National said it would reduce its variable standard
rate by 0.15 per cent.

Other banks and building societies

are certain to follow suit in the next few days.

UK interest rates still remain higher than those of our competitors.

This week, the U.S. central bank, the Federal Reserve, also implemented its
second rate cut since the atrocities, taking rates there to 2.5 per cent.

The Bank of England's monetary policy committee had to weigh up conflicting
information before making its decision.

It had to balance fears of deepening recession in manufacturing against the fact
that consumer spending is buoyant and inflation is above its target.

But it was the global situation that dictated yesterday's cut. The Bank said
that although early signs suggested the UK economy would not be as badly
affected as the U.S.

following the attacks, business and consumer confidence had been knocked.

'The weaker world outlook and increased uncertainty have set back UK business
and consumer confidence, and may, for a time, restrain business and household
spending,' it said in a statement.

The City, which had expected further cuts after hints from Bank of England
governor Sir Edward George, had little reaction to the news.

However some analysts had expected a 'wait and see' stance, as inflation rose
beyond its 2.5 per cent target for the first time in two years this year.

The latest cut has given rise to fears that inflation could climb again, though
some experts believe there could be yet more interest rate reductions to come.

The cut was praised by the CBI as the 'right decision' but unions were critical.

Sir Ken Jackson, of the AEEU, said: 'Manufacturing is in meltdown.

'Eddie George's announcement is too little too late to prevent a hard winter for
thousands of families.' Several firms announced more job losses yesterday, with
General Electric shedding a further 350 and hitech company Corning losing 460.

Roger Lyons, general secretary of the Manufacturing Science and Finance Union,
said: 'Leaving UK rates 50 per cent higher than the U.S. represents not caution
but cowardice in the face of crisis.' Britain's biggest mortgage lender Halifax
said it would pass the full rate reduction on to its borrowers, reducing its
variable rate to 5.5 per cent from November 1, the lowest since July 1959.

Nationwide said it was reducing its base mortgage rate to 5.24 per cent from
5.49 per cent, its lowest since October 1955.

HSBC announced it was slashing its Home Buyer variable rate to 5.25 per cent
from 5.75 per cent from October 17.

The British Retail Consortium said shop prices rose by 0.77 per cent in
September, the first rise for three months, giving 'plenty of scope' for the
interest rate cut.

The stock market rallied yesterday, with the FTSE climbing above the 5,000 mark
for the first time since the terrorist attacks.

City Page 83 r.paveley@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                October 5, 2001

War will not stop terrorist attacks

SECTION: GENERAL, Pg.07

LENGTH: 1438 words


THANK you "name and address supplied", whoever you are, for clearing up a
misunderstanding with your letter "Unite in War on Terrorism - or go" (October
2).

I had thought that the point of "fighting a war against terrorism" was to
protect democracy including one of its main attributes, the right to free
speech.

Obviously I was mistaken and my only option is to agree with you and the
government or go back where I came from; what difference my returning to
Wolverhampton will make I'm not quite sure, but maybe I will be allowed to
disagree with the government if I live there?

Like "name and address supplied", I have nowhere to flee - but that does not
stop me disagreeing with the government on this occasion and on many other
occasions - if I think they are wrong then it is my right to say so.

Following the terrible tragedy in the U.S., I believe the situation would be
better solved by using more peaceful policies.

Use international law to extradite and prosecute those involved, feed the
starving Afghan people whose country has already been laid waste by the West's
proxy war against the Soviet Union, provide the Palestinian people with a
homeland of their own and lift the sanctions on Iraq to stop the deaths of so
many innocent people (the sanctions do not affect Sadam Hussein or the
Government of Iraq, just the people who already suffer from their tyranny).

Terrorists who commit such appalling crimes only survive where they have a
degree of support from the population.

That support comes from grievances that people feel they have with the West -
resolution of those grievances will do more to stop future terrorism than
killing more innocent civilians.

My views are obviously different from your views, "name and address supplied"- I
had thought that one of the aims of your war was to protect my right to have a
different opinion but obviously you prefer the Taliban's approach where the only
view allowed is that of the people in charge.

As a footnote, Dr Savos Kavina (October 2) was very limited in adding only Chile
as a state where terrorism has been supported by the U.S. directly or
indirectly.

In the second half of the 20th century the U.S. (often with the connivanceof the
rest of the West) has also been involved in terrorism or insurrection against
governments in Central America, Africa, the Middle East and South East Asia -
actions in which tens of thousands of people have died.

None of this activity can justify what the terrorists did in the U.S., but it
does help to explain why it happened and why another round of retaliatory
violence is unlikely to bring a peaceful conclusion.

R. Nuth,

Groves Nook,

Chellaston.

A BLESSING FOR EVERYONE

I AM at a loss to understand why Dr Saros Kavina should think that a poster
saying "God Bless America" would upset Muslim workmates.

How can the poster have been one-sided?

I was under the impression that Muslims as well as other denominations live and
work in America, so, in fact, the sentiment was blessing them also.

Dr Kavina should listen to and read the news correctly.

It is terrorists that are being targeted, not Muslims.

C. Siddall,

Bakewell.

KATE SMITH (September 29) will be disappointed to discover that the phones in
Liberal HQ have not been ringing wildly since the Tory party leadership result.
Why is this? Because none of us want to join them.

Just take, for example, the comments in her letter.

She talks about Euro MEP Roger Helmer: "He has a duty to be moderate in a
volatile international situation, but he ratchets up the rhetoric. To talk of
the worst terrorist atrocity perpetrated on Britain since the Second World War
and of being at war is surely irresponsible." Then in the next breath she
invites Roger to join the Liberals!

This proves that the Liberals will do anything, say anything or be anything to
get votes. There is no chance of a Euro-sceptic like Roger Helmer will join the
Liberals.

There is even less chance of my joining them.

Liberal Democrats are positioning themselves to the left of Labour. They are
getting closer to the Trade Unions, they would raise taxes, they would make
Britain a "soft option" for illegal asylum seekers, they appear to be hostile to
the royal family, and they are certainly hostile to our war on terrorism.

These are all good reasons for "disaffected Conservatives" not joining the
Liberals.

So Kate's hope of gaining new members remains just that - a hope.

N. Gregor Macgregor,

Conservative Parliamentary Candidate 2001,

Erewash,

Riber Road, Matlock.

CCTV in street - a waste of cash?

IS the new closed circuit TV camera in Hartington Street value for money?

I submit a page from my diary for Friday, September 21, 2001 - just another tale
in the everyday life of Hartington Street:

09.00hrs I arose to find the police checking wheelie bins and several houses
cordoned off, with policemen standing by.

12.00hrs At lunchtime, two plain-clothes policemen arrived to liaise with the
constables who had been there all morning.

15.00hrs A street fight broke out, an ambulance was called and the police
returned. The victim was taken to hospital.

15.30hrs Police swoop on a pedestrian in charge of two carrier bags and examine
the bags' contents, which turned out to be a dozen pairs of trousers. Each pair
was examined in turn to determine their origin, they appeared to be as new and
receipts were being sought.

17.00hrs A man was found lying paralytic on the doorstep of a house opposite. An
ambulance was called.

24.00hrs After midnight, slates were stripped from the roof of a derelict
property.

This is a normal kind of day and night in Hartington Street, of which I have
photographic evidence, taken in passing.

There may have been other incidents and I would like to have the city council
compare it with records from their newly installed CCTV. They do have them,
don't they?

It's like treating an alcoholic - the difficult bit is to get them to recognise
that they have a problem before it can be treated.

So it is with the city council - they just won't accept that the problem is here
and now.

They should get on with doing something positive.

Just how bad is the malaise that blights our conservation area?

Is it even worse than the evidence I have on file and when will a city
councillor take up my challenge to walk there unaccompanied in the hours of
darkness?

How thankful I am that we have police and emergency services readily available
or life in the street would be really intolerable.

At present, we just get by from day to day.

Josephine Rooney,

chairwoman, Hartington Street

conservation area committee,

Hartington Street,

Derby.

Why lose effective weapon?

A NUMBER of letters have appeared recently, supporting the use of corporal
punishment to discipline young people.

We at the Association for the Retention of the Corporal Punishment Option
believe that no good purpose is served by depriving parents and guardians of the
use of this valuable disciplinary tool.

We do not support the use of canes, straps, and the like or excessive
punishments of any kind, but we are convinced that, in certain circumstances, a
good spanking or slippering can be far and away the best method of dealing with
juvenile delinquency.

Our research indicates that the majority of people are broadly in agreement with
this, and yet the Government seems determined to remove this most effective
weapon from the armoury of parents and others in charge of young people.

It is time for the silent majority to speak up!

S. Benton,

The Association for the Retention of the Corporal Punishment Option,

PO Box 23,

Ripley.

Smacking backing is wrong

THOSE recent correspondents who want to reintroduce corporal punishment to
schools do not realise the harm it can do to teenagers.

In the 1960s/70s, I went to school in South Africa and corporal punishment was
commonplace for pupils up to the age of 18 for even quite trivial classroom
offences.

Boys were bent over a chair and either slippered or caned, and girls were put
over the teacher's knee and spanked or slippered.

The effect of this was that the boys took a perverse pride in being beaten,
particularly if they took it without flinching, whereas the girls were
humiliated by being punished in front of the class, especially since it was
common for teachers to pull up the sides of our knickers to spank our bare
bottoms.

This led to the boys developing aggressive, bullying personalities and the girls
losing all confidence and self -esteem - not a recipe for a well-balanced
society.

Mrs A. D. Jackson,

Starkholmes Road,

Matlock.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 5, 2001

US jobless total spiralling before terror attacks

BYLINE: Lauren Chambliss

SECTION: Pg. 61

LENGTH: 207 words


AMERICA'S jobless total had grown rapidly even before the terrorist attacks that
"altered the landscape" of the US economy, Labor Secretary Elaine Chao said
today, writes Lauren Chambliss from Washington.

Today's unemployment report suggests the US economy was quite possibly in
recession before 11 September as the labour market shed jobs much faster than
expected. The Dow tumbled more than 100 points in response to the news while the
Footsie shed some of its earlier gains.

US businesses laid off 199,000 workers in the latest survey, the largest monthly
loss in more than a decade. Since the attacks, airlines and other hard-hit
industries have announced job reductions totalling more than 200,000 but those
are not reflected in the September data.

The job losses have been particularly acute in the manufacturing sector, which
has shed 1.1 million jobs in the past 14 months, including 93,000 workers in
September.

Analysts said that investors have accepted the fact the economic data for the
next few months will be extremely bleak and are looking to a possible recovery
early next year if Washington follows through with a $ 75 billion (£51 billion)
stimulus package combined with a loose monetary policy.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                October 5, 2001

Cuts to secure future
 EMPLOYMENT: US terror attacks blamed for job losses at bed company

BYLINE: MARY O'LEARY

SECTION: NEWS: 999, Pg.23

LENGTH: 347 words


THE devastating terror attacks on the USA have forced a 100-year-old Plymouth
business to axe almost a quarter of its workforce.

Vi-Spring Ltd, which manufactures handmade mattresses and divans, had been
planning to expand overseas following a surge in demand in recent years.

But the events of September 11 resulted in an international trade slump which
thwarted the firm's plan to take on 16 staff and increase exports.

As reported in late editions of the Herald yesterday, bosses are now preparing
to make up to 50 staff redundant from 210 at the firm's Ernesettle base.

The firm announced job losses yesterday, blaming a lack of growth in the
overseas markets, particularly the Far East and US, where Vi-Spring had planned
to expand trade.

It said the attacks on USA resulted in 'severe damage' to consumer confidence at
home and abroad, and business levels needed reappraisal.

Managing director Trevor Lay said: "Manning levels were increased in the past 18
months in anticipation of accelerated growth in overseas markets. It is now
clear this growth will not materialise.

"It is disappointing since our increased expenditure on advertising in the UK
was starting to bear fruit, with many major customers showing positive sales
growth."

He added: "This action is necessary to secure long-term viability of the
company."

Vi-Spring reported a turnover of GBP 17 million in 1999. It is one of only two
firms of its kind in the UK to export. It began exporting to Europe eight years
ago, joining Japanese markets in 1998 and exporting to USA last year.

At Ernesettle, the firm makes mattresses and divans. Springs are made by
machines, but the rest is completed by hand by craftsmen. Products are sold to
stores such as John Lewis and Harrods.

Earlier this year, it was announced jobs were expected to be created following a
management buy-out of the company by Newmond plc. Yesterday, John Mant,
marketing director, said staff cutbacks were 'regretted'. The redundancies will
affect staff in all departments, and are expected to be announced this month.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 5, 2001

CITY AND BUSINESS EDITED BY STEPHEN KAHNGO GOES WHERE IT'S NEVER BEEN BEFORE;
COMPANIES CONTINUE TO ADJUST TO EFFECTS OF TERROR ATTACKS ON TRAVEL

BYLINE: PETER CUNLIFFE

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 72

LENGTH: 171 words


BUDGET airlines Go and Ryanair are taking advantage of cutbacks by their bigger
rivals to step up expansion plans.

Yesterday Go launched a service between Stansted and Newcastle, taking up
capacity created by the recent collapse of Gill Airways.

It is aggressively marketing the new route with a special offer fare of GBP 10
one way and a highest price of GBP 120, compared with BA's GBP 300 day-return
fare and GBP 157 on the train.

Go, sold by British Airways this summer, also revealed it had been in talks to
shift some of its routes from its base at Stansted to Gatwick.

Chief executive Barbara Cassani said September 11 had "become a catalyst for
change in the airline industry. We might move faster than originally planned."

Rival no-frills carrier Ryanair said it was considering setting up a new hub in
addition to those in Ireland, the UK and Belgium. Airports in Northern Ireland,
Germany, Sweden and Italy were being considered.

Meanwhile Holland's KLM said it was cutting 2,500 jobs.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 5, 2001

On the brink of war: The analysis: Does it make him guilty of terror attacks?:
How the government's claims stand up to scrutiny

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Washington, Giles Foden and Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1916 words


The Downing Street version of the case against Osama bin Laden and people linked
to his al-Qaida network is the fullest public exposition of the evidence so far.
Tony Blair has gone much further than President George Bush, or any other US
official in outlining investigator's findings and his speech has been
scrutinised by a US media starved of details by the FBI.

It is not clear how much of the case laid out by the government is based on the
dossier circulated by Washington earlier this week to US allies, and how much is
intelligence garnered independently.

It omits mention of a key link in the evidential chain discovered by US
investigators: the money trail between a group of the hijackers and an al-Qaida
operative in Dubai, known as Mustafa Ahmad. It is not clear whether it is Ahmad,
an al-Qaida paymaster, that Mr Blair has in mind when the document claims "one
of Bin Laden's closest and most senior associates was responsible for the
detailed planning of the attacks". He could instead have in mind someone higher
up in the chain of command such as Mohamed Atef or Abu Zubeidah, both of whom
are al-Qaida military commanders.

The evidence made available by the prime minister is short on detail, but it
does present some intriguing new claims - that one of the hijackers of the
planes that hit New York and Washington on September 11 was also a participant
in the 1998 embassy bombings in east Africa and last year's attack on an
American warship, USS Cole, in Yemen; that Bin Laden himself asserted shortly
before September 11 that he was planning a new attack; and that he ordered
al-Qaida members back to Afghanistan before the attack.

The links

The assertion: the report asserts that of the 19 hijackers involved on September
11, at least three had links with al-Qaida

US intelligence believe most, if not all the hijackers spent time at terrorist
training camps in Afghanistan. However, a more forensic link has been
established between Khalid al-Midhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi (two of the hijackers of
American Airlines Flight 77 which crashed into the Pentagon), and al-Qaida. They
were videotaped by Malaysian intelligence at a meeting in Kuala Lumpur with
known al-Qaida members involved in last year's suicide attack on the USS Cole.

There is evidence that Mohamed Atta, the leader of the team which hijacked
American Airlines Flight 11, and the apparent ringleader among all the
hijackers, was a member of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, the largest constituent group
within al-Qaida.

Previous attacks

The assertion: One of the September 11 hijackers has been identified as playing
key roles in both the east African embassy attacks and the USS Cole attack

This is new and arguably the most startling revelation from the Blair version of
the evidence. The Malaysian meeting linked al-Midhar and al-Hazmi to the USS
Cole, but so far no direct link between September 11 and the 1998 embassy
attacks has emerged in the US. One of those indicted for the embassy bombings,
Muhsin Musa Matwalli Atwah (aka Abdul Rahman, Abdul Rahman al-Muhajir) does bear
some visual resemblance to the photograph released by US officials of hijacker
Hamza Alghamdi.

A man called Abdul Rahman made the electrical connections for the Nairobi and
Dar-es-Salaam bombs, according to the statement to the FBI of the Nairobi bomber
Mohammed al-Owhali.

An alternative link between September 11 and the embassy and USS Cole attacks
could be Khalid al-Midhar. Al-Owhali told the FBI after he escaped from the
scene of the Nairobi bombing that he had made a series of telephone calls,
finally contacting someone named Khalid, whom he told "I did not travel" - code
for "I did not die". It can only be speculated whether this Khalid is hijacker
Khalid al-Midhar, believed to have been one of the hijackers of American
Airlines Flight 77 which crashed into the Pentagon.

Planning

The assertion: One of Bin Laden's closest and most senior associates was
responsible for the detailed planning of the attacks

This could be a reference to Mohamed Atef. Also known by his nom de guerre Abu
Hafs al-Masri, he is a former Egyptian policeman who has risen to become
al-Qaida's head of operations. His family was tied to Bin Laden's in January
when his daughter married the Saudi-born dissident's eldest son in Kandahar.

In the embassy bombings trial earlier this year, he emerged as having played a
pivotal role. US intelligence believes that he was the main strategist this time
as well, but they have given no hint of the evidence for the claim.

Some Bin Laden watchers suggest that Atef's role has been taken by Zainul
Abideen, a Palestinian also known as Abu Zubeidah, who was added to a US
government blacklist in the immediate aftermath of the attacks on September 11.

A lower-level al-Qaida figure, known as Sheikh Saeed, alias Mustafa Mohamed
Ahmad, organised money transfers from Dubai to the hijackers and received return
transfers of unused money before leaving for Pakistan on September 11.

Propaganda

The assertion: In the run-up to September 11, Bin Laden was mounting a
propaganda campaign justifying attacks on Jewish and American targets

Videos began circulating in the Middle East in June, showing al-Qaida guerrillas
training at camps in Afghanistan, as well as archive footage of the wrongs
inflicted on Muslims around the world, including the killing of Palestinians by
Israeli soldiers, Bosnian Muslims by Serbs, and Chechens at the hands of the
Russian army. The bloody footage seemed to be aimed at a justification of
al-Qaida operations, past and future.

Bin Laden appears in one video, wearing a traditional Yemeni dagger, which may
have been intended to symbolise al-Qaida's "war footing" and also a hint that
Bin Laden had ultimate responsibility for the attack on the Cole in October
2000.

Bin Laden recites a poem hailing the Cole attack but also warns: "The government
of the United States is taking its people to hell. And any reasonable person
knows this is not in any doubt. And the United States is not going to be the
most powerful country in the world in the next century. Not any more."

Intelligence

The assertion: Bin Laden himself asserted shortly before September 11 that he
was preparing a major attack on America

There have been unconfirmed reports in the US press claiming that Bin Laden
called his adoptive mother, al-Kalifa, in Syria on September 10, telling her
there would be "big news" after which she would not hear from him. The reports
quote an unnamed non-US intelligence agency citing interrogations of Bin Laden
family members in Saudi Arabia.

A US intelligence source ridiculed the report yesterday, but said that phone
calls attributed to Bin Laden had been intercepted prior to September 11 which
indicated a big operation was coming, but the intercepts hinted at a strike
against Americans living abroad. The comments, on a satellite phone which Bin
Laden must know is not secure, could have been intended to send US intelligence
agencies on a wild goose chase, distracting them from the real threat.

German intelligence intercepted a phone call on September 11 between Middle
Eastern men who had been under surveillance because they were believed to be
al-Qaida members. One of the men is heard to claim: "We have hit the targets."

Warnings

In August and early September close associates of Bin Laden were warned to
return to Afghanistan from other parts of the world by September 10

This represents new information.

Dozens of men suspected of having links to Bin Laden's al-Qaida network have
been detained in Britain, Germany, France, Spain, Belgium and the Netherlands.
There have been reports in the US that four or five al-Qaida cells remain in the
US and have either been detained or are under surveillance. However, there have
been no confirmed cases so far of known al-Qaida members being ordered back to
Afghanistan on the eve of the attack.

United Kingdom

The assertion: that the UK and its nationals are potential targets

The security and intelligence agencies have consistently played down the
significance of Britain as a base for Bin Laden's supporters and the al-Qaida
network. There is no evidence, they add, of a specific threat to Britain.

Bin Laden's enemy was America, intelligence sources said yesterday. As far as
targets were concerned, America was his "favoured option".

A handful of people have been arrested in Britain under the Terrorism Act since
September 11, but only three have been charged - one of those in connection with
a planned attack on the US embassy in Paris, another on suspicion that he
trained four of the men who went on to carrying out the US hijackings.

The security services say that the names of others passed on by the FBI show
only that Britain is a big transit point for air travellers.

But the security services assume Britain is a "potential" target, particularly
because it is so closely allied to the US. There is serious concern about
possible retaliation by groups or individuals if Britain is involved in military
action in Afghanistan, security sources say. These could range from violent
demonstrations to unsophisticated, but life-threatening bomb attacks.

It is mainly MI5's task to assess threats from terrorism in Britain. Information
supplied by other intelligence agencies, including foreign ones, is assessed by
officials in the joint intelligence committee in the Cabinet Office.

Secrecy

The assertion: the document does not contain everything that the government
knows, because intelligence sources must be protected

Human sources - agents and informers - are crucial to the work of MI5, the
domestic security service, and MI6, the secret intelligence service which
gathers information abroad.

They also protect information provided by foreign security and intelligence
agencies. Security sources insisted yesterday that the document does not, and
was not meant to, constitute evidence in a legal sense. Evidence that could
identify a source is heard in terrorist or spy trials in closed court, if at
all. On occasion, trials have been dropped if the only evidence available has
been that provided by informers or agents.

Yet this genuine need to protect sources can also be used to cover
embarrassment. The September 11 attacks on America represent a massive
intelligence failure on the part of the CIA and the FBI.

CIA officers have also admitted they have no human sources inside extreme
Islamist groups. MI6 officers were involved with the Afghan mojahedin during
their war against Soviet occupation forces in the 1980s and they may have kept
up their contacts with what is now the Northern Alliance fighting the Taliban.

Britain may also be getting intelligence from one of Pakistan's security and
intelligence services, the ISI.

British intelligence sources say that so far the evidence against Bin Laden is
stronger in relation to the 1998 bombings of the US embassies in east Africa
than the September 11 attacks in the US.

Another British source of intelligence is GCHQ, which eavesdrops on the
airwaves, including telephone conversations, and from US spy satellites. This is
less sensitive than information from human sources, though if disclosed in
detail, it could provoke the target into taking counter-measures. Bin Laden is
said to have done so after disclosures that the US was intercepting his
satellite phonecalls.


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 5, 2001

On the brink of war: Losses: New York's terror attacks bill will reach Dollars
105bn: Insurance will cover only a third of costs

BYLINE: Michael Ellison in New York and Clare Dyer

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 619 words


The suicide attacks on the World Trade Centre will cost New York city about
Dollars 105bn (pounds 71.4bn) over the next two years, much of it in rebuilding
and hobbled economic activity, it was disclosed yesterday.

The reckoning came as it became apparent that the official toll of Britons who
died in the World Trade Centre attacks could be less than 100 - far below the
figure initially feared.

The cost to New York city from the attacks includes loss of taxes that victims -
4,986 are missing - would have paid and the value of the buildings account for
Dollars 45bn; the blow to the economy could run to another Dollars 60bn. "You
cannot reduce to dollars and cents the losses New Yorkers have suffered from the
vicious attack," said Alan Hevesi, the city's comptroller, who produced the
first official estimate of the cost of the damage. "But to obtain the resources
we will need to rebuild and create a better and a stronger New York city we must
try to understand in dollar terms what the attack cost our economy."

The city could lose 115,300 jobs this year, says his report, though this could
be ameliorated by new work in construction and the security industry.

Insurance is expected to cover about Dollars 37bn, not much more than a third of
the cost, though this is twice the previous record payout - Dollars 19bn after
Hurricane Andrew in 1992.

The city has raised Dollars 1bn in sales of bonds and President Bush pledged
Dollars 20bn to help New York soon after the attacks on September 11. "What this
study makes clear is that what the president and Congress have committed so far
is just a down-payment on what it will take to ensure that the terrorists don't
succeed in destroying not just the two towers but also America's and the world's
financial capital," said Mr Hevesi.

The price of rebuilding the trade centre is put at Dollars 6.7bn and that of
repairing other structures in the area at about Dollars 5.3bn.

New infrastructure will cost about Dollars 9.4bn, with Dollars 4bn of that going
on subways, Dollars 3bn on telephone, electricity and other utilities and
Dollars 2.4bn on services such as the train under the Hudson river that brings
commuters to Manhattan from New Jersey. Replacing office equipment, such as
computer systems, vehicles and other property, is put at Dollars 3.2bn.

Closure of the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq and the American Stock Exchange
for four days is said to have meant the loss of business estimated at a value of
Dollars 7.5bn.

Mayor Rudy Giuliani says that tourism is back to 80% of its pre-September 11
volume, but not before hotels, restaurants and theatres are believed to have
foregone Dollars 2bn. .

The city is finding the money for the initial clean-up period and has signed
contracts for Dollars 1bn so far to clear the 500,000 tons of steel and concrete
brought down at the site of the complex. Another Dollars 7bn could go in
overtime for police, fire and sanitation officers, replacing vehicles owned by
the city and burial costs.

Some economists believe that this sort of spending, allied to interest rate and
tax cuts, could help to revive the economy. Wayne Ayers, chief economist at
FleetBoston Financial, said: "There appears to be an ever-growing amount of
fiscal stimulus which means that any recession will be shallow."

The Foreign Office believes that although 270 Britons are still officially
missing after the terror attacks, the final toll will be 100 or less.

The total number of missing, presumed dead, now stands at 4,986, down 233 on the
previous tally. That is sure to change as work continues on clearing an
estimated 1.2m tones of rubble from the New York site.

P


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERRORISM: PAKISTAN CONCEDES EVIDENCE LINKS BIN LADEN TO TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Andrew Grice In London And Rupert Cornwell In Washington Tony Blair with
Vladimir Putin yesterday Reuters

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 546 words


THE DRIVE to cement an international coalition against terrorism received a
boost last night when Pakistan accepted there was enough evidence to link Osama
bin Laden to the terrorist attacks in the US.

Pakistan, the only government which retains diplomatic links with Afghanistan's
Taliban rulers, said the evidence supplied to it by America blaming Mr bin Laden
for last month's atrocities was conclusive.

As Tony Blair prepared to visit Pakistan, he hoped the evidence would help to
quell opposition inside the country to its government's support for the US.

At the same time Donald Rumsfeld, the US Defence Secretary, won support from
Egypt's President Hosni Mubarak during an urgent trip to the region. Today he
travels to Uzbekistan, whose bases the US wants to use for operations against Mr
bin Laden and his Taliban protectors.

The first operations, probably in the form of air strikes, could come as soon as
Mr Rumsfeld and Mr Blair return from the region, at the start of next week. Nato
yesterday gave blanket approval to US requests including unlimited use of
airspace, early warning aircraft and intelligence sharing.

President George Bush also announced $ 320m (pounds 220m) of aid for Afghanistan
where more than seven million people are at risk from hunger and exposure.

A spokesman for the Pakistan Foreign Ministry said: "We have seen the material
provided to us by the American side. This material certainly provides sufficient
basis for indictment in a court of law."

Pakistan went further than the British Government, which admitted that a 21
-page dossier outlining the same evidence did "not purport to provide a
prosecutable case against Osama bin Laden in a court of law". Mr Blair promised
to publish further evidence linking Mr bin Laden, saying that more information
was coming in every day and that yesterday's report was only an "interim
assessment."

The Government's dossier claimed that three of the 19 suicide hijackers had been
positively identified as associates of Mr bin Laden's al-Qa'ida network. It
emerged last night that American investigators have found fresh evidence linking
another four hijackers to al-Qa'ida.

Downing Street accepted that the dossier was "not complete" because a crucial
piece of evidence had been omitted as it was "too sensitive". Mr Blair said this
information had been withheld "to protect our ability to gather further
intelligence".

Before leaving for talks in Moscow, Mr Blair told an emergency sitting of
Parliament that he was in "absolutely no doubt" that Mr bin Laden and his
network were responsible for the attacks on 11 September. He told a sombre House
of Commons: "We are now approaching the difficult time when action is taken. It
will be difficult, there are no easy options in this situation."

The Government's dossier also warned: "Al-Qa'ida retains the capability and the
will to make further attacks on the US and its allies, including the United
Kingdom... The UK and UK nationals are potential targets." In London a chef from
Greenwich, who is alleged to have trained young Muslims in Britain on how to use
weapons, was charged yesterday with two offences under anti-terrorism laws.
Sulayman Balal Zain-ul-Abidin, 43, will appear in court today.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                October 05, 2001

Trimble attacks 'domestic terrorism';

SECTION:  Pg. 8

LENGTH: 416 words


THE British government must put an end to the "spurious" distinction between
international and domestic terrorism, Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble told
the prime minister in the House of Commons yesterday.

Mr Trimble told Tony Blair that there could be no differences made between
terrorist groups.

Speaking after Mr Blair's statement to the house on the continuing crisis in the
war against terrorism, Mr Trimble told him: "Terrorism is terrorism and requires
no further qualification, so could I ask you (the prime minister) to reject the
spurious distinction that some people seek to draw between international and
domestic terrorism.

"The events of recent weeks, and I'm thinking of the arrest of the head of the
IRA's engineering department in Colombia while developing similar mortars for
the guerrillas, the expedition of Sinn Fein's assembly chief whip to Turkey in
support of a variety of Turkish and Islamic terrorist groups and the appearance
on Saturday at the Sinn Fein conference of a notorious Puerto Rican terrorist,
all show that the Irish republican movement is part of an international
terrorist network and that there is still no sign that it is making the changes
required by the Belfast agreement."

Mr Trimble continued: "We must recognise that the present process has now become
a completely one-sided process, all the terrorist organisations in Northern
Ireland. . . have all broken their ceasefires in recent weeks and months and
sooner or later the government is going to have to approach dealing with the
machinery and resources of IRA and loyalist terrorism with the same
determination that it is displaying elsewhere."

Although the peace process was "fragile", Mr Blair replied, a way forward had to
be found to make the Belfast agreement work.

Mr Blair told MPs: "The reason why we have the current impasse in the peace
process in Northern Ireland is precisely because it is necessary, if people want
to play a part in the government of Northern Ireland, that they demonstrate an
unequivocal commitment to peaceful and democratic means.

"I hope you understand that before the peace process began we also had a very
serious situation in Northern Ireland where terrorist groups operated and killed
people year upon year upon year.

"We know that the situation is still very, very difficult and fragile there.

"We've got to then try to find a way forward consistent with the principles we
set out in the Belfast agreement."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'TERRORISM IS TERRORISM': UUP leader David Trimble speaking at the
emergency session in the House of Commons yesterday

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            October 5, 2001, Friday

GUN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 35 words


A MAN escaped injury after his house came under gun attack in Coleraine, County
Londonderry, Northern Ireland. He found three bullet holes in a front window and
strike marks on the living room ceiling.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                             October 5, 2001 Friday

ECONOMIC IMPACT OF US TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: ARTICLE; Development; News

LENGTH: 2290  words



HIGHLIGHT: First minister Henry McLeish and Scottish secretary Helen Liddell
today underlined their confidence in Scotland's f...


First minister Henry McLeish and Scottish secretary Helen Liddell today
underlined their confidence in Scotland's firm economic foundations and
long-term strategy in the face of the US terrorist attacks.Hosting a business
breakfast meeting with key economic partners, the first minister launched
Building for the Long Term: Understanding the Impact of the Terrorist Attacks on
the Scottish Economy. The report was prepared to assess the implications for the
economy of the events of September 11.The first minister stressed the
executive's long standing commitment to putting Scotland on a secure economic
footing by creating a competitive, knowledge-based economy and by building on
Scotland's resources and skills. This, he said, has equipped Scotland to
withstand short-term shocks as well as create the conditions for future
prosperity.The report considers the changes in the world economy and highlights
the implications for businesses in Scotland.It concludes that the longer term
strategic approach taken by the executive is still relevant and appropriate but
that expectations should continue to be reviewed as the implications of the
attacks become more clear.The first minister said:'The publication of this
report is not the end of the process - it is only the beginning. It will be
subject to ongoing review looking across all sectors of business.'The executive
has been working closely with a wide range of businesses across Scotland and
will continue to engage with the business community and trades unions to
identify solutions to the challenges brought about by the terrible events in the
US.'We already have a framework in place to ensure Scotland is a place where
business can thrive.

We believe that the foundations already in place are sound and this is the right
way forward - there may, however, be other measures required to respond to
short-term challenges.'I am determined citizens will feel secure and safe - we
need stability in the current climate of instability brought about by the
terrorist attacks. We must show confidence in these tough and testing
times.'Scotland is now a global player and we must now recognise that, as a
global player, we are not immune from global events. We must demonstrate global
solidarity.'That is the context in which this report was written. It is a
thorough piece of work which explores the impact the tragic events in the US
have had on the Scottish economy. We will study its contents carefully and
ensure that it is a working document which informs our decisions in this
area.'There is absolutely no doubt that this a challenging time for businesses
and the economy. But that makes it even more important that we remain confident
- we have so much to offer and can compete with anyone on the global
stage.'Speaking in Glasgow where she was chairing the Clyde Shipyards Taskforce
Meeting, minister for enterprise and lifelong learning, Wendy Alexander
said:'The executive is investing heavily in Scotland's future. We are committed
to enhancing skills, capitalising on world class intellectual assets, creating
the connections needed to drive a thriving 21st century economy and growing our
domestic business base.'Putting these fundamentals in place will help us to
achieve our long term economic aspirations. We want to see Scotland established
in the upper quarter of OECD economies. The tragic events of 11th September have
already rocked the world's economies and we must recognise there will be grave
consequences for some sectors in the short term.'We are not complacent and where
we can work with business to address the short-term impacts we will do so
energetically. We are confident though that the hard work and commitment to a
prosperous long term outlook will carry Scotland through the difficulties we
face over the coming months.'The economic analysis raises four key
questions:Whether this shock suggests that we should revise our expectations of
the direction that the global economy is taking in the medium/long term?Whether
the longer term strategic thinking and policy directions of the Executive are
still appropriate?Are there immediate pragmatic steps or short-term changes of
emphasis that might be adopted in the light of the immediate shock?Whether we
have a systematic and even-handed approach to addressing the problems following
from the range of exceptional shocks that have hit the Scottish economy in
recent months and years?Building for the Long Term finds that:the global
economic environment was already characterised by increasing uncertainty and
concern prior to September 11 with global growth heavily dependent on consumer
confidence for many months.the economic fundamentals in the UK were widely
agreed to be good, suggesting that the economy was relatively well-placed to
withstand a downturn. Scotland has recorded steady growth, around the trend rate
of 2.1 per cent for the last ten years.the executive's strategic approach to
economic development appropriately looks to Scottish enterprises competing
effectively in an increasingly challenging and open world economy and
acknowledges that Scotland's economic openness increases Scotland's degree of
exposure and vulnerability to global events and trends.On the economic impact of
the attacks it states:The attacks provided a sharp adverse shock to an already
deteriorating global economic environment compounding and sharply intensifying
the degree of uncertainty, generally increasing the probability of a sharper
downturn, if not recession, in many economies.Business and consumer confidence
remain the primary indicators of whether any US recession is prolonged or
short-lived.Global uncertainty in several very fundamental respects will make
the precise impact unpredictable and subject to considerable change for many
months to come.Quantification of the scale of the impact is impossible, but we
can identify the areas of economic activity most affected.The macroeconomic
response in the US and UK has been significant.Scottish economic growth will
almost certainly decline by more than was previously anticipated in 2001 and
2002.The report identifies tourism, aviation and electronics as the areas of the
economy likely to be hit harder than others. Increasing fear amongst travellers,
the increased costs and reduced availability of travel, and the general
intensification of the global slow down are likely to reduce world travel and
shift tourism travel between different markets.The impact on aviation of
possible reductions in routes on the tourism sector and on business more
generally - including the important export and inward investor activity - will
be very important while in electronics the report recognises significant
emerging concerns prior to the attacks. The sector's recovery is predicted to be
postponed into 2003-4.Building for the Long Term concludes:That our expectations
of the direction taken over the medium to long term need not be revisedThat the
longer term strategic approach taken by the Scottish executive is still relevant
and appropriate following the terrorist attacksThat these should continue to be
reviewed as the implications of the attacks become more clearThat interventions
to alleviate the impacts by the Scottish executive should be decided upon the
following criteria:directed to those impacts which are exceptional rather than
simply related to the continuing downturnWhether those affected would be able to
withstand the impacts without long term damage to their productive
potentialWhether the restoration of more normal levels of activity for those
most affected is likely to be seriously delayed, and;Whether the knock on
effects from the impact on those most affect is likely to be significant for
other elements of the Scottish economy and its longer term development
capacity.RADICAL VISION FOR SELLING SCOTLANDScotland plans to adopt a radical
new approach to selling itself as a world class business partner in the
globally-connected economy of the 21st century.Plans revealed yesterday by
enterprise minister Wendy Alexander will push international economic development
activity in a new direction with the creation of a new organisation, Scottish
Development International, to promote Scotland's story overseas.There is to be a
shift from focusing solely on attracting manufacturing inward investment and
exporting by Scottish firms, to a whole range of new business partnerships
between Scotland and the rest of the world built on knowledge, technology,
ideas, skills and people.Future international priorities will be:Knowledge out:
Taking Scottish knowledge, skills and ideas to the rest of the world - leading
to more Scottish companies, organisations and academic institutes becoming
active in the global economy through alliances, strategic partnerships, buying
and selling technology, trading links and investment overseasKnowledge in:
Bringing global knowledge, skills and ideas into Scotland - leading to more
research, design and development rich inward investment projects, new technology
partnerships and international venture capital.People: Promoting Scotland as a
place where people choose to pursue their careers. Networking people around the
world who are committed to Scotland. Central to this will be the creation of a
Network of International Scots who are currently working in top positions
overseas to use their expertise to help Scottish businesses grow. Also working
with Scottish businesses and academics to develop their international leadership
skills.Scottish Development International will now spearhead Scotland's drive to
tell this new story to the world. The strategy will require a re-organisation of
Scotland's inward investment and export divisions - Locate In Scotland and
Scottish Trade International.Delivery of the new strategy will be the
responsibility of Scottish Enterprise and Highlands and Islands Enterprise who
will work closely with the Executive, VisitScotland, UK trade bodies and other
partners at home and overseas.Outlining the changes Ms Alexander said:'The
connection between all the world economies has been thrown even more sharply
into focus by events in the US. But even before this the rapid pace of
globalisation and new challenges facing Scotland led us to review our
international operations.'To compete we must engage Scottish companies and
institutions with the global economy in new ways. We need to grow more global
companies at home - and attract others based outwith Scotland. We must extract
real skills and investment and new relationships with global business and
institutions.'This will not mean abandoning traditional forms of inward
investment and exporting - these have been very successful for Scotland.
However, tomorrow our global strengths will be in the skills of our people and
our ideas.'Scotland became a role model for the world when twenty years ago we
created Locate In Scotland and its innovative one door approach to inward
investment. I am confident that Scottish Development International will become
another role model at the leading edge of regional development for other
agencies around the world. 'Martin Togneri, senior director of international
operations at Scottish Enterprise, said:'Scottish Development International will
create an international sales force equipped to offer potential investors,
Scottish business, academics institutions and partners a much broader range of
products, from research and development to joint ventures and technology
licensing opportunities.'He added:'It is no longer appropriate to focus our
efforts only on winning large-scale inward investment projects or assisting with
export initiatives. We have a much wider portfolio of knowledge based, higher
value offerings that are more relevant in today's economic environment.'As well
as the major international corporations that have been our traditional targets,
we'll be looking at new markets; smaller companies, research institutes,
universities and even individuals.'We will be targeting our resources on areas
where we can gain most return on investment and make better use of UK overseas
development bodies.'BACKGROUND1. The success of the new approach will be
measured against the performance framework being developed by the Joint
Performance Team established by the executive to chart progress in delivering
the objectives of 'A Smart, Successful Scotland'.3. Scottish Development
International will also be measured against the annual operating targets for the
Scottish Enterprise Network.4. No job losses are anticipated as a direct result
of the re-organisation announced today.5. Like Locate in Scotland and Scottish
Trade International, Scottish Development International will be a joint venture
between the Scottish Executive and Scottish Enterprise. The proposed structure
is:Field Operations: responsible for all overseas operationsInward operations:
responsible for all domestic inward investment functions including venture
capitalTrade: responsible for all domestic export support operations and
includes Scotland the BrandGroup Services: responsible for briefing, strategy,
planning, budgets, management information systemsInternationalisation:
responsible for work in supporting Internationalisation of Scottish
companiesScotland Europa: responsible for the Enterprise Networks' links with
the European UnionBuilding International Networks: responsible for creating a
network of senior Scottish business people capable of promoting Scotland
globally6. Oversight of Scottish Development International will be provided
through a supervisory board of senior officials from the Scottish Executive,
Scottish Enterprise and Highlands and Islands Enterprise, chaired by the
Minister for Enterprise & Lifelong Learning

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                October 5, 2001

Flotations dry up after US terror attacks

BYLINE: CHRIS BARRY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 298 words



GLOBAL economic turbulence has all but closed'' the UK flotation market, a
survey said today.  A report by accountants KPMG Corporate Finance reveals there
has rarely been a quieter time on the market for new issues, with just two
trading companies - Friends Provident and Parkman - floating in the third
quarter.

The situation, bad before September 11, has worsened since the US terrorist
attacks on that day.  James Dow, a Manchester-based partner at KPMG said: The
IPO market had virtually ground to a halt even before the tragic events in the
US.  The hope is that stability will return early next year and we will see
investors seeking to support IPOs by the spring.''

While flotations have been hit, other deals have been blown off course too, with
W H Smith and north west engineering firm L Gardner, both ending talks on sales.
L Gardner said: Having regard to the recent world events and the continuing
uncertainties in the commercial aerospace industry, the board has decided to
suspend all talks with third parties concerning possible offers.''

W H Smith withdrew its news and magazine distribution arm from sale after a
venture capital firm dropped the amount it was willing to pay.  This situation
has raised fears that Manchester's booming corporate finance scene could be hit
hard.

But one senior corporate finance lawyer said that while flotations have dried
up, there are a number of sales, acquisitions and take-private deals in the
offing.  After September 11, a number of deals just stopped. A significant
proportion of these have kicked off again. What has happened, though, is
vendors' expectations are much less than they were and venture capitalists are
sitting on piles of cash rubbing their hands.''


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 5, 2001, Friday

CAR SALES STUTTERING AFTER TERROR ATTACKS;
 FORECAST: MARKET UNSTEADY

BYLINE: Robin Roberts Motoring Editor

SECTION: MOTORING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 602 words


BUYERS are putting the brakes on car sales.

Car-buying activity fell by 50pc in the aftermath of the tragic events of
September 11, despite the attempts of UK dealers to rally consumer confidence
with an average price cut of 3.6pc on leading models, according to independent
price monitor, CarPriceCheck.

Transaction price movement for the volume car manufacturers was marked by the
sheer number of reductions during September - with 62pc of all Ford models, 45pc
for Renault and 74pc for Citroen, displaying a significant downward change.

Yet, in spite of the difficult trading conditions, dealers representing Rover
and Volkswagen actually went on to record an increase in transaction prices on
34pc and 30pc of their total range respectively.

The shockwaves felt in the financial markets, and the subsequent volatility of
exchange rates, had notable repercussions for importers.

An average 2.4pc increase in transaction price was recorded on 84pc of the 1,745
models that displayed a price movement during the month from this month.

According to statistics analysed by CarPriceCheck, buying activity currently
stands at 60pc of the levels seen before the World Trade Centre tragedy. The
site provides price data to over 20,000 qualified "in the market" consumers
every month.

Steve Evans, CEO of CarPriceCheck commented: "In traditionally the busiest month
in the car-buying calendar, consumer confidence has been visibly dented, with
stories reaching us of BMW and Mercedes customers surrendering their deposits
just so that they can cancel their orders."

Of the 864 models, which displayed noteworthy transaction price cuts, no less
than 68pc of them occurred during the final two weeks of the month. The raft of
reactive price cuts in September proved to be a reversal of the trend of
decreasing levels of dealer price activity seen over the summer (price
discounting was down 40pc in June compared to February).

There was also a significant shift in the buying pattern of the consumer.

The number of people indicating a desire to buy within the next four weeks
actually rose by over a third, yet the continued uncertainty in both political
and financial circles has all but eliminated the medium-term car buyer with the
number of consumers indicating an intention to buy within three months falling
by 71pc.

Evans believes that if this current buying trait continues beyond being the
understandable shortterm aberration, manufacturers might have no alternative but
to try to support the market with heavy discounting in an effort to attract
buyers, or simply readjust the end of year target of 2.3m unit sales.

Despite the efforts of dealers this month, transaction prices have in general
been rising since the summer across all supply channels, a trend corroborated by
the recently published Alliance & Leicester Price Index which was reporting on
August data.

For transactions up to September 30, 2001, CarPriceCheck recorded prices from UK
franchised dealers for all makes and models rose by just over 2pc as the average
fell from 9.1pc to 7.02pc. During the same period, average market discounts from
import channels fell from 11.7pc in June to 10.6pc in September.

Recession is 'inescapable'

EARLIER this week, leading auto industry economist Prof Garel Rhys, of the
Cardiff Business School, said he believed a recession was inescapable and car
sales would fall over the next two years.

But he added that Britain might not be affected as badly as other parts of
Europe because of recent steps taken to improve flexibility and productivity.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNCERTAIN TIMES: A car showroom forecourt full of cars for sale - but
buyers are fighting shy of commitment

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                October 6, 2001

Hotel cancellation charges condemned after terror attacks

BYLINE: by lmacdonald

SECTION: AGENCY:AGENCY:Agency, Pg.5

LENGTH: 444 words


Leah Williamson

ONE of Aberdeenshire's premier hotels has come under fire from a London-based
oil company over its plans to stage a conference at the venue.

Oil firm Intrepid claims it is being charged GBP 8,500 for the four -day annual
meeting despite cancelling the booking because its American shareholders were
reluctant to fly to the UK following last month's terrorist attacks.

Intrepid told Ardoe House that if they could not get a full refund, but only a
reduction, they would donate the booked rooms to a local charity.

Intrepid spokesman Andrew Paxton said he was informed the hotel would come back
to them within a few days and let them know of their decision.

But he said bosses got back in touch 10 days after it was due to take place and
informed Intrepid it would have to pay the full bill of GBP 8,500.

The conference was to take place from September 19 to 22, and 72 rooms, along
with the conference room, were booked.

Mr Paxton said: "We thought these would be exceptional circumstances. We managed
to get some plane tickets cancelled because the airlines were very sympathetic
to the situation. We said that if we could get a reduction we would donate the
rooms to the Salvation Army or pensioners who would have enjoyed a couple of
nights in a nice hotel. But by the time the hotel got back in touch this was no
longer possible.

"We were told we could get a small reduction and that it would be confirmed in
few days. But they didn't come back until 10 days after the conference and have
sent us the full bill.

"We have sent them a letter suggesting they donate the money to the New York
disaster fund. Our shareholders feel that way, the money would not be wasted,
but it seems like only the hotel have profited."

A spokeswoman for Macdonald Hotels, which runs Ardoe House, said the bill had
been cut by 25% -30%, but it could not simply refund the cash for such a late
cancellation. "We are sympathetic but we are also a commercial organisation. We
took a lot off the bill and took the hit for the loss of the conference room.
They had a big block booking and it left a big hole."

She said the hotel made it clear that if they wanted to donate the rooms to any
other group, it was up to Intrepid to organise it. Intrepid was also given the
chance to reschedule the conference but declined.

"It was made clear at the time it was their prerogative to put whoever they
wanted into the rooms. It was their choice if they wanted to give the rooms to
another group. I don't think we are being unreasonable but we can't stop
charging everybody. Otherwise there would be no more Ardoe House. That would be
the ultimate effect."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2001 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                October 6, 2001

HOME LOAN COSTS 'TO TUMBLE AGAIN';
 More cuts 'on way' after terror attacks

BYLINE: byIAN TURNER

SECTION: News, Pg.23

LENGTH: 248 words


THE cost of home loans for Bristol house-hunters could come down again - despite
already falling to their lowest level for nearly 50 years.

Experts are predicting a further fall in interest rates even though lenders have
cut their rates to levels not seen since the 1950s.

A quarter-point cut saw interest rates fall to 4.5 per cent this week.

But Jonathan Bradley, principal lecturer in economics at the University of the
West of England, believes the current rate could be reduced even further to stop
the economy going into recession in the aftermath of the U.S. terrorist attacks.

He said: "If they are very worried about the state of the economy, even if there
are signs of mild inflation, it wouldn't stop central banks keeping interest
rates low or cutting them further." The rate cut is the second made by the Bank
of England in less than three weeks.

Britain's biggest mortgage lender Halifax has followed suit and reduced its
variable rate to 5.5 per cent from 5.75 per cent, the lowest rate it has offered
since 1959. Swindon-based Nationwide has also said it will cut its base mortgage
rate from 5.49 per cent to 5.24 per cent.

It means homeowners with a 60,000 mortgage should save around 9 a month.

The reduction also means that average monthly mortgage repayments have dropped
nearly 90 since the start of the year.

But the cut is bad news for savers.

Many banks and building societies are now reviewing their rates on saving
accounts.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 06, 2001, Saturday

Can you feel safe in the Chunnel? Adrian Bridge reports on how Eurotunnel has
responded to the increased threat of terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Adrian Bridge

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 743 words

In common with many people, I have been wary of using the Channel Tunnel since
last month's terrorist attacks. Our fixed link with the Continent seemed an
obvious target, and the ease with which refugees have been smuggled through it
did not inspire confidence about its security staff. After an encounter with
them this week, though, I have revised my position.

The encounter came late on Monday afternoon when, having just returned from a
day trip to France on Eurotunnel, I decided to stop the car and return to the
entrance to the tunnel to take photos of fellow travellers disembarking. I
hardly look like your average Osama bin Laden-trained terrorist, but I did feel
that I looked slightly suspicious.

Eurotunnel staff felt the same way. Barely had I taken my first picture when the
brightly clad woman directing cars off the train spotted me and began describing
me to one of her colleagues via a walkie-talkie. When I got back to my car I
found another security officer parked in front of it noting my registration
number. "Sorry about this, but given the current circumstances we have to
check," he said.

"I'm impressed," said John O'Connor, a former head of the Metropolitan Police
Flying Squad, who now runs his own security consultancy. "They're on the ball."

Mr O'Connor and I had taken a day trip from Folkestone to Calais with Eurotunnel
to test security in the wake of the US attacks.

After all, just as the World Trade Centre in New York was a prime target, the
Channel Tunnel, similarly a high-profile construction, had to represent another.

"The tunnel has always been seen as a potential terrorist target and if
untrained refugees can get into it, who else might?" said Basil Haddrell, who
was head of security during the construction of the tunnel.

I had heard numerous tales from people who had driven to France via Eurotunnel
over the years without having anything searched in their cars and barely having
to show their passports. Surely, post-September 11, that could no longer be the
case.

It wasn't. A slowly moving line of cars waiting to board the 12.21 train from
Folkestone testified to a beefed-up security operation. On approaching the
checkpoint, we saw a sign saying that the underneath of all cars was being
photographically monitored; two cars ahead of us were pulled over to be
searched; our passports were properly scrutinised and the numbers checked
against a computer database. On the other side of the checkpoint, officers from
the Kent police force made their own observations.

"You can't really complain at that," said Mr O'Connor. "It would certainly be
enough to weed out someone they were already alerted to or to pick out something
out of the ordinary. I was reassured to see the police."

The procedure on the French side was similar, although, in addition to the
police, there were also signs of an Army presence. That said, our passports were
not opened before we were allowed to board.

On the train itself, we were in a compartment containing just five cars,
effectively sealed off by fire doors and monitored by patrolling Eurotunnel
staff and CCTV cameras. In the event of a terrorist opening fire, the doors
linking the compartments could be automatically locked; the driver's cockpit
could not, in any case, be freely entered.

Eurotunnel confirms that, although it has not been advised that it faces any
specific threat, security has been strengthened. Measures include more police
and car checks, extra fencing and barbed wire, and more lorries (though not all)
being X-rayed to check for explosive devices. A similar tightening of procedures
has occurred on the Eurostar service between London and Paris, with all
passengers now being screened.

Officials insist that even if a powerful bomb did go off on a train it could
never result in the flooding of the tunnel, which at peak times contains
thousands of people.

"This tunnel was built to withstand an earthquake," said a Eurotunnel spokesman.
"The casing is lined with the strongest concrete; above it there is a solid mass
of rock and clay. We guarantee an explosion could not reach the seabed."

As Folkestone once again drew close, we both felt reassured. Yes, the tunnel
could be a target - but it did not appear to be a sitting target.

In Mr O'Connor's words: "Without being oppressive, the security was adequate and
appropriate to the risk." That said, it was nice to be back in the open air.
[PS]Travel: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 6, 2001

HIGH PRICE OF TERROR;
ATTACKS ON US SET TO PLUNGE SCOTLAND INTO FULL -BLOWN RECESSION

BYLINE: Eddie Barnes

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1062 words


BUSINESS leaders demanded immediate government action yesterday after an
official report concluded the terror attacks on the U.S. could plunge Scotland
into recession.

The Scottish Executive study found that the impact of the attacks had delivered
a 'sharp adverse shock' to an economy already on the verge of decline.

The report was released on what became an even blacker day for the nation's
business life as two major firms went to the wall.

Phone company Atlantic Telecom went bust, with some 675 jobs, including 300 in
Aberdeen and Glasgow, put at risk by the firm's decision yesterday afternoon to
appoint administrators.

And up to 400 workers were left fearing for their future as clothing company
Daks Simpson announced it was to cease manufacturing at its plant in Larkhall,
Lanarkshire, early next year.

Elsewhere in the economy, tourism and aviation have already been badly affected
by the events of September 11.

Yesterday's 80-page document was written by the Executive's chief economic
adviser, Dr Andrew Goudie, on the orders of First Minister Henry McLeish.

Dr Goudie concluded that the worst-case scenario following the attacks would be
a sharp loss of consumer confidence.

And if the public stops spending on the High Street because of the attacks, then
there are grave fears that the entire economy will grind to a standstill, then
tumble into a slump.

Labour's big guns in Scotland urged the public yesterday to go out and spend.

Scottish Secretary Helen Liddell said: 'It is important that people go out and
that they keep spending the money in their pockets. It is important to keep the
flow of money in our economy.' Mr McLeish said: 'There i s absolutely no doubt
that this is a challenging time for businesses and the economy. But that makes
it even more important that we remain confident.'

Opposition and business leaders last night called for Mr McLeish and Mrs Liddell
to back up their rhetoric with action.

They called on Ministers to cut controversial taxes on businesses, which may
make the difference between them surviving the crisis and going bust.

Top of their target list is the Scotland-only business rates relief scheme which
imposes an extra 2.5 per cent charge on the rates of hundreds of firms and the
climate change levy, which taxes businesses for using energy.

Gerry Dowds, director of the Forum of Private Business in Scotland, said:
'Scottish tourism has had four bad seasons and now it has to face the cutback in
flights. The last thing it needs is for 90 per cent of hotels and pubs to be
clobbered with a business rates surcharge.' Scots Tory leader David McLetchie
said: 'The Scottish business community needs action, not words, if it is to cope
with the downturn which was already evident before the World Trade Centre
atrocity.

'By piling on tax and regulatory burdens for the last four years, Labour has
chipped away at our competitive advantage.' The report claims that the
underlying strength of the Scottish economy will mean it can ride out many of
the shockwaves from the attack but a huge amount depends on the reaction of
ordinary people. If people stop spending, the future is grim, Dr Goudie
concludes.

An Executive spokesman said that Ministers were reviewing the situation.

'We are looking at where intervention might be needed,' he said.

SNP leader John Swinney also demanded action. He added: 'If we want to tackle
Scotland's long-term problem of having the lowest economic growth rate of any
European country, then we need to have the normal powers of a normal
parliament.'

AVIATION TOURISM FINANCE ELECTRONICS THE report predicts the attacks will mean
bleak times ahead for the airline industry and warns of severe knock-on effects
for the economy.

Airlines have already cut transatlantic flights to America from Scotland over
the winter period because of a slump in demand, with only Icelandair and
Continental running a year-round service.

The attacks have also meant that projects such as a new Edinburgh-U.S.

route have been shelved.

The report warns that these cutbacks will have a severe effect not just on the
overall economy, but also on the job market. Nearly 10,000 airline jobs have
been lost in the UK since September 11, and Scotland could suffer soon as well.

THE report warns the September 11 attacks have pushed any signs of recovery in
the electronics sector into the distant future.

That worsens what has been a dismal year for Silicon Glen, which has witnessed
3,500 job cuts at Motorola in Livingston and East Kilbride, 880 at Compaq in
Erskine and 600 NEC in Livingston.

The manufacturing sector has shrunk by 2.9 per cent this year, largely due to
the slump in electronics.

The global electronics sector was already in recession before the attacks, but
the report concludes that the attacks have plunged it further into decline and
estimates that it will not go back into the black until 2003-2004 at the
earliest.

TOURISM is heading for a crisis, the report states categorically.

Already hit by foot-and-mouth, the tourism sector faces the prospect of few
bookings for at least the next six months because of the public's fear of
travelling. Up to 31 per cent of all winter tourism to Scotland comes from U.S.
travellers, many of whom will now choose to stay at home.

But the report cannot make a firm prediction on the longerterm future as it may
be possible that tourists from Europe and the domestic market will choose
Scotland next year as a holiday destination instead of risking a long-haul
flight.

It says visitscotland should implement a marketing drive to capitalise on this
potential.

THE sturdy financial and banking sectors appear to have broadly withstood the
aftershocks of the attacks, the report says.

Low inflation and the underlying strength of the UK economy will help sustain
Scotland's financial sector.

However, the report sounds a warning that this stability could be severely
knocked off course by any major loss of consumer confidence in the aftermath of
the attacks.The business community had long feared a recession was on the way
pre-September 11 but its concerns had been largely masked by the fact that
people were still spending heavily.

But if people stop spending in the High Street, the entire house of cards could
fall.


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 6, 2001

More terror attacks in US certain, FBI warns

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 499 words


Intelligence officials have told Congress that they believe a second major
terrorist attack on the United States is highly likely in the near future, and
that once the anticipated assault on Afghanistan begins, retaliation is "100%"
certain, it was reported yesterday.

According to the Washington Post a congressional intelligence committee was
given a secret briefing by FBI and CIA officials on Tuesday in which they
painted an ominous pic ture of the immediate terrorist threat to Americans.

One senator asked an intelligence official to characterise the gravity of the
threat and the official replied that there was a "100% chance" of a fresh attack
when military strikes began against Afghanistan.

The newspaper quoted an unnamed senior official as saying the new intelligence
underpinning the warning was "very real". But he added that the tip-off might be
an attempt to discourage a US-led assault on Osama bin Laden's al- Qaida
organisation and their Afghan hosts, the Taliban.

The information is said to have come from intelligence sources in Britain,
Germany, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Egyptian, Somali and Pakistani members of
al-Qaida are suspected of involvement in the unspecified new plot.

The administration is reported to be trying to decide how to alert the American
public to the threat without plunging the nation into panic. Passenger numbers
have just begun to pick up on domestic flights, and the White House is reluctant
to deepen the crisis facing the nation's airlines by issuing a specific warning,
especially as any new attack is expected to take a different shape from the
suicide hijackings on September 11.

The coastguard is boarding and searching boats approaching New York and Boston
harbours as well as other big ports. The national guard has been deployed at
airports and security has been stepped up around oil and gas pipelines,
refineries, reservoirs and other potential targets. Abroad, a number of
embassies have been virtually abandoned or reduced to a skeleton staff.

There have been persistent reports in the weeks since the suicide attacks of
more al-Qaida cells still at large across the US. According to the reports, many
suspected followers of Bin Laden have been placed under tight surveillance but
have not been arrested as they are in the country legally and have done nothing
criminal.

The FBI fears that Bin Laden has infiltrated large numbers of agents into the US
in recent years and that several "sleeper" cells may be following apparently
normal lives as they await a signal to go into action.

"The investigative case has to take a back seat to preventing the next terrorist
act," the Washington Post quoted a "senior law enforcement official" as saying.
"That comes right from the top, from the president of the United States on
down."

The FBI was reported yesterday to be planning a 72-hour "full-tilt"
anti-terrorist operation to go into effect once military operations begin in
Afghanistan.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 6, 2001

On the brink of war: Retaliation: FBI warns of more terror attacks: Threat said
to be 100% certain

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 414 words


Intelligence officials have told Congress that they believe a second major
terrorist attack on the US is highly likely in the near future, and that once
the expected assault on Afghanistan begins, retaliation is "100%" certain, it
was reported yesterday.

According to the Washington Post a congressional intelligence committee was
given a secret briefing by FBI and CIA officials on Tuesday in which they
painted an ominous pic ture of the immediate terrorist threat to Americans.

One senator asked an intelligence official to characterise the gravity of the
threat and the official replied that there was a "100% chance" of a fresh attack
when military strikes began against Afghanistan.

The newspaper quoted an unnamed senior official as saying the new intelligence
underpinning the warning was "very real". But he added that the tip-off might be
an attempt to discourage a US-led assault on Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida
organisation and their Afghan hosts, the Taliban.

The information is said to have come from intelligence sources in Britain,
Germany, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Egyptian, Somali and Pak istani members of
al-Qaida are suspected of involvement in the unspecified new plot.

The administration is reported to be trying to decide how to alert the American
public to the threat without plunging the nation into panic. Passenger numbers
have begun to pick up on domestic flights, and the White House is reluctant to
deepen the crisis facing the nation's airlines by issuing a specific warning,
especially as any new attack is expected to take a different shape from the
suicide hijackings on September 11.

The coastguard is searching boats approaching New York and Boston harbours and
other major ports. The national guard has been deployed at airports and security
has been stepped up around other potential targets. Abroad, a number of
embassies have been virtually abandoned or reduced to a skeleton staff.

There have been persistent reports in the weeks since the suicide attacks of
more al-Qaida cells still at large across the US. According to the reports, many
suspected followers of Bin Laden have been placed under tight surveillance but
have not been arrested as they are in the country legally and have done nothing
criminal.

The FBI fears that Bin Laden has infiltrated large numbers of agents into the US
and that several "sleeper" cells may be following apparently normal lives as
they await a signal to go into action.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 6, 2001, Saturday

TERROR ATTACKS COST COMPASS POUNDS 5M

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 76 words


THE CONTRACT catering firm Compass warned that the US terror attacks would cost
it pounds 5m but said full-year profits would meet expectations. The group,
which has operations in 96 countries, had 21 sites destroyed or closed in New
York, which accounts for 2.5 per cent of group revenues. Postponement of the
Ryder Cup also affected group profits. Compass expects like-for-like sales
growth in the UK of 6 per cent and in the US of 8 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 6, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERRORISM: ARCHITECTURE - US ATTACKS FAIL TO DETER 'MANHATTAN ON THAMES'
PLAN

BYLINE: Anna Whitney Canary Wharf will be joined by four new towers

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 373 words


FOUR NEW office towers are to be created in east London's Docklands, despite
unease about skyscraper developments after the attacks on the World Trade Centre
in New York.

The London Millharbour scheme, across the water from the capital's tallest
buildings at Canary Wharf, will see a series of buildings up to 20 storeys high
added to the "mini-Manhattan" skyline. The four glass towers, graduating in
height, will include 750,000 sq ft of offices linked by a ground- floor level of
restaurants, shops and leisure facilities.

They will be opposite a new World Trade Centre development planned for
construction in the area, which will be known as the Millennium Quarter, a 50
-acre site designated by Tower Hamlets to become a new commercial centre.

Some office and shop space has already been given planning approval for the
complex, which has been designed by Sir Michael Hopkins and will cost pounds
180m. The company behind the towers, Pembroke Real Estate, pledged yesterday to
improve public transport in the area as part of the scheme.

A spokesman said that the atrocities in the United States had not affected its
plans. "We're pleased to be a leader in the Millennium Quarter," he said. "The
emphasis of the quarter is on sustainable development, the creation of an
environment where there are opportunities to work, live and play which we
believe will be attractive to staff."

But the London Mayor, Ken Livingstone, faced a call last month to rethink his
controversial plans to transform the City into a New York-style high- rise
landscape.

Bob Neill, chairman of the committee and leader of GLA Conservatives, said: "The
mayor has said he is in favour of tall buildings because there is a clear demand
from the business community. That will have to be reconsidered now. The
multinationals that have suffered may well not want to be in tall, iconic
buildings that could be targets."

Mr Livingstone responded: "This terrible disaster is not going to stop
architects designing tall buildings, although we will be liaising with police
and security experts to ensure our buildings are safe."

Construction will start on the complex next year, and the towers are expected to
be completed by 2004.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 6, 2001, Saturday

MAN QUIZZED OVER EXPLOSION TERROR;
 POLICE RULE OUT US ATTACK LINK

BYLINE: Nicola Porter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 237 words

HIGHLIGHT: SEARCH: Police forensic teams examine the scene for clues


POLICE were yesterday quizzing a man over a suspected bomb blast.

A 41-year-old from London had his arms blown off in the explosion at a pal's
home in Brynna, south Wales.

He was visiting Geoff Wildy and his partner Shirley Keeble when the kitchen was
demolished by an explosion on Thursday night.

And bomb squad officers later blew up a car left in the car park of local
department store Leekes.

Police yesterday ruled out any links with the US terror atrocities.

A police spokesman said: "Explosive material has been found.

"But exactly what was being done in the house where the explosive material was
found is yet to be determined.

"This incident is not being linked to the terrorist situation in the US - but an
investigation is still on-going."

Neighbours were evacuated - with many staying the night in a local community
centre.

Dennis Leach was one of the first to help.

He said: "It was like something out of a horror movie. A man came out of the
house screaming.

"I could see he had lost both of his arms and his face was covered in blood."

Another shocked neighbour said: "Shirley and Geoff are just normal people.

"Shirley is often seen out walking the dog."

Police have until mid-day today to charge or bail a 57-year-old man in
connection with the incident.

The injured man was last night critical at Morriston Hospital's special burns
unit in Swansea.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 6, 2001, Saturday

Schools plan how to handle terrorist attack

BYLINE: John O'Leary Education Editor

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 487 words


Schools near potential terrorist targets are drawing up contingency plans in
case an attack makes it impossible for parents to collect their children after
class. Some parents are also investigating boarding their children away from
likely troublespots.

State schools are relying on local authorities' emergency action plans, which
have been tested again since last month's attacks in America. But some
independent schools have issued fresh advice.

Putney Park School, a 370-pupil prep in South-West London, has appealed to
parents to update pupils' health information and to provide multiple contact
numbers. In a letter to parents, Jane Irving, the headmistress, said: "In the
event of a terrorist incident or scare that affects travel or communications in
the area, we will look after our pupils in school until you are able to collect
them, or until you can let us know about any other arrangements."

Mrs Irving said: "I wanted parents to know that I would never, ever leave the
premises until all the children had gone home."

At the Godolphin and Latymer School, in Hammersmith, parents are to be offered a
"cascade" system of home contacts as a backup to the school's own
communications. The arrangement, giving each family another to contact, is used
on school trips.

At the City of London School, David Levin, the headmaster, has assured parents
that he is in "regular and frequent contact" with the police. Mr Levin said: "We
have tried to ensure that it is business as usual, although I have advised the
boys to keep an eye out both for people who look as if they might be aggressive
towards them and for any suspicious objects."

The Department for Education and Skills said: "Schools should seek advice from
their local authority -who we expect to assess risks and to take any reasonable
precautions deemed necessary."

Contingency plans were in place to deal with chemical and biological attacks, as
well as those from conventional weapons, it said.

Some parents have been making their own plans, approaching schools outside the
capital for places for their children. Russell Hollins, the headmaster of
Treliske Preparatory School, in Truro, Cornwall, said: "We had a lot of
inquiries in the first few weeks of term, and another London-based parent is
coming to see the school on Monday."

Two children whose English parents flew home from the US after the attacks have
already joined the school. "They had a holiday home in Cornwall and have decided
to live in it," Mr Hollins said. "Judging from the inquiries we have had, I
expect others to do the same."

Blundell's School, in Tiverton, Devon, has also had several inquiries from
London-based parents.

Jonathan Leigh, the headmaster, said: "We already had evidence of people moving
to second houses because they thought this offered a less dangerous environment
for their children. That trend is likely to grow."


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 6, 2001

Terror deputy's role in attacks

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.2

LENGTH: 390 words


CONSTANTLY at the side of Osama bin Laden stands the man many believe to be the
mastermind behind the terrorist attacks on the United States.

Stocky, bespactacled Dr Ayman al-Zawahri is often referred to as the brains of
the terrorism network al Qaida. The 50-year-old Egyptian doctor is believed to
have hatched the plot against the US using information from a fact-finding tour
of the country 10 years ago.

Zawahri is believed to have spent the tour of the States, under an alias,
collecting money from American Muslims, supposedly for Afghan widows and
orphans.

This money was then used to fund terrorist activities, possibly even the
September 11 attack.

US intelligence experts said that the assaults on New York and Washington bore
the hallmarks of previous acts of terrorism attributed to bin Laden's deputy.
One CIA source described him as being "so dangerous he makes bin Laden look like
a pussy cat", the Mirror newspaper reported.

As one of many Egyptians recruited into the al Qaida network, agents are
investigating his possible connection with the man believed to be the ringleader
of the suicide hijackers, Mohammad Atta.

Zawahri is believed to have first met bin Laden in Pakistan in 1987. At the time
bin Laden helped train and finance a group of "Afghan Arabs" - Islamic
volunteers who fought against the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.

Those fighters now form the foundation of bin Laden's al Qaida network and
Zawahri himself is believed to be the most likely successor to the leadership of
the organisation.

He joined bin Laden's group in 1998, having moved to Afghanistan with his wife
and children in what he believed to be a "hijrat" (migration) in God and Allah's
cause.

He hoped to turn bin Laden from a financial backer of the Afghan resistance into
a believer in the ideology of "jihad" (holy war), fighting against the enemies
of Islam.

In the first few months, Zawahri, bin Laden and others were indicted in New York
for the role they were suspected to have played in the bombing of two American
Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, which killed 224 people.

Zawahri has been a fixture among Egypt's Islamic extremists since 1966, when, at
the age of 15, he was arrested for membership of the Muslim Brotherhood, the
world's oldest fundamentalist Muslim group. He was later released.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 6, 2001, Saturday

TERROR ATTACKS 'TO COST LATE-BREAK TOURISM POUNDS 1BN';
 LEISURE: BLOW FOR TRAVEL INDUSTRY WHICH HAD BEGUN TO SHOW SIGNS OF RECOVERY
AFTER FOOT-AND -MOUTH OUTBREAK

BYLINE: Robert Jones Business Reporter

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 346 words


THE tourist industry, already hit by foot-and-mouth disease, is likely to lose a
further pounds 1bn by the end of the year due to last month's attacks on the
United States, industry chiefs have said.

A statement from the British Tourist Authority (BTA) said, "The terrorist
attacks in the US are expected to cost inbound tourism to Britain around a
further pounds 1bn in the last quarter of 2001."

With many potential visitors deterred by the animal epidemic, total tourist
numbers for August, the second month of the peak summer season, fell by 11pc,
compared to the previous year to 2.6 million, according to the Office for
National Statistics.

And overall spending by tourists during the traditional holiday month fell by a
similar degree to pounds 1.3bn, the BTA said.

The slump caused by the devastating livestock disease had been in line with
earlier forecasts.

But fallout from the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon
was likely to hit the crucial US market, which was just beginning to show signs
of a return to health.

"There is evidence that the market was slowly but surely recovering from the
devastating impact of footand-mouth, particularly the highly valuable US market,
" said BTA chief executive Jeff Hamblin.

"However, unfortunately we feel that the latest blow to tourism will have a far
deeper and long-lasting effect."

More than 25 million visitors came to Britain in 2000, spending a combined total
of pounds 12.8bn.

The tourist industry has an annual turnover of pounds 64bn and employs at least
7pc of the working population.

In Wales alone, spending from overnight and day visitors contributes more than
pounds 2bn directly to the Welsh economy.

Total expenditure by tourists in the rural areas of Wales is of the order of
pounds 1bn, which represents 50pc of total tourism revenue in the country.

It is estimated that losses of forward business for the main summer season are
of the order of 30-35pc, but could rise after the events of September 11 and its
effects on UK tourism.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 7, 2001

Business: Labour's Euro Strategy: Terrorist attacks 'will have little effect' on
the euro tests

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 334 words


THE aftermath of the terror attacks will have no effect on the economics of the
five tests, say experts.

It had been thought that the economic instability after the attacks put paid to
any idea of assessing Britain's fitness to join the eurozone soon. Charles
Clarke, the Labour Party chairman, said recently that the state of the economy
could delay a euro referendum.

But an Observer survey of leading City economists last week showed that eight
out of 10 felt there would be no effect on the five tests. 'It's tempting to
think they're more difficult to pass, but the answer's no,' said Mark Miller, UK
economist at Morgan Stanley.

Many economists pointed out that the tests on convergence were the result of the
analysis of data over several years and cycles. 'A short period of turbulence
should not make a big difference,' argues Ray Barrell at NIESR.

For some economists, the tests were in any case a political get-out clause.
Others felt short-term fluctuations could make it difficult to identify
long-term trends. 'It's more difficult to conduct the examina tion and you
wouldn't want to do it at an unrepresentative point in the cycle,' said Robert
Barrie at Credit Suisse First Boston. A top City economist says judging entry is
like tying two ships together. 'It's easier if they happen to be passing each
other, but you want them to be going in the same direction, at the same speed.'

BNP Paribas's Juli Collins-Thompson agreed that the extent of convergence could
be misleading.

She said: 'UK interest rates are less than they would have been. But by next
year things will be more stable.'

In fact, instability may offer the rationale for joining the euro. As NIESR's
Barrell pointed out: 'It's reasonably easy to show that the more volatile the
economic conditions, the more stable British inflation and growth would be in
the euro rather than out.'

That seems to be the view of the Prime Minister.

Follow the euro debate on www.observer.co.uk/euro


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                                October 7, 2001

TERROR ATTACKS LEAVE EARNINGS IN TATTERS

BYLINE: Duncan Hughes;

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 738 words


W

ALL Street is bracing itself for the worst earnings season since President
Dwight Eisenhower was in the White House and Elvis Presley's gyrating hips were
banned from national television.

Following the terror attacks of 11 September, the number of profit warnings has
risen by more than 40%, with two out of 10 companies set to disappoint,
according to Thomson Financial/First Call, a company that monitors earnings.

And that is just the beginning, according to Chuck Hill, director of research,
who is predicting the worst earnings decline - in terms of depth and length -
since the 1950s.

Just how bad will become evident during the next three weeks as the bulk of
America's top companies report their third-quarter earnings. Outside of
commission-earning brokers, it is hard to find much optimism for the fourth
quarter.

Companies are clearing their balance sheets of as many nasties as they can by
lumping them under the rubric of attack-related, according to Ed Keon, director
of quantitative research for Prudential Securities. "Look out for an orgy of
write-offs," he says.

The tragic events of September, and some generous accounting rulings, have also
made it easier for companies to massage their numbers in anticipation of a
strong rebound next year.

Everyone from pharmaceutical to technology and food companies are blaming their
weak performance on the economic fallout following the attack.

The impossibility of separating the direct effects of the terrorist attacks from
the economic weakness before the event has been acknowledged by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board, the accounting profession's rule-making body.

It decided that companies could not treat attack-related expenses and losses as
"extraordinary items". This means that such costs cannot be broken out as a
separate item in the company reports, but have to be considered part of normal
operations. "You might as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb," says Keon. "The
corporate attitude is: if the numbers look poor, then so be it. Financial
markets are in a forgiving mood."

Gateway, the struggling computer company, for example, announced a warning
citing the impact of grounded planes on its sales during the week of 10
September.

Some analysts are beginning to decry the strategy of management to shift the
responsibility for their own bad decisions on to Osama bin Laden, the terrorist
suspected of being behind the attacks on the US.

They are sceptical about Goodyear Tyre & Rubber's claims that it was on course
to meet its consensus forecast until the attacks.

The controversy should intensify interest in management's comments about the
market outlook when Motorola announces its results this week.

There will also be intense interest in earnings from Citigroup, the diversified
financial services group, with its exposure to insurance and difficult capital
markets. The company said insurance claims would cut 10 cents a share from
third-quarter earnings.

Chip Dickson, banking analyst for Lehman Brothers, remains buoyant about the
medium-term prospects of the banking giant. Dickson says its well-positioned
franchises and skill in exploiting new opportunities should deliver earnings
growth. He has a 12- to 18-month share-price target of $ 70. On Friday, it
closed at around $ 43.

Prudential Securities' Keon also believes pressure is now on companies to
engineer an earnings surge next year. He predicts that by this time next year,
Standard & Poor's 500 companies should rebound by between 30% and 40% - be it
from a much lower base - as tax cuts and massive capital projects begin to boost
the economy.

In the meantime, the bleak corporate outlook does not necessarily mean more
gloom on stock markets already struggling with a slowing economy, rising
unemployment and the threat of war.

In 1991, when American troops were part of an international military force that
liberated Kuwait from the Iraqis, earnings slipped about 13%, but the Standard &
Poor's 500 gained around 30%.

The markets can again see through the bad earnings if it is confident that a
recovery is on the way. But it could be a rough ride. Everyone knows markets do
not like uncertainty, but uncertainty is probably the best way to characterise
the current situation.

Confidence is brittle and the impact of aretaliatory strike against the US when
the Afghan campaign begins is impossible to predict.


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Sunday Business Group

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                                October 7, 2001

'No evidence linking Iraq to terror attacks,' says Blair

BYLINE: By Torcuil Crichton Westminster Editor

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 439 words


Tony Blair has signalled that the war against terrorism will not be extended
beyond Afghanistan by exonerating Iraq from any involvement in the September 11
attacks.

As the Prime Minister flew back from the final leg of his mission to strengthen
the coalition against terrorism, senior Downing Street officials gave strong
indications that that military retribution for the attacks on America will be
limited to toppling the regime in Afghanistan and tracking down Osama bin Laden.

"There's nothing to link this with Iraq. We've seen no evidence that links this
to Iraq," said a senior Downing Street adviser, referring to the dossier of
evidence that the UK government has produced to back up claims that it was bin
Laden and his al-Qaeda organisation that masteminded the American atrocities.

The statement is a significant signal that the war aims of the coalition may be
more limited than the years long "crusade" that President Bush talked about
three weeks ago.

The development will further infuriate the Israeli government which fears that
America is appeasing Arab nations while it picks off the Taliban and bin Laden.

The Israeli secret service, Aman, and some American defence experts are
convinced of the link between Sadam Hussein's regime and al-Qaeda. Israeli
sources claim that, for the past two years, Iraqi intelligence officers were
shuttling between Baghdad and Afghanistan, meeting with Ayman Al Zawahiri, a
senior member of al-Qaeda and possible successor to Osama bin Laden.  According
to sources, one of the Iraqi intelligence officers, Salah Suleiman, was captured
last October by the Pakistanis near the border with Afghanistan. The Iraqis are
also reported to have established strong ties with Imad Mughniyeh, head of the
special overseas operations for Hezbollah, whom the Israelis also fingered for
the September 11 attacks.

Experts on Iraq and Saddam Hussein believe that Iraq was the state behind the
two terror masterminds. "In recent months, there was a change, and Iraq decided
to get into the terror business," said one intelligence expert.

"On July 7, they tried for the first time to send a suicide bomber, trained in
Baghdad, to blow up Tel Aviv airport."

Israel believes the chief of the Iraqi secret service is Qusai Hussein, the
dictator's son, and his organisation is the most likely to have been involved in
the American attacks.

US authorities have gathered evidence that suspected hijacking ring leader
Mohamed Atta trained in Afghanistan with some of his fellow hijackers at camps
run by Osama bin Laden's inner circle, Washington officials said.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 07, 2001, Sunday

Terrorist attacks send Isa sales crashing to record low

BYLINE: BY PAUL FARROW

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 223 words

SALES of Isas are fast approaching their lowestmonthly level since official
figures for Isa and Pep sales began at the start of 1994.

According to industry sources, sales of Isas in September were down by as much
as 60 per cent on August in the wake of the attacks in New York and Washington,
and the ensuing economic uncertainty.

Two weeks ago, figures released by the Association of Unit Trusts and Investment
Funds showed that Isas sales had plummeted to their lowest ever monthly level of
pounds 467m in August. The lowest recorded figure on gross sales of Peps, was
pounds 196m in January 1995. Isas replaced Peps in April 1999.

But with sales slowing to all but a trickle, some experts reckon there is a
chance that Isa sales in September will plunge below the pounds 196m barrier.
The experts said people are not selling existing holidings at the moment, but
they are nervous about buying equity funds in the present climate.

Tim Cockerill at Chartwell Investment Management said: "Our Isa sales were down
by between 50 and 60 per cent last month. The figures were heading south before
September 11 because of the technology bubble bursting and people already
nursing big losses."

Warren Perry at Whitechurch Securities said: "There is more than a chance that
sales could be the worst yet."
[PS]City: [ES]

Money:

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 07, 2001, Sunday

For that price, I'll risk death Terrorists are less likely to attack an airline
with a naff name

BYLINE: By ALASDAIR PALMER

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 614 words

Are you among the millions of people who, having seen the awful pictures of the
planes crashing into the World Trade Centre, now think it is too dangerous to
fly? British Airways says the airline industry has crashed since September 11.
Its own passenger numbers to America have fallen by 32 per cent and it will not
pay a dividend next month.

There is, however, one sector of the airline industry which is booming. People
are queueing to travel on low-cost carriers such as EasyJet - which, far from
losing money, is expected to make a profit of pounds 35 million. Big national
carriers - Sabena, Aer Lingus, Iberia, Alitalia, American, even Swissair and
British Airways - may teeter on the edge of insolvency, but the airlines
offering cheap seats such as Ryanair, Go and Buzz, are recording unprecedently
heavy bookings. Between September 20 and 27, Ryanair sold 500,000 tickets -
double the number it sells in a typical week.

It is easier to note that paradox than to explain it. If you are now frightened
of flying because of the heightened risk of being murdered by a suicidal
fundamentalist, then surely you won't fly at any price - not even if you're paid
to do so. But people are willing to accept the additional risks of flying,
providing it is with an airline such as Ryanair, which is extremely
uncomfortable, provides no food or drink, and has an abysmal record for
punctuality.

Part of the explanation may simply be the assessment that terrorists are less
likely to attack an airline with a naff name like EasyJet or Buzz than they are
a flag-waving carrier such as American Airlines or British Airways. In addition,
the cheap airlines fly from Stansted. Would any serious Islamic terrorist (or
anyone at all, come to that) blow up a plane which flew from Stansted Airport to
Malaga or Tenerife?

More surprisingly, there is also a widespread willingness to accept a higher
risk of death if doing so saves enough money. This is something that almost
everyone is prepared to do. Money is traded for risk whenever you decide you
won't buy a smoke alarm, a bicycle helmet or the safest car available. The
willingness to gamble on a risk of death was strikingly evident during the BSE
crisis. In 1996, the Government admitted that there was a chance that if you ate
beef, you would get CJD, the human form of mad cow disease. Understandably,
sales of beef dropped sharply. When the price of beef fell to about two thirds
of its previous level, sales did not merely recover but exceeded their
pre-BSE-scare levels, to the extent that supermarkets warned that there might be
"a critical shortage".

There is clearly a point at which accepting a higher risk of death becomes worth
it because the price is lower. People thought it worth running an increased risk
of catching BSE from a steak which cost pounds 6 - but not worth the risk if it
cost pounds 9. Low cost airlines, of course, now offer much greater savings than
were available from buying steaks at the height of BSE: a return ticket to Milan
can cost pounds 650 on British Airways, but pounds 60 on Go, or pounds 10 on the
special offered by Ryanair.

Michael Jones Lee, a professor of economics at Newcastle University, says that
people are remarkably consistent in the way they implicitly balance risk against
price: they converge on the same scale of price reductions for the same levels
of increased risk. The message for the airlines is clear: reduce ticket prices -
or get taken over by EasyJet. As Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive,
said in an interview with this newspaper last week: "Drop your prices and you'll
be amazed how demand comes back!"
[PS]Features: [ES]

Comment:

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 07, 2001, Sunday

'I believe the terrorists wanted a nuclear attack on Baghdad' PJ O'ROURKE is a
man who normally believes in giving war a chance. But when he talked to CLIVE
JAMES at a fundraising benefit for the Red Cross, he showed an uncharacteristic
degree of tolerance and understanding for the Muslims of the Middle East. Gerry
Adams, though, did not escape so lightly . . . This is an edited extract of
their conversation

BYLINE: By PJ O'ROURKE and CLIVE JAMES

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 3173 words

Clive James: It is already apparent here in Britain that 7,000 innocent deaths
delayed by a maximum of 48 hours the opinion forming that this is really somehow
the US's fault, for its position in the world, for its role and its behaviour.
What do you say to that?

PJ O'Rourke: It's no surprise to me. The largest target, the largest entity will
be given all responsibility and all blame. In the 19th century, everything was
Britain's fault. If you go into distant parts of Pakistan, of India, of Africa,
you will still hear how it's still all Britain's fault. That it's some sort of
plot involving the Queen and the Jews. And there's probably still some distant
area of Ruritania where someone is still blaming everything on the Roman Empire.
It just happens.

CJ: There are plenty of places in Australia where there are people blaming
Britain for everything.

PJ: I'm sure. And in Ireland, too. I keep coming back to an experience that I
had in 1984. I was in Beirut at a Shi-ite militia check-point. I was held at
gunpoint by this kid, maybe 17, maybe 16 years old. I wasn't really scared he'd
shoot me but the question in those things is always more about gun-safety. The
Lebanese boy scouts don't probably teach the gun safety courses like they ought
to.

Anyway, he's waving this gun at me and he's yelling at me - in pretty good
English - how we had fathered Zionism and how we are the Great Satan and how we
were responsible for all the trouble in the world generally. At the end of which
he said: "As soon as my green card comes through I'm off to Detroit to go to
dental school." He didn't think this needed any sort of apology.

I think that terrorism is essentially a reactionary thing - it really has more
to do with fighting back a world that is changing. The reason for much of
terrorism in the world is that we are moving towards an open, liberal,
cosmopolitan, tolerant, modern indeed middle-class world, and it terrifies
certain people who have a hold on and a power over other people by virtue of
things that are not tolerant, not liberal, not modern, not middle class. It
isn't because they are intent on winning that terrorists resort to these things,
it is because they are losing.

CJ: It did occur to me they couldn't have chosen a less advisable target than a
World Trade Centre full of about 30 different nationalities. If they'd wanted to
hit something American they could have hit Disneyland. The terrorists actually
formed the coalition which will fight them.

PJ: They did, they did in a sense, yes. I was thinking after Timothy McVeigh,
after the Oklahoma City bomb, I was thinking: "No, no Tim, the IRS [Internal
Revenue Service] building, in the middle of the night, nobody there - that would
have been the right move." But, you see, that's not what they are about.

I think in some ways the WTC was the correct target in so far as the theory of
terrorism. We, of course, don't know what is going on in someone's head when
they do this, but in so much as we know about the theory of terrorism, the most
important effect it is supposed to have is to cause a draconian response: this
is what is wanted most by terrorists, and who better to deliver a draconian
response than the entire damned world.

I firmly believe that these terrorists wanted, indeed foresaw, a nuclear attack
on Kabul or Baghdad or perhaps both. The reason they want that sort of thing is
that it would help galvanise the people who they consider to be their potential
allies but who are presently not their allies - millions and millions of people
across the globe who are Muslim, but Muslim as I am Methodist. I consider myself
a pretty religious person but I am not looking to create an absolutist Methodist
state.

CJ: I'm a Presbyterian. You don't feel the urge to wipe me out?

PJ: No. In fact, I can't quite remember why it is. Which is which?

CJ: Neither can I, which is the whole point.

PJ: They are predestinarians, I think. Which is a very bad thing. But that said,
Methodists do believe in free will. What would a Methodist Absolutist state be
like? We are so far away from that we can't even imagine what Methodist Sharia
Law would be.

CJ: It's only about 500 years actually.

PJ: No, it's not that long in time but it's that long in attitude. Anyway, you
can say that all Muslims are against the kind of thing that these terrorists are
trying to set up. They are hoping that if enough Muslims were attacked with
enough viciousness that everyone will rally. Or so I believe.

CJ: It occurs to me that in the Muslim countries, even if they are not
theocracies, if there is an emergent middle class they will have difficulty
articulating themselves as they come under pressure from the Right wing.

PJ: Absolutely. I think that the worst fear after this terrorist attack was
probably within Muslim states. I'm sure the government of Egypt is extremely
upset, even the governing people in Sudan must be upset. Not because of the
prospect of retribution but because of the prospect of this kind of thing
striking them, where it really could bring them down.

This type of attack, terrible as it is, is not going to bring down the United
States. Even a direct attack on the leadership is not going to bring down any
free country. If you get rid of the leadership - half the time you are doing us
a favour - you are certainly not going to destroy us that way.

There is a pyramid in every society but in a democratic society it's the heap
that rules the head, not the head that rules the heap. We will reconstitute
ourselves but there are more fragile societies and they must be very frightened.

CJ: What I want you to address is the subject of America's guilt. If America had
behaved differently in Iraq, or was behaving differently to Israel and the
Palestinians - and I'm bound to say that I don't really follow the argument that
America controls Israel: if America controls Israel then they'd make Sharon do
what they want - what should America do differently and how much would that
change things?

PJ: The problem with a criticism of American foreign policy is that it presumes
that there is an American foreign policy and there isn't, and especially over
the past 10 years there hasn't been. Since the fall of the Berlin Wall, we've
been floundering around taking things on largely guided by the pressure of
elections and poll results back in the United States. Very few of our actions
have added up to anything that amounts to any kind of coherence.

I was in the Gulf covering the Gulf war. I didn't understand at the time why it
stopped when it stopped.

CJ: You were there when the retreating Iraqi army was getting annihilated.

PJ: I was. I didn't disagree with it. I didn't understand why we stopped when we
stopped but I didn't disagree with it. I was up on the Basra Road about a day
after the American aerial attack. It was a slaughter, just a slaughter, and I
was sickened and ready for it to be over.

I'd looked around up there and had encountered all these Iraqi soldiers who were
begging for water - not food even - who were on the road trying to get back to
Iraq, some of them in shock and indecisive as to the direction Iraq was. Some of
them were actually headed back to Kuwait, which
would not have been very good for them if the Kuwaitis had got hold of them.

I watched the Kuwaitis, there were a lot of Palestinians in Kuwait and the
Palestinians had tended to be acquiescent to the Iraqis if not actually somewhat
in favour of the Iraqis. The Kuwaitis were taking people from their apartments,
taking them off and I don't imagine that they came back.

Yet I didn't understand the strategic logic of stopping it. If you have an enemy
that was as bad as we said that Saddam Hussein was, why do you have a chance to
destroy him and stop short?

I was in Bosnia a couple of times and in Kosovo after that war, and a very close
friend of mine was an army major in Banja Luka in Bosnia as a peacekeeper. His
job was civilian liaison and he would sit at a desk every day and people would
come and say: "My car was stolen, my house was burned down, my property was
taken, and my wife was assaulted." And my friend Michael would sit there with a
large book and say: "OK, we've made a note of that. Yes, we've got that down.
We'll call you."

He resigned his commission after this. He said: "I can't do this. I can't do
this on a number of grounds. This is absolutely, perfectly fing useless: that's
one ground. The other is that I'm a soldier. I kill people and break things. I'm
not a nation-builder, I didn't take nation-building at school."

I was in Somalia. I wasn't there when our Black Hawk was shot down but I was
there not too long before that - that was an ill-considered mission in every
respect. I neither understood why we began it nor why we ended it.

So there's a couple of examples of America's foreign policy . . . I could go on
and on and on. The problem is that America is an inward looking nation. Why is
it an inward-looking nation? It is a very big nation and it is a big nation full
of foreigners.

You would think they would be interested in foreign countries but no, they left
those foreign countries to get away from that stuff and they don't want to go
back.

CJ: One thing that really rankles with almost everyone in the West who describes
themselves as an intellectual or liberal is Israel and the Palestinians, and
what I think of as the illusion that American can wave its magic wand and fix
this. It's quite obvious to me that if America could wave a magic wand it would
have waved it long ago.

PJ: God couldn't fix that and he tried, he really did try; he sent his kid.

The night before all this happened I had just finished editing a piece for the
Atlantic Monthly about Israel and what it's like to live in constant contact
with terror and strife. It was more of a depressing piece than I'd intended it
to be.

I wrote a piece to cover the first intifada, very sympathetic to the
Palestinians. This time I wrote a piece very sympathetic to the Israelis and I
read them back end to end. They were both right, which is to say they are both
wrong. It isn't something that can be easily settled.

A friend had come over from Hong Kong and he and I were sitting in a bar,
spending the evening in Jerusalem - we'd had a bunch of Hebrew beer, and then
we'd gone over and had a bunch of Palestinian beer, and we were sitting in the
American Colony Hotel and he's going: "God, this place is screwed up, but it's a
really nice place for somewhere screwed up. The women are cute, the weather's
great, do we have to choose sides?"

I thought about that and said: "It's like dating sisters." You probably have to
choose sides or get out of the global village. That said, there's no point
looking for an easy fix, whether it comes from America or from the Oslo peace
process, or whether it comes from Arafat or from the Israeli doves - or indeed
the Israeli hawks. But blaming the US too much is probably not a useful thing to
do. On the other hand, expecting America to fix too much is probably not very
useful either.

CJ: It just could be that extremism in itself a way of life. One of the big
problems with Israel and Palestine is that each side is squeezed from one wing
by its extremists.

PJ: King Abdullah of Jordan was considered too soft on the Zionists and was
assassinated. The danger of compromise is not from the other side, the danger of
compromise is from one's own side.

It's important when you're looking at and thinking about this never to fall into
the trap of saying we don't understand it - especially in this country, because
right next door [Northern Ireland] you have had this going on for a couple of
hundred years.

CJ: Where your people come from.

PJ: Yes, my moron cousins have been doing this up in Belfast and before this all
over Ireland. The mechanics of it, the logic of it and the romance of it. I'm
sure the Taliban and bin Laden have lovely songs and heart-rending poems about
the heroes that do this kind of stuff just like my moron cousins do. It's
something we should all understand.

CJ: You don't sound like you've ever subscribed to Noraid then.

PJ: No. There is a person in America who is known as a three-drink Republican -
I don't mean my Republican party: the Irish Republican Army - and the Noraid can
comes along and in goes a fiver and "that's for the boys back in wherever". Yes,
America has a lot to answer for.

We turned a blind eye to the funding coming out of the USA. We did it because
the Boston Catholics were a very important part of the Democratic coalition and
they were also a very important part of the Reagan Republicans and neither
wished to offend them. They had a lot of clout in Congress and we let them go
and it was shameful, absolutely shameful.

And frankly, I think it's shameful that you guys are at the table with these
people right now.

When it comes to ending terrorism round the world I'd start with the Protestant
stone throwers and go directly to Gerry Adams because at least we know where
they are. We might not be able to fix it but we could fix them.

I've always wanted to ask Gerry Adams: "Gerry, do you ever kill anybody or do
you just do the PR for it?" I've always wanted to know that about him.

CJ: Perhaps we should touch on the subject of women. It seems to me that the
women are in a terrible condition if extremism closes in. This is particularly
true in Afghanistan where the Taliban behave shamefully towards women and there
is nothing women can do about it. The only advantage is that the huge BBC
reporter John Simpson, who is 6ft 4, actually managed to penetrate Afghanistan
while dressed in a full burka.

PJ: Think of these Taliban guys going: "I won't need four wives. Heaven."

CJ: But they didn't search him because he's only a woman.

PJ: But "only a woman" is going to be a big question. I am not known for my
cultural sensitivity but I would like to stick something in to that and remind
people that the most severe behaviour towards women in the Islamic world is not
Islamic per se, it is almost all tribal customs.

CJ: Like Somalia?

PJ: Exactly - clitorectomy etc. There is nothing in the Koran about that. The
Koran was relatively enlightened for its time, granting property rights to women
and certain rights which were not much but probably a lot better than they had
in the tribal pre-Islamic society. The Koran says that women and men were to
dress modestly and leaves it at that.

I don't claim great expertise here, but severe behaviour towards women in
Afghanistan was probably going on when Alexander the Great was through there.
Alexander, incidentally, had an Afghan wife, Roxanne.

CJ: A rock singer.

PJ: Not a happy marriage. So we have to be very careful to distinguish between
Islam and cultural behaviour which is not Islamic even though it takes place
among people who belong to the Islamic faith.

This was an awful catastrophe that we experienced on September 11 and the worst
harm will come to people in the Islamic world, not because of military strikes
from the West but the internal dynamics of terrorism.

CJ: One of the things I get increasingly worried about is that the age of
information is not the age of knowledge: that our children will know nothing
unless they can find it on the internet at random. For example, a whole
generation educated by our newspapers will grow up believing that America,
powerful America, is fundamentally interventionist and it simply isn't true.
Until after the Second World War there was no such thing as American
interventionism. What there was was American isolationism, and that's what we're
all scared of. The world was scared that the Americans would never come.

PJ: To be fair, there was a certain amount of American interventionism - it was
weak and intermittent. We did get into a pretty silly war with Spain and we did
have colonial possession of the Philippines, although for the life of us we
couldn't figure out what on earth to do with it.

CJ: But it wasn't an intervention against European or Asian power was it?

PJ: No, it wasn't intervention on a European scale and, yes, actually a very big
problem has been the lack of American interventionism. We were real slow coming
to your help in World War One. It was one of those things: "Well, is it over yet
- is it safe to come over?"

CJ: Decisive when America did, though.

PJ: We had to be dragged kicking and biting into the Second World War even
though that was a much more evident fight against evil than the First World War.

The Second World War was a much more clear cut thing and yet we didn't exactly
rush in to help. Then immediately after the Second World War we completely
disarmed. We just said: "Well, we don't need an army, an air force, a navy,
stuff like that", and then had to completely re-arm ourselves for Korea, which
we very nearly lost.

It took Churchill's speech in Missouri to alert us to what the

CJ: The Iron Curtain speech, yes.

PJ: commies were up to. Overall, although American intervention has doubtless
done its share of harm, probably more harm has been done to the world by lack of
American intervention.

CJ: I can imagine you storming ashore on D-Day.

PJ: That's very nice of you to say, but I cannot.

CJ: I can imagine more easily you doing that than I can imagine Tom Hanks,
frankly.

PJ: Well, I don't know. Actors are pretty dumb and I think dumbness would be a
big asset.

CJ: Isolationism is a perfectly respectable position, it's just that it doesn't
work. If you are sufficiently big you can't be isolationist because people want
what you've got.

PJ: There is really no hope for it really. I mean little bitty countries might
be able to pull it off, but even a place like Switzerland has its difficulties
staying fully isolated. A really big country just can't help it.

I was talking to somebody earlier and he was saying about the Heisenberg
principle - the principle in physics that even by observing something you change
it. And when you are engaged in the world, the things you don't do are every bit
as important as the things that you do do.

So what's the hope for you? You might as well try and do it as well as you can
rather than just letting it happen by accident, as I think America has been
doing, particularly in the last 10 years.

CJ: There's a non-American principle which is sometimes called the Clive James's
Principle in historical circles, which is that we want the Americans to come and
save us but only when we want them.

PJ: That's the parent principle, isn't it? You want your folks to get you out of
a jam but first you don't want them to know about the jam you are in but you
really want them to turn up and bail you out but you can't tell them. You sure
don't want to owe them anything later and you don't want to hear a lecture.

This is an edited extract of a conversation that took place between PJ O'Rourke
and Clive James on September 27 at a Red Cross fundraising benefit arranged by
PEN and The Guardian Hay Festival.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 7, 2001, Sunday

Art world is braced for terror attack backlash

BYLINE: Dominic Rushe

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 900 words


Sponsorship may be cut back as some blue-chip companies tighten their belts,
writes Dominic Rushe.

THE art world fears it may be the latest victim of September's terrorist attack
on the World Trade Center.

Desire Unbound, Tate Modern's dark and sexy exhibition of surrealist art, is
proving a runaway success. The show seems to have caught the public mood. Morgan
Stanley, the investment bank that lost staff in September's terror attacks in
New York, has sponsored the show and held its delayed launch party last week.

But while surrealism is drawing crowds at the Tate, many in the art world fear
Desire Unbound may be one of the last shows to attract big-bucks corporate
sponsorship.

Leaner times ahead had been signalled well before September 11 and sponsorship,
especially from corporate donors, was already harder to find. The terrorists
attacks have hastened that decline.

So far the signs are mixed. Barclays Bank has announced it is going to spend
Pounds 1.9m over the next two years supporting plays at the National Theatre and
exhibitions at the British Museum, National Gallery and Tate Modern. But signs
of cutbacks are already looming. Rolls-Royce, the aeroengine maker, has dropped
sponsorship of this year's Goldberg Chamber Orchestra concerts which were to
take place in London and Scotland. "In the current very difficult situation,"
says Sir Ralph Robbins, Rolls-Royce chairman, sponsoring the concerts would be
"inappropriate".

For those galleries with less pulling power than the majors, life looks even
harder. Paul Hobson, head of fundraising at the Serpentine in Hyde Park, says:
"Corporate support is already very difficult to secure. Arts organisations are
having to be incredibly creative in raising finance. But the reality is that
recession means cutting costs."

The Serpentine has high- profile fans. It was a favourite of Diana, Princess of
Wales, and is chaired by Lord Palumbo. Michael Bloomberg, the media mogul, sits
on its board. The gallery has a reputation for putting on shows that punch above
its weight but it is finding today's environment tough.

"Spending is already lean and it's an area that's unlikely to get better in the
near term," Hobson says. "We're already looking at contingency plans in the
middle of our financial year to take into account the dreadful events in
America."

He says the Serpentine is increasingly targeting private individuals to make up
its funding requirements.

David Gryn, consultant with Rufus Leonard, the design agency whose clients
include Consignia, Lloyds TSB, Mercedes and Shell, says many leading art venues
will be hit hard by the downturn. "But blue-chip companies benefit through great
marketing and brand exposure by association to the arts," he says. "And for
every downturn there's an upturn."

Arts and Business, a charity that co-ordinates arts sponsorship, has been
measuring the size of corporate giving since its creation in 1976. In its
foundation year business gave Pounds 500,000 in art sponsorship, last year that
figure had reached Pounds 150m. Colin Tweedy, Arts and Business chief executive,
says that during the last recession growth in sponsorship stalled but did not
decline.

"It's my job to be optimistic," he says. "And there's some danger that we're
talking ourselves into a recession." He says some companies are more committed
to sponsorship during a downturn because they want to prove that for them it is
business as usual.

But there will obviously be some dropouts, Tweedy says. "If you're fighting for
survival then you won't do it. I can't see Swissair or British Airways doing
much in the way of sponsorship this year. But Ryanair?"

Sponsoring a high-profile art show at a leading gallery such as the Tate or the
Royal Academy can be a costly business. Companies spend anywhere between Pounds
150,000 and Pounds 1m and those are just the starting costs. "Leverage" costs
such as advertising, educational projects, internal events and community
programmes can treble the cost.

But in terms of publicity, backing the right show can be more effective and
cheaper than an advertising campaign. Ernst & Young, the accountant, has been
one of Britain's biggest art sponsors in recent years. This year's blockbusting
Vermeer exhibition at the National Gallery was just one of the latest to benefit
from its sponsorship.

It says: "We are great believers in sponsoring the arts and bringing them to the
widest possible audience.

It says that the consultancy has another big deal in the pipeline but warns:
"Obviously, we are in a new economic situation. It's too far into the future to
make an accurate statement about where we go from here."

Gordon Brown, the chancellor, introduced tax breaks in the last budget that
encourage giving money to the arts.

The English National Opera has been one of the first organisations to benefit.
It raised Pounds 7.5m from board members, including Vernon Ellis, Accenture's
chairman, Martin Smith, ENO chairman and founder of Phoenix Securities, and
Shaun Woodward, Labour MP and husband of Camilla Sainsbury, the supermarket
heiress.

Hobson says we may now see a return to a more discreet, personal patronage of
the arts. But he fears that for many arts institutions this money may be harder
to come by.

"And, of course, their wealth, too, may be affected by the downturn," he says.


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                      $%Investment Adviser adviser adviser

                           October 8, 2001 2001 2001

Terrorist attacks dent economy; but the immediate reaction of central banks and
governments around the world could ease the burden, says Andrew Bell bell bell

SECTION: ISSN. 1361-1593 1593 1593

LENGTH: 543 words words words


The terrorist attacks on 11 September created a humanitarian tragedy of
monstrous proportions, the repercussions of which will affect the behaviour of
global economies in coming months.

The shock to confidence comes at a time when the US economy was already weaker
than advocates of an early recovery had hoped, with some indications of
stability in manufacturing being offset by a weaker tone in retail spending, as
job cuts began to erode consumer confidence.

The immediate negative economic effects are showing through in dramatic falls in
air travel and travel-related spending and a slump in retail activity. Consumers
are likely to be more apprehensive about the immediate future and reduce
discretionary purchases. People also tend to spend more time at home watching
events at times of momentous happenings.  happenings.  happenings.

Stock markets will take time to adjust to the succession of weak economic news
which is likely to appear in coming weeks. We suspect that some companies will
take the opportunity to get all the likely bad news out, even if it is not
caused by the attacks themselves. This has the effect of putting short-term
pressure on markets, at a time when recovery seems far off.

The worlds central banks reacted immediately by cutting interest rates and
injecting substantial amounts of liquidity into money markets, to ensure that
markets continue to function properly and reduce the risk of an ensuing credit
crunch.

We believe this process has further to go. Noting that, especially in the US,
the easing of interest rates has been underway since January, we would expect
this stimulus to become apparent in improving economic activity by early 2002.

However, the need for the US consumer to increase savings places a greater
burden on the rest of the world to pick up the growth baton.

Encouraging signs

In this regard, recent policy easing outside the US has been encouraging.
Governments have also adopted more fiscal flexibility, particularly in the US
where displacement and reconstruction costs are greatest.

To this must be added the likely increase in spending on defence and security
measures in airports and commercial buildings.

A weakening of economic activity in coming weeks is inescapable. It seems
increasingly possible that the eventual recovery (although delayed to some time
in the first half of 2002) will prove more typical of past recoveries than the
extended period of mediocre but improving growth which seemed on the agenda
before September.

Some catch-up in demand from the current growth hiatus, combined with increased
defence and security spending and the lagged impact of lower financingcosts
should allow a return to normal growth levels by next summer.

The bleak current mood in equity markets appears excessively influenced by the
immediate negatives.

Despite the circumspection called for by the experience of this bear market and
the economic and military uncertainties, historically it has paid to invest in
such markets. Even if the level of the overall market takes time to rise,
therecent sell-off has seen indiscriminate mark-downs, some of which seem
unrelatedto any change in trading prospects.

Andrew Bell is chief European strategist at Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite
crosthwaite crosthwaite

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 2001 2001

LANGUAGE: English english english

            Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited limited
                                    limited

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                      $%Investment Adviser adviser adviser

                           October 8, 2001 2001 2001

The US economy was in trouble before the terrorist attacks; John J Brennan is
chairman and chief executive of US fund giant Vanguard. Here he talks to IA
editor Jason Mitchell.  mitchell.  mitchell.

SECTION: ISSN. 1361-1593 1593 1593

LENGTH: 1308 words words words


Investment Adviser: Can you explain what Vanguards plans are for the UK market?

John J Brennan: We are studying the British market right now. We have no
committed plans to enter. We have people there. I cannot tell you today about
any specific funds that we are launching in the market. The attacks on 11
September had global ramifications with respect to markets and business
broadly,so you have to step back and assess what youre doing. Our business has
gone on pretty much unchanged over the past few weeks. We think that in the long
run 11 September probably means that the investment industry will become more
Darwinianthe strongest will survive. The attacks will positively impact our
business withrespect to Europe, rather than have a negative effect.

IA: Could you tell us more about Vanguard and its areas of expertise in the US?
us? us?

JB: We have about $ 550bn (GBP370bn) of assets under management, largely in
mutual funds, spread equally between individuals and institutions. We have a
mixof index funds, actively managed funds, stocks and bonds. We are broadly
diversified. Weve been in the business 75 years, providing consistently good
long-term results, usually in the top quartile. We have good people working for
us but we also bring a cost advantage to the equation. The bulk of our business
is domestic to the US but we also have an index-only operation in Australia and
we established a beachhead on the Continent three years ago by selling funds
based in Dublin.

We want to bring the same skills and capabilities to Europe that we have been
reasonably successful with in the US. In everything we do, we sell direct to
theclient whether to an institution or an individual. There is no commission, no
sales compensation, which is an unusual way to do business outside the US and
anincreasingly rare way of doing business inside the US.

IA: But commission is very common in the British market if Vanguard wants to
enter the UK market, do you think it will have to pay commission to
intermediaries?

JB: Well, that is one of the key strategic issues. Thats one of the reasons were
not there now. Intermediaries are important to the retail marketplace in Britain
so we have to make an assessment of that. The question is: is there an
evolutionary step whereby British consumers feel more comfortable making their
own decisions?

Some 25 years ago there was no direct business in the US. Now, depending on how
you count, around a third comes direct. Its our preferred way of doing business
but its a big strategic issue.

IA: Do you think the British market will go the way of the US in terms of the
amount of business done direct?

JB: I think by definition British investors will become more sophisticated and
the question is at what pace and around what products. It is an area where 11
September may have an impact. The British market dried up after 1987 for a long
period. British people lost interest in equities. Privatisations were a bighelp
in regenerating interest in stocks broadly and unit trusts more narrowly.

My guess is that the British and Continental markets will see an evolution
towards direct purchasing by consumers because they have a nascent defined
contribution market. Thats the place where people get educated about investing
on their own and get comfortable, so I think it will happen; its a matter of
pace, not whether it will happen.

IA: Do you operate through intermediaries in the US?

JB: Yes. The average expense ratio for our funds is 0.25 per cent against the
industry average of 1.25 per cent. So many intermediaries would rather than get
clients to pay that 1.25 per cent use our funds and put their fee on top, to
give their clients a better deal net. They are almost exclusively fee-based
intermediaries. Periodically, somebody will sell our funds it may be a huge
intermediary, it may be a big insurance company that uses our funds underneath
its insurance product or it may be some one more akin to IFAs in Britain. The
last group are doing it on their own but have found that a combination of their
valued-added and intermediaries do provide very strong value-added and our low
fees is a pretty powerful mechanism. A combination of fair pricing at the IFA
level and our fees ends up being pretty powerful.

IA: Whats your take on the US economy do you think 11 September has helped to
dip the US into at least a technical recession?

JB: Yes, I think it has. To be honest, even before 11 September, from my own
observations and from my own visits to clients out there making stuff, the
economy seemed softer than the numbers said. Now, the numbers themselves are
down. The impact is real. Its certainly tenths of percentage points, if not a
percentage point. That will translate globally, I guess.

US consumer confidence is the key. Ill tell you up-front that Ive been a bear
about the consumer in the face of an industrial slowdown being able to carry
theeconomy on its own. If you look at the macro-data, consumer debt levels are
at all-time high. Its at a highly leveraged point and there is no question
consumerconfidence is down. I think that is the end reason why the 11 September
tragedy will have a broad economic impact. Parking lots at shopping malls on a
Saturday are half full. However, I dont think its a bad thing, by the way. I
dont believethe laws of physics were repealed whereby stocks always go up and
economies donthave recessions. It became an accepted orthodoxy at the end of the
Nineties thatsomehow Alan Greenspan could prevent a recession from ever
happening again; thatwas never possible.

IA: But do you think we have escaped from the harsh boom-bust economic cycles we
had in the past?

JB: You never want to say things are different this time but I think this is a
modern fallback in the face of two important changes. Firstly, there is the
impact of globalisation and the ability of companies to move manufacturing and
manage inventories in a way that is far more sophisticated than when we last
sawa recession in the late-Eighties.

I think the managerial techniques in place today make some of the forecasting
about how deep or how long a recession will occur very difficult to accomplish
today. The second change is how stock price-driven every one is. Some 20 years
ago management got paid what ever happened but today a big chunk of manager
compensation is decided by the stock price. So, attentiveness to managing
earnings has gone up. And you have seen the reaction in layoffs you saw 100,000
layoffs in the airline industry in the US overnight. Those layoffs would have
not happened so quickly 20 years ago.

Its not quite clear that the old models work. We have far more sophisticated
monetary policy and far more attuned fiscal policy and this may counterbalance
those changes Ive outlined. This is going to be an interesting one to watch.

IA: How long do you think it will be before stock markets return to their 2000
peaks?

JB: Oh, my God. For the Nasdaq it is a long, long time away. The Dow went up to
a bit over 11,000. If you just do the maths, its a few years. You could have a
big rally but its a few years looking at the maths. The easiest one to do is the
Nasdaq. From 5000 to 2000 involves a fall of 60 per cent; to go from 2000 to5000
it needs to go up 150 per cent. So the maths is tough. Its at least a couple of
years before we get back but thats OK. People promised but nobody should have
believed that youd get 18 to 20 per cent compounded for ever. Regression to the
mean is real. There may be reasons to hope for somewhat higherthan historic
results but any IFA or fund manager must have perspective. Two decades ago if
some one had told you that the Dow would be where it is today we would have all
been very happy. You cannot live your life by high water marks which is what
people tend to do.  do.  do.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 2001 2001

LANGUAGE: English english english

            Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited limited
                                    limited

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 8, 2001

Family and friends say fond farewell to Sarah;
 War on Terrorism: CHURCH PACKED: service for vicar's daughter missing since
terror attacks in New York

BYLINE: Kate Tarling

SECTION: News, Pg.3

LENGTH: 379 words


A BATH church was filled with people on Saturday for a service to remember the
missing daughter of its rector.

Hundreds of mourners packed into St Mary's Church in Bathwick on Saturday to
remember Sarah Redheffer.

The 35-year-old daughter of the Rev David Prothero and his wife Sue was one of
the victims of the horrific attack on the World Trade Center in New York on
September 11.

All the pews at the church were filled with family, friends and work colleagues
who all came together to remember her at a special Mass of Thanksgiving and
Requiem.

The congregation stood in silence at the beginning of the service to reflect on
the aftermath of the US attacks and say prayers for the victims and their
families.

The Rev Paul Trenchard, who had known Sarah since she was very young, gave the
homily.

He told the congregation that they were not there to make sense of world events.

"We are here to do something more simple, not easier, but more simple and
domestic.

"We are joined together in our grief at the loss of this young woman whose life
in many ways we have been privileged to share.

"To share together our regret that she will not delight us with her presence any
longer."

He described Sarah as "a complete whirlygig of enthusiasm and activity".

"She was full of fun, laughter and enthusiasm.

"She had such a gift of sharing her enthusiasm and you couldn't stand by her
when she was being enthusiastic without feeling some of it spilling off her."

He also described her as a "people person".

"She was sensitive and perceptive of other people's needs and idiosyncrasies.

"She had a gift of dealing with clients' subtly and her manner was diplomatic
directness.

"She swung around happily in the centre of love and appreciation and lastly, she
made us all laugh."

Sarah, who worked for a publishing company, had been organising a conference on
the 106th floor of the World Trade Center when the twin towers were struck by
the hijacked aircraft.

She lived with her American husband Eric in London.

There are still more than 5,200 people missing in the wake of the attack. About
200 of the missing are Britons.

An appeal has been launched in memory of Sarah to raise funds for children's
charities.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 8, 2001

MP backs attacks on Taliban;
 War on Terrorism

BYLINE: Tamsin Davis

SECTION: News, Pg.3

LENGTH: 422 words


SHOCK but not surprise was the reaction in Bath as the first missiles hit
military targets in Afghanistan last night.

City MP Don Foster said air strikes had been inevitable in the face of the
Taliban's refusal to hand over the prime suspect for the US terrorist attacks,
Osama bin Laden, and stop supporting his group, Al-Qaeda.

"I am not in the slightest bit surprised at what we are told is happening and
the timing, " he said.

"It is clear from the evidence we are hearing that the Taliban regime has been
given enough time to stop supporting Al-Qaida, they have been given since 1996.
They have consistently found excuse after excuse.

"I think it was inevitable, having first sorted out that we have clear evidence,
that we made sure we had in place very effective aid programmes and humanity aid
schemes, and thirdly that we had a very specifically targeted series of attacks
targeting the AlQaida group and the Taliban and not against the people of
Afghanistan.

"I think everything is as many of us said it had to be."

He said it was not just America lashing out, but very carefully thought out
action backed by a number of other countries, with the military response being
just a small part of the whole picture.

He said unfortunately the death of some innocent Afghans was also a relative
certainty.

"It would be very unlikely that the targeting can be so precise that there are
not going to be accidents like that happening. We just hope and pray we don't
have significant civilian casualties."

Bath Abbey Rector, the Rev Simon Oberst, urged people to be calm despite the
anxious times.

"It sounded to me to be quite a measured approach and that it was precisely
calculated and had been well thought through, " he said.

"The military action being taken now is very limited and precise which protects
innocent lives. We should all be very glad about that, but there is still the
danger other Muslim nations will turn against the United States and Britain as
its ally.

"I think we should all be calm."

Prayers are being held in the Abbey every Friday at 1pm for anyone wanting quiet
time to reflect on the situation.

Mr Oberst said food and shelter was now a top priority for the millions of
civilians in Afghanistan expected to be caught up in a humanitarian disaster.

"Our prayers are very much with the millions of people who are at risk of
starving in this situation and who have only a few weeks to go before winter
snows. Our thoughts are very much with them."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 8, 2001

Countries link up to fight terrorist threat;
 War on Terrorism: FRAGILE BOND: galvanised by terror, the world backs attack

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 669 words


ACTION against Afghanistan is backed by a vast international alliance.

India and Pakistan, Israel and her Arab neighbours - traditional foes have all
offered support to varying degrees.

But how long the alliance will stay together - particularly if things go wrong
and Afghan civilians are killed - remains to be seen.

Shoring up the coalition has required hard work.

Barely 24 hours before the attacks began, Tony Blair returned from a second
gruelling round of shuttle diplomacy during which he clocked up thousands of
miles.

United States Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld also launched a diplomatic
offensive in the days leading up to the first attacks, visiting the wavering
desert kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where fears of a fundamentalist backlash are
thought to have been behind a softening of support for action.

Despite some setbacks, the two allies built an unprecedented coalition in the
wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Galvanised by the horror, countries from around the world rallied behind the
call for a war on terrorism.

The diplomatic offensive ensured that if Afghanistan refused to hand over prime
suspect Osama bin Laden, they would face America's wrath effectively alone.

Traditional allies such as Britain immediately pledged support in President
George Bush's fight to smash the terror machine which slaughtered thousands of
innocent people.

Nato involvement was guaranteed when ambassadors from the 19 member nations
invoked Article Five of the organisation's Charter, declaring the attack on
America to be an attack on the Alliance as a whole.

However, the sustained diplomatic effort secured support for military action
stretching far beyond the long-standing transatlantic alliance.

Russia, which waged its own ill-fated war in Afghanistan, ruled out committing
troops but is thought to have helped US intelligence services in their searched
for bin Laden.

China, the major power most likely to speak out against the American plans,
instead said it would support the fight against terrorism and voiced only
limited reservations, warning military action could prove counter-productive.

Sustained pressure from the US brought about a ceasefire between Israel and the
Palestinians - helping to isolate Afghanistan's ruling Taliban from potential
Arab allies.

Keen not to be seen as frustrating the US efforts, both offered support for
President Bush's war.

Uzbekistan, which borders Afghanistan, offered to act as a base for American
troops.

Neighbouring Tajikistan ruled out allowing ground attacks but said air corridors
were a possibility.

India's enthusiastic offer to commit troops was politely declined for fear of
disturbing the sensitive relationship with Pakistan, as it negotiated with the
Taliban.

Despite the grave internal problems thrown up by co-operating with the US,
Pakistan's military government was under no illusions that if it failed to
assist it would be treated as the terrorists' ally.

As the world lined up behind America the Taliban quickly ran out of potential
friends to turn to for support.

Even so-called rogue states accused of sponsoring terrorism, such as Libya and
Syria, have not spoken out against US strikes.

Syria condemned the "barbarism" of the jetliner attacks while Libyan leader
Colonel Gaddafi said President Bush was right to hit back.

And the United Arab Emirates, one of just three countries to recognise the
Taliban, said it was reviewing its relations with Afghanistan's rulers.

Yemen, which along with Pakistan makes up that trio and has close links with
Osama bin Laden, said it would only support action authorised by the United
Nations.

Iraq alone appeared happy to completely defy President Bush's challenge to stand
with or against him.

But sanctions have crippled Saddam Hussein's country since it was defeated by
George Bush senior in the Gulf War and there is little Iraq can do to help the
Taliban as America exacts its revenge.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 8, 2001

Threats from bin Laden of attacks on USA;
 War on Terrorism: WARNING: TV broadcast by terrorist 'you will not feel safe or
secure'

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty; PA News in New York

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 398 words


SUSPECTED terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden has threatened more violence
against America and said: "You will not feel safe or secure".

Speaking on Arabic television station Al Jazeera on a film the broadcaster said
had been made yesterday, bin Laden - pictured left - called on Muslims around
the world to join a war on America.

He said the world had been divided into "two camps" and said America was tasting
what Muslims had lived with "for 80 years".

Dressed in a camouflage jacket and apparently sitting outside a cave flanked by
two henchmen, bin Laden said: "God has sent an attack and it has touched one of
its best buildings, and this is America feeling fear from the north to the
south, from the east to the west.

"What America is tasting today is something very little of what we have tasted
for decades."

The leader of the al-Qaida terror group said America was killing civilians in
Iraq and supporting Israeli "tanks in Palestine".

He said: "There are civilians, innocent children being killed every day without
any guilt.

"We never hear any fatwahs (religious rulings) from their clergy. We never hear
anybody objecting to that, so when the sword came to America then the whole
world has been crying for those criminals who attacked."

Bin Laden was sitting with two of his top lieutenants and with an AK47 assault
rifle to his right in an apparently professionally-shot video which appeared to
have been taken in daylight.

Of America, he added: "They support the murder against the victims so God has
given back to them what they deserve.

"I say that the matter is very clear.

"That every Muslim after this and after what the officials in America stated,
with the head of the infidels, Bush, they come out with their men and equipment
and they even encourage countries calling themselves Muslims against us.

"They come out to fight Islam in the name of fighting terrorism.

"These events have split the whole world into two camps: the camps of belief and
the camps of disbelief.

"Every Muslim should support his religion and now the wind of change has blown
up to the Arabian peninsula."

And he finally issued a chilling warning: "I say by God the great, America will
never dream, not those who live in America will never taste security and safety
unless we feel security and safety in our lands and in Palestine."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 8, 2001

Countdown to Afghan attack;
 War on Terrorism: Timetable to War

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 1230 words


HERE is the timetable of events leading up to the military strikes against
Afghanistan :

SEPTEMBER 11

1345: An American Airlines Boeing 767, hijacked shortly after taking off from
Boston for Los Angeles, is flown into one of the twin towers of the World Trade
Centre.

1403: The second of the landmark towers is hit by a United Airlines Boeing 767.

1443: A third plane, an American Airlines Boeing 777, hijacked after taking off
from Washington Dulles airport for Los Angeles and flown into the west wing of
the Pentagon.

1450: All airports across the US shut down.

1507: South tower of the World Trade Centre collapses.

1527: North tower of the World Trade Centre collapses.

1530: Reports emerge of a Boeing 757 crashing near Somerset County Airport, 80
miles south-east of Pittsburgh.

President George Bush warns:

"Make no mistake. The US will hunt down and punish those responsible for this
cowardly act."

Tony Blair calls it "the most terrible shocking event" and announces that
Government and military buildings in Britain have been placed on high alert.

The Queen expresses her "growing disbelief and total shock" at the terrorist
outrages.

SEPTEMBER 12

Tony Blair begins crisis talks at No 10 with senior Cabinet colleagues and
security chiefs and announces he is to recall Parliament on September 14.

Bush announces he will make no distinction between the perpetrators of the
atrocities and those who harbour them.

Terror suspect Osama bin Laden congratulates the people who carried out the US
strikes but denies responsibility.

Nato invokes Article Five of its charter, declaring that an attack on one member
is an attack on all, and guaranteeing strategic support for the US.

Scotland Yard puts 1,000 extra police officers on the streets of London to
"reassure the public".

New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani says there are 41 known dead - believed to be
only a tiny fraction of the final death toll - and 1,700 known injured.

SEPTEMBER 13

Bin Laden confirmed as a suspect by US Secretary of State Colin Powell.

A rare statement is issued on behalf of Nato and Russia, calling forglobal
terrorism to be tackled internationally.

SEPTEMBER 14

Bush declares a national day of remembrance and visits the World Trade Centre
rubble. Europe observes day of mourning.

The US Senate approves $40bn (28bn) for counter-terrorism, rescue and recovery,
and authorises the use force against the perpetrators of the attacks.

Mullah Mohammed Omar, the leader of Afghanistan's ruling Taliban regime, defends
bin Laden against US accusations that he masterminded the terror strikes.

SEPTEMBER 15

The United States is officially declared at war by President Bush, who says that
bin Laden is their prime suspect.

The first funerals held in New York for the victims of the World Trade Centre
strikes.

SEPTEMBER 16

The first formal memorial service for those killed in the attacks is held at St
Patrick's Cathedral in New York and attracts thousands.

SEPTEMBER 17

The New York Stock Exchange reopens after its longest shutdown since the Great
Depression.

SEPTEMBER 18

Afghan airspace is closed by the Taliban, which announces its air defences on
alert.

Reports emerge that the perpetrators planned to profit from the disaster by
trading in airline share and options activity. An investigation is launched.

SEPTEMBER 19

The last of the major US airspace restrictions are lifted and American Airlines
announces it is to cut at least 20,000 jobs.

SEPTEMBER 20

Tony and Cherie Blair attend a New York church service for the British victims
of the World Trade Centre strikes. Mr Blair then travels to Washington for talks
with Mr Bush.

Mr Bush speaks to Congress at an historic sitting attended by Mr Blair.

The Ulema, a council of Afghan clerics, recommends bin Laden leave the country,
but refuses to cede to Washington demands that he be handed over.

SEPTEMBER 21

The exiled former Afghan king Mohammad Zahir Shah appeals for an emergency
assembly to elect a new head of state and form a government.

SEPTEMBER 22

Bush lifts US sanctions imposed on Pakistan and India in the wake of their
nuclear weapons testing.

SEPTEMBER 24

Governments across the world announce they are taking action to freeze the
assets of bin Laden and the al Qaida network.

Television reports quote bin Laden as urging Pakistanis to fight any assault on
Afghanistan by the "crusader Americans".

Russia steps up its supply of arms to the Afghan opposition.

SEPTEMBER 25

Saudi Arabia severs its diplomatic relations with Taliban, leaving Pakistan as
the only state to recognise them.

SEPTEMBER 27

Bush announces $500m (350m) in federal funding for aviation security and the air
force is authorised to shoot down commercial planes if they threaten cities.

The names and photographs of 19 suspected hijackers are released by the FBI.

SEPTEMBER 28

British journalist Yvonne Ridley is arrested on suspicion of spying near Afghan
border with Pakistan.

OCTOBER 1

The Duchess of York attends a New York memorial service for some 700 victims of
the World Trade Centre strikes.

OCTOBER 2

The Prime Minister speaks to the Labour Party conference in Brighton, warning
the Taliban it should surrender bin Laden or "surrender power".

Nato says the US has produced "conclusive evidence" that bin Laden was behind
the attacks.

Calls for talks from the Taliban regime are rejected by the Bush administration.

OCTOBER 3

Bush holds talks with business leaders and visits a New York elementary school.

OCTOBER 4

Firm evidence links bin Laden to at least three of the hijackers, Mr Blair tells
Parliament.

Bush announces $320m (224m) in humanitarian aid for the Afghan people and
refugees.

Afghans who support the exking's return will be punished, the Taliban warns.

Reagan National Airport reopens in Washington DC.

OCTOBER 5

Some 1,000 US infantry troops are en route to Uzbekistan, defence officials
announce.

The Taliban claims it will try bin Laden in Afghanistan if the US provides solid
evidence.

OCTOBER 6

Groups which fund terrorism are to face new measures, G7 finance ministers and
central bank chiefs announce.

Taliban leader Mullah Omar orders the release of British journalist Yvonne
Ridley.

OCTOBER 7

1727: First reports of explosions over the Afghan capital of Kabul.

1750: President Bush speaks to the nation, confirming the "carefully targeted"
air strikes and announcing that war on terrorism is under way, with the aim of
disrupting terrorist networks. The US is "supported by the collective will of
the world, " he said.

1835: Taliban officials say they are "ready for jihad". The Taliban ambassador
to Pakistan, Abdul Salam Zaeef, called the assault a terrorist attack and said
America "will never achieve its goal".

1850: Mr Blair makes a televised speech, praising British forces and saying the
Taliban was warned it had a choice of "siding with justice or siding with
terror". He said "the objectives to eradicate Osama bin Laden's network of
terror" had been put in place.

1908: Reports surface of military strikes on Kandahar, the headquarters of the
Taliban, and Jalalabad.

1932: Osama bin Laden and Taliban leader Mullah Omar have survived, the Taliban
say.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: EXTRA POLICE ON STREETS AS LONDON IS BRACED FOR TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 345 words


British police stepped up security in 'potentially vulnerable areas' of London
in response to the US/British attack on Afghanistan.

A police spokeswoman said the stepped-up police presence aimed to reassure
minorities, who have come under attack since the September 11 suicide hijackings
in the United States.

'We recognise this is a difficult and uncertain time for everyone and encourage
members of all communities to go about their daily business as normal,' she
said.

Police in London, considered a potential terrorist target for Britain's strong
support of the United States, have already put an extra 1,000-plus officers on
the capital's streets since last month's attacks on New York and Washington.

US officials warned yesterday that the strikes on Afghanistan may prompt bin
Laden's al Qaeda network -- chief suspects in last month's attacks - to activate
some long-planned plot.

Britain has been reviewing plans for dealing with retaliatory strikes, including
deadly anthrax or plague attacks since the World Health Organisation warned
Western governments to prepare for possible chemical or biological attacks.

In a bio-chemical attack, Tony Blair would escape in tunnels beneath his Downing
Street residence to a Ministry of Defence bunker. Secret tunnels under London's
underground railway system could take up to 8,000 people - but that shelter
would be powerless to keep out the deadly effects of a chemical attack.

America was last night put in a heightened state of security alert and the Emmy
awards, television's equivalent of the Oscars, were cancelled after the first
strikes on Afghanistan.

In New York security at airports was stepped up and extra police officers
deployed onto the streets.

There had been reports that a complete 'lock-down' of the city had been planned
when the first military action took place but last night Mayor Rudolph Giuliani
decided to keep the city moving.

In Los Angeles, the organisers of the Emmy awards announced the ceremony,
scheduled for late last night, had been scrapped.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: ANTI-TALIBAN FORCES ATTACK IN TANDEM WITH US

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 358 words


In an attack co-ordinated with US and British air strikes, the Afghan opposition
last night moved against Taliban forces controlling the mountains surrounding
the Bagram air force base north of Kabul.

Forces of the Northern Alliance fired multiple-rocket launchers under starry
skies on a clear night. There were no traces of the US-led air strikes that hit
Kabul and other Afghan cities, but the opposition had been informed of those
attacks before they began.

Charikar is 24 miles north of Kabul, near the Bagram air force base, which the
Northern Alliance has said would be a good place for US forces to use.

The Northern Alliance controls the air base, but the Taliban dominates the
mountains around it.

After the opposition fired its rockets that exploded on the mountain slopes, the
Taliban returned fire using Soviet-made BM-21 rockets, some of which exploded
200 yards from where foreign journalists were observing.

The Northern Alliance, which has been fighting the Taliban for years, hopes the
US strikes will help in its struggle against the Islamic militia, which controls
the majority of Afghan territory, including Kabul.

Russia and Iran are helping to supply the Northern Alliance with weapons.

The Northern Alliance uses Soviet-era weaponry, so Russia is the main supplier
of ammunition, spare parts and replacement weaponry.

An Alliance spokesman said the opposition's primary goal is not seizing Kabul,
but they would need to take control of the capital if they intended to exercise
power.

The fighting went on into the early hours of this morning.

The opposition fighters walked south toward Kabul, toting Kalashnikov rifles.
Heading north in the dark away from the capital were refugees.

Uzbek troops along the border with Afghanistan were put on alert while officials
ordered a partial evacuation of the civilian population from areas near the
Afghan border.

Shortly before the US strikes on Afghanistan began the Taliban said they had
sent thousands of troops to the border with Uzbekistan, whose president has
allowed US troops use of an air base for the anti-terrorism campaign.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: NATIONS ON RED ALERT;
 EXTRA POLICE HIT STREETS IN BRITAIN AND US TO GUARD AGAINST NEW TERROR ATTACK
THREAT SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT SECURE: Dick Cheney HIGH SECURITY: Extra police
officers have been stationed at potential terrorist targets, including the
Houses of; Parliament and Buckingham Palace as a result of the attacks SECOND
TIME; UNLUCKY: The American Emmy Awards, postponed after the September 11
attacks, were cancelled again last night in the wake of the military action

SECTION: Pg. 10, 11

LENGTH: 451 words


EXTRA police officers are being drafted on to British streets following the
start of the military action against Afghanistan.

Police will patrol potentially vulnerable parts of the capital in an effort to
guard against possible terrorist attacks and to reassure the public as security
throughout the country was stepped up.

A spokesman said: 'The Metropolitan Police Service is closely monitoring events
which are unfolding and we have been vigorously planning for a range of threats
which may impact upon London.

'High visibility policing will continue and additional security is also being
introduced in potentially vulnerable areas where needed.'

Heightened

Teams using hidden video equipment have been stationed at locations including
Heathrow Airport, the Houses of Parliament and Buckingham Palace.

Meanwhile, America was also today in a heightened state of alert and the Emmy
awards, television's equivalent of the Oscars ceremony, were cancelled after the
first strikes.

In New York, the principal target of the September 11 terror strikes, security
at airports was stepped up and extra police officers deployed onto the streets,
but life continued largely as normal.

There had been reports that a complete 'lock-down' of the city had been planned
when the first military action took place but Mayor Rudolph Giuliani decided to
keep the city moving.

National Guard troops were also being deployed for the first time at many
airports across the country, including the busiest hubs.

The soldiers, the equivalent of the Territorial Army, had been deployed over the
last few days and arrived at many airports for the first time today.

Americans have been warned there is a '100 per cent' chance of more terrorist
attacks.

Security precautions have included closing off streets around the White House,
preventing parking in front of government buildings and searching everyone who
goes into high-profile buildings.

As a precaution, vice-president Dick Cheney was taken from the White House to a
secure secret location.

Today is Columbus Day, a holiday which traditionally includes a parade in New
York. The parade was due to go ahead unchanged and will be the biggest gathering
of people in New York since the destruction of the twin towers.

Fears that military strikes on Afghanistan could trigger angry protests in
Indonesia have prompted a warning to Britons in the country to stay inside their
homes, the Foreign Office said today.

It said a reaction was 'likely' in the strongly Muslim country and advised
against non-essential travel to the country, except to Bali, but was not
advising Britons already in Indonesia to leave the country.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                October 8, 2001

Uncompromising focus on terrorism;
 Gas Attack (C4,9pm)

SECTION: Media, Pg.19

LENGTH: 431 words


WHAT with all the panic buying of gas masks and the demonising of asylum seekers
over the last few months, Channel 4 have chosen a corker of film to show,
combining the two in an award-winning feature that has more issues than
Newsnight.

Gas Attack recently picked up the coveted Michael Powell Award at the Edinburgh
Festival for Best New British Feature.Directed by Kenny Glenaan, it features a
cast made up of predominantly first time actors and follows the fate of Kurdish
asylum seekers in Glasgow.

Stylishly filmed and raising some interesting questions particularly relevant in
today's climate of terrorist fear, this uncompromising drama focusses on father,
Sherko who becomes increasingly concerned about his daughter, Resa's illness.

But when the pair arrive at the hospital they find a bunch of asylum seekers
from their block, also suffering from the same flu-like symptoms. It is not
until their neighbour dies that the hospital decide to investigate further - and
find the asylum seekers are being poisoned by anthrax.

While the council try to hush it up, suggesting the anthrax is coming from local
farms, one of the refugees calls the papers explaining the situation. Later, the
police receive a call from 'White Power' claiming responsibility and threatening
to unleash further attacks unless all Blacks, Jews, Muslims and homosexuals are
exiled from the UK.

The authorities must deport 500 Eastern European refugees within 24 hours to
prevent larger-scale poisoning.

It's an interesting premise, and sure to spark plenty of debate - as well as
throwing up a chance to examine the cold-blooded planning of terrorist actions
that defy belief.

Similarly BBC conclude their series Welcome To Britain tonight (BBC1, 10.35pm),
concentrating on the removal of failed asylum seekers - the new top priority of
the Immigration Service who last year removed less than 4,000 of the 56,000
people who had their asylum applications refused.

This year, the Government's target figure is 30,000 in 12 months.

The film follows one of the first Immigration Service-chartered planes as it
prepares to take its first cargo of immigrants back to Kosovo.

We meet Lirim and Majlinda Mulgeci and their three children who arrived in
Britain in a back of a lorry, as they fight against their deportation and
eventually board the plane for the journey home.

All in all, not the jolliest evening in front of the box.But, if nothing else,
the mixture persuades us to stop for one thought-provoking moment and examine
our own attitudes and moral stance.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

TERRORISTS' LAIR UNDER ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 329 words


HELIPAD This hilltop area in the south-east of the complex has been levelled out
as a helipad and is protected by look-out posts and a bunker. The Taliban have a
handful of old Soviet transport copters and helicopter gunships. Taliban CAMP
Accommodation for fighter and storage for weapons and supplies in a 100-yard
square complex. Protected by trenches and look-out posts and commands the road
approaches from its site on a terraced slope.

HIZBI ISLAMI CAMP

The camp takes its name from a militant Islamic group and is hidden among trees
200 yards from the Taliban complex. It is run by Pakistanis and trains young
fundamentalists preparing to join guerrilla campaign against Indian troops in
Kashmir. There are currently about 3500 Pakistanis training or fighting in
Afghanistan.

TUNNEL ENTRANCES

Fourteen tunnel entrances are spread across the site and lead to underground
complexes where the terrorists can hide in sparse dormitories. Bin Laden is
believed to live in one underground network, sharing a room with at least two
bodyguards and surrounded by guns and shelves of Islamic texts.

CONVOY

A convoy, believed to be mainly pack animals carrying supplies, is led by a
vehicle along a road through the centre of the camp

DEFENSIVE TRENCHES

The satellite images show a network of defensive trenches and observation posts
on high ground. Taliban and al-Quaeda fighters could use the positions to rake
the surrounding hillsides with machine-gun fire.

ASSADALAH ABDUL RAHMAN'S CAMP

Defence analysts think this area is a terrorist training camp run by Assadalah
Abdul

Rahman, the son of the blind mullah jailed for his part in the 1993 bombing of
the World Trade Centre, which killed six people.

ABU KHABAB CAMP

This camp is of the most interest to US intelligence. It is believed to focus on
training with chemicals and toxins. Camp chief Abu Khabab is an Egyptian
hard-liner who was formerly known as Midhat Mursi.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                                October 8, 2001

City Forecast: Analysts assess impact of US terrorist attacks on UK retail

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 662 words


The calendar for corporate reporting again appears light this week, although the
City will be on its toes as firms report developments in the wake of the US
crisis. Interest will also focus on the retail sector with trading statements
from Marks & Spencer and Burberry owner Great Universal Stores.

The impact of the terrorist attacks on two of Great Universal Stores' key
businesses will be of concern to investors when the group reports second quarter
sales figures on Thursday.

The direct marketing part of US Experian, the credit reference and business
services operation, is likely to have endured a tough time since September 11.

Elsewhere, the planned demerger of the Burberry business could be at risk from
the lower valuations now being placed on luxury goods companies. Profits at
Burberry are still expected to rise over the next two years, while sales at
Argos have continued growing at a fast rate.

Investors in Marks & Spencer should get more hard facts about declining sales in
the core clothing division when the retailer issues its second quarter trading
statement on Tuesday.

Clothing is expected to decline by 7% on a like-for-like basis, following a fall
of 9% in the first quarter. Home furnishing should rebound from a poor start to
the year while food sales will lift 5%, stockbroker Gerrard added.

The launch of Per Una, the womenswear joint venture with designer George Davis,
comes too early to impact on the figures, although it should be remembered the
range only accounts for 2.5% of total floor space.

DFS Furniture is expected to benefit from the "Changing Rooms'' phenomenon when
it reports its full-year results on Wednesday, with pre-tax profits forecast to
have grown by just under £4m to £49.8m.

The housing boom and the interest in makeovers is expected to have continued to
drive sales at the Doncaster-based group, which recorded like-for-like growth of
8.5% in the first half of the year.

Analysts will be on the look out for any signs that consumer confidence may be
slowing as a result of the economic uncertainty, and this may prevent DFS from
returning some of its £30m cash pile to investors.

Health-club operator LA Fitness will provide the City with an insight into how
the leisure sector feels it will shape up in the tougher economic conditions
when it presents full-year numbers to analysts on Thursday.

LA Fitness is likely to say it believes consumers now treat gym membership as
part of their non-discretionary spend and that it will be sheltered from the
slump but the firm's like-for-like sales growth will need to support this view.

Analysts will be interested to hear if LA Fitness plans to delay the first phase
of its European opening programme and how it intends to build scale in the UK.
Pre-tax profits are forecast to jump from £3.2m to £5.4m.

Despite working on material linked to the HBoS merger between Halifax and Bank
of Scotland, printing group St Ives has seen its business impacted by a drop in
corporate activity in the UK.

The London-based firm generates most of its cash from the advertising and the
financial sectors and its full-year results on Tuesday should bear the scars of
the tougher economic climate.

Profit is forecast to fall by £7m to £61.6m and analysts will be wanting
reassurance that the overcapacity problem in the sector is not having too much
of a negative impact on price.

Analysts will be looking to see if strong retail demand has boosted furnishings
retailer Homestyle when it reports its interim results for the six months to the
end of August on Wednesday.

The rapidly expanding group, which recently acquired The Bed Shed, reported a
4.8% rise in like-for-like sales and improved margins during the first 15 weeks,
and this growth rate is expected to have continued for the full half-year.

Analysts have predicted full-year profits at the Rotherham-based group will
triple from £14m last time and will be looking to see how Homestyle has
integrated its recent acquisitions.

EGi News 08/10/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 8, 2001

City is a safe bet for conferencesuccess;Terror attacks bring boost but we won't
try to cash in says tourism chief

BYLINE: By Stewart Paterson

SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 395 words


GLASGOW is attracting new business conferences in the wake of the World Trade
Centre terrorist attacks.

As the business, tourism and international conference industry prepares for a
drastic slump, Glasgow is finding event organisers are looking to the city as a
safer option.

Last week at least three conference organisers who cancelled events in Middle
Eastern cities inquired about coming to Glasgow instead.

Scott Taylor, director of the Greater Glasgow Tourist Board's convention bureau,
said: "Conference organisers have become very nervous since September 11 and
they want to ensure their destination is likely to deliver the numbers of
delegates needed.

"There is a degree of concern in the Middle East and there has been some
movement from there to the UK."

Mr Taylor stressed Glasgow would not be targeting these cities and using
people's fears to promote the city at their expense.

Dubai, Cairo and cities in Pakistan and India have become major players in the
conference market but international organisations are now looking for a city
where their delegates will feel safer.

Mr Taylor said: "We don't believe in vulture tourism. There's nothing worse than
a destination that goes over the pieces of someone's misfortune looking to pick
up business.

"Glasgow won't do that, it would only besmirch our good name."

Glasgow has earned a reputation for international conferences, rising to number
25 in the world in a market that includes 104 major European cities and the US,
Australia and the Middle East.

In recent years the city has built new centres like the Clyde Auditorium to
complement the SECC and major hotels like the Hilton have added to the city with
others in the building stage.

The American Association of Travel Agents brought 5000 delegates to the city,
generating (pounds) 25million.

And this year the European Association for the Study of Diabetes brought 10,000
delegates to the SECC, one of the biggest conferences in the city.

Another big success at the SECC was the European Barbershop Convention, with
3000 singers from all over the world.

The biggest conference in Glasgow to date was the Rotary Club's 1998 annual
world conference, with 25,000 delegates.

And the Rotary International Conference from April 11 to 14 next year is
expected to be attended by at last 4000 delegates.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SECC: Diabetes conference;ON SONG: Barbershop convention;TOP VENUE: the
Hilton Hotel;ATTRACTION: Clyde Auditorium

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 8, 2001

SHOPPERS NOT PUT OFF BY TERROR ATTACKS; BRITAIN'S BIG SPENDERS

BYLINE: BY VICTORIA FLETCHER AND RICHARD MORIARTY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 382 words


CONSUMERS are spending with gusto in a bid to counter the effects of terrorism
on the British economy.

Crucial figures from the British Retail Consortium will this week reveal the
full impact of the terror attacks on consumer spending.

But an investigation by the Daily Express has found shoppers have been splashing
out despite fears of military action and warnings of recession.

Just days after the Prime Minister urged consumers to spend their way out of the
crisis, research shows expensive items, including furniture and TVs, are flying
out of showrooms.

Goods costing thousands of pounds have seen a rise in sales of up to five per
cent in the past month and Nigel Wreford-Brown, merchandise director of
department store John Lewis, said the stores' sales figures were baffling.

He said: "Our central London store is down in sales by four per cent but this is
being made up by our 26 other stores in the UK. We are mystified.

Maybe it is that people are making careful and not frivolous purchases now."

In the past few days, data has shown that the sale of new cars rose by 29 per
cent in September compared to the same month last year.

The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders says despite concerns that
customers may not want to buy expensive items, sales of cars last month were
higher than any other time in the past 12 months.

A spokesman for the group said it was business as usual. "We hope spending on
cars will not be affected at all in the next few months. These figures are
encouraging but we will have to wait longer to see whether there will be any
long-term impact."

Experts believe consumer spending is being buoyed by a vast increase in
borrowing. Cuts in interest rates and booming house prices have encouraged many
homeowners to increase their mortgage and use the excess cash for shopping
trips.

Magnet, the bedroom and kitchen store, was just one retailer to announce an
unexpected boom. Paul Bridgford, business planning manager for the company,
said: "Our sales are up by about 15 per cent, but whether that has anything to
do with the terrorist attacks is difficult to say."

Furniture store Ikea has also been busier than usual. Goran Nilsson, the
company's UK managing director, said sales were very sturdy.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

AIR STRIKES ON AFGHANISTAN: FROM ATROCITY TO RETALIATION: A MONTH OF DIPLOMATIC
AND MILITARY MOVES The US struck back last night almost one month after
terrorists attacked New York and Washington AP

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 965 words


11 September: Hijackers thought to be linked to Osama bin Laden's al-Qa'ida
network hijack planes and crash into the World Trade Centre, the Pentagon and a
field near Pittsburgh.

12 September: Osama bin Laden is named as the chief suspect, and the first of
the hijackers is identified as Mohamed Atta. Nato clears the way for
unprecedented joint military action.

13 September: US Congress agrees an initial $ 14bn (pounds 9.5bn) package to
fund the war on terrorism. Paul Wolfowitz, US Deputy Defence Secretary, says:
"We are going to keep after these people till they stop."

14 September: In the UK, Parliament is recalled for a special debate. In the US,
a full list of 19 hijackers is released by the FBI. The Pentagon calls up 50,000
military reservists.

15 September: President Bush declares "We are at war", and meets his closest
advisers at Camp David to plan a military campaign. As US anger mounts, the
Russian President, Vladimir Putin, calls for restraint.

16 September: America orders the Taliban regime to hand over Mr bin Laden or
face massive retaliation. Tony Blair says that Britain as well as the US is "at
war with terrorism".

17 September: Tension mounts as Afghanistan mobilises 25,000 troops and Scud
missiles close to the border with Pakistan. Mr Bush says he wants Mr bin Laden
"dead or alive".

18 September: Under pressure from the US, the Taliban say they might surrender
Mr bin Laden if its government gains international recognition. Meanwhile, a
meeting of 1,000 Taliban clerics in Kabul calls for volunteers to fight a holy
war against the West if the US attacks.

19 September: As part of the counter-terrorism offensive, the United States
orders more than 100 military aircraft to the Gulf region in a deployment that
includes positioning special forces inside Afghanistan.

20 September: Afghan clerics recommend Mr bin Laden leave, but Washington
demands he be turned over to responsible authorities. Warships headed by the USS
Theodore Roosevelt sail towards the Gulf.

21 September: The Taliban's ambassador to Pakistan, Abdul Salam Zaeef, says the
group will never surrender to the US. Bolstered by a high approval rating, Mr
Bush says: "The hour is coming when we will act. Either you are with us or you
are against us."

22 September: Mr Bush lifts US sanctions imposed on Pakistan and India. Fears
voiced in British Government that public support for attacks may dissolve if the
conflict spreads to Iraq and Sudan.

23 September: US hints at targeting Iraq, and says it is about to produce
evidence linking Mr bin Laden to the attacks. America's Middle East allies show
support for military action against Taliban regime.

24 September: Taliban's Defence Minister, Mullah Obaidullah, says he is
mobilising an additional 300,000 men. Mr bin Laden quoted on television urging
Pakistanis to fight any assault on Afghanistan by "crusader Americans".

25 September: Mr Blair warns of military strikes on "scores" of terrorist
targets in Afghanistan. Saudi Arabia severs ties with the Afghan regime. Mr Bush
warns of a long campaign unlike the conventional warfare of the Gulf conflict.

26 September: The Taliban leader, Mullah Mohammed Omar, tells his people not to
leave the country as US attack is less likely in the absence of evidence linking
Mr bin Laden to the attacks. Fears are raised for an estimated seven million
Afghan refugees.

27 September: Taliban say they have located Mr bin Laden and told him to get out
of Afghanistan. But despite the massive build-up of US military forces, the
possibility of imminent attacks appears to recede.

28 September: Pentagon admits that British and US special forces in teams of
three to five men have been operating in Afghanistan. Saudi Arabia hints it will
put its airbases at the disposal of the US military.

29 September: Several hundred Americans join an anti-war demonstration in
Washington. Britain sends a submarine to the Gulf to join 20 of its warships.

30 September: Taliban continue to hold four Western aid workers and the British
journalist Yvonne Ridley. Saudi Arabia says the US will not be able to use its
airbases to launch strikes on Mr bin Laden.

1 October: General Pervez Musharraf, President of Pakistan, says he believes the
Taliban's days are numbered. USS Kitty Hawk leaves its naval base in Japan on
its way to join four other aircraft carriers at battle stations.

2 October: Nato takes the final step for war after seeing evidence of Mr bin
Laden's links to the attacks. The United Nations confirms that the US has the
right to proceed with military action.

3 October: US Defence Secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, arrives in Saudi Arabia on a
three-day trip to Oman, Egypt and Uzbekistan to discuss prospective US military
action. France says it agrees to two requests for military co-operation with the
Americans.

4 October: Mr Blair tells Parliament there is firm evidence linking Mr Bin Laden
to at least three of the hijackers involved in attacks. Later, Mr Blair travels
to Russia, the first of a series of visits to bolster support for any military
action.

5 October: US dispatches 1,000 light-infantry troops to Uzbekistan, bordering
Afghanistan. General Musharraf and Mr Blair discuss possibility of replacing the
Taliban with a more democratic regime.

6 October: Mr Blair announces that the West is ready to launch military action.
He says that during a tour to shore up support for strikes he had been presented
by world leaders with an "enormous" amount of evidence against Mr bin Laden and
al-Qa'ida.

7 October: The US Air Force launches aerial bombardment of military
installations in Afghanistan linked to Mr bin Laden. Downing Street confirms
British forces are involved in the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

RIOTS AS JETS SET ATTACKS FOR MORE;
 WAR ON TERRORISM

BYLINE: Thomas Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 543 words


ALLIED fighter planes and bombers were today being re-armed in preparation for
an expected second wave of attacks in Afghanistan tonight.

American F14 and F18 fighters returned to Gulf land bases and air craft carriers
early today after the devastating raids on strategic Taliban targets.

They supported bombing raids by B52 and B2 aircraft, which had flown to
Afghanistan from air bases in the United States.

Today it was reported 22 people had died in the strikes against military
installations, terrorist training camps and Taliban controlled air bases.

But as the Allies prepared for the anticipated second night of strikes against
Afghanistan, rioting broke out today among pro-Taliban supporters on the streets
of neighbouring Pakistan.

Thousands of rioters - mostly from the pro-Taliban Party of Islamic Clerics -
burned four cinemas and a police station and damaged the branch of a
governmentowned bank, police said.

Several injuries were reported but no deaths as police chased bands of
protesters through the streets. Police and protesters were seen firing weapons
into the air.

One protester shouted "Down with America" and "Bush is a dog" as he hurled
stones at police. Members of the crowd chanted:

"He who is a friend of America is a traitor."

The co-operation of Pakistan is vital to the success of the Allied operation and
a massive propaganda campaign was launched to win over the support of the
Pakistani population.

But even as the protesters took to the streets, Pakistan president General
Pervez Musharraf re-affirmed the country's support of the military action in an
address to the nation today.

And the world coalition against terrorism held firm in the wake of last night's
action, launched on the personal orders of President Bush.

More than 50 cruise missiles were fired on specially selected targets from
American and British submarines and from American bombers. One of the targets
was the home of Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar.

Up to 100 special forces troops were understood to have been involved on the
ground, "helping to set up laser connections to guide missiles to their targets.

A total of 40 strike aircraft were involved in the operation.

Today Foreign Secretary Jack Straw announced that the assaults had caused "very
considerble" damage.

He promised that military action would continue until Osama bin Laden's
terrorist network in the country was destroyed, warning it would take weeks
rather than days.

Mr Straw was speaking at RAF Northalt before flying to Luxembourg this morning
for a meeting with European counterparts.

At the same time Taliban leaders were holding an emergency session to discuss
their next move.

Mr Straw said today: "We are certainly not talking days unless something
absolutely dramatic happens. We are talking weeks. It will be sustained until a
judgement is made that the action has been successful."

There was no sign of panic among Kabul's one million population, which has
already endured two decades of fighting which has destroyed most of the city.

This morning, however, some said they wanted to flee. Mirza Mohammed said: "All
night I was with my four children. We were very afraid, we didn't sleep."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ACTION STATIONS: Jets are prepared for more attacks from the aircraft
carrier USS Enterprise today OUTRAGE: Pakistani pro-Taliban supporters burn
tyres and old carpets in the street of Karachi today during a protest against
the attack on Afghanistan ATTACK: An F-18 is loaded with bombs before taking off
from the USS Enterprise in the Indian Ocean today, destination unknown

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

BOMBERS RE-ARMED ATTACKS FOR MORE;
 WAR ON TERROROSM

BYLINE: Thomas Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 553 words


ALLIED bomber planes were today being re-armed in preparation for an expected
second wave of attacks in Afghanistan tonight.

American F14 and F18 jets returned to Gulf land bases and aircraft carriers
early today after the raids on strategic Taliban targets.

They had supported bombing raids by B52 and B2 aircraft which had flown to
Afghanistan from bases in the United States.

The Taliban claimed that they shot down an aircraft in the northern Farah
province but the Pentagon reported no loss of aircraft.

Reports from within Afghanistan said 22 people were killed in strikes on
military and strategic targets.

The Taliban ambassador to Pakistan claimed today that 20 civilians were killed
in the Kabul area.

"There was no differentiation on the civilian parts and on the military parts, "
Ambassador Abdul Zaeef said in Islamabad.

"According to the Americans, their objectives and their aims were military and
terrorist camps."

He said missiles struck areas where civilians were living and that about "20
Afghans including women, children and elderly" were killed.

But Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon said that no civilians were targeted.

"Neither the Afghan civilian population nor their homes or property have been
targeted, " he said.

Anti-aircraft fire and other explosions could have given a false impression that
civilian areas were under attack, he added.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw played down fears of a terrorist attack on the UK
in retaliation.

He said: "We've no specific information about anything specifically targeted in
the UK by terrorists.

"We ask people to be vigilant and calm and go about their normal business.
That's the only way of defeating the terrorists, to go about business as usual."

As the Allies prepared for the anticipated second night of strikes against
Afghanistan, rioting broke out today among proTaliban supporters on the streets
of neighbouring Pakistan.

A protester was killed by a stray bullet and 26 others were injured police
clashed with demonstrators in the border city of Quetta.

Thousands of rioters - mostly from the pro-Taliban Party of Islamic Clerics -
burned four cinemas and a police station and damaged the branch of a
governmentowned bank, police said.

Several injuries were reported but no deaths as police chased bands of
protesters through the streets.

Police and protesters were seen firing weapons into the air.

One protester shouted "Down with America" and "Bush is a dog" as he hurled
stones at police. Members of the crowd chanted:

"He who is a friend of America is a traitor."

The co-operation of Pakistan is vital to the success of the Allied operation and
a massive propaganda campaign was launched to win over the support of the
Pakistani population.

But even as the protesters took to the streets, Pakistan president General
Pervez Musharraf re-affirmed the country's support of the military action in an
address to the nation today.

More than 50 cruise missiles were fired on specially selected targets from
American and British submarines and from US bombers.

One of the targets was the home of Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar.

Up to 100 special forces troops were understood to have been involved on the
ground, setting up lasers to guide missiles.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ACTION STATIONS: Jets are prepared for more attacks from the aircraft
carrier USS Enterprise today OUTRAGE: Pakistani pro-Taliban supporters burn
tyres and old carpets in the street of Karachi today during a protest against
the attack on Afghanistan and, below, police fire teargas; ATTACK: An F-18 is
loaded with bombs before taking off from the USS; Enterprise in the Indian Ocean
today

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK;
 ALLIES BLITZ ON BIN LADEN HE VOWS DEADLY REVENGE

BYLINE: Gary Jones, Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 159 words

HIGHLIGHT: DEADLY: British Tomahawk cruise missiles were fired in first wave of
attacks on Kabul


AMERICA and Britain launched their lethal all out strike against Afghanistan
last night.

Bombs and cruise missiles fired from planes, ships and submarines rained down on
targets in the capital of Kabul, Kandahar and Jalalabad.

Wanted Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda training camps in the east of the country run
by the hated Taliban regime were also targeted.

As they were relentlessly pounded, bin Laden released a video in which he vowed:
"America and its people will never taste security and peace until we see peace
in our land and in Palestine."

Both bin Laden and Taliban leader Mullah Omar were said to have survived.

Soon after the seven-hour strikes were launched, President Bush told the USA:
"We will not fail. Now the Taliban will pay a price."

Tony Blair confirmed British troops were taking part and said: "We take pride in
their courage."

Parliament will be recalled "at the earliest opportunity," possibly today.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK;
 ALLIES BLITZ ON BIN LADEN HE VOWS DEADLY REVENGE

BYLINE: Gary Jones, Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 164 words

HIGHLIGHT: BLASTS: Explosions rock Afghan capital Kabul last night as British;
Tomahawks hit home


AMERICA and Britain launched their lethal all-out strike against Afghanistan
last night.

Bombs and 50 cruise missiles fired from 40 planes, ships and submarines rained
down on targets in the capital of Kabul, Kandahar and Jalalabad.

The British subs HMS Triumph and HMS Trafalgar joined the attack on the hated
Taliban regime.

Wanted Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda training camps were also targeted.

As they were pounded, the terror boss released a video in which he vowed:
"America and its people will never taste security and peace until we see peace
in our land and in Palestine."

Both bin Laden and Taliban leader Mullah Omar were said to have survived the
bombing. Taliban claims that a US plane was shot down were denied.

Soon after the seven-hour strikes were launched, President Bush told the USA:
"We will not fail. Now the Taliban will pay a price." Tony Blair confirmed
British troops were taking part and said: "We take pride in their courage."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK;
 2AM LATEST: ALLIES' BLITZ ON BIN LADEN HE VOWS DEADLY REVENGE

BYLINE: Gary Jones In Afghanistan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 145 words

HIGHLIGHT: BLASTS: Explosions rock Afghan capital Kabul last night as British;
Tomahawks hit home


AMERICA and Britain launched their lethal all-out strike against Afghanistan
last night.

Bombs and 50 cruise missiles fired from 40 planes, ships and submarines rained
down on targets in the capital of Kabul, Kandahar and Jalalabad.

The British subs HMS Triumph and HMS Trafalgar joined the attack on the hated
Taliban regime.

Wanted Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda training camps were also targeted.

As they were pounded, the terror boss released a video in which he vowed:
"America and its people will never taste security and peace until we see peace
in our land and in Palestine."

Bin Laden and Taliban leader Mullah Omar were said to have survived.

As the seven-hour strikes began, President Bush told the US: "Now the Taliban
will pay a price." Tony Blair said British troops were taking part and added:
"We take pride in their courage."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

INVESTIGATION INTO SADDAM'S FINGERPRINTS ON THE TERROR ATTACKS: THE LINK

BYLINE: Lord Owen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 625 words


LORD Owen was Labour foreign secretary from 1977 to 1979, then founded the
Social Democrat Party before becoming a EU peace negotiator in Bosnia in 1992
until 1995.

He has closely followed worldwide events since the attacks in Washington and New
York. Here he warns that we must not forget the wider danger from other
terrorist threats.

IT would seem there is now no doubt that Iraq was involved in the atrocities of
September 11.

Mohamed Atta, the suicide pilot thought to have been behind the controls when
the first jet hit the World Trade Center, met Iraqi agents in Prague.

This is now confirmed by the Czech government

We know senior Iraqi spy Farouk Hijzai, Iraq's ambassador in Turkey, visited
Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan to broker an alliance.

Their combined force presents an unacceptable threat.

Although they do not share the same murderous religious fanaticism, their hatred
of Britain and the US is equal and unparalleled.

Their alliance gives the world's most highly organised and determined terrorist
network access to Iraq's hoard of biological, chemical and possibly nuclear
weapons.

To allow this situation to continue and develop would be sheer folly.

We must finally remove Saddam Hussein and every other state sponsor of
terrorism. There is a danger that the world's focus on bin Laden has become so
sharp we risk losing sight of the broader picture.

His assassination is a very difficult task, possibly even an impossible one.

People may be inclined to regard failure of that task as failure of our general
mission.

That would be wrong. Eliminating bin Laden is not going to eradicate terrorism.

His al-Qaeda network is firmly established across more than 30 countries
including Britain.

It will not simply yield and collapse without him.

America and Britain are right to make bin Laden and his protectors in
Afghanistan the target of the first phase of this war on terrorism.

But the broadening of that campaign to all state sponsors of terrorism, starting
with Iraq, should be seamless.

There is no doubt such a campaign would provoke terrific opposition and fragment
the coalition. But we cannot afford to be slaves to the coalition. While
publicly focusing on Afghanistan, we must simultaneously assemble the machinery
for phase two, the removal of Saddam Hussein and the construction of a new
democratic regime in Iraq.

As in Afghanistan, we must win the battle of minds first, bringing Russia into
the alliance, hoping France and Germany will follow.

And we must educate the Iraqi people that they are not our enemies, that this is
not the West versus the nations of Islam.

Our fight is with the enemies of democracy and freedom, wherever they may be.

I believe now is the time to state our intentions, boldly and uncompromisingly.

Sanctions don't work. We've seen that in Iraq. Saddam has been able to blame all
his country's problems on the West.

Until now, our efforts to remove Saddam have lacked seriousness of purpose and
commitment.

Bill Clinton's administration was not prepared to risk the lives of his armed
forces.

Let us hope that one good thing to emerge from the events in America will be a
new degree of focus on a massive, long-term campaign against regimes that
harbour the forces of terror.

That mission cannot be accomplished until we address troublespots around the
world, including Chechnya, Kashmir, Georgia, the Kurdish questions and the
Middle East.

They are the breeding grounds for discontent and terrorist recruitment.

It will demand great sacrifices, human and economic, on a scale our younger
generations have never known.

But how much more costly is the alternative - to do nothing?"

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

INVESTIGATION INTO SADDAM'S FINGERPRINTS ON THE TERROR ATTACKS: THE LINK;
  LORD OWEN ON WHY WE MUST REMOVE SADDAM AND THREAT OF TERRORISM SPONSORED BY
IRAQ HIJACKER ATTA'S SECRET MEETINGWITH IRAQI CONSUL -BOMBERS GIVEN FAKE
PASSPORTS BY IRAQ - CIA -TOP IRAQI OFFICIAL MET BIN LADEN IN AFGHANISTAN

BYLINE: Justine Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1057 words


NEW evidence has emerged that the attacks on the US may have been sponsored by
Iraq, it was revealed yesterday.

Investigators now have detailed intelligence of meetings between two of the
suicide hijackers and an Iraqi agent.

Czech Foreign Minister Jan Kavan flew to Washington DC to deliver intelligence
files on the meetings to US Secretary of State Colin Powell.

Suspicions of an Iraqi connection were first raised in the days after the
September 11 atrocities, when it was revealed one of the kamikaze pilots flew to
the Czech Republic - a known hub of Iraqi spies - last year.

The Czech government has confirmed its spies tailed Mohammed Atta from Prague
airport to a meeting with Iraqi consul Ahmed Khalil Ibrahim Samir al-Ani.

And it said al-Ani met a second hijacker, Khalid Almihdar, thought to be the
closest link to bin Laden.

A Czech official said: "This is not an isolated occasion where Iraqi
intelligence agents were seen to be meeting with people in Prague.

"It is not disputed that Atta met an Iraqi agent on this occasion or perhaps on
previous occasions."

The evidence - the strongest yet of Iraqi involvement - will add further
ammunition to the faction of hawks in the US government who want military action
broadened to Saddam Hussein's regime.

And last night a leading US lawmaker said Iraq would be a likely target.

Senate Minority Leader Trent Lott said action against Iraq would come after the
Afghanistan attack.

The CIA believes Iraq provided fake passports for all 19 hijackers, and is
looking for evidence of any other involvement.

Until now, the Iraqi issue has been played down in the States for fear of
splitting the international coalition against terrorism.

But evidence of a strong alliance between Saddam and No 1 suspect bin Laden -
who share the same hatred of the western alliance and the same goals in the
Middle East - could present a terrifying spectre.

It would match bin Laden's forces of terror with Iraq's half-built arsenal of
chemical, biological and nuclear weapons.

But the hijackers secret meetings in the Czech Republic are not the first signs
of a dangerous bond between Iraq and bin Laden.

This is a countdown to the possible alliance:

1990-1996: During bin Laden's six-year exile in Sudan, Saddam makes first,
failed, attempt to recruit him.

NOVEMBER 1997: RAF bombers take part in renewed intensive Iraq air strikes.

DECEMBER 1997: Senior Iraqi intelligence official Farouk Hijazi, Iraq's
ambassador to Turkey, visits bin Laden in Afghanistan. Meeting said to be
conducted with knowledge of Taliban leader Mullah Omar.

This time, bin Laden said to have accepted alliance with Iraq.

JANUARY 1998: Arab intelligence expert tells Newsweek magazine Saddam Hussein is
joining forces with bin Laden to launch attacks against US and Britain.

Sixteen British, US and Australian tourists kidnapped in Yemen by extremists
trained in bin Laden's Afghan terrorist camps. Three British tourists and an
Australian die in rescue attempt.

The FBI received intelligence the kidnappings were in "direct retribution" for
British and US air strikes on Iraq.

Bin Laden tells Time magazine British and US strikes on Iraq confirmed that they
were acting "on behalf of Israel and the Jews" to divide and conquer the Muslim
world.

FEBRUARY 1998: Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera says an army led by bin
Laden will use its weapons against those who oppose Baghdad.

New York Post reports: "CIA has "credible and reliable" intelligence Saddam is
forging alliances with the Middle East's most bloodthirsty terrorists, including
bin Laden.

Suicide bombers blow up the American warship USS Cole in Yemen, killing 17
servicemen.

Vincent Cannistraro, the CIA's former head of counter-terrorist operations,
argues the sophistication of the bomb suggests the involvement of a state -
probably Iraq.

Intelligence reveals evidence that the attack may have been the first joint
operation between Osama bin Laden and Saddam Hussein.

AUGUST 1998: Bombers attack US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, killing 259. Bin
Laden is suspect.

The US retaliates with cruise missile strikes on bin Laden training camps in
Afghanistan and a Sudanese al-Shifa pharmaceutical plant thought - possibly
mistakenly - to be producing the nerve gas VX, being shipped to Iraq.

The White House says it has evidence linking the plant to bin Laden's network.

DECEMBER 1998: British security worries heightened as we are Washington's only
military partner in Operation Desert Fox, the air strikes against Iraq.

FEBRUARY 1999: Three suspected Muslim extremists linked to bin Laden, arrested
with false passports near Uruguay's border with Brazil, were going to London.
Possibility were planning UK strikes.

JANUARY 2001: The new Bush administration invokes the spectre of a devastating
chemical weapon attack by Osama bin Laden to justify a massive expansion of US
military forces.

SEPTEMBER 11, 2001: The World Trade Center in New York is attacked and Osama bin
Laden's al-Qaeda terrorist network is named as the No 1 suspect.

The date of the attacks also has relevance for Iraq as, 11 years to the day,
President George Bush senior launched the Gulf war in Congress.

SEPTEMBER 18, 2001: Iraq named by US politicians as one of the states forming an
"inner circle" of terrorism - together with Afghanistan, Sudan, Syria, Iran and
Yemen.

The CIA seeks confirmation that hijacker Mohammed Atta met a senior Iraqi
official in Europe.

US Attorney-General John Ashcroft plays down Iraqi link to avoid splitting
international coalition. In private USA advisers admit that they may seek to
topple Saddam's regime "once bin Laden is dealt with".

SEPTEMBER 24, 2001: Saudi Government refuses to allow its Riyadh US military
base to be used for strikes against Afghanistan as it could provoke civil
disorder by upsetting Taliban-supporting sectors. This would play into the hands
of Iraq and al-Qaeda, which both want a destabilised Saudi Arabia.

SEPTEMBER 27, 2001: Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tareq Aziz denies any 1998
meeting between Iraqi intelligence officials and bin Laden, or one of the
suspected hijackers.

OCTOBER, 2001: Czech Republic confirms clandestine meetings between hijackers
and senior Iraqi spy.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: TD: 4 IRISH SURVIVORS OF ATTACK 'REAL'

BYLINE: Jenny Friel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 502 words

HIGHLIGHT: CLAIMS: O Caolain


CONTROVERSY still surrounds the existence of four Irishmen who allegedly
survived the terror attacks in New York.

A local TD claimed the four Cavan men, three of whom are brothers, were found
alive in a hospital after being feared dead.

They were said to have been working illegally and under assumed names as
tradesmen in the Twin Towers.

But almost a month since the attack the identity of the men is still a mystery.

However, Sinn Fein TD for Cavan, Caoimghlin O Caolain, insists the story is
true.

And he said the only reason they weren't named was because they feared being
deported as illegals - even though US authorities said they wouldn't do so.

Mr O Caolain claims he was contacted by a set of parents who were afraid their
sons had been caught in the attack.

And yesterday he stood by his story that the four all survived the destruction
and ended up in a New York hospital.

But Mr O Caolain said he has not talked to any of the men or their families in
the past week.

He added: "They've closed down contact with me because of the interest.

"We've had calls from so many newspapers looking to get in touch with them it's
unreal."

Tom Fitzsimons, who owns the High Stool Pub in Ballyjamesduff, Cavan, believes
the men are most definitely locals.

He said: "The dogs on the street don't know that but they are from the town.

"Their families have asked to keep it hush-hush so that is all I'm going to say
for the moment.

"In time it will emerge who they are but they have very good reasons for keeping
it quiet."

However, other residents from the town are not so ready to believe the four men
are locals.

Councillor Francie Fitzsimons said: "If there were some local people in trouble
over there I would know about it."

One local journalist said: "Cavan isn't a very big place, it's rural and
everybody knows everybody else's business.

"With a family of three brothers working in New York it would be very difficult
to ensure neighbours did not know about it."

It is believed the three brothers and their friend were admitted into hospital
under false names and are now afraid to come forward.

But the immigration services in New York said they will not use information from
hospitals to deport people.

However, Deputy O Caolain is sure that other people are reluctant to come
forward and said he reckons there are many other Irish illegals in the same
situation.

He said: "Cavan is only one county and my office had these reports, so it would
be natural to that there would be similar situations in other counties.

"In the days after September 11 my office was contacted by a number of people
from Co Cavan who were concerned about loved ones who had not made contact
following the atrocities.

"I advised them of the Department of Foreign Affairs' helpline numbers but they
were reluctant to go through official channels.

"The four men's families have at all times maintained their anonymity and that
is still the

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 8, 2001

Assault against Afghanistan condemned as 'terror attack'

SECTION: AGENCY: PA, Pg.4

LENGTH: 644 words


THE Taliban last night declared the assault a "terrorist attack" and vowed that
America "will never achieve its goal".

The statement was issued by the Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, Abdul Salam
Zaeef, soon after American and British forces launched strikes.

The Afghan Islamic Press, a private news agency with connections to the Taliban,
also said the militant Islamic leadership would never surrender bin Laden.

"We condemn the terrorist act against the Afghan nation," Zaeef said in his
statement.

"Afghanistan is the victim of American arrogance and expansionism.

"It wants to snatch from the Afghan Muslim people the present Islamic system.

"These brutal attacks are horrendous, terrorist acts, as inhuman as any in the
world.

"America will never achieve its political goals by launching bestial attacks on
the Muslim people of Afghanistan," he added.

"The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan has always chosen the path of talks and
reason to solve problems," he said.

"But America has always chosen a militaristic approach.

"However, such a brutal attitude by America will unify the whole Afghan nation
against aggression.

"The Afghan nation will rise against this new colonialism."

Meanwhile, some of Pakistan's most influential clerics swiftly denounced the US
and British attacks, calling them an attack against Islam and grounds for holy
war.

One organisation summoned Muslims to "extend full support to their Afghan
brothers."

The Pakistan government, which has thrown its support to the US-led coalition
against terrorism, said it regretted that diplomatic efforts did not succeed and
called for the US action to remain "clearly targeted."

In Chaman, vehicles carrying Pakistani soldiers could be seen heading for the
Afghan border.

The influential and Taliban-sympathetic Afghan Defence Council, based in Lahore,
issued a call for jihad, or holy war.

The council comprises of more than 30 religious and militant groups.

"It is the duty of every Muslim to support their brothers in this critical
hour," central leader Riaz Durana said.

"We will support the Taliban physically and morally against the aggression of
America."

Munawar Hassan, deputy chief of Jamaat-e-Islami, Pakistan's most powerful
religious political party, called the strikes on Kabul, "an attack against
Islam."

He warned of "serious backlash" within Pakistan's military against President
General Pervez Musharraf.

"The Pakistan army does not agree with Musharraf," Hassan said, calling for
protest rallies across the nation on Monday.

Condemnation also came from the militant group Haraka ul-Mujahedeen.

"Americans have used their might to kill innocent people in Afghanistan instead
of targeting training camps about which they were ... making a hue and cry,"
said Amar Mehdi, spokesman for the group, which advocates the independence of
Indian-ruled Kashmir.

Haraka ul-Mujahedeen is among the organisations whose assets were frozen by the
United States, Pakistan and other countries as part of a campaign against
movements linked to Saudi exile Osama bin Laden.

He is considered the top suspect in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World
Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

Pakistan shares a border of more than 1,050 miles with Afghanistan. Languages,
ethnicities and even family ties overlap, and many Pakistanis, even those with
no sympathy for the ruling Taliban militia, are reluctant to see Afghanistan
attacked.

In the centre of the border town of Peshawar last night, knots of angry men
gathered, shouting "Osama! Osama!" and "America is a terrorist." Some held
crackling radios to their ears and called out news updates.

"It is terrorism against terrorism, and that will solve nothing," said Amin
Shinwari.

Police watched and dispersed only crowds that grew beyond several dozen. Several
restaurants reopened to serve kebabs and tea.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 9, 2001

US may attack more countries;
 War on Terrorism

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 192 words


THE United States has told the United Nations Security Council that its strikes
against Afghanistan were in self-defence after the September 11 terrorist
attacks, and that it might attack other countries in the future to root out
terrorism.

In a letter to the council yesterday, US Ambassador John Negroponte stressed
that the investigation into the attacks on the United States was in its early
stages and "there is still much we do not know".

"We may find that our self-defence requires further actions with respect to
other organisations and other states, " he said.

Negroponte's letter touched on concern in some quarters that President George
Bush's administration was about to expand the war it launched on Sunday against
suspected terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden, his al Qaida terrorist network,
and Afghanistan's ruling Taliban militia who harbour them.

But White House spokesman Ari Fleischer tried to downplay the prospect of any
immediate expansion, saying: "The letter states what the president has been
saying all along, that the United States reserves the right to defend itself
wherever it is necessary."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            October 9, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERRORISM: US 'MAY ATTACK OTHER COUNTRIES'

BYLINE: Geoff Meade

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 321 words


A SENIOR American diplomat last night warned that the United States might attack
other countries in its war against terrorism.

America's ambassador to the United Nations, John Negroponte, said "further
actions" may be required.

The warning came in a letter to the UN Security Council in which Mr Negroponte
spelled out the reasons for the attacks on Afghanistan.

"There is still much we do not know. Our inquiry is in its early stages," he
said, in the letter.

"We may find that our self-defence requires further actions with respect to
other organisations and other states."

Earlier, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw insisted that the agreement was to confine
strikes to Afghanistan "at the moment".

He added: "The agreement at the moment is that the attacks are confined to
Afghanistan. That is where the problem is."

"This military coalition is about action in respect of military and terrorist
targets in Afghanistan."

A Foreign Office spokesman last night dismissed any suggestion that there might
be difference of opinion between the Americans and the British over the scope of
the military action.

"To suggest that would be to try and put a cigarette paper between people," said
the spokesman.

"The focus at the moment is on Afghanistan. The Americans would say the same.
There is no difference of opinion.

"As the Prime Minister has said, we stand shoulder to shoulder with the
Americans. Mr Negroponte was speculating about the future and I don't know what
question Mr Straw was asked."

Four European Union countries last night fell in behind Britain in offering to
go to war if required alongside America to fight terrorism.

The pledges from France, Italy, Germany and Spain were welcomed by Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw after a day of EU talks in Luxembourg.

He said they were now "anxious to be involved" if called upon to bolster the
current military campaign.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 9, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: LATEST ATTACKS 'ALL AMERICAN'

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty Gen Richard Myers

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 470 words


No British forces or missiles were being used in last night's strikes on
Afghanistan, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff said last night.

Air Force General Richard Myers said the operation was exclusively American 'to
the best of my knowledge'.

He was speaking at a briefing with American Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld,
who said American and British forces hit air defences, airfields and ground
forces in Afghanistan in the first round of strikes on Sunday night.

Last night, a total of 20 us aircraft, ten of them B1 and B2 bombers, and ten
carrier-launched fighter-bombers, were in action, while ships were firing
Tomahawk cruise missiles, he said.

Assessments of the impact of the first night of attacks were still under way,
but Mr Rumsfeld said he believed 'more work' needed to be done.

'Every target was a military target,' he said.

'We have made progress towards eliminating air defence sites around the country.
We cannot yet state with certainty that we destroyed the dozens of military
command and control and leadership targets that we selected.

'We will continue our humanitarian air drops, providing much-needed relief to
the Afghan people.'

Mr Rumsfeld said there had been no attacks on the capital city Kabul itself on
Sunday night.

'The reports indicating that there were attacks on Kabul were incorrect. Most of
what you saw on television was triple-A (anti-aircraft fire) coming up from the
ground,' he said.

The American Defence Secretary went on: 'British forces hit some two dozen of
targets.'

Gen Myers said there had been no attempts by the Taliban to use its air force.

'There have been no engagements to the best of my knowledge,' said the general.

'We and our British allies hit 31 targets,' he said.

'In this kind of war against this kind of enemy, the true nature of
effectiveness will not be in numerical terms.

'Sunday's strikes began setting the condition for future operations. We are
generally pleased with the early results but have no preliminary battle
assessments at this point.'

Gen Myers confirmed ground forces had been attacked, but said it was unclear
what effects the attacks had.

'There have been some ground forces targeted,' he said.

'Strikes are continuing as we speak.'

The B2s were flying from the United States, Gen Myers said, but refused to say
where the B1s were based.

Gen Myers said the targets last night were both pre-planned and ones which were
being decided on as the mission went on.

The general, who is America's supreme military commander, detailed the Taliban
air defences and said: 'We know that there are a handful of surface-to-air
missiles.

'I think what we saw on Sunday was a lot of anti-aircraft fire and manned,
portable surface-to-air missiles being fired.'

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 9, 2001, Tuesday

ATTACKING AFGHANISTAN 'WILL NOT END TERRORISM';
 THE WAR ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 215 words


ANTI war protests organised by a Coventry councillor were held in 30 UK towns
and cities last night.

The demonstrations were the idea of Socialist Alliance leader Dave Nellist, who
believes attacks on Afghanistan are not the answer to last month's terrorist
atrocities.

In Coventry, about 40 demonstrators gathered outside the Belgrade Theatre, in
Corporation Street, and attracted the attention of shoppers.

Cllr Nellist said: "These demonstrations act as an opposition to a policy which
will not end terrorism.

"Socialists shared the horror felt by millions at the scale of loss of life on
September 11, but the streets of New York and London cannot be made safer by
responding to terrorist attacks with the launch of war.

"If it was immoral to slaughter 6,000 Americans and others, then attacks on
Kabul and other targets in Afghanistan carry no greater moral authority."

Mr Nellist said that the work of anti-American terrorists was the result of
Afghan freedom fighters being trained by the US to undermine Soviet domination.

"Those same freedom fighters have now become antagonistic.

"If we don't want another generation of people blowing themselves up for their
beliefs, we need to tackle poverty and inequality in places like Afghanistan,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 9, 2001, Tuesday

BRITAIN ON ALERT FOR TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Nick Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 368 words


BRITAIN is on full alert for possible terrorist reprisals following the start of
the bombing campaign in Afghanistan.

Extra security measures and contingency plans are in place say Scotland Yard,
although they stress there is no specific threat to the UK.

As part of "Operation Calm", dozens of armed police officers and teams using
hidden video cameras have been stationed at potential terrorist targets,
including Heathrow Airport, the Houses of Parliament, Buckingham Palace,
Scotland Yard and the US Embassy.

Around 1,500 extra police officers have so far been drafted on to the streets of
London since September 11.

Specialist surveillance vehicles have also been deployed at a series of key
sites in the capital and south east England.

Hundreds of extra officers are patrolling predominantly Islamic areas, including
those close to mosques, to protect Muslims from potential attacks by right-wing
extremists.

There are also extra patrols in the City of London and armed officers outside
potential targets in the capital's financial centre.

Undercover officers are also monitoring airports, ports and rail stations as
they continue their hunt for terrorist suspects.

The security operation in London following the September 11 attacks is thought
to be costing up to pounds 1m a week.

Senior anti-terrorist officers have warned of possible further follow-up attacks
by other terror groups unconnected to Osama bin Laden.

Scotland Yard's ongoing contingency planning has in the past looked at how to
cope with disasters including a gas attack on the London Underground and a jumbo
jet landing on the capital.

The Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) has advised forces elsewhere in
the country to monitor the current situation and keep in touch with ACPO
centrally.

Oil companies have also been reviewing security.

A spokesman for Shell said: "Ever since September 11, we have reviewed our
security across the group.

"That's an ongoing process but for obvious security reasons we don't discuss
what those measures are."

Experts said the private security industry had received a rush of calls from
companies looking for anti-terrorist advice.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            October 9, 2001, Tuesday

STRIKE TWO;
 SECOND NIGHT ATTACK TERROR TARGETS ARE HIT MAD MULLAH BLITZED MORE AID DROPPED
IN

BYLINE: Ian Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 988 words


A SECOND wave of air strikes on Osama bin Laden and the Taliban was under way
last night.

Twenty warplanes including B2 stealth bombers were scrambled and about 20 cruise
missiles were launched from US ships.

Again, tons of food aid for civilians was dropped at the same time.

The Afghan capital Kabul was blacked out as anti-aircraft fire was heard.

Air strikes were reported in the Taliban strong- hold of Kandahar, and forces
fighting the rebel Northern Alliance were hit hard. Explosions were also heard
around the northern town of Mazar-e-Sharif.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said targets would include the headquarters
of Taliban leader Mullah Mohamed Omar.

He added: "We have looked at Mullah Omar's organisation and are attempting to
address the command and control centres."

Sources inside Afghanistan said Omar escaped by 15 minutes in the first wave of
strikes on Sunday. The Taliban said he left his office in Kandahar just before a
missile hit it.

Command centres for bin Laden's al-Qaeda terror network were also being targeted
as the pressure on him was stepped up.

Last night's raids carried on Sunday's bid to smash the Taliban's air defences -
radar, airfields and warplanes - with cruise missiles and 500lb bombs.

Rumsfeld said: "We have made progress, but we cannot yet state with certainty
that we have destroyed them."

Taliban troops in the north of the country had also been targeted. Rumsfeld
dismissed Taliban claims that 20 civilians had been killed.

General Richard Myers, chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, said targets
hit on Sunday included radar, ground forces, command and control facilities,
airfields, aircraft and al-Qaeda camps.

He said some of the terror camps may have been empty, but attacking them still
robbed bin Laden of "great training capability".

One US pilot reported activity and lights at the camp he bombed.

Prime Minister Tony Blair told an emergency Commons debate that British forces
were not directly involved in last night's raids.

On Sunday, two Royal Navy submarines had fired cruise missiles at an al-Qaeda
camp.

Blair will hold the first meeting of his newly-formed War Cabinet today.

He told MPs it was too early to report fully on Sunday night's strikes, but
early signs were that they had been broadly successful.

The Premier added: "Even when al-Qaeda is dealt with, the job is not over. The
network of international terrorism is not confined to it."

His warning came as America told the United Nations it may yet widen the
conflict by acting against "other organisations and states".

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said strikes would be confined to Afghanistan "for
the moment".

President Bush said Sunday's attacks were "executed as planned".

He added: "We're going to be relentless as we tighten the net of justice against
terrorists."

There were 30 targets in all on Sunday - four near Kabul, three close to other
major cities, and 23 in remote areas where al-Qaeda trains its terrorists.

Rumsfeld said the targets had been "successfully hit in many respects". Fifty
cruise missiles were used, including those fired by Faslane-based subs HMS
Triumph and HMS Trafalgar.

Air raids were mounted by 15 land-based bombers including giant B52s and B2s,
and 25 fighter-bombers from carriers.

US commanders showed film of F14 and F18 fighters taking off from the USS
Enterprise. Their pilots flew more than 70 sorties.

One aircraft had used specialised weapons to attack a target underground.
Another had bombed a store for Taliban anti-aircraft missiles.

Ground crew remembered the police and firefighters of New York by writing the
initials "NYPD" and "FDNY" on the bombs.

Others wrote "4WTC" - For the World Trade Centre.

Rumsfeld said all the US planes had returned safely, despite Taliban claims to
have shot down an aircraft.

Pilots said the Taliban had fired small arms and "stupid" shoulder-held missiles
at them. One joked: "It was like sitting in a tree and having kids shoot
bottle-rockets up at you."

There were three waves of attacks in Kandahar, targeting the airport, Taliban
military headquarters, and homes of bin Laden's fighters.

Admiral Sir Michael Boyce, Britain's Chief of Defence Staff, said the targets
had been carefully pinpointed but refused to confirm special forces had picked
them out.

He said the attacks would go on for "as long as it takes".

The Taliban claimed about 20 civilians were killed in Kabul, including women,
children and the elderly. But Rumsfeld said the city itself was not even hit,
and local hospitals reported no casualties.

The Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, Abdul Salam Zaeef, accused the US of
indiscriminate terrorism.

He said: "By sacrificing their lives, the brave people of Afghan-istan will
defend Islam."

As well as bombs, America dropped 35,000 sets of food rations for starving
civilians.

Each packet contained meals for a full day and carried a message saying it was a
gift from the US people.

The White House plans a pounds 220million relief effort to convince ordinary
Afghans that America is their friend.

It is also using a plane to send radio messages to civilians.

About 37,000 sets of rations were being dropped last night.

Refugees at the Pakistan border said the Taliban were forcing people to stay in
the city of Jalalabad.

The airport there was hit on Sunday night. There were also reports of loud
explosions near an al-Qaeda camp south of the city.

The Northern Alliance were delighted by the blitz, and claimed they could launch
attacks on key cities as early as today.

Senior strategist Touryali Ghiasi said: "We are in a state of absolute
readiness."

Mazar-e-Sharif is high on the rebels' list of targets, after reports that air
strikes had badly damaged the Taliban's defences there. An attack on Kabul is
also likely.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            October 9, 2001, Tuesday

STRIKE TWO;
 3AM LATEST SECOND NIGHT ATTACK TERROR TARGETS ARE HIT MAD MULLAH BLITZED MORE
AID DROPPED IN

BYLINE: Ian Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 989 words


A SECOND wave of air strikes rained down on Osama bin Laden and the Taliban in
Afghanistan last night.

Early today, three huge blasts were heard around the capital Kabul. In the dawn
light, a lone top gun streaked across the sky and dropped a bomb on a target
near the airport.

During the night, 20 warplanes - including B2 stealth bombers - carried out
raids and about 20 cruise missiles were launched from US ships. Again, tons of
food aid for civilians was dropped at the same time.

The Afghan capital Kabul was blacked out as anti-aircraft fire was heard.

Air strikes were reported in the Taliban stronghold of Kandahar, and forces
fighting the rebel Northern Alliance were hit hard. Explosions were also heard
around the northern town of Mazar-e-Sharif.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said targets would include the headquarters
of Taliban leader Mullah Mohamed Omar.

He added: "We have looked at Mullah Omar's organisation and are attempting to
address the command and control centres."

Sources inside Afghanistan said Omar escaped by 15 minutes in the first wave of
strikes on Sunday. The Taliban said he left his office in Kandahar just before a
missile hit it.

Command centres for bin Laden's al-Qaeda terror network were also being targeted
as the pressure on him was stepped up.

Last night's raids carried on Sunday's bid to smash the Taliban's air defences -
radar, airfields and warplanes - with cruise missiles and 500lb bombs.

Killed

Rumsfeld said: "We have made progress but we cannot yet state with certainty
that we have destroyed them."

Taliban troops in the north of the country had also been targeted. Rumsfeld
dismissed Taliban claims that 20 civilians had been killed.

General Richard Myers, chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, said targets
hit on Sunday included radar, ground forces, command and control facilities,
airfields, aircraft and al-Qaeda camps.

He said some of the terror camps may have been empty, but attacking them still
robbed bin Laden of "great training capability".

One US pilot reported activity and lights at the camp he bombed.

Prime Minister Tony Blair told an emergency Commons debate that British forces
were not directly involved in last night's raids.

On Sunday, two Royal Navy submarines had fired cruise missiles at an al-Qaeda
camp.

Blair will hold the first meeting of his newly-formed War Cabinet today. He told
MPs it was too early to report fully on Sunday night's strikes but early signs
were that they had been broadly successful.

The Premier added: "Even when al-Qaeda is dealt with, the job is not over. The
network of international terrorism is not confined to it."

His warning came as America told the United Nations it may yet widen the
conflict by acting against "other organisations and states".

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said strikes would be confined to Afghanistan "for
the moment".

President Bush said Sunday's attacks were "executed as planned".

He added: "We're going to be relentless as we tighten the net of justice against
terrorists."

There were 30 targets in all on Sunday - four near Kabul, three close to other
major cities, and 23 in remote areas where al-Qaeda trains its terrorists.

Rumsfeld said the targets had been "successfully hit in many respects". Fifty
cruise missiles were used, including those fired by Faslane-based subs HMS
Triumph and HMS Trafalgar.

Air raids were mounted by 15 land-based bombers including giant B52s and B2s,
and 25 fighter-bombers from carriers.

US commanders showed film of F14 and F18 fighters taking off from the USS
Enterprise. Their pilots flew more than 70 sorties.

One aircraft had used specialised weapons to attack a target underground.
Another had bombed a store for Taliban anti-aircraft missiles.

Ground crew remembered the police and firefighters of New York by writing the
initials "NYPD" and "FDNY" on the bombs.

Others wrote "4WTC" - For the World Trade Centre.

Rumsfeld said all the US planes had returned safely, despite Taliban claims to
have shot down an aircraft.

Pilots said the Taliban had fired small arms and "stupid" shoulder-held missiles
at them. One joked: "It was like sitting in a tree and having kids shoot
bottle-rockets up at you."

There were three waves of attacks in Kandahar, targeting the airport, Taliban
military headquarters, and homes of bin Laden's fighters.

Admiral Sir Michael Boyce, Britain's Chief of Defence Staff, said the targets
had been carefully pinpointed but refused to confirm special forces had picked
them out.

He said the attacks would go on for "as long as it takes".

The Taliban claimed about 20 civilians were killed in Kabul, including women,
children and the elderly. But Rumsfeld said the city itself was not even hit and
local hospitals reported no casualties.

The Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, Abdul Salam Zaeef, accused the US of
indiscriminate terrorism.

He said: "By sacrificing their lives, the brave people of Afghan-istan will
defend Islam."

As well as bombs, America dropped 35,000 sets of food rations for starving
civilians.

Each packet contained meals for a full day and carried a message saying it was a
gift from the US people.

The White House plans a pounds 220million relief effort to convince ordinary
Afghans that America is their friend.

It is also using a plane to send radio messages to civilians.

About 37,000 sets of rations were being dropped last night.

Refugees at the Pakistan border said the Taliban were forcing people to stay in
the city of Jalalabad.

The airport there was hit on Sunday night. There were also reports of loud
explosions near an al-Qaeda camp south of the city.

The Northern Alliance were delighted by the blitz and claimed they could launch
attacks on key cities as early as today.

Mazar-e-Sharif is high on the rebels' list of targets.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            October 9, 2001, Tuesday

STRIKE TWO;
 SECOND NIGHT ATTACK TERROR TARGETS ARE HIT BIN LADEN CORNERED MORE AID DROPPED
IN

BYLINE: Ian Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 996 words


A SECOND wave of air strikes on Osama bin Laden and the Taliban was under way
last night.

Twenty warplanes including B2 stealth bombers were scrambled, and about 20
cruise missiles were launched from US ships.

Again, tons of food aid for civilians was dropped at the same time.

The Afghan capital Kabul was blacked out as anti-aircraft fire was heard.

Air strikes were reported in the Taliban strong- hold of Kandahar, and forces
fighting the rebel Northern Alliance were hit hard.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said targets would include the headquarters
of Taliban leader Mullah Mohamed Omar.

He added: "We have looked at Mullah Omar's organisation and are attempting to
address the command and control centres."

Command centres for bin Laden's al-Qaeda terror network were also being
targeted.

Sources inside Afghanistan said Omar escaped by 15 minutes in the first wave of
strikes on Sunday. The regime said he left his office in Kandahar just before a
missile hit it.

Last night's raids also carried on Sunday's effort to smash the Taliban's air
defences - radar, airfields and warplanes.

Rumsfeld said: "We believe we have made progress, but we cannot yet state with
certainty that we have destroyed them."

Taliban troops in the north of the country had also been targeted. Rumsfeld
dismissed Taliban claims that 20 civilians had been killed.

General Richard Myers, chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, said targets
hit on Sunday included radar, ground forces, command and control facilities,
airfields, aircraft and camps used by bin Laden's al-Qaeda terror network.

Prime Minister Tony Blair told an emergency Commons debate that British forces
were not directly involved in last night's raids.

On Sunday, two Navy submarines based on the Clyde had fired cruise missiles at
an al-Qaeda training camp.

Blair will hold the first meeting of his newly-formed War Cabinet today.

He told MPs it was too early to report fully on Sunday night's strikes, but
early signs were that they had been broadly successful.

The Premier added: "Even when al-Qaeda is dealt with, the job is not over. The
network of international terrorism is not confined to it."

His warning came as America told the United Nations it may yet widen the
conflict by acting against "other organisations and states".

President Bush said Sunday's attacks were "executed as planned".

He added: "We're going to be relentless as we tighten the net of justice against
terrorists."

There were 30 targets in all on Sunday - four near Kabul, three close to other
major cities, and 23 in remote areas where al-Qaeda trains its terrorists.
Rumsfeld said the targets had been "successfully hit in many respects".

Fifty cruise missiles were used, including those fired by Faslane-based subs HMS
Triumph and HMS Trafalgar.

Air raids were mounted by 15 land-based bombers including giant B52s and B2s,
and 25 strike aircraft from carriers.

US commanders showed film of F14 and F18 fighters taking off from the USS
Enterprise. Their pilots flew more than 70 sorties.

One aircraft had used specialised weapons to attack a target underground.
Another had bombed a store for Taliban anti-aircraft missiles.

Ground crew remembered the police and firefighters of New York by writing the
initials "NYPD" and "FDNY" on the bombs.

Others wrote "4WTC" - for the World Trade Centre.

Rumsfeld said all the US planes had returned safely, despite Taliban claims to
have shot down an aircraft.

Pilots said the Afghans had used small arms and "stupid" shoulder-held missiles
to attack the jets.

One said: "It was like sitting in a tree and having kids shoot bottle-rockets up
at you."

There were three waves of attacks in Kandahar, targeting the airport, Taliban
military headquarters, and homes of bin Laden's fighters.

Admiral Sir Michael Boyce, Britain's Chief of Defence Staff, said the targets
had been carefully pinpointed but refused to confirm special forces had picked
them out.

He said the attacks would go on for "as long as it takes".

The Taliban claimed about 20 civilians were killed in Kabul, including women,
children and the elderly. But Rumsfeld said the city itself was not even hit,
and local hospitals reported no casualties.

The Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, Abdul Salam Zaeef, accused the US of
indiscriminate terrorism.

He said: "The brave people of Afghanistan will never be intimidated. By
sacrificing their lives, they will defend Islam."

Britain's Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon stressed that all the targets were all
military. "Neither the Afghan population, nor their homes nor property" had been
targeted.

As well as bombs, America dropped 35,000 sets of food rations for starving
civilians.

Each packet contained meals for a full day and carried a message saying it was a
gift from the US people.

The White House plans a pounds 220million relief effort to convince ordinary
Afghans that America is their friend.

Some locals in Kabul said they were desperate to get out to avoid attack. Morza
Mohamed, who lives near the airport, said: "I don't understand why the people of
Afghanistan are so unlucky."

Refugees at the Pakistan border said the Taliban were forcing civilians to stay
in the eastern city of Jalalabad.

The airport there was hit on Sunday night. There were also reports of loud
explosions near an al-Qaeda camp south of the city.

The Northern Alliance were delighted by the blitz. Spokesman Abdul Qudussy said
it had caused "a lot of destruction" to the Taliban.

Rebel leaders claimed they could attack key cities as early as today. Senior
strategist Touryali Ghiasi said: "We are in a state of absolute readiness."

America was overwhelmingly behind the military action.

A poll for CNN and USA Today, taken as raids began, found 90 per cent support
for air strikes and 77 per cent backing for the future use of ground troops.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 9, 2001

America on alert for terror backlash;
Attack on Afghanistan: Security

BYLINE: James Langton

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 233 words


US CITIES are today gripped by fear of terrorist reprisals as civilians face the
reality of being on the front line of a war for the first time in nearly 200
years.

Attorney general John Ashcroft warned he was "taking strong precautions ...

to protect the American people". He had placed more than 18,000 law enforcement
officers on full alert, along with 27,000 private security firms and utilities,
banking and telecoms companies.

He said 614 people had been arrested or detained in the 11 September probe, with
another 229 wanted for questioning.

Air force jets are patrolling above Manhattan, while in an unprecedented move
Nato is sending Awacs surveillance aircraft to help over the US.

Fighter aircraft were scrambled yesterday after the pilot of an American
Airlines flight to Chicago said a man had tried to take the controls and been
overpowered. Two F16s intercepted the plane. The man, in his twenties, was
reported to have a history of mental instability and to have believed the
aircraft was heading for the Sears Tower. He is not expected to face criminal
charges.

* The US Army is picking the brains behind Hollywood disaster movies to help
predict the terrorists' plans. A group including Die Hard writer Steven De Souza
met secretly last week and was said to be focusing on "the short term threats
against the country," according to one insider.


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 9, 2001

Video tirade 'shows Bin Laden is feeling the heat';
Attack on Afghanistan: Terror Leader

BYLINE: Jeremy Campbell

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 241 words



WASHINGTON analysts, probing Osama bin Laden's videotaped tirade broadcast after
the first British and US attack on Afghanistan, are finding hints that suggest
the terrorist may be feeling the heat of the world's attention.

Particularly striking, they say, is his increasingly strident emphasis on the
Middle East and Israeli-Palestinian conflict. US officials find Sunday's address
strongly reminiscent of the rhetoric of Saddam Hussein, who towards the end of
the Gulf War started talking about the Israeli question.

Islamic experts see Bin Laden's message, delivered in a quiet and seemingly
tired voice, without bombast, as less a blast at the US than an attempt to
present himself as a victim, representing Muslims oppressed by a bullying
American empire.

Bin Laden said: "In these days, Israeli tanks infest Palestine ... and other
places in the land of Islam - and we don't hear anyone raising his voice or
moving a limb." Analysts think he is trying to change his image and garb himself
in "legitimate grievances," issues that have great resonance in the Arab world
and stir strong emotions.

US officials describe the worry about Bin Laden among Muslim states like
Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and Oman as deep-seated. While these nations presented a
public front of caution over a US-led attack, in private they were vehement in
insisting President George W Bush must go all the way in eliminating the
terrorists.


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: UNDER PRESSURE: OSAMA BIN LADEN SPEAKING IN HIS TAPED BROADCAST

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 9, 2001

Next move in war on terror;
Attack on Afghanistan: What effect are the aircraft and missile attacks on
Afghanistan likely to have and where are they leading? Robert Fox examines the
crucial questions

BYLINE: Robert Fox

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1013 words


How much physical damage can cruise missiles and bombs do in Afghanistan?

Not a lot. That is one of the problems. The coalition is committed to avoiding
heavy civilian casualties, wh i ch means population centres. The terrorists left
their known camps as soon as allied action became likely. It is very hard for
bombs or missiles to do much damage to terrorists or Taliban fighters dug into
rocks and caves.

That is why the bombing campaign is widely perceived as a military
demonstration, designed to exert pressure on the Kabul regime.

Will the targets stay the same?

The first aim is to destroy the Taliban's air defences, such as they are.

But, once the fixed radar-controlled missiles are neutralised, lower-flying
aircraft and helicopters can close in and seek out smaller - and probably more
important - Taliban targets.

How long will the bombing campaign go on?

No one is sure, but military sources talk of 10 days for the first phase.

One problem must be that, the longer air strikes continue, the more strident
opposition may become in Islamic countries. This could prove a growing
diplomatic embarrassment.

President Bush and Mr Blair have warned that this could be a long struggle but,
before long, they will need to tell their own nations what the aims and limits
of military action are.

What is the likely reaction of Osama bin Laden, the Taliban and its Northern
Alliance opposition?

Osama bin Laden will fight to the death. And so will many of his lieutenants who
are closely identified with his network. Others less closely bound, including
many Taliban, will cling more closely to their own tribal or war leader who has
brought them into the Taliban coalition.

With Bin Laden's money drying up, and under increasing pressure, they may crack,
retreat into the hills and form old-style guerrilla units.

The Northern Alliance opposition is unlikely to form the next stable government
because it has neither exceptional leadership nor the Taliban's religious
discipline.

Do the Allies know where Osama bin Laden is?

We assume allied special forces are even now on the ground looking for him, and
any day they could get lucky.

But the impression today is that he has not yet been pinpointed.

It seems significant that neither President Bush nor Mr Blair has made any
specific threat about his likely capture or killing, which could well mean that
they still don't know where he is.

Will growing protests from the Muslim world have any effect on the coalition?

The Americans and British have already factored in unrest particularly in the
Gulf - and have decided to accept the risks.

Is the coalition likely to send a big army into Afghanistan?

Not if they can help it. There are no signs of big American and British troop
deployments. Every expert has warned the White House how difficult it would be
to stay in Afghanistan amid a hostile population.

Few American soldiers have forgotten their disastrous experience in Somalia,
where they went in hoping to save the country from itself, suffered substantial
casualties, and eventually withdrew in humiliation.

So what ground action is the coalition likely to take?

The most plausible scenario at present is that American forces will seize and
hold a perimeter in rebel-controlled territory, and use it as a base from which
to mount helicopter-borne special forces raids.

But this is unlikely to happen until they have identified their targets - above
all Osama bin Laden's hideout.

Britain's defence chief, Admiral Boyce, has announced that Nato is offering the
StanForMed - the naval force in the Mediterranean - which might be deployed for
"force protection", possibly during the landing of troops from helicopters.

Will the coalition attack other rogue states?

Unlikely at this stage. Lord Owen is one of those who argues passionately that
the world will not be safe until Saddam Hussein and his weapons of mass
destruction have been dealt with. US Administration hawks take the same line.

But Washington and its allies know that to hit Baghdad now would fracture the
precarious international coalition against the Taliban. Only if Saddam Hussein
is reckless enough to provoke America by taking military action of his own,
might Iraq become an immediate target.

What happens to the war on terrorism if we do sort out Afghanistan?

Good question. Iraq has been discussed - but what if terrorists in Sudan kill
scores of German tourists, or Algerian terrorists fly a plane into the Eiffel
Tower? Will the Americans go after them in the same way as they are Bin Laden,
or will that be a matter just for Germany or France? The likely answer is that
they will create policy as they go along.

Is there going to be a humanitarian disaster in Afghanistan?

Almost certainly. This primitive society has been collapsing for years, thanks
to the Taliban's misgovernment. The recent drought has made matters worse.

Now, the coalition's military intervention gives the Allies a direct
responsibility for the country's people. Both President Bush and Mr Blair
recognise this.

Their big problem may come if the Taliban falls, the country is in a state of
anarchy and millions of people are starving.

The coalition might then need to send in troops - whether they like it or not -
to support a huge aid operation.

That, in turn, may lead to a long-term commitment, which poses all kinds of
risks.

What happens if the coalition bombs Afghanistan for 10 days and the Taliban
regime remains defiant?

No one (perhaps including President Bush and Mr Blair) is sure about that.

Is our involvement in Afghanistan likely to end quickly, with a clear solution?

No. The killing or capture of Bin Laden would provide a quick boost to the
Allies.

However, now Afghanistan has been put on the world's agenda and the West has
become involved in its future, it will be difficult, if not impossible, for it
to make a clean break with the region - just as it has proved impossible to exit
from the Balkans.


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PRESIDENT BUSH MAY STILL NOT KNOW WHERE BIN LADEN IS IN HIDING

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 9, 2001

Thousands call anti-terror hotline;
Attack on Afghanistan: London

BYLINE: Justin Davenport

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 454 words


POLICE have received a rush of calls from members of the public reporting
suspicious packages and vehicles following the 11 September terrorist attacks,
Scotland Yard said today.

Around 3,000 people have called the Anti-Terrorist Hotline about suspicious
items or with details of possible suspects.

In the City of London, police have briefed more than 1,000 delegates from
companies and institutions about contingency plans in the event of a possible
terrorist attack.

A City of London police spokesman said: "There is no specific threat but people
have been asking about what they should do and how they can protect themelves.

People are concerned about biological, chemical and nuclear attacks.

"We have been giving reassurance and common sense advice that there is no need
to go around in a state of panic."

In the Met area a thousand extra police officers were being deployed every day
to meet the threat of a possible attack, as well as to reassure Muslim
communities.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Andrew Trotter said there had been an increase in
calls from people reporting suspicious packages and vehicles. He said: "This
happens after any problem. People become more alert and sharper, we all do.

"If a car breaks down in Parliament Square, it is surrounded by police officers.

We are very sharp on anything which might be out of the ordinary."

He said the extra officers were being paid for out of overtime and cancelled
leave.

His comments came as London MP Kate Hoey warned that moving police to key
locations could lead to a crisis in highcrime areas. She said she was concerned
about the number of officers from Lambeth being sent to guard areas in Central
London. She warned that boroughs like Lambeth - where street robbery last month
soared to a record 840 incidents - should not suffer as a result. She said:
"There is real concern among my constituents that many of our police are being
taken to guard places in Central London."

Mr Trotter said police in the boroughs were continuing to tackle ordinary crime
and officers deployed in other boroughs were being briefed on local crime.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens today said that contingency
plans were in place to deal with any possible terrorist attack, including
biological weapons. But he played down fears of a retaliatory strike. He said :
"It is a general threat. London is a capital city and all capital cities are at
a level of alert."

He said there was "no specific threat" or any evidence that London could be the
target for a chemical or biological attack.

"Everything necessary is in place to make sure that we are protected against
such an attack," he said.


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 9, 2001

Terror attacks 'to add £3bn to airline losses'

BYLINE: Robert Lea

SECTION: Pg. 39

LENGTH: 442 words


INTERNATIONAL airlines will lose an additional $ 4.5 billion (£3 billion) this
year as people shun air travel in the wake of the terrorist attacks on the US
and strikes against Afghanistan, the aviation industry's worldwide trade body
forecast today.

The International Air Transport Association, which speaks for 275 carriers,
believes the world's airlines will lose a total of $ 7 billion in 2001, nearly
triple the estimates it made before the 11 September atrocities.

Those estimates already indicated a downturn in the industry.

The body said more than 122,000 aviation jobs have already gone in the US and
that the global figure could top 200,000. But while IATA predicted airline
losses carrying over long into next year, it struck a bullish note about the
ability of the industry to turn round.

Director general Pierre Jeanniot, citing the Gulf War downturn a decade ago,
predicted a recovery in 2002. Last time, he said, it took seven months for
growth to return and another four months for the industry to return to the
long-term growth

trend. "I am very confident that our industry will weather the storm," he said.
"It will emerge bruised but reformed and very much strengthened."

The short-term pain, however, continued in Europe with reports that Aer Lingus,
which last week reported an 80% collapse in its transatlantic traffic since 11
September, could be getting ready to axe 2500 jobs, more than a third of its
6300 permanent staff. More fare cuts are expected at Ireland's national carrier
to try to bring in passengers and ease what Irish ministers have called its
"grave financial situation".

The news was mirrored elsewhere with the announcement of 9000 job losses at
Swissair - almost one in eight of its 71,000 staff. Swissair is in the process
of being reversed into its regional airline subsidiary Crossair in a rescue deal
engineered by Swiss banks UBS and Credit Suisse. Swissair was today attempting
to woo back travellers with a cut-price ticket promotion.

The future for its profitable operations the Gate Gourmet catering business and
the Nuance airport retailing operation remains uncertain.

Belgian airline Sabena, 49% Swissair-owned, which followed the Swiss
flag-carrier into financial collapse, is said to be developing plans to turn
itself into a low-cost carrier after receiving a £77 million bridging loan from
the Belgian government, its majority shareholder.

Shares in British Airways, which is expected to lose more than £300 million in
the current financial year, have seesawed around 10-year lows over the past few
days. They were off 21/4p at 1593/4p today.


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GROUNDED: 2500 JOBS ARE SAID TO BE ON THE LINE AT AER LINGUS, WHICH IS
ALSO CUTTING FARES FURTHER

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 9, 2001

Attack terror for girl, 14, in Glasgow park;Man hunted after attempted murder

BYLINE: By Gordon Thomson

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 315 words


A TERRIFIED schoolgirl has been brutally attacked in a popular park in Glasgow.

The 14-year-old was hit over the head with a bottle by a man who tried to drag
her into a pond in an attempted murder.

The frightening ordeal happened as the girl was walking through Queen's Park.
She managed to struggle free and fled the scene in tears.

The teenager, who has not been named, was taken to the Victoria Infirmary and
treated for a minor head wound.

Detectives are treating Sunday afternoon's attack as attempted murder and say
they are following a definite line of inquiry.

And a Glasgow pensioner was still seriously ill in hospital today after she was
viciously attacked by a thug while feeding ducks in another Glasgow park.

The 65-year-old woman was hit across the head and had her purse and pension book
stolen as she stood throwing bread into a duck pond at Quarrywood Park in the
Barmulloch area yesterday.

She managed to raise the alarm and was taken to the Royal Infirmary with serious
head injuries.

Staff have managed to stabilise her condition but today she remained in a
serious condition.

Police are treating the attack as attempted murder.

Detective Inspector George Lambie today appealed to the public to help catch her
callous attacker.

He said: ''This was a despicable and cowardly attack on a defenceless elderly
woman in broad daylight."

Police are especially keen to question two men spotted near the scene.

One was aged around 18, wearing a white baseball cap and white top. He was seen
cycling through the park.

Another man in his late 20s was also seen running near shops along neighbouring
Quarrywood Avenue towards Zena Street.

Both men may hold vital clues and police have urged them to come forward.

Any other possible witnesses or anyone with information is urged to speak in
confidence to Baird Street CID.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                October 9, 2001

Moslem leader warns of trouble for Pakistan
 US may attack other terrorist countries

SECTION: Crime: Terrorism, OPERATION ENDURING FREEDOM, Pg.2

LENGTH: 731 words


A MOSLEM community leader in North Staffordshire believes the bombing of
Afghanistan may have "serious consequences" for Pakistan and other neighbouring
countries.

Yesterday angry demonstrations flared in several Pakistani cities which saw one
person was killed and more than two dozen hurt in unrest in the south-west city
of Quetta.

Rana Tufail, head of the Islamic Centre in Shelton, said: "The whole of Pakistan
is in a difficult situation, as it has been for a long time.

"When the Soviets attacked Afghanistan many refugees came to Pakistan and a lot
of them are still there. Pakistan has no choice.

"There is sympathy in Pakistan for all innocent victims of the attacks. As far
as the military is concerned, that is a different matter. But when it comes to
innocent people being killed or maimed, that is a concern for all right
-thinking people in the world."

In Pakistan yesterday, mobs stoned the Quetta office of the UN refugee agency
and torched the UN children's agency office in the same compound, but no staff
were hurt. Pakistan's government, which supports the mission against the
Taliban, said security around UN installations would be tightened.

However Stoke-on-Trent city councillor Karamat Ali said the unrest was mainly
confined to the two Pakistani provinces bordering Afghanistan.

He said: "People living in those provinces have the same sort of culture and way
of life as people in Afghanistan so are more likely to support them and not like
the fact that bombings are taking place. However there is nothing going on in
Karachi, Lahore or other cities and if there is, it is on a much smaller scale.

"Pakistan has sorted out Afghanistan's problems several times and it seems every
time there is a problem, Pakistan ends up with Afghanistan's refugees.

"I think at the start of this, the Pakistani government thought it had done so
many favours for Afghanistan it could ask the Taliban to hand over bin Laden to
the Americans and they would do it."

THE United States has warned the United Nations Security Council that it might
attack other countries in its bid to root out terrorism.

It came as the US struggled to maintain the backing of Arab and other Moslem
states in the wake of two nights of attacks on Afghanistan.

Police in the Indonesian capital of Jakarta today fired warning shots and tear
gas in a clash with about 500 stick wielding Islamic activists outside the US
Embassy.

Officers beat several protesters with sticks but there were no immediate reports
of serious injuries or arrests.

The group of demonstrators scuffled with police outside the heavily guarded
embassy before the clash started, prompting officers to spray the crowd with
water cannon.

In a letter to the UN Security Council, US Ambassador John Negroponte claimed
the strikes against Afghanistan were in self -defence after the September 11
terrorist attacks.

Mr Negroponte also stressed the investigation into attacks on the US was in its
early stages and said: "There is still much we do not know.

"We may find that our self-defence requires further actions with respect to
other organisations and other states."

Negroponte's letter has led to concern that President Bush's administration was
about to expand the war against suspected terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden,
and Afghanistan's ruling Taliban militia.

But White House spokesman Ari Fleischer tried to downplay the prospect of any
immediate expansion. He said: "The letter states what the president has been
saying all along, that the US reserves the right to defend itself wherever it is
necessary."

After Bush's pledge to eradicate terrorism, there was speculation that the US
might act against other states it accuses of sponsoring terrorism, especially
Iraq.

Diplomats said Negroponte met Iraq's UN Ambassador Mohammed al-Douri and
reportedly warned the Iraqi government not to use the current situation to take
any action of its own.

America has begun expanding its battle against terrorism by dropping leaflets
and filling radio airwaves with words urging Afghans to shun the ruling Taliban
and back the war on terrorism.

Chad Spawr, a former psychological operations soldier in Vietnam, said: "For the
people supporting the Taliban or the terrorists, it will be a real clear
message: 'You're on the wrong side and you'd better get on the right side or
there's the devil to pay'

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ANGER: A Pakistani pro-Taliban supporter holds a portrait of Osama Bin
Laden while shouting slogans during one of many protests in Karachi against the
military strikes in Afghanistan. Emotional Moslems poured out of Karachi streets
yesterday to show their support to the ruling Talibans who are still sheltering
Osama Bin Laden, the prime suspect in the terrorist attacks on September 11.

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                October 9, 2001

DAWN RAIDS ON TALIBAN
 US jets in first daylight attack on terror stronghold

BYLINE: BY NICK COLIGAN

SECTION: Crime: Terrorism, Pg.1

LENGTH: 473 words


THE US today launched its first daylight raid on Afghanistan after a second
night of targeting the Taliban in bombing raids.

High-flying jets bombed the stronghold of the ruling Taliban militia in southern
Kandahar as dawn broke.

The move was a sign the US command was confident that earlier Anglo-American
attacks had diminished the Taliban's capability to defend itself from an aerial
onslaught.

However, the Taliban claimed the US planes "fled" from anti-aircraft fire.

Britain, which participated in the first wave of assaults on Sunday, did not
take part in last night's or today's follow-up attacks.

Earlier, during night raids, four Afghan United Nations workers were reported
killed in a raid on the capital Kabul which saw three US bombs dropped from a
high-flying jet.

Officials at the scene today said the victims were UN workers who cleared
anti-personnel mines in Kabul, one of the world's most heavily mined cities.

Doctors at Kabul's Wazir Akbar Khan Hospital said a fifth man was treated and
released.

The United States has emphasised that it is not targeting civilians in its
military campaign. The mine-clearing office was located in a building near a
Taliban radio tower.

A spokesman for the Taliban's supreme leader in southern Kandahar said the
latest raids were less severe than the first wave on Sunday night by the
US-British coalition, which the Taliban said killed 20 civilians.

The spokesman, Abdul Hai Muttmain, said fighter jets targeted Kunduz and
Mazar-e-Sharif in northern Afghanistan, as well as Kabul and Kandahar. He said
bin Laden and Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar both survived.

He also claimed the attacks "did not hit any military targets."

Targets in last night's raids included areas around the capital, the Taliban's
home base of Kandahar and Afghanistan's north, where opposition groups are
battling the Taliban, which controls most of Afghanistan.

The independent Afghan Islamic Press agency in Islamabad, Pakistan, said targets
included the airport in Kabul and a hill where a television transmission tower
is located. The agency said one bomb landed near a 400 bed women's hospital in
Kabul but made no mention of any damage.

In Washington, US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld suggested Sunday's aerial
assault "made progress" toward eliminating Taliban air defences and taking out
airfields, but that the Pentagon was unsure if it had destroyed "dozens of
command and control and other military targets".

The Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, Abdul Salam Zaeef, said 'tens of people have
been killed' in the US and British attacks since Sunday night against the cities
of Kabul, Kandahar, Jalalabad, Herat, Mazar-e-Sharif and Kkunduz.

He offered no breakdown of how many were civilians and Taliban fighters, nor did
he give individual tallies for each city.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CIVILIANS: Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, Abdul Salam Zaeef, claims
many civilians have died in the bombing raids A soldier from the Northern
Alliance fires shells towards Taliban targets in Kchod Zhagar in Northern
Afghanistan

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 9, 2001

Confidence falls to three-year low
 Survey shows pessimism has increased after the terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Nicky Burridge

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.25

LENGTH: 341 words


BUSINESS confidence among financial services companies has fallen at its fastest
rate for three years, research showed yesterday. In their quarterly survey of
the sector the CBI and Pricewaterhouse Coopers warned that the terrorist strikes
on the US could further undermine consumer confidence leading to a drop in
demand.

John Hitchins, commerce financial services partner at PwC, said: "With business
confidence at a three year low and worries that consumer confidence maybe eroded
in the wake of the terrorist strikes on America, the UK financial services
industry is distinctly nervous.

"A number of sectors, particularly banks, building societies and insurers
actually enjoyed strong performance in the last quarter, but the pessimism about
the future is shared across the industry and can only have been worsened by
recent events in the US."

The survey, for the three months to the end of September - but largely carried
out before the terrorist strike - found that only seven per cent of firms were
more optimistic about the overall business situation than they had been three
months ago, while 47 per cent said they were less confident.

When added together this gives a balance of -40 firms who felt optimistic about
the future, the lowest level since September 1998, and well down on June's
figure of +3.

The level of business was further below normal than at any time since December
1997, with 35 per cent of firms saying it was below normal. Just 19 per cent
said it was above.

Although groups said business volumes had risen slightly during the three months
to the end of September, it was still well down on six months ago and growing at
a much slower pace than had been expected.

However some sectors did see an improvement, with life insurers, insurance
brokers and banks reporting the strongest rises, while securities traders and
fund managers saw the biggest falls.

The CBI is predicting that business volumes will be "basically stable" in the
final quarter of 2001 - the weakest expectation for nearly a decade.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 9, 2001, Tuesday

'ATTACKS MAY INCREASE TERRORISM'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 359 words


THE "vast" military operation against Afghanistan could increase terrorism and
result in civilian casualties, Iran's foreign minister warned yesterday.

Kamal Kharrazi denounced the US-British strikes on Taliban-run military
installations and locations linked to Osama bin Laden.

But the criticism was qualified by the fact Iran and the United States share a
rare common objective: the demise of the Taliban.

Iran has funnelled weapons to the anti-Taliban northern alliance.

It also opposes the Taliban's tough brand of Islam and claims the regime
encourages the drug trade that sends heroin and opium through Iran bound for the
West.

Kharrazi, however, was worried the attacks could lead to a violent backlash and
disrupt efforts to choke off the Taliban through sanctions and isolation.

"There is a concern that such an operation will not eliminate terrorism, but, on
the contrary, it could expand further, " Kharrazi told reporters in the Iranian
capital Teheran.

"Such an attack is certainly going to harm the (Afghan) civilian population
because it is such a vast military operation . . . We should not create another
catastrophe in the wake of the catastrophe of September 11."

"The Islamic world cannot remain indifferent to these events, " said Kharrazi,
who plans to attend a meeting of the Organisation of Islamic Conference in Doha,
Qatar, tomorrow.

Kharrazi called for a "consensus" on how to fight terrorism, suggesting putting
pressure on nations pledging full support to the US-led effort to dismantle bin
Laden's terrorist networks.

He said the United Nations should have a role in any government to replace the
Taliban if it is toppled. But he suggested an interim power should be the
government of Burhanuddin Rabbani, recognised by Iran, the United States and the
United Nations.

Iranian leaders are keen to see Afghanistan, which was part of Iran until the
18th century, shift away from the pro-Pakistan orientation of Taliban.

Rabbani, a sixtyish scholar and poet who studied in an Egyptian Islamic
university, lives in Tajikistan.

His deposed government holds Afghanistan's UN seat.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 9, 2001

Spending unaffected by terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Steve Hawkes

SECTION: News, Pg.10

LENGTH: 261 words


SHOPPERS continued to spend on the high street last month despite the impact of
the terrorist attack on the US, figures out last night showed.

But retail industry figures warned the prospects for consumer confidence still
remain unclear in the run-up to the crucial Christmas trading period.

Figures from the British Retail Consortium showed retail sales were 8.1 per cent
higher in value terms in September compared with the same month last year.

Clothing stores, benefiting from their new autumn and winter ranges, and the
grocery sector again recorded strong sales.

The BRC said the jump compared with growth of 7.9 per cent in August and came
despite a "significantly reduced footfall" in the first few days after September
11.

Luggage and travel products were particularly badly hit. Like-for-like sales,
which strip out income from new stores, rose slightly to 5.7 per cent last month
compared with 5.6 per cent in August, the BRC added.

The figures came a week after the CBI showed retail sales volume grew at its
fastest pace for five years last month. BRC director general Bill Moyes said the
performance reflected the "resilient nature" of the UK consumer.

The figures were bolstered by coming up against the impact of the fuel crisis on
sales in September last year.

But Mr Moyes said the underlying performance on the high street last month was
still "one of growth."

He added, however, neither the retail sector or the government could afford to
become complacent.

Page 31 Business: Fears Ease After U.S. Raids

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 10, 2001

Warning of more attacks;
 War on Terrorism

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 158 words


TONY Blair says he is determined to defeat Osama bin Laden after the terror
suspect's al Qaida group threatened a new wave of suicide attacks.

The Prime Minister insisted the international coalition against terrorism would
succeed as bin Laden henchman Sulemain Abu Gheit called for Muslims across the
world to join a holy war against America and its allies.

As more daylight attacks on Afghanistan got under way, Mr Blair said: "I say to
him and those who follow him that the determination to defeat him is total, we
shall prevail."

In an address on an Arabic TV news channel, Abu Gheit had hinted strongly at
further suicide terrorism attacks.

"America must know that the storm of aeroplanes will not stop and there are
thousands of young people who look forward to their flight."

Meanwhile, US investigators say there is no proven link between the presence of
anthrax at offices in Florida and the terrorism attacks.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          October 10, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERRORISM: PERFUME 'ATTACK' IN SUBWAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 57 words


A MAN was arrested last night after he sprayed perfume and fired a shot on a
subway train just outside Washington DC.

Around 35 people complained of nausea, headaches and dry throats, prompting a
bio-terrorism alert but police said the symptoms were likely to have been caused
by pepper spray used by officers to restrain the man.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          October 10, 2001, Wednesday

BOMBS AROUND THE CLOCK;
 WE NOW HAVE CONTROL OF THE AIR, SAYS US THIS was the Garmabak Ghar terrorist
training camp before the; Allies attacked And THIS was all that was left 24
hours later

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 449 words


ATTACKS on Afghanistan's air defences and military aircraft have been so
successful that American planes are now free to bomb 24 hours a day, it was
revealed today.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld made the announcement after a third night
of attacks by US bombers, cruise missiles and strike aircraft got under way.

British involvement was limited to RAF tankers refuelling US planes in mid-air,
said the Ministry of Defence.

The first waves of strikes earlier this week took place under cover of darkness
to protect planes from anti-aircraft fire, but the US Defence Secretary said
this was no longer necessary.

Speaking at a Pentagon press conference at which the first official pictures of
the damage caused by raids on Sunday and Monday were shown, Mr Rumsfeld said:
'We will be able to run airstrikes around the clock as we wish.'

Supremacy

And America's senior military officer, General Richard Myers, said US forces
were now confident they have control of Afghan air space: 'We feel like we have
essentially air supremacy over Afghanistan now.'

At the Pentagon, Mr Rumsfeld and Gen Myers, the chairman of the US Joint Chiefs
of Staff, unveiled three pictures taken from the air showing the impact of
Sunday's first night of strikes.

The pictures showed what was described as a 'terror camp' south of capital
Kabul, a surface-to-air missile site near the Taliban's spiritual capital
Kandahar, and a runway near Shindand, in the west of the country.

Gen Myers reported an 85 per cent success rate in Monday night's raids, which
saw 13 individual targets hit by between five and eight bombers, 10 to 15 strike
aircraft and 15 Tomahawk missiles, fired from two ships and a submarine. They
had hit air defence sites, communications, and what the general described as
'the al Qaida infrastructure and forces', as well as targeting the Kandahar home
of Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar.

Monday night's air strikes had been lower in intensity than the first wave of
attacks, and had not involved RAF planes or British-launched Tomahawk cruise
missiles.

Mr Rumsfeld said he had 'no information' about four civilian workers at a mine
-clearing agency under contract to the United Nations, who were killed in
Monday's attacks on Kabul.

But he added: 'Innocent lives are still at risk today and will be until we have
dealt with the terrorists.'

In Afghanistan last night, there were reports of explosions around Kabul,
Kandahar and the north-western city of Herat.

The reports said the attacks were concentrated on the cities' airfields and air
defences, although Taliban officials claimed that Mullah Omar's home had again
been targeted.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          October 10, 2001, Wednesday

CARD SPARKS CHEMICAL ATTACK ALERT;
 THE WAR ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 180 words


A WARWICKSHIRE police station was evacuated and the bomb squad called in after a
woman took in a "suspicious package" - a card containing a bag filled with sand
and embossed with the letter "O".

The card - which is covered in a print of footsteps in a desert - was part of a
mailshot to more than 750 homes in Coventry and Warwickshire.

Hours after it had triggered a chemical attack panic, police received a call
from an unnamed Midlands company to say the package was part of its promotional
mailshot.

The company is now contacting recipients to reassure them.

A spokesman for Warwickshire Police said: "The packages are described as being a
white envelope with a computer-generated address which contains a folded card
with a self-sealing plastic bag containing a small quantity of sand.

"It is unfortunate the company chose this time to send out a mailshot which
could be seen by some as suspicious."

"The measures taken by Warwickshire Police were undertaken as a precautionary
measure in the light of possible business links of the recipient."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          October 10, 2001, Wednesday

MUSLIMS WANT ATTACKS TO STOP;
 THE WAR ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 125 words


THE air strikes in Afghanistan will only widen the gulf between the West and the
Muslim world, a leading Muslim group has warned.

The Muslim Council of Britain's secretary general Yousuf Bhailok said: "British
Muslims want justice to be done for the horrifying events of September 11.

"These day and night strikes - which are already leading to innocent civilian
deaths amongst the long-suffering Afghan population - will not achieve this
purpose.

"These attacks will only lead to further polarisation in the world. This will
not be a fitting memorial to those who died on September 11.

"We are now hearing talk of 'widening the war' to encompass other Muslim
countries. We fear that these events could spiral out of control."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          October 10, 2001, Wednesday

LETTERS: YOUR VIEWS WAR SPECIAL;
 THE WAR ON TERRORISM ATTACKS: Residents look at the damage cause by the
US/British airstrikes in Kabul (above) and firefighters dig through the World
Trade; Centre rubble (right).

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1289 words


Terrorists could find heart in reader's words

POTENTIAL terrorists will be encouraged by the anti-American rhetoric in the
letter from your recent correspondent Mary Colyer.

To draw a parallel with American intervention in the countries she listed and
the recent terrorist atrocities is deplorable and unbelievably naive.

The massing of Soviet missiles in unstable and volatile South American countries
should presumably have been ignored (by the USA).

The attempted annexation of Saudi Arabia by Iraq should have similarly been
allowed to proceed unhindered.

The liberal non-confrontational politics favoured by Mary Colyer would have
allowed the massacre of innocents in Yugoslavia to run its course unchallenged,
provided that the blood of children was washed from its streets before air
package holidays resumed.

In the 1930s appeasement to the Nazi regime eventually cost the lives of
millions.

Rational people do not hate America. For decades millions have sought refuge
there. America contributes massively to starving people uprooted by the regimes
that Mary Colyer conveniently chooses to ignore.

Hardly the actions of a terrorist administration.

D S Edwicker, Erithway Road, Green Lane.

. . .TRULY, the first casualty in war is the truth. It would appear that self
-regulation has not been a success with the press or with the visual media.

What effects, initially and long term the horrendous television and press
pictures and reports will have on children, the weak and vulnerable, emanating
from the atrocities inflicted recently on the USA, can but be a matter of
conjecture.

Not only does the civilised world need a period of quiet and objective
reflection, in respect of the possible effects of revenge military action, but
the media too as a whole, might benefit from a quiet and objective reflection,
in respect of the possible effects of propaganda.

C T Wareing, chairman, Midlands regional branch, Media Watch UK, National
Viewers' and Listeners' Association,

Jays Close, Redditch.

. . .IN THE time that has elapsed since the September 11 terror attacks, we have
seen drama and disruption unfolding in many areas of society.

After the period of emotive reflection it is now time to consider the lasting
effect of the events in terms of international economy, otherwise known as that
dreaded word globalisation.

The terrorist actions have set up a severe economic shudder shown in the many
stock markets which some say is the already predicted recession.

The fear of the increased speed of the economic decline which is now on a wider
level, including tourism and business travel has one implication which has not,
I feel been fully recognised. That being the deeper financial deterioration of
the Third World countries.

Whether the terrorists, whoever they are, and whatever their stance in terms of
the United States and western economies, like it or not they will be directly
responsible for the increased poverty faced by many millions of people.

These people rightly or wrongly depend upon western nations and their aid
agencies for their ability to build firmer economic strength.

The terrorists will not be able to offset Third World debt, and neither
progressively will nations or agencies who try to keep their economies in some
order, while they are finding the extra burden of money needed to sustain
systems and employment while the nations rebuild.

It is to be hoped that those who made their demonic gesture eventually are told
the truth that our system may be flawed, but it is needed, and so are the
democratic governments which run them.

Stephen Brookes MBE, Drapers Fields, Foleshill.

September 11 attacks targeted economic

imperialism

JUST as everybody is being told that the September 11 atrocity was not
perpetrated by one nation or one faith, but by an independent terrorist
organisation, isn't it about time we were reminded that the prime target was not
one nation or people but an ideology - economic imperialism.

History has repeatedly taught us the need to make such distinctions.

For example, the working class soldiers of the First World War may have been
keen to fight for their country, but those seeing such a pitch as no more than a
ruse to defend Britain's ideologically-based class system were less
enthusiastic.

Similarly, shouldn't the people now being polled about military action in the
name of, say, "America" or "Britain" really be asked questions about action
being taken in the name of "market-driven global expansionism"?

In this day and age, appeals to national loyalties have a somewhat hollow ring.
Especially when you consider that the prime target of last month's outrage was
the same world trade interests that have progressively stripped away the
national identities now being invoked against the people responsible for the
attack!

Paul Galley, Park Road, Bedworth.

Terrifying idea that suicide bombing will lead to Paradise

IT IS a frightening thought that Middle-Eastern children grow up with the notion
that suicide bombing is a noble and rewarding act that will lead them to
paradise.

Do they think that by blowing themselves up and taking with them many others,
including innocents and people of their own faith, that God is going to say:
"Well done my son, step on board?"

More than likely he will be sent straight to hell.

Nobody has the right to take life, except God. The notion of a holy war is
stupid, there is nothing holy about war.

Pat James, Middleborough Road, Stoke.

ONE, dare I say it, perceptive and intelligent journalist, described Tony
Blair's conference speech as the Sermon on the Mount and added that he did not
know whether to laugh or cry as it was: "Written under the mind-altering
influence of his religious fervour."

Cry, one would think, when you realise one is as vain and empty as the other.

Has Tony and his disciples ever considered that the disasters in Israel, Rwanda,
Afghanistan, Northern Ireland and the rest have their roots deeply planted in
religion?

I cannot imagine this Christian ever tackling the religious wellspring from
which flows so much world violence and poverty, because his own religion helps
to blind him to this simple fact.

Robert Sinclair, Spon End.

ONCE again the world-wide peace has been breached by the use of artillery.

I believe the mouth is mightier than the sword.

Did not Bush or Blair attend a school of mannerism. It did not teach violence.

Just what right has he (Blair) to engage in a war.

We in the United Kingdom are a multi-racial and multi-religious community.

Evidently he does not have Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs on his doorstep.

Pity, really, he may have thought again before putting his foot in his mouth,
and waffled on and on and said yes to war.

Andrew Beale, Cheveral Avenue, Radford.

OVER 50 people attended the first meeting of the Coventry Stop the War Coalition
on Thursday evening.

This group has been set up to respond to any military aggression from the
western powers.

Local activities will focus on building for the national March for Peace and
Justice in London, which has been called by the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament
(CND).

Activities in Coventry will include leafleting, a weekly vigil in Belgrade
Square and a planned vigil at Coventry Cathedral.

Coaches will be leaving White Street coach station, 9am on Saturday 13, October.
The march will assemble at noon, Hyde Park, London followed by a march to
Trafalgar Square.

For details of transport and further activities contact, Penny on 024 7667 2071,
Paul on 07813 909992 or David on 0779 967 1328.

David Kersey,

Coventry.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          October 10, 2001, Wednesday

Magnate's tower plan under threat Terrorist attacks: Trade Centre insurance row
CSFB wields knife Aerospace industry steps in

BYLINE: By Simon English in New York

SECTION: Pg. 39

LENGTH: 340 words

LARRY Silverstein's dream of rebuilding the World Trade Centre towers could be
undermined by a dispute with the insurance industry about how much he can claim.

The property magnate, who bought the lease on the twin towers just two months
before the terrorist attacks, is seeking damages of $7.2 billion ( pounds 5
billion), twice what insurers want to pay.

The dispute turns on whether the attacks are classed as one event or if Mr
Silverstein can make two claims under the same policies.

Insurers say one claim per policy is standard and are in talks with Silverstein
Properties, which bought a 99-year lease on the World Trade Centre in July from
the Port Authority of New York for $3.2 billion.

A spokesman for Mr Silverstein declined to comment on the talks but confirmed
that the group has insurance worth $3.6 billion on the buildings. The policies
are underwritten by leading insurers including Allianz, Swiss Re and Chubb.

The insurers also declined to comment individually, but the American Insurance
Association trade body confirmed the industry is fighting Mr Silverstein's
claim. "This is something that is going to be debated for a very long time,"
said a spokesman.

The two sides are so far apart that a compromise seems unlikely which makes
legal action possible.

Mr Silverstein himself could face legal claims from families of victims arguing
that the buildings did not have sufficient safety or evacuation plans.

The towers cost $750m to build and were opened in 1975 with 9m square feet of
office space.

Some in New York feel the site should not be built on as a mark of respect for
the dead. Silverstein Properties appears to face the costs of cleaning up the
debris following the attacks, even though the Port Authority still owns the
actual site.

The Port Authority is still considering what it wants to do but is able,
according to the lease, to demand a rebuild.

Mr Silverstein has suggested four new towers of 50 storeys high to replace the
110-storey towers.
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 10, 2001

Expect major terror attack in London, warns ex-SAS officer

BYLINE: Ian Bruce Geopolitics Editor

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 871 words


THE West should expect at least one more major pre-planned atrocity in London,
Berlin or Paris in the next few days or weeks, a former senior SAS officer
claimed last night.

"The organisation of the Washington and New York strikes was ruthlessly superb,"
he said. "It combined total security with unrivalled forward planning and almost
flawless execution. It is extremely unlikely that it was a one-off.

"His lieutenants and sleeper cells in the United States and Europe will have
orders to proceed to the next phase of the terror campaign on a programme which
has probably been in place for up to two years."

But Osama bin Laden's obsessive need for maximum publicity in the Muslim world
is the vulnerability which could seal his fate.

The officer, a Scot who served with the elite special forces regiment for 15
years and has personal knowledge of Afghanistan, said the Saudi dissident had to
maintain the momentum of his September 11 terrorist "spectacular" and his own
high-profile image as defender of Islam.

With Afghanistan under massive satellite and spy plane surveillance, bin Laden
could not risk a live broadcast which would be detected instantly. For the same
reason, he dare not communicate to the outside world by telephone, fax or even
microwave link.

"That leaves him just one option. He has to record video footage or tapes and
smuggle them out of a tightening noose. That's his Achilles heel. But it needs
luck as well as vigilance. Remember that anything that can be tracked out can be
reverse-tracked," he said.

"Unless the allied special forces already operating in the country get lucky or
a local mujahideen responds to the (pounds) 3m bounty offered by the Americans
for bin Laden's head, it's the best remaining bet before winter stops play in
the Hindu Kush."

But the former officer remains convinced that bin Laden's plans extend far
beyond the events of September 11 in New York.

"Bin Laden knew he would be the world's most wanted man as soon as the shock of
the Trade Towers massacre turned to a call for revenge.

"He will have briefed his closest associates to expect it and to carry out the
orders given in advance.

"While everyone and his brother hunts him in the Taliban's back yard, and
Britain and America deploy huge military forces to the region, the world's
attention may be focused in the wrong direction.

"Bin Laden has already proved himself to be a master of deception and a shrewd
manipulator of media attention.

"Whether his al Qaeda network is responsible for the next outrage or not, he
will inevitably reap the credit in the fundamentalist world.

"Bear in mind the fact that he has never claimed direct responsibility for any
attack attributed to him. But his trademark is meticulous planning and attention
to detail.

"It is as identifiable as a fingerprint."

The big battle at the end of the day would not be fought in a terrorist cave
complex deep beneath a spur of the Himalayas "but in the hearts and minds of
impressionable Muslims throughout the Middle East, particularly Palestinians at
the epicentre of the roots of the conflict".

If the coalition and the West in general was not careful, it was going to cede
victory in the image war to bin Laden.

"He knew there would be network television coverage of the second aircraft
banking deliberately and horrifically into the Trade Centre in New York. The
first hijackers sacrificed their lives to guarantee that news teams and amateur
video cameramen would be alerted.

"It was a calculated act from start to finish. It rocked America to its soul and
the shocking images captured on film were immensely powerful.

"Beamed round the globe, they propelled bin Laden into the Islamic limelight and
transformed him into a legendary hero both for the extremists and the merely
poor and disenchanted."

"There has been no visual riposte from the West. CNN's writ does not run in
Afghanistan. In any case, much of the coalition's firepower has been directed
against targets evacuated weeks ago. The Afghans may be primitive, but they are
far from stupid.

"He has also outclassed the West in the propaganda stakes.

"The Royal Navy wasted several expensive Tomahawk cruise missiles the other
night fusing sand and ripping canvas.

"The 'terrorist training camp' they struck with 1000lb warheads near Jalalabad
was never more than desert and a few tents surrounded by a few strands of barbed
wire. It was empty-gesture bombardment."

Asked, based on his knowledge of the terrain, whether bin Laden was hiding in a
headquarters cave, he said: "That's the last thing he will do.

"He'll be moving around by night and sleeping by day, but never twice in the
same place. He'll be protected by just a handful of trusted bodyguards to avoid
attracting attention.

"I'd bet that he'll be out of Afghanistan in the next three weeks, perhaps
seeking sanctuary in Kashmir or Iraq.

"He's a professional terrorist with few equals, so you can guarantee that the
first plan he made was one for his own escape.

"He will want to broadcast to his public at least once before then.

"That's the West's window of opportunity, perhaps the only one it'll get."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          October 10, 2001, Wednesday

Africa fears fallout from terror attacks

BYLINE: Michael Dynes

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 1091 words


ONE month after the terror attacks on the symbols of American economic and
military might, the fragile emerging market economies of the developing world,
especially those in Africa, are bracing themselves for a sustained economic and
social calamity.

While the assaults on New York and Washington sought to inflict a body blow on
America, it is becoming clear that the effects will reverberate around the
globe.

The attention of political leaders in the developed world has focused on
attempting to neutralise the economic fallout of the September 11 attacks.
Central banks have scrambled to reduce interest rates and billions of dollars in
tax cuts are in the pipeline in an effort to prevent a US recession ballooning
into a prolonged worldwide depression.

But while Western media coverage of the attack's aftershocks has focused on the
thousands of job losses, declining consumer confidence, and an anticipated
across-the-board fall in economic growth rates among developed countries, there
is another side to this unfolding human drama taking place throughout the
impoverished developing world which has received little attention.

According to James Wolfensohn, President of the World Bank, the atrocities will
plunge millions of people into poverty during the course of next year as poor
countries take a battering because of reduced economic activity in the developed
world. "We estimate that tens of thousands more children will die, and some ten
million people are likely to be living below the poverty line of one dollar a
day because of the attacks," Wolfensohn said.

Slower growth and recession in the developed world will hit the most vulnerable
people in developing countries the hardest. Moreover, Africa, which has made
huge efforts in recent months to break free of its track record of sustained
economic decline, is likely to be hit hardest of all.

Finance ministers from the G7 nations have pledged to step up assistance to the
world's poor by accelerating the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries relief
initiative, which has seen some $ 25 billion (Pounds 17 billion) of debt in 19
countries cancelled. But there are growing fears that it will do little to
compensate for the flight of investor capital back to the developed world.

Even as the twin towers came crashing down around the foundations of the World
Trade Centre, the unseen consequences of the terrorist assaults had started
taking effect. The weak capital flows to developing countries began drying up as
investors sought refuge in safe havens, while weak commodity prices fell further
in anticipation of reduced global demand.

The $ 7 billion sub-Saharan Africa earns annually from tourism is expected to
shrink dramatically as tourists turn their back on the main destinations in
Egypt, Kenya and South Africa, which had been showing signs of moderate growth
in recent years, creating thousands of desperately needed jobs in the process.

Guinea, which has 30 per cent of the world's reserves of bauxite, a key
component in the manufacture of aluminium, is bracing itself for a record slump
in demand after the sudden and dramatic downturn in demand for aircraft.
Mozambique, which last year completed a $ 1.3 billion investment in a new
aluminium smelter, the biggest and best investment the country to date, is
wondering if the project will go belly up.

Kenya, which ships 50 per cent of its annual tea crop to Pakistan and
Afghanistan, fears a wholesale disruption to its major export market in the wake
of the American-led strikes on the Taleban. Commodity exporters from Zaire to
Zambia, and the Ivory Coast to Botswana, have been hit by reduced demand.

Even Africa's diamond industry fears a slump in demand for gems because the
market for luxury goods is inevitably the first to suffer in times of prolonged
adversity.

The increased cost of international trade, including higher insurance premiums,
greater security costs, and prolonged customs clearance delays, are likely to
put countless scores of marginal African manufacturers and exporters out of
business. At the same time, ambitious privatisation projects, such as South
Africa's attempt to sell off its state-owned air transport and telecommunication
monopolies, are likely to be postponed for want of a foreign buyer.

While it is true that South Africa will benefit from the increased price of
gold, and Nigeria can always rely on its oil revenues, most African countries
have neither gold nor oil to help cushion the blow. As African currencies
depreciate as a result of the flight into hard money, all are sitting on
inflationary pressures that will begin to take their toll in the difficult
months ahead.

Iraj Abedian, chief economist at South Africa's Standard Bank, says that Africa
is facing one of the worst economic downturns in living memory. "The severity
will vary from country to country. It will be months before we will be able to
quantify the effect. But some countries are going to be put back years, others
will be put back decades."

Despite promises to the contrary, aid from the developed world, which has been
diminishing in recent years, is likely to be reduced further. Moreover, unlike
America, Europe and Asia, Africa's fledgeling regional development organisations
do not have the institutional capacity needed to accelerate regional growth
initiatives to help to compensate for lost markets overseas.

The World Bank estimates that the short to medium-term effect of the terror
assaults will trim 1 per cent off world growth, delaying economic recovery well
into next year. Africa is expected to suffer disproportionately as investors
repatriate funds, while delaying or cancelling outright new investment projects.

Patrick Asea, the head of the economic, political and social division of the
United Nations' Economic Commission for Africa, has dismissed the World Bank's
pessimistic forecasts, insisting that the global economic downturn unleashed by
the terror attacks would only have "marginal consequences for Africa".

But as Abedian points out, there is no contradiction between the apparently
conflicting views of the World Bank and the UN. "Africa receives less than 1 per
cent of the world's total foreign direct investment. Africa will be sheltered
from the impact of a global economic downturn because it isn't as integrated in
the international economy to the same extent as other regions of the world."

But what little investment it does attract is now likely to dry up almost
completely.


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          October 10, 2001, Wednesday

Africa fears fallout from terror attacks

BYLINE: Michael Dynes

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 1091 words


ONE month after the terror attacks on the symbols of American economic and
military might, the fragile emerging market economies of the developing world,
especially those in Africa, are bracing themselves for a sustained economic and
social calamity.

While the assaults on New York and Washington sought to inflict a body blow on
America, it is becoming clear that the effects will reverberate around the
globe.

The attention of political leaders in the developed world has focused on
attempting to neutralise the economic fallout of the September 11 attacks.
Central banks have scrambled to reduce interest rates and billions of dollars in
tax cuts are in the pipeline in an effort to prevent a US recession ballooning
into a prolonged worldwide depression.

But while Western media coverage of the attack's aftershocks has focused on the
thousands of job losses, declining consumer confidence, and an anticipated
across-the-board fall in economic growth rates among developed countries, there
is another side to this unfolding human drama taking place throughout the
impoverished developing world which has received little attention.

According to James Wolfensohn, President of the World Bank, the atrocities will
plunge millions of people into poverty during the course of next year as poor
countries take a battering because of reduced economic activity in the developed
world. "We estimate that tens of thousands more children will die, and some ten
million people are likely to be living below the poverty line of one dollar a
day because of the attacks," Wolfensohn said.

Slower growth and recession in the developed world will hit the most vulnerable
people in developing countries the hardest. Moreover, Africa, which has made
huge efforts in recent months to break free of its track record of sustained
economic decline, is likely to be hit hardest of all.

Finance ministers from the G7 nations have pledged to step up assistance to the
world's poor by accelerating the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries relief
initiative, which has seen some $ 25 billion (Pounds 17 billion) of debt in 19
countries cancelled. But there are growing fears that it will do little to
compensate for the flight of investor capital back to the developed world.

Even as the twin towers came crashing down around the foundations of the World
Trade Centre, the unseen consequences of the terrorist assaults had started
taking effect. The weak capital flows to developing countries began drying up as
investors sought refuge in safe havens, while weak commodity prices fell further
in anticipation of reduced global demand.

The $ 7 billion sub-Saharan Africa earns annually from tourism is expected to
shrink dramatically as tourists turn their back on the main destinations in
Egypt, Kenya and South Africa, which had been showing signs of moderate growth
in recent years, creating thousands of desperately needed jobs in the process.

Guinea, which has 30 per cent of the world's reserves of bauxite, a key
component in the manufacture of aluminium, is bracing itself for a record slump
in demand after the sudden and dramatic downturn in demand for aircraft.
Mozambique, which last year completed a $ 1.3 billion investment in a new
aluminium smelter, the biggest and best investment the country to date, is
wondering if the project will go belly up.

Kenya, which ships 50 per cent of its annual tea crop to Pakistan and
Afghanistan, fears a wholesale disruption to its major export market in the wake
of the American-led strikes on the Taleban. Commodity exporters from Zaire to
Zambia, and the Ivory Coast to Botswana, have been hit by reduced demand.

Even Africa's diamond industry fears a slump in demand for gems because the
market for luxury goods is inevitably the first to suffer in times of prolonged
adversity.

The increased cost of international trade, including higher insurance premiums,
greater security costs, and prolonged customs clearance delays, are likely to
put countless scores of marginal African manufacturers and exporters out of
business. At the same time, ambitious privatisation projects, such as South
Africa's attempt to sell off its state-owned air transport and telecommunication
monopolies, are likely to be postponed for want of a foreign buyer.

While it is true that South Africa will benefit from the increased price of
gold, and Nigeria can always rely on its oil revenues, most African countries
have neither gold nor oil to help cushion the blow. As African currencies
depreciate as a result of the flight into hard money, all are sitting on
inflationary pressures that will begin to take their toll in the difficult
months ahead.

Iraj Abedian, chief economist at South Africa's Standard Bank, says that Africa
is facing one of the worst economic downturns in living memory. "The severity
will vary from country to country. It will be months before we will be able to
quantify the effect. But some countries are going to be put back years, others
will be put back decades."

Despite promises to the contrary, aid from the developed world, which has been
diminishing in recent years, is likely to be reduced further. Moreover, unlike
America, Europe and Asia, Africa's fledgeling regional development organisations
do not have the institutional capacity needed to accelerate regional growth
initiatives to help to compensate for lost markets overseas.

The World Bank estimates that the short to medium-term effect of the terror
assaults will trim 1 per cent off world growth, delaying economic recovery well
into next year. Africa is expected to suffer disproportionately as investors
repatriate funds, while delaying or cancelling outright new investment projects.

Patrick Asea, the head of the economic, political and social division of the
United Nations' Economic Commission for Africa, has dismissed the World Bank's
pessimistic forecasts, insisting that the global economic downturn unleashed by
the terror attacks would only have "marginal consequences for Africa".

But as Abedian points out, there is no contradiction between the apparently
conflicting views of the World Bank and the UN. "Africa receives less than 1 per
cent of the world's total foreign direct investment. Africa will be sheltered
from the impact of a global economic downturn because it isn't as integrated in
the international economy to the same extent as other regions of the world."

But what little investment it does attract is now likely to dry up almost
completely.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 10, 2001

Terrorists threaten <HEAD>suicide attacks Spokesman says al Qaida network will
strike again

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.2

LENGTH: 1202 words


SUSPECTED terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden's al Qaida organisation last
night threatened a new wave of suicide attacks on the US.

Spokesman Sulemain Abu Gheit, speaking on an Al-Jazeera television broadcast,
said the US and Britain had "opened a door that will never be closed" with the
air strikes on Afghanistan, which he branded a "crusade". And he called on
Muslims across the world to join in jihad, or holy war, calling it their "duty
and responsibility".

Speaking in a pre-recorded video, he said: "Holy struggle is a religious duty
for every Muslim.''

The spokesman said: "I direct this message to the entire Islamic nation and I
say to them that the parts today have come together against the nation of Islam
and Muslims. This is the crusade Bush has promised us.

"The Islamic nation, for 80 years, has been suffering, the Palestinian people
have been living under the Jewish and Zionist occupation and nobody moved to
help them.

"The nation must know that terror, and the terror that the United States is
declaring, is only a trick.

"Is it possible that America and its allies would kill over all these years and
that would not be called terrorism and then the victim comes out and it is
called revenge."

In a chilling warning, Abu Gheit went on: "America must know that the nation
will not keep quiet.

"The Jihad is today a duty of every Muslim. God says fight for the sake of God
and to uphold the name of God."

He praised the September 11 attacks, saying the hijackers "did something good"
and took the battle to the heart of America. He warned there would be more
attacks on America "because we have young people who are keen on death as much
as Americans are keen on life."

The US-British attacks on Afghanistan that began on Sunday night had "opened a
new page of enmity," he said.

"But with our financial and spiritual power, and our trust in God, we are going
to win," he said.

Abu Gheit appeared in front of a black background and wore the traditional white
robes of a Muslim cleric and a long black beard.

He said: "Every Muslim has to God his role and true role, to uphold his religion
and his nation and fight the Jihad as his duty."

The spokesman then came the closest yet to admitting al Qaida was behind the
September 11 terror attacks on America and issued a further warning.

"Those youth who did that they did and destroyed America with their planes, they
have done a good deed," he said.

"The battle will not leave Islam until America leaves our lands, until it stops
supporting Israel.

"America must know that the storm of Afghanistan will not stop and there are
thousands of young people who look forward to death as Americans look forward to
living.

"The Americans must know that by coming to Afghanistan they have opened a new
page in the battle against the unbelievers.

"We shall be victorious. America has opened a door that will never be closed."

The bin Laden henchman, who was first seen sitting beside his leader in the
suspected terror mastermind's video address on the same television station on
Sunday, then appealed directly to young Muslims to join a holy war.

"They must know that the lands of Afghanistan and the Mujahidin are being
subjected to a full crusade with the objective of getting rid of the Islamic
nation," he said.

"The nation must take up its responsibility and in the end, I thank God for
allowing us to start this jihad and ask God to give us victory in the face of
American and return them defeated."

The address was designed to fuel fears of more terror in an already jittery
America, where security is at unprecedented levels and an anthrax outbreak in
Florida has caused further alarm.

But it was also aimed at the Islamic world, where the wave of support bin Laden
had hoped for had been smaller than anticipated after his Sunday address.

The use of the world "crusade" is an emotive reference to the attempts by
Catholic western European nations in the Middle Ages to take control of the Holy
Land and which often included forcible conversion of Muslims to Christianity.

It is designed to stir up emotions in an already volatile part of the world and
link the American and British strikes to a historical grievance.

The warning came as American pilots launched a third wave of air strikes in
Afghanistan -- bombing targets round the clock as it steps up the campaign to
combat terrorism.

US warplanes pounded the area around the southern Afghan city of Kandahar for
the second time in 12 hours. The remote north-western city of Herat was also
hard hit and anti-aircraft fire dotted the skies above Kabul, where a terror
training camp appeared to be another possible target.

The attacks came as foreign minister of the rebel Northern Alliance, Dr Abdullah
Abdullah, said he believed the Taliban would fall "in a matter of weeks,
perhaps, if not days".

Even before night fell, pilots flew strikes sporadically throughout the day, a
sign of increased confidence that whatever air defences the ruling Taliban
regime possessed had largely been suppressed. The raids heralded a third
straight night of air strikes by a US-led coalition seeking to punish
Afghanistan's rulers for sheltering Osama bin Laden, believed to have
masterminded the devastating attacks four weeks ago on the World Trade Centre
and the Pentagon.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told a Pentagon news conference: "With the
success of previous raids, we believe we are now able to carry out strikes more
or less around the clock as we wish."

Raids the previous night in Kabul, killed four civilians working for a
UN-affiliated mine -clearing agency - the first confirmed civilian deaths of the
air campaign. UN spokeswoman Stephanie Bunker said the four had been spending
the night in their office, on the edge of Kabul, and in close proximity to a
radio transmission target that was a target of bombs.

"It was assumed they were safe where they were," said Ms Bunker, speaking from
the Pakistani capital, Islamabad. "Otherwise they would have been relocated for
sure."

Mr Rumsfeld said the US had no independent verification of the reported deaths
of the UN workers, or whether they might have died after being hit by
anti-aircraft fire.

"Nevertheless we regret the loss of life," he said. "If there were an easy way
to root terrorist networks out of countries that harbour them, it would be a
blessing, but there is not."

As a deafening new barrage of anti-aircraft opened up in the capital last night,
reports were emerging of major defections from the Taliban - the Northern
Alliance claimed about 40 commanders with 1,200 men had switched sides and
joined them. Alliance spokesman Abdullah Abdullah, said the defectors had closed
the only road linking the north and south of the country.

The latest salvos blasted the outskirts of Herat, near the Iranian border. The
airport was hit following unsuccessful cruise missile strikes in the area on
Monday night, Afghan government officials said. The capital city of Kabul and
the stronghold of Kandahar were also targeted.

- Are we seeing the truth? - Page 10

THREAT:Al Qaida spokesman Sulemain Abu Gheit makes his statement on the
Al-Jazeera TV network last night

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 10, 2001

Children's message of hope to New York
 Playgroup forges links with youngsters who have lost parents in terrorist
attacks

BYLINE: Lindsey Kennedy

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.4

LENGTH: 431 words


CHILDREN from a playgroup are to send heart felt messages of hope to youngsters
from New York after linking up via the Internet.

Moved by images of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Centre last month,
children at Illogan Pre-School Playgroup near Redruth wanted to make their own
contribution to help ease the suffering.

Teachers scoured the Internet and made contact with a pre-school in New York,
where some of the children had lost parents in the tragedy.

Now they are to send a parcel of paintings, gifts and a cassette to the
youngsters at High Hopes Childcare across the Atlantic.

Parent and playgroup chairman Tracey Eustice said the children, aged between two
and four, wanted to help with positive messages of hope.

She said: "I think everybody has been affected and we wondered how we could help
in some small way.

"There are children at the school in New York who have lost parents in the
disaster and everybody is trying to get back to some sort of normality and
stability.

"We thought our children might be able to boost morale by sending happy drawings
and a tape of songs, just to show that children on the other side of the
Atlantic do care about what's happening."

She said parents had tried to explain what had happened abroad.

She added: "It is difficult for the children to understand what's happened but
parents have been explaining in simple terms."

Supervisor Maureen Blackwell said the children had been keen to help.

She said: "It is difficult for small children to understand but we have told
them that some of the children in New York are sad because they have lost their
mummies and daddies, so they understood that.

"As parents and teachers we wanted to do our bit to bring a little hope and
happiness back into the lives of these children, so we asked our pupils to paint
a happy picture to cheer up their American friends.

"We are hopeful this could be the start of a long term friendship between our
two schools."

The school has already e-mailed the children at Illogan to thank them for their
concern.

They wrote: "We thank you for your concern. It has been very difficult here in
new York. Many of our children have lost parents. We very much look forward to
receiving your kind pictures."

The parcel includes pictures, postcards of Cornwall with messages on the back, a
photo of the playgroup and a tape of songs including He's Got the Whole World in
His Hands.

E-mail: lkennedy@

westcountrypublications.co.uk

SYMPATHY: Children from Illogan Pre-School Playgroup with the paintings they are
sending to America

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 10, 2001

ANTHRAX LINK TO EVIL ATTA;
 WAR ON THE TALIBAN - Panic as America fears more attacks by terrorists using
deadly biological weapons

BYLINE: Matthew George

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 888 words


TERRORISTS have launched an anthrax attack on America, it was feared last night.

Mass killer Mohamed Atta, who led the atrocities at the World Trade Centre, was
named as the prime suspect after the FBI said it believed two cases of the
deadly disease were deliberate. Atta had tried to rent crop-duster planes at an
airstrip half a mile from the Florida home of one of the victims, who
subsequently died.

As panic spread across America, a third suspected case of anthrax was reported
from North Virginia and 15 people were taken to hospital in Maryland with nausea
after a man threw a jar of "unknown liquid" onto a subway station.

And Foreign Office minister Ben Bradshaw yesterday warned that Osama bin Laden's
Al Qaida network almost certainly has its own chemical and biological weapons.

While stressing that there was no evidence that Britain was under threat from
the weapons, he warned: "We do not doubt their will to use these weapons if
they're given an opportunity."

Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith raised the spectre that the Allies might
have to "deal with" Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein after bin Laden is removed and
his Al Qaida network dismantled.

Amid signals that the United States is considering expanding the war against
terrorism beyond its initial target, the Taliban in Afghanistan, Mr Duncan Smith
said the regime in Kabul might not be the only one against which the
international community would have to act.

More bombing raids against military targets in Afghanistan were made yesterday
morning and evening, as experts predicted the air war will soon move to a 24
-hour operation to destroy enemy forces.

Round-the-clock sorties are becoming increasingly possible as air strikes reduce
the threat from ground-based anti-aircraft weapons.

But as the blitz continued, there were the first confirmed civilian casualties -
four security guards working for a United Nations mine clearing project.

Reports from the Northern Alliance, attacking the Taliban from within
Afghanistan, suggested that almost 150 Taliban officers had defected to them
since Allied bombing began.

Last night al Qaida threatened a new wave of suicide attacks on America.
Spokesman Sulemain Abu Gheit, speaking on an AlJazeera television broadcast,
said U.S. and Britain had "opened a door that will never be closed" with the air
strikes on Afghanistan.

He called on Muslims across the world to join in jihad, or holy war, calling it
their "duty and responsibility".

Americans already fear further atrocities at home, especially an attack by
terrorists using biological weapons.

British-born journalist Bob Stevens died in Florida from anthrax and one of his
colleagues has now tested positive, but not developed the disease. Both men
worked in Boca Raton, Florida, at the newspaper offices of American Media
Incorporated, where anthrax spores were found on the dead man's computer
keyboard.

Last night, health officials said it was "a billion to one chance" that the two
men had contracted anthrax naturally.

A third woman, a librarian at the offices, is undergoing further tests to see if
she has been exposed to the spores, while a man in North Virginia who works for
an associated company, was also tested.

Fears have been fuelled by the fact that September 11 hijacking ringleader Atta
was based close to Boca Raton while learning to fly.

Several other hijackers were also reported to have visited a crop-dusting plane
business nearby.

Mr Stevens, a 63-year-old picture editor at The Sun news magazine, died of
anthrax just three days after being admitted to hospital.

Local health officials described the death as "an isolated case" but on Monday
the second man, 73-year-old mailroom worker Ernest Blanco, was found to have
been exposed to the disease.

Mr Stevens, who had emigrated from Britain 30 years ago, died of pulmonary
anthrax, the rarest form of the disease and the most lethal. The last case in
the U.S. was reported in 1976. Anthrax bacteria can take up to 60 days to
develop into the full-blown disease, which in the case of the pulmonary strain
is fatal in 90 per cent of all people who contract it.

The Ministry of Defence yesterday played down reports of British troops being
sent to Uzbekistan, where the U.S. already has a major force. But there would
almost certainly be a British presence in any ground operation, apart from
special forces including the SAS, who are already believed to be active in
Afghanistan. The southern city of Kandahar was again targeted on the third night
of raids, while Herat, near the Iranian border, was also hit, and anti -aircraft
fire dotted the skies above Kabul.

The Taliban remained defiant and said bin Laden was alive and still in
Afghanistan, while supreme leader Mullah Mohammed Omar had cheated death,
despite his house being bombed.

However it is thought that he, and other Taliban leaders, have now abandoned
their HQ in Kandahar, and fled to the hills.

Leader of the Commons and War Cabinet member Robin Cook said bin Laden would
pose a terrorist threat to Britain and other Western nations for years unless he
is dealt with. "If he had the opportunity to strike again he would do so and he
would personally not care whether it was the United States or a European
country."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                      $%Financial Adviser adviser adviser

                           October 11, 2001 2001 2001

Number crunching and cancelled flights; Paul Banfield is a partner and senior
financial consultant of Best Advice Financial Planning He tells how the
terrorist attacks in the US led to a hectic week of number crunching crunching
crunching

SECTION: ISSN. 0953-5276 5276 5276

LENGTH: 502 words words words


Monday

After a relaxing weekend in the New Forest the drive to the office is
refreshingly free of traffic. A call from a client wanting to increase his
executive contributions makes for a good morning.

Spoke to Simply Shopping about my involvement with the DBS networks infomercial
due to be broadcast on Sky TV. I am surprised to hear it is being shown today.
today.  today.

This represents excellent exposure for best advice, DBS and independent
financial advice in general. I hope TV does not add a few pounds to my figure!

Tuesday

Up at 5am for a flight to Manchester for a group pension scheme presentation for
a medium-sized company which has left its stakeholder minimum requirements to
the last minute.

Also, group protection is on the agenda with a company which has a refreshing
attitude to employee loyalty and retention.

Mid-afternoon brings a normal working day to a halt as I see the tragic events
unfolding in the USA. We were all transfixed by the TV and mindful of
thehorrific loss of life as the twin towers in New York are hit.

On a more personal note, the return flight was cancelled and the resulting
scramble sees us hire a car for the long return journey.

Wednesday

The phone did not stop ringing as our investment clients contact us to establish
an update on their funds in light of yesterdays events. Skandia, Jupiter,
Fidelity and Invesco-Perpetuals phone numbers are programmed into my handset to
save me losing my fingerprints.

A day of repetitive questions and answers with my longest call, of just under
two hours, being to Skandia. A number crunching day.

Thursday

Investment clients continue to phone in, but the numbers are falling.

I spent the day advising clients on their values and informing them of many
providers decisions to suspend trading in affected stocks.

This satisfies short-term pressures and I diary an enormous amount of client
review meetings all through next week.

Lunched with Matt, the Scottish Life consultant who cheered me up by choosing a
particularly good bottle of red wine. He does most of the drinking, however, as
I need a clear head to get me through the rest of the day.

I have spoken to more people in the last two days than I can keep track of and
continuing valuations and meetings conclude a second admin-filled day.

Friday

Best advice meeting with my business partner Anthony Moss in the morning, when
we discussed a project to improve our website, trying to make it more
interactive with more e-commerce trading facilities, and we also reviewed our
advertising and PR budget.

I hear from clients who have exchanged contracts on their proposed new homes and
my secretary contacts Scottish Provident, Norwich Union, Legal & General
andStandard Life to put protection policies on risk. I liaise with solicitors
and the mortgage and protection focused afternoon brings relief from an
investment oriented mid-week.

Read Advanced Financial Planning Certificate and went for a relaxing swim to
finish the week.  week.  week.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 2001 2001

LANGUAGE: English english english

            Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited limited
                                    limited

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 11, 2001

Terror attacks slow world economy

LENGTH: 250 words


THE world economy will grow at just 1.4% this year because the terrorist attacks
on the United States have sent "shock waves" through an already slowing economy,
the United Nations says in a revised forecast.

Only three months ago, the United Nations was forecasting global economic growth
of 2.4%.

Even before the September 11 attacks, a top UN economist said, that forecast was
too optimistic because the global economy was already slowing more rapidly than
anticipated.

But the economic slowdown has been "aggravated and exacerbated" by the economic
"shock waves" following the attacks on New York's World Trade Centre and the
Pentagon, said Ian Kinniburgh, the top economic policy analyst in the UN
Department of Economic and Social Affairs.

In its admittedly "gloomy outlook," the United Nations said the global economy
is now growing at its slowest pace in a decade.

With economic growth rates now expected to be near or less than population
growth, Kinniburgh said, "there will be an increasing number of poor this year."

In monetary terms, Kinniburgh said, a 1% drop in the economic growth rate this
year - from 2.4% to 1.4% - would mean a (GBP) 230 billion loss to the (GBP) 23
trillion global economy.

In the European Union, Kinniburgh said, the impact of the US economic slowdown
was stronger than expected. The United Nations revised its forecast of 2.7%
economic growth in 2001 down to 1.8%, and predicted growth of just 1.75% in the
EU next year.


LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

MARKET FEARS IMPACT OF US TERROR ATTACKS Iceni, one of the largest speculative
office schemes in the; Midlands, being constructed at Warwick Technology Park

SECTION: Pg. 31

LENGTH: 987 words


The recent terrorist attacks in the USA may well have an impact on the property
market in Coventry and Warwickshire.

Not only will the attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon have a
significant effect on the world's economy, the local market is likely to suffer
as well.

And according to Mike Cotton, consultant at Howkins & Harrison, there is great
concern about further new commercial developments in the region, with the sector
likely to experience a downturn.

'Developers and occupiers across the West Midlands are increasingly concerned
about the impact the USA terrorist attacks will have on new industrial
developments in Coventry and Warwickshire - the problem is no one knows what is
going to happen at this stage,' he said.

'It is very likely that the new developments in place will be put on hold for a
year, which will have a major effect on jobs in these areas.

'The planned new developments were set to create more than 3,000 jobs in the
region, but that is unlikely to happen now,' he added.

However, the short term prospects look a little brighter and Robert Rae,
business space partner at North Rae Sanders, said inquiries were certain to pick
up over the coming weeks with the office market in Coventry and Warwickshire
continuing to attract large deals. The latest deal in Coventry is the recently
acquired 24-acre former CEL industrial estate at 256 Foleshill Road.

The site has been acquired by North Rae Sanders for Paragon UK Ltd and the
complex will be renamed Paragon Business Park, which is in a prominent position
near Coventry city centre and the M6.

The first planned phase will be an 80,000 sq ft pre let warehouse facility and
work is due to start in early December.

The site currently provides accommodation for industrial/warehouse and office
operators from 2,500 to 40,000 sq ft and there are a number of smaller units
from 2,500 to 20,000 sq ft, which are available at rentals from pounds 3.50 per
sq ft.

According to Mr Andrew Pittaway, associate partner at North Rae Sanders, it is
the largest site that has been sold recently for such a redevelopment.

He said: 'In Coventry, Paragon UK's optimum goal is to establish this estate as
one of the premier industrial/warehouse locations in the city. We are offering
flexible lease terms which will be available for a period of 12 months up to
three years.'

Another large scheme in Coventry is ProLogis Park, a 300-acre mixed use
development in the north of the city.

Mr Rae said Excel Logistics has already taken a 183,750 sq ft unit at the site
and indicated that it will be taking a further 600,000 sq ft of space during the
next two years.

The latest speculative office building under offer at ProLogis Park, now
available for immediate occupation, is 602 Central Boulevard.

The unit is a 50,502 sq ft three-storey office building, which is available as a
whole, or floor by floor from 16,187 sq ft.

Available on flexible lease terms, it has air conditioning, raised floor, high
-speed lift and a suspending ceiling with a high level of natural lighting.

Outside Coventry, the economy in Warwickshire has also been thriving, and
according to David Williams, county economic development officer at Warwick
County Council, the region is experiencing consistent low unemployment figures
and a steady increase in house prices.

Additionally, there has been a lot of inward investment in the region which has
created more than 3,000 jobs over the past year, primarily from the automotive
industries such as Aston Martin and Land Rover.

'Businesses are generally drawn to Warwickshire - it is prosperous, it has a
high skill base, and it is an extremely pleasant place to work', said Mr Rae.

'It is the communications around Coventry and Warwickshire that is still drawing
occupiers to the area.

'Companies in the past have chosen to locate to the area due to the accessible
motorway connections and to utilise the strong, available and cheap labour
force, which other regions, especially in the south east, simply don't have.'

A new development is Iceni at Warwick Technology Park, the largest out of town
speculative office development in the M40/M42 corridor.

The three-storey building of 77,185 sq ft benefits from individual floors of
25,400 sq ft, air conditioning, 380 on site car parking spaces, raised floors,
triple height reception and completion is due by October 31.

Together with North Rae Sanders, Lambert Smith Hampton is the joint agent of the
scheme.

Mr Rae said that demand for office accommodation remained high in the region,
with availability ranging from 4,000 to 20,000 sq ft of both
industrial/warehouse and office space. However, the recent events in the USA are
likely to discourage new speculative developments in the region, according to
Howkins Harrison's Mr Cotton, who said the plc market is likely to face problems
from the economic backlash.

The future for Coventry and Warwickshire property market will depend on the
ability of companies to stay ahead and trade on intellectual capital,
specifically in the science, engineering and financial services, according to
John Danton, director of corporate finance at Birmingham accountants and
business advisers, PKF.

'Client service will become of paramount importance - the customers have to be
increasingly viewed as kings,' he said.

'Companies will have to take note of the famous quote: 'the best customers are
the ones you already have, make sure you look after them'.'

Mr Danton said the services sector of the market will continue to grow,
therefore boosting the property market.

However, 'Manufacturing industries already hit by currency movement and the weak
Euro, are likely to suffer,' he added.

The telecom industry is an example of the downturn in the manufacturing sector,
with companies such as Marconi suffering massive share price loss.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 11, 2001

GBP 100m for airlines;
EU approves 'limited' state payouts after terror attacks

BYLINE: Ray Massey

SECTION: Pg. 43

LENGTH: 487 words


BRUSSELS has approved a limited 'bailout' of up to GBP 100million for British
airlines in the aftermath of the terror attacks on America.

But the EU said it would not permit states to sign blank cheques for already
struggling carriers.

Member governments can only help out with the immediate consequences of the
September 11 atrocities.

The EC decision has brought calls for up to GBP 48million aid for British
Airways to compensate the national carrier for earnings lost when it cancelled
flights after the attacks.

After payouts to Virgin Atlantic and bmi British Midland, and compensation for
higher insurance and security costs, the Government could be paying out GBP
100million.

But U.S. airlines have been promised much wider government assistance of up to
GBP 10billion.

Christopher Darke, the general secretary of the British Airline Pilots'
Association, has called for UK government aid to the airline industry of GBP
1billion a year, beginning immediately.

'We welcome the Commission's proposals,' he said.

'However, we believe that British government can do one thing immediately and
that is to allow airlines to keep the Airline Passenger Duty tax which
passengers pay on their tickets.

'This will enable the airlines to benefit by GBP 1billion a year.' British
Airways, which has announced 7,200 job cuts and the axing of one in ten flights,
said yesterday it would be cutting the salaries of 36,000 staff, including
flight crews.

The airline and unions, which are angry at the pay cuts, are due to meet today.

Welcoming the EC ruling, Transport and General Workers Union general secretary
Bill Morris said: 'The Commission has given the green light to assistance for
the air industry.

'Now we want to see some Government action.

'The U.S. government has moved swiftly to provide GBP 11billion of assistance to
their air industry so that it can come through this crisis.

'All we are asking for is a level playing field for the UK.

'We are not talking about handouts but simply recognition that the very
difficult circumstances caused by the events of September 11 warrant Government
support.'

Low-cost carrier easyJet said it was glad the EC had rejected 'siren calls' of
blanket support for airlines that had been in trouble before September 11, while
bmi British Midland said it was totally opposed to state aid for carriers.

A Virgin Atlantic spokesman said: 'All we want is a level playing field.'

The EC decision comes as a host of European airlines struggle for survival.

Irish national airline Aer Lingus, on the brink of collapse, confirmed yesterday
that it will shed 2,500 jobs. It is losing nearly GBP 2million a day.

Belgium's Sabena and its non-EU partner, Swissair, have both filed for
protection from creditors.

The EC is investigating a multimillion-pound Belgian government loan to bail out
the state-run Sabena.


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A BA 747: THE AIRLINE WILL GET SOME HELP WITH ITS RECENT LOSSES

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 11, 2001

Arafat aides attack Bin Laden for linking terror to their cause

BYLINE: Inigo Gilmore

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 428 words


SENIOR Palestinian leaders have attacked Osama bin Laden for remarks in which he
attempted to link his anti-American campaign to the Palestinian cause.

Speaking in Doha, Qatar, Palestinian cabinet minister Nabil Shaath, one of
Yasser Arafat's most senior lieutenants, insisted that Palestinians did not
support Bin Laden. He said: "If Bin Laden thinks that he serves the Palestinian
cause this way, then let him be responsible for his remarks. We will not be."

The comment follows the release of a videotape on Sunday, broadcast on the
Qatar- based al Jazeera television network, in which Bin Laden said that neither
"America nor the people who live in it will dream of security before we live The
Palestinian leadership is desperate to shake off attempts by Bin Laden and his
supporters to associate themselves with their cause as it aims to capitalise on
signals from Washington about diplomatic initiatives which could benefit the
Palestinian struggle.

Attempts by the Palestinians to distance themselves from Bin Laden on a
diplomatic level have coincided with efforts on the ground to snuff out public
demonstrations of support for the Saudi dissident by militant Palestinian
groups. In Gaza, Palestinian police have arrested about 50 protesters following
a violent demonstration this week in support of Bin Laden. Palestinian police
opened fire on protesters, killing at least three.

The killings detonated a wave of popular anger against the Palestinian
leadership. The Palestinian Authority has been under intense pressure to sack
senior Palestinian security officials following the shootings.

Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat, speaking to an emergency meeting
of the foreign ministers of the 56-nation Organisation of the Islamic Conference
(ICO), accused Israel of trying to cast Islam and the entire Muslim world as
responsible for the US attacks. Mr Arafat said Israel was exploiting the tragedy
to push for the full reoccupation of the territories.

"While the world is busy with the American tragedy, the Israeli government is
using its military might to escalate its aggression against our people and to
reoccupy our land," Mr Arafat said, calling on the UN to immediately adopt a
decision to require the Israeli government to " immediately stop" incursions
into Palestinian-controlled territory.

At the same time, Mr Arafat criticised Bin Laden for turning the suffering of
the Palestinian people into a tool to advance his own interests which in the
process harmed the interests of the Palestinians.


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 11, 2001

LEADER HOW VULNERABLE IS BRITAIN TO ANTHRAX ATTACKS BY FANATICAL TERRORISTS?;
VIGILANCE IS OUR ONLY DEFENCE AGAINST THE BIOLOGICAL THREAT

BYLINE: RICHARD BENNETT

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1020 words


AS ALARM grows in America in the wake of what looks increasingly like an anthrax
attack on an office block in Florida, the question in British minds is whether
something similar could happen here.

Although only one person has been killed in the apparent attack, it has raised
fears about the potential of chemical and biological weapons to kill people in
their thousands.

The image of frightened crowds running from clouds of poison gas in the centre
of a major British city has haunted Whitehall's emergency planners since the
Second World War. The vital difference now is that this appalling prospect is
more real than it ever was. This is not just because technological advances have
made it easier for chemical and biological weapons to be produced, but because
the enemy we now face is an amoral, fanatical and utterly ruthless international
terrorist network - and is already among us.

Last month, the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, Sir John Stevens, said
London could indeed be the terrorists' next target. This may not necessarily
mean a hijacked airliner slamming into Canary Wharf Tower. It is just as likely
to be a biological agent introduced into London's water supply or a nerve gas
attack on the crowded Underground.

The FBI has been rightly concerned about the use of a modified crop-dusting
aircraft to spray a biological weapon, such as anthrax, over a US city. Within a
week, three quarters of those caught in the resulting cloud of infected droplets
could be infected. However, biological weapons can be unstable and
unpredictable, and cannot easily be stockpiled. This makes them difficult for
terrorists to use with certainty.

Many analysts are convinced that Osama Bin Laden has succeeded in obtaining a
limited number of chemical, and possibly biological, weapons.

There have been reports, so far unsubstantiated, that up to 300 members of Al
Qaeda have received training in handling such weapons at camps run by the Iraqi
intelligence service near Baghdad.

Concern about the possibility of chemical or biological attack has sparked a
rush to buy gas masks on both sides of the Atlantic, but the sad truth is that
in the event of a chemical or biological terrorist attack, such masks would be
utterly useless.

There is little doubt that chemical weapons are well within the capacity of
modern terrorist groups. Chemical agents have been mass-produced in Middle
Eastern countries including Iraq, Iran and Libya, and there is little doubt that
Osama Bin Laden has studied the catastrophic effects of these weapons for some
time.

GOVERNMENTS refrain from using such weapons because of the fear of reprisals,
but in March 1995, the Japanese sect Aum Shinrikyo unleashed a primitive
chemical attack against commuters on the Tokyo subway during the morning rush
hour.

Using home-made Sarin, a nerve agent, in polyethylene pouches placed in five
subway cars, the terrorists simply punctured them with sharpened umbrella tips.
Sarin is sufficiently volatile that no special dissemination technique was
required, and poisonous fumes quickly filled the carriages.

However, thanks to the crude delivery system, only 12 commuters died, although a
staggering 5,000 were taken ill. In a foretaste of what may one day happen on
the London Underground, this fanatical group had already planned a far more
terrible outrage in the subway system.

Japanese police, in September 1996, discovered a bottle containing just one
ounce of VX, an advanced nerve agent, sufficient to kill more than 15,000 if
dispensed properly.

A simple fire extinguisher, suitably modified and placed in the central lobby of
a major shopping mall, railway station, airport, school or hospital, would be
able to dispense enough VX in aerosol form to kill many tens of thousands, while
a light aircraft could dump just 200kg of anthrax spores over the capital -
enough to kill six million Londoners.

There is no doubt that Osama Bin Laden is merciless enough to organise such an
attack on a British city.

The question is only whether he has the means to carry it out or whether he will
be prevented from causing carnage by the inadequacy of his delivery system.

This country will always be vulnerable to the crazed fanatic or determined and
ruthless terrorist, intent on killing as many innocent people as possible.
Britain lacks adequate chemical and biological warning systems or the
professionally-trained incident-response teams to deal with a major terrorist
attack effectively.

So what can be done to protect us against this terrible menace? In essence, the
answer is very little, except to maintain good intelligence of terrorist
intentions and the eternal vigilance of the security forces.

Richard M Bennett is a senior analyst with defence and security analysts AFI.

AGENTS OF MASS DESTRUCTION

Anthrax is cheap and easy to produce. It is a bacterium that attacks the lungs
and bronchial passages in its most lethal form, inhalation or pulmonary anthrax.

It can cause death within 48 hours if not treated with high doses of
antibiotics. However, it is not contagious, and needs a high exposure level to
develop.

Tularemia is found in rodents and can infect people through contaminated water.
It is extremely contagious, easily produced and persists for a long time. The
pneumonia-like symptoms appear within three days, and mortality can be as high
as 40 per cent.

Plague or Yersina Pestis can be fatal in humans and its white powder-like base
could be spread from the air or in aerosol form.

Smallpox would be devastating, but the virus is hard to get hold of.

Ebola is perhaps the most frightening of all. It causes horrific symptoms, is
highly contagious, has no known cure or vaccine and could be dispensed in
aerosol form. However, a terrorist organisation would probably not have the
expertise or resources to create large quantities.

Sarin is not a bacterium but a chemical nerve agent that gives off poisonous
fumes.

VX is another deadly nerve gas.

Like Sarin, it is within the capacity of a competent chemist to produce.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 11, 2001

MINISTER SCORNED FOR KEEPING AIDE WHO TRIED TO'BURY' BAD NEWS IN TERROR ATTACK
OUTRAGE; JO ROW THREATENS BYERS

BYLINE: BY PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 283 words


TRANSPORT Secretary Stephen Byers was last night cut adrift by colleagues over
his decision to keep his aide Jo Moore.

The colleagues were privately questioning his judgment in not dismissing Ms
Moore over her e-mail urging staff to exploit the immediate aftermath of the
September 11 atrocities to "bury" embarrassing policy announcements.

The memo outraged relatives of those who died and opposition MPs. She was also
involved in the decision to put Railtrack into administration on Sunday - when
the allied bombing of Afghanistan started.

There were also claims that Ms Moore, 38, had been complicit in other cynical
"news management" decisions in recent years. Home Secretary David Blunkett
yesterday declined to publicly back Mr Byers's decision that she should stay.

"It was an extraordinarily stupid thing to do, everybody accepts that, " he
said. "We don't feel any differently inside Government to those outside
Government. It's up to Stephen Byers to discipline his staff and I know the
lesson has been learned not only by Jo Moore but by everyone else who believes
they can act in that way."

Officials at Mr Byers's Department of Transport, Local Government and the
Regions raised doubts about whether he had followed correc t disciplinary
procedures i n deciding to merely issue Ms Moore with a reprimand befor e
consulting his senior civil servant, Sir Richard Mottram.

One source claimed Si r Richard and other senior mandarins were "hopping mad" a
t the way the case had bee n handled.

"A more prudent ministe r would have handed the case over to the permanent
secretary straight away, or at leas t have asked for immediat e advice, " said
the official.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 11, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: Targets: Clinton tells of Pope threat: Ex-president lists
15 foiled terror attacks

BYLINE: Michael Ellison in New York

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 427 words


Bill Clinton produced a checklist of terror, including a plot to kill the Pope,
in his first public references to the failure of his administration to capture
Osama bin Laden.

Describing the world's most wanted man as a "worthy opponent", the former
president said: "He's very scary. He's smart, he's rich, he's ruthless, he's
bold, with a very definite political agenda."

At least 15 terrorist attacks were prevented during his eight years in office,
he said, including an attempt to bomb the Lincoln Tunnel linking New Jersey and
Manhattan, and an attack on a flight from Los Angeles to the Philippines. Twelve
schemes to hit targets around the turn of the century were thwarted, such as an
attack on Los Angeles airport, a hotel in Jordan and a Christian holy site in
the Middle East.

The threat to the Pope came from the Abu Sayyaf Islamist group, which has
attacked soldiers, villagers and tourists in the Philippines for a decade and is
on the US list of terrorist organisations. The Pope has countered Bin Laden's
rationale for a holy war by saying that religion should not be used to justify
violence and it has been reported that carabinieri disguised as priests are
mingling with the Roman Catholic church's hierarchy to protect the Vatican.

A week before the Pope's visit to the Philippines in 1995 police called to a
fire in an apartment in Manila uncovered a bomb factory, an element in a plot
called Project Bonjinka (big sound). The fire had started when 26-year-old Abdul
Hakim Murad mixed water with chemicals in a sink.

Murad, who had taken flying lessons, told police how mem bers of his group
intended to board planes with bombs. There were plans also to crash a flight
into the CIA headquarters in Langley, Virginia. Murad was convicted in the US of
taking part in a plot to blow up 12 US planes over the Pacific.

Mr Clinton confirmed in a speech to executives at the Kennedy Centre in
Washington DC that the US had failed in 1996 to have Bin Laden arrested in Sudan
and that a CIA-sponsored initiative to have Pakistani commandos snare him three
years later was abandoned because of a military coup in that country. A US
cruise missile attack on Bin Laden training camps in Afghanistan in 1998 missed
their main target.

"Though neither I nor anyone else can tell you there will not be another
terrorist attack on US soil, it will be all right," said Mr Clinton, who has
made a point of flying frequently since the attacks on the World Trade Centre
and the Pentagon in an attempt to reassure Americans.


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                                October 11, 2001

Terrorist attacks force star to cancel European concerts

BYLINE: by nicolajuncar3

SECTION: NEWS:ENTS:Others, Pg.23

LENGTH: 159 words


SUPERSTAR Janet Jackson has cancelled her forthcoming European Concert Tour,
including a date at Sheffield Arena.

The singer and choreographer was supposed to be appearing on Saturday, December
8.

But, due to the terrorist attacks in New York, Janet will not be flying her
large group of tour personnel across the Atlantic.

Janet said: "My European fans are among the most loyal and I was excited to
share this show with them. I have agonised over this decision."

"Like most people, the events of September 11 have troubled me enormously. If
anything happened to anyone on this tour, I could never forgive myself."

Janet now hopes to return to Europe next year although, for now, customers who
purchased tickets are being asked to return them to the point of purchase for a
full refund.

Please note refunds can only be given on receipt of the ticket.

Anyone with further enquiries should call Sheffield Box Office, on (0114)
2565656.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Hull Daily Mail

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 11, 2001, Friday

AVIATION IN CRISIS: BRUSSELS REJECTS BIG BAIL-OUTS FOR STRUGGLING AIRLINES;
 CARRIERS PRESS FOR RELAXATION OF OWNERSHIP RULES TO RIDE OUT THE TURMOIL CAUSED
BY LAST MONTH'S TERRORIST ATTACKS ON THE US

BYLINE: Stephen Castle In Brussels And Michael Harrison In London Loyola De
Palacio: Likely to relax airport slot rules

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1046 words


THE EUROPEAN Commission yesterday ruled out massive bailouts for airlines
affected by the events of 11 September but said they should be eligible for
limited subsidies to cover cancelled flights and increased insurance and
security costs.

The move was welcomed by UK airlines which had strongly urged the Commission to
reject big state-aid packages to rescue failing national carriers such as
Swissair, Sabena and Aer Lingus. But there was concern that the limited measures
likely to be permitted by Brussels did not guarantee a "level playing field"
between European carriers and their US counterparts which have been offered a $
15bn rescue package by the Bush administration.

Announcing the aid measures, Loyola de Palacio, the European Transport
Commissioner, also indicated Brussels was likely to relax its "use it or lose
it" rule governing airport slots. She also said that mergers were inevitable and
that the aviation industry may have to think in terms of creating a single
European carrier.

With its strict anti-monopoly rules, the Commission says it cannot permit the
airlines to use the crisis to win state subsidies to paper over problems which
pre-dated 11 September. But in its package of measures, which will be considered
by ministers next week, the Commission proposes that governments should be able
to compensate for the direct losses incurred during the four days after the
attacks on the US, when transatlantic flights were grounded.

Action taken by EU governments to underwrite the massively increased insurance
premiums should also be approved, and probably extended until the end of the
year, perhaps with a new fund to cover such eventualities in future. Ms de
Palacio added that the costs of some increased safety measures "should be borne
by public authorities".

Significantly, the Commission is using the crisis to call for greater powers at
an EU level, in particular to negotiate landing rights with the US on behalf of
the 15 European states. At present, individual member states negotiate air
service agreements bilaterally. Brussels has challenged this and the European
Court of Justice is expected to side with the Commission in a ruling due by the
end of this year, which will pave the way for the EU to negotiate landing rights
with the US en bloc. Similarly, Ms de Palacio called for a new push to achieve
the Commission's objective of a single European air traffic control system.

The Association of European Airlines has said the impact of the terrorist
attacks will cost its members 2.5bn euros in profits and 3.7bn euros in revenues
by the end of the year, putting up to 40,000 jobs at risk. Officials say it is
impossible to put a price tag on the aid package because EU governments will
determine how much subsidy to offer. But Ms de Palacio said: "No direct cash, no
aid, no state subsidies. On that matter, we've said 'no' very clearly. We've
said 'yes, compensation for the four days' loss of American airspace', but we've
said 'no' to any other type of aid."

That theory faces a direct test next week when the Commission will rule on
whether to approve a 125m euros Belgian government bridging loan which has given
a stay of execution to its loss-making airline, Sabena.

New security measures recommended, for which the tax-payer is likely to foot the
bill, include measures to ensure that all bags going on to airlines are
screened. In addition, at least 10 per cent of hand luggage should be searched
manually as well as checked by x-ray machines. New standards of sensitivity
would be recommended for airport detectors used to screen passengers to ensure
that they register anything over 5g of metal. There would also be an agreed list
of weapons which would be barred from airplanes.

Sir Michael Bishop, the chairman of BMI British Midland, the country's second
biggest scheduled airline, welcomed the measures but urged the Commission to go
further and remove the restrictions on ownership that prevent consolidation
among European airlines. He said: "Despite the considerable progress that the
Commission and member states have made in liberalising aviation markets to new
competition, a number of national carriers have been given a special status that
has protected them from normal market forces, and the fragility of this policy
is now painfully obvious." He said failing carriers should not be allowed
compensation that enabled them to continue operating in an artificial
environment and distort the true forces of supply and demand.

British Airways also supported the Commission's stance on general bailouts for
airlines but it said there was an urgent need for further liberalisation. BA's
director of government and regulatory affairs, Andrew Cahn, said: "The terrible
events of 11 September could either be a catalyst for the change the airline
industry desperately needs or it it could be the excuse for sitting back and
doing nothing."

But if the airline industry is to be genuinely liberalised, this will require
action at international and European level. At present, non-EU nationals may not
own more than 49 per cent of an EU-registered airline. In the US, the limit on
foreign ownership is at 25 per cent. But what scuppered the proposed takeover of
KLM by BA was a rule granting landing rights to airlines on the basis of their
nationality. Had BA acquired KLM it may not have been allowed to operate
services from Amsterdam to the US because KLM was no longer a Dutch-owned
carrier. Advocates of liberalisation, such as Sir Michael Bishop, believe that
the "tectonic plates of the airline industry" shifted when the US was attacked.
Faced with a crisis of passenger confidence, mounting losses and demands for
state bailouts, logic dictates, he says, that airlines be allowed to merge. The
most obvious way to achieve this, he adds, would be for the three big alliances,
OneWorld, Star and Skyteam, to, in effect, become single companies with common
shareholdings. Others fear that is merely a recipe for less competition, higher
prices and domination of the world aviation industry by an oligopoly of carriers
with overweening market power.

What everyone is agreed on, however, is that after 11 September, the airline
industry will never be the same again.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

TORY DEMANDS SPIN SACKINGS;
 STORM GROWS OVER TERROR ATTACK COVER-UP MESSAGE

BYLINE: Ian Hernon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 302 words


THE political storm over government spin doctor Jo Moore today took a dramatic
new twist.

Ms Moore has apologised for the e-mail she sent out to colleagues after the
September 11 terror attacks telling them that it was now a "good day" to release
potentially damaging announcements.

But today, former Tory Welsh Secretary John Redwood called for Ms Moore and her
boss, Transport Secretary Stephen Byers, to resign or be fired after allegations
emerged of an earlier "smear campaign" against London transport commissioner Bob
Kiley.

Mr Kiley has slammed what he described as "personal vilification" by Whitehall's
spin machine during its battle with him over financing of the London
Underground.

Reports this morning suggested that a senior Transport Department civil servant
had been forced out of his job after refusing to cooperate with Ms Moore in a
campaign to plant unfavourable stories in the press about Mr Kiley.

Whitehall sources were today quoted as saying that Ms Moore had asked press
officers to cast doubt on Mr Kiley's record on the New York subway and to
publicise claims that his staff doctored a report on Tube safety.

Alun Evans, the Department of Transport, Local Government and the Regions'
communications director, is reported to have refused, on the grounds that it
would breach the rules on impartiality that civil servants - but not publicly
funded special advisers - must stick to.

Mr Evans' subsequent departure from his job was attributed by some reports to
pressure from Transport Secretary Stephen Byers, who had brought Ms Moore to the
department from his previous posting at the Department of Trade and Industry.

The latest chapter in a hugely embarrassing story left Downing Street reeling
and increased speculation that Ms Moore will be sacked.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STORM: Byers

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: CHEMICAL THREAT - UK ATTACK 'UNLIKELY'

BYLINE: Joe Churcher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 120 words

HIGHLIGHT: PREPARED: A fireman tests a shower at yesterday's decontamination
seminar in Colchester


HOME Secretary David Blunkett yesterday played down fears that the Florida
anthrax outbreak was an attack by bin Laden's terrorists.

But he admitted Britain and the US were discussing vaccinations against the
disease.

He said: "We don't know what happened in Florida came from a terrorist attack.
It may have come from a madman who wished to cause fear.

"If you were going to commit mass terrorism you would not use anthrax because of
the nature of the spread of the disease and the dose that would have to be
given."

Downing Street declined to rule out bin Laden having access to anthrax or other
biological weapons, but said the Government did not believe he was capable of
using them in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: UK ATTACK 'UNLIKELY'

BYLINE: Joe Churcher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 122 words


British Home Secretary David Blunkett yesterday played down fears that the
Florida anthrax outbreak was an attack by bin Laden's terrorists.

But he admitted Britain and the US were discussing vaccinations against the
disease.

He said: "We don't know what happened in Florida came from a terrorist attack.
It may have come from a madman who wished to cause fear.

"If you were going to commit mass terrorism you would not use anthrax because of
the nature of the spread of the disease and the dose that would have to be
given."

Downing Street declined to rule out bin Laden having access to anthrax or other
biological weapons, but said the Government did not believe he was capable of
using them in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               New Civil Engineer

                           October 11, 2001 Thursday

Transport at highest risk of terror attack

SECTION: ARTICLE; Archive; News

LENGTH: 337  words



HIGHLIGHT: News :


SECURITY WAS this week tightened to protect the UK's transport infrastructure
from terrorist attack.

It is feared that terrorists will strike UK targets in retaliation for the
military campaign, launched on Sunday, against Afghanistan's Taliban government
and the militant al-Qaida organisation.

A British Transport Police spokesman said UK intelligence sources had identified
transport infrastructure as a major risk.

Organisations contacted by NCE would not reveal full details of measures in
place but police in London are known to have focused attention on tunnels and
bridges close to the City.

The British Transport Police have put more officers on duty at main line
stations which, a Railtrack spokesman said, are considered at higher risk than
track, tunnel, bridges or signals.

All passengers travelling through the Channel Tunnel on Eurostar services must
now pass through a metal detecting arch and all luggage is x-rayed. 'We have
increased security to 100% screening, which is not normal, ' said a Eurostar UK
spokesman.

All cars and lorries using Eurotunnel services are now visually inspected and a
random selection are x-rayed.

London Underground staff are already trained to cope with emergencies including
fire, bomb and gas attack, said a spokeswoman. 'All situations are well
rehersed.'

The Highways Agency told NCE it did not believe the UK motorway and trunkroad
network, road bridges or tunnels were likely targets.

Meanwhile, UK nuclear installations have been put on amber alert and policing of
the secure compounds owned by BNFL and British Energy has been stepped up. Staff
are screened and nonessential visits cancelled.

British Energy said that all UK reactors were built to cope with nuclear
explosion, making them all but immune to external terrorist attack.

However, a British Atomic Agency spokesman claimed this week that while nuclear
reactors were designed to withstand earthquakes, small plane strikes and
hurricanes, no one had ever assessed the threat from the impact of large
civilian aircraft.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: New Construction Engineer


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

TEENAGER'S TERROR IN BITE ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 141 words


A CARDIFF teenager was held over a bridge and bitten in the head as an attacker
attempted to steal his mobile phone.

The 17-year-old was talking with a friend on the pedestrian bridge under the
Gabalfa Flyover at 10pm on Tuesday when they were approached by a man.

He demanded money from the teenager and also told him to hand over his mobile.

When the victim refused, the man hit him in the chest and held him over the
railings above Eastern Avenue.

The frightened teenager managed to wriggle free but was put in a headlock and
bitten in the head.

His friend tried to intervene but was punched in the head.

The suspect is white, 17 to 19 years old, 5ft 11in tall, of medium build, with
dark hair. He was wearing a cream jacket and a dark brown baseball cap.

Witnesses should call Fairwater CID on 029 2057 1545.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

Incepta hit by terror attacks

BYLINE: Raymond Snoddy, Media Editor

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 182 words


INCEPTA, the public relations and marketing services group, admitted yesterday
that last month's terrorist attacks had cost it an immediate Pounds 2.5 million
in lost business.

However, the company sought to reassure shareholders over prospects and its
shares closed unchanged at 28p. Richard Nichols, chief executive, said he now
saw the business going forward "as robust and resilient as ever".

He added that "as of today" there were no plans for further job cuts following
the 160 redundancies in the first half of the year. Incepta shares peaked at
183p last year.

Incepta reported a 3 per cent rise in pre-tax profits to Pounds 14.6 million in
the six months to the end of August, up from Pounds 14.2 million. Operating
margins were maintained at 18 per cent and operating cashflow more than doubled
to Pounds 13.8 million.

The figure excluded an exceptional restructuring charge of Pounds 4 million, of
which Pounds 2.5 million was attributed to redundancy costs. Earnings fell 8 per
cent to 1.95p a share. There is again no interim dividend.

Tempus, page 29


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

Incepta hit by terror attacks

BYLINE: Raymond Snoddy, Media Editor

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 182 words


INCEPTA, the public relations and marketing services group, admitted yesterday
that last month's terrorist attacks had cost it an immediate Pounds 2.5 million
in lost business.

However, the company sought to reassure shareholders over prospects and its
shares closed unchanged at 28p. Richard Nichols, chief executive, said he now
saw the business going forward "as robust and resilient as ever".

He added that "as of today" there were no plans for further job cuts following
the 160 redundancies in the first half of the year. Incepta shares peaked at
183p last year.

Incepta reported a 3 per cent rise in pre-tax profits to Pounds 14.6 million in
the six months to the end of August, up from Pounds 14.2 million. Operating
margins were maintained at 18 per cent and operating cashflow more than doubled
to Pounds 13.8 million.

The figure excluded an exceptional restructuring charge of Pounds 4 million, of
which Pounds 2.5 million was attributed to redundancy costs. Earnings fell 8 per
cent to 1.95p a share. There is again no interim dividend.

Tempus, page 29


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Oxfordshire

                                October 11, 2001

US terror attacks: Companies try to make contact.

BYLINE: Maggie Hartford (author email maggie.hartford@nqo.com)

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 55 words

DATELINE: Oxfordshire



Staff at companies with US links were today making efforts to find out if
colleagues had been caught up in the tragic events.

Employees at American-owned Dow AgroSciences in Letcombe Regis, near Wantage,
said it was too early to know if any of their staff had been in the World Trade
Centre at the time of the impact.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

AUTONOMY WARNS OF SLUMP IN REVENUE;
 SOFTWARE: CAMBRIDGE-BASED COMPANY BLAMES TERROR ATTACKS FOR REVISED FORECAST

BYLINE: Abigail Townsend

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 304 words


SHARES in former stock market darling Autonomy slipped yesterday after the
software group gave a warning on third-quarter revenues.

The Cambridge-based firm blamed the US terror attacks of September 11 for the
revised forecast.

Third-quarter revenues were likely to come in below market expectations at
between 9.8m and 11m US dollars (pounds 6.7m and pounds 7.5m).

In the previous quarter - the three months to June 30 - Autonomy reported
revenues of 14.2m dollars (pounds 9.7m).

Chief executive Mike Lynch said, "The third quarter traditionally has a slower
August but a compensating September.

"The events of September 11 interrupted the normal pattern, significantly
impacting the quarter's revenue."

Dr Lynch added that prior to the attacks on New York and Washington, trading had
improved and the company believed "the corner had been turned in terms of the
economic environment affecting our business."

Autonomy, whose software allows firms to sort through unstructured data such as
that held on emails or websites, gleans the bulk of its sales from the US.

Since floating last year, its share price has plummeted from highs of pounds 41
amid the tech downturn and earlier this year it fell out of the blue chip FTSE
100 Index. Yesterday its shares lost 6pc or 17p to 212p.

But despite the gloomy update, Dr Lynch attempted to sound an upbeat note.

He said, "We are more positive about medium-term prospects once the immediate
effect of events in the US abate, particularly as this increase in visibility is
continuing.

"As a management team, we remain focused on the underlying strength of our
business."

Before yesterday's statement, analysts were forecasting final pre-tax profits of
pounds 12.1m. Last year Autonomy reported full-year pre-tax profits of pounds
13.9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERRORISM: MLA'S HORROR OF PLANE ATTACK ON SELLAFIELD

BYLINE: Lesley Walsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 375 words


A TERRORIST attack on the Sellafield nuclear plant in Cumbria could have dire
consequences for Northern Ireland, an MLA has warned. Strangford Assembly member
Jim Shannon said he was "gravely concerned" at the danger and said he would be
writing to Secretary of State John Reid to ask what steps have been taken to
prevent such an attack happening.

At Tuesday's meeting of Ards Borough Council, of which Mr Shannon is a member,
he secured unanimous support for his effort.

Expressing his horror at the attacks, Mr Shannon said: "You might think it
outrageous of me to suppose that Sellafield could be attacked, but the Americans
thought it so incredible that someone would attack the World Trade Centre from
an airplane that they used the buildings in a flight-simulated crash exercise
for pilots."

Commenting on the surprise with which the terrorists hit America, he said: "It
is for this very reason that we have to prepare in advance for all eventualities
and all sorts of wild schemes.

"Just think how easy it would be to hire a light air craft and fly it
intentionally into the nuclear power station that sits just across the Irish Sea
from us," he said.

Commenting on long-held fears over the health implications of the plant's
proximity to Northern Ireland, Mr Shannon warned: "The fallout of a nuclear
explosion would kill all of us in the Ards borough and the land would be unable
to sustain life for hundreds if not thousands of years."

He also revealed: "Northern Ireland is one of only two places in the United
Kingdom that does not have a nuclear bunker for people to shelter in, in the
event of such an event."

He urged councillors to join his demand for action "because we as citizens of
the United Kingdom deserve to have our national security taken seriously".

A spokesman for the Office of Civil Nuclear Security (OCNS) confirmed security
issues regarding plants such as Sellafield had been under review since the
terrorist attacks.

He said that although the government did not disclose details of security
measures at nuclear plants, they were constantly regulated by the OCNS and the
Health and Safety Executive which took into consideration the implications of
incidents like plane crashes.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS HIT SALES AT BURBERRY

BYLINE: James O'brien Business Staff

SECTION: Pg. 24

LENGTH: 461 words


Retail giant GUS said its luxury goods brand Burberry had seen a fall in sales
but insisted its demerger was still on track.

GUS, which also owns catalogue store Argos, said the US terror attacks had hit
home and between September 11 and September 30 sales at its Burberry stores had
slumped by 15 per cent.

The retailer said the decline in tourism and travel was a particular blow to the
shops, which sell a range of luxury and high-fashion branded clothes and goods.

But GUS said that despite recent events it still planned to partially float the
chain by June 2002.

While the setback since last month's atrocities had affected the brand, in the
six months to September 30 Burberry reported a 31 per cent jump in underlying
sales.

Argos also saw an improvement and on a like-for-like basis sales were ahead by
13 per cent at the half-year stage.

Updating the City ahead of its interim results - due out November 29 - a
spokesman for the retailer said: 'Argos Retail Group has continued to benefit
from strong consumer demand in its markets in the half year.'

Chief executive John Peace said overall, GUS had made 'good progress' in the
first-half.

But he added: 'The terrible events of September 11 in the US have made the
economic outlook more uncertain.'

Finance director David Tyler said Burberry had been hit the hardest at the US
-based stores. Transatlantic locations included Hawaii and New York.

But he said that the bulk of Burberry's sales were generated in the Japanese and
Spanish domestic markets, both of which had been unaffected by September 11.

Mr Tyler said the placing of the shares was 'on course' despite market
volatility but stressed that GUS was not relying on cash from the flotation.

GUS felt both Burberry and the rest of the group would fare better as
independently run entities.

Elsewhere in the group, Argos benefited from an expanding range that now
includes white goods, including washing machines.

Also on the up was the retailer's home delivery service Argos Direct, which
accounted for 16 per cent of total sales during the six month period, up on last
year's 14 per cent contribution.

GUS said first half sales at the Argos division were pounds 63 million, which
was in line with expectations.

As well as shops, GUS owns consumer credit checking business Experian and its
North American arm had been 'severely affected' by attacks.

Consumers had stopped spending money, said Mr Tyler, and GUS's clients 'did not
want their leaflets going through the letter boxes of their customers'.

It was just not the right time.

Underlying sales at Experian, which operates around the world, were up four per
cent during the first half.

GUS closed at 5581/1p up 241/1p.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

'BIO-TERRORIST' ATTACK WARNING;
 THE WAR ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 234 words


EUROPE is poorly prepared for a low-key bio-terrorist attack that might creep up
slowly on an unsuspecting population, a public health expert warned today.

Prof Julius Weinberg said the scenario of thousands of people dropping dead
after being infected with a lethal "Satan Bug" was not realistic.

A terrorist attack was likely to be a far more low-key affair, involving the
spread of an "ordinary" infection such as salmonella or E.coli.

Such an attack would not even be noticed in the early stages unless efficient
surveillance systems were in place to spot unusual blips in the normal
background rate of illness.

Prof Weinberg, from City University in London, and eight colleagues, warned in
the British Medical Journal today that present systems for detecting and
investigating multi-national disease outbreaks in Europe - whether natural or
caused by terrorists - were inadequate.

He and fellow researchers called for better public health resources, more
international co-operation.

Prof Weinberg said: "The key issue is that to detect a bio-terrorist event you
basically need good surveillance. If people are dropping dead in the street you
don't need sophisticated surveillance, but the chances of that happening are
remote. Instead you might just get an increase in the background rates of
infection, and that can only be detected through good basic surveillance."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

FBI ATTACK WARNING;
 THE WAR ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 36 words


THE FBI has warned there is a high risk of more terrorist attacks on America
within days.

The agency, which is in charge of preventing terrorism in the US, called on
local police to be on the "highest alert".

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

'BE READY FOR MORE ATTACKS' WARNS FBI;
 THE WAR ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 192 words


THE FBI has warned there is a high risk of more terrorist attacks on America
within days.

The agency, which is in charge of preventing terrorism in the US as well as
investigating the September 11 attacks, called on local police to be on the
"highest alert".

The warning is the strongest yet that terrorists will attempt to strike again at
the country in the wake of its air strikes on Afghanistan.

In a statement, the FBI said: "Certain information, while not specific as to
target, gives the government reason to believe that there may be additional
terrorist attacks within the United States and against US interests overseas
over the next several days.

"The FBI has again alerted all local law enforcement to be on the highest alert
and we call on all people to immediately notify the FBI and local law
enforcement of any unusual or suspicious activity."

Law enforcement officials have repeatedly warned there is no guarantee the twin
towers attacks were the last.

Earlier this week, al Qaida, the network overseen by Osama bin Laden, warned
there were "thousands of young people" willing to carry out suicide attacks.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

AIRPORT PASSENGER NUMBERS FALL IN WAKE OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 65

LENGTH: 239 words


PASSENGER numbers at Birmingham Airport have fallen since the September 11
terror attacks in the United States.

Before that, there had been an increase of 1.2 per cent and, on September 7, the
airport had its busiest day yet, when it handled 32,489 passengers.

Over the rest of the month, numbers fell by 2.1 per cent, the decline increasing
steadily until the final week, when scheduled traffic was down 8.5 per cent.

The number of charter passengers also fell by 1.8 per cent compared with the
same period last year.

For the whole of September, the airport handled 839,267 passengers, a fall of
0.8 per cent overall on the same month last year. Scheduled traffic fell by 0.6
per cent, while charter passengers were down by 1.1 per cent.

Brian Summers, managing director, said: "The true impact of the September 11
tragedy is not really reflected in the traffic figures for the month.

"Whilst our transatlantic traffic was down by 15.2 per cent, other sectors were
not showing the likely trends due to pre-booked commitments to flights and
holidays. In the scheduled sector, the trend was becoming clearer by the end of
the month with 8 per cent reductions.

"The charter sector impact is expected to be felt progressively over the coming
months".

Overall, scheduled passengers accounted for 53.4 per cent of the total figure
last month with charter passengers making up the remaining 46.6 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

NEW TERROR ATTACKS 'HIGH ALERT' FROM FBI

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 234 words


THE FBI warned last night that there was a high risk of more terrorist attacks
on the US within days.

The agency, which is in charge of preventing terrorism in the country as well as
investigating the September 11 attacks, called on local police forces to be on
the "highest alert".

The warning is the strongest yet that terrorists will attempt to strike again in
the wake of the bombing of Afghanistan.

In a statement, the FBI said:

"Certain information, while not specific as to target, gives the government
reason to believe that there may be additional terrorist attacks within the
United States and against US interests overseas over the next several days.

"The FBI has again alerted all local law enforcement to be on the highest alert
and we call on all people to immediately notify the FBI and local law
enforcement of any unusual or suspicious activity."

Law enforcement officials have repeatedly warned that there is no guarantee that
the September 11 attacks were the last attempt by terrorists to kill and to
disrupt life in the country.

The start of military action against Afghanistan's Taliban regime has heightened
the risk.

Earlier this week, a spokesman for al-Qaida, the network run by suspected terror
mastermind Osama bin Laden, warned that there were "thousands of young people"
willing to carry out suicide attacks in "a storm of aeroplanes".

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

FBI: MORE TERRORIST ATTACKS IN DAYS

BYLINE: Lucy Rock

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 341 words


THE FBI have issued the strongest warning yet that terrorists will attempt to
strike again at America "within days".

They fear that the US and her interests abroad, including the UK, will be
targeted.

And, in the first such warning they have ever publicised, they urged cops and
the public to be "on the highest state of alert".

Worries over atrocities have been heightened by Osama bin Laden's calls for
retaliation over the bombing of the Taliban.

FBI officials said they did not know where, what or whom was at risk.

But on their website, they said: "Certain information ... gives us reason to
believe that there may be additional terrorist attacks within the United States
and against US interests overseas over the next several days.

"The FBI has again alerted all local law enforcement to be on the highest alert
and we call on all people to notify the FBI and local law enforcement of any
unusual activity."

Justice Department spokeswoman Mindy Tucker said the information which triggered
the warning was classified but it had been received this week.

She added that the FBI had released six similar warnings to police since
September 11, but it was the first time they were also warning the public.

As fears of renewed terrorist attacks grew, the State Department announced that
NATO surveillance planes would today begin patrolling American skies.

Five AWACS (Airborne Warning and Control Systems Aircraft) will be deployed.
NATO have 24 AWACS based in Germany and at an air base near Lincoln at
Waddington.

The FBI have asked supervisors of water supplies, nuclear and electric power
plant operators, owners of crop dusters and drivers of hazardous waste trucks to
increase security

Meanwhile, Dutch doctors are examing three US embassy guards in an anthrax scare
after they opened a package with a mystery powder in The Hague.

It comes after three staff at a Florida magazine building contracted anthrax and
one died

The FBI say it is a criminal incident and are hunting the source.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

Terror attacks 'will bring EU closer together' Europe

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 368 words

THE terrorist attacks on America have changed the political landscape in Europe,
opening the way for closer political union, Romano Prodi, the European
Commission president, said yesterday.

He said he had instructed all commissioners to draw up plans over the next few
weeks to accelerate the pace of European Union integration.

"These events have happened at a crucial point in the building of Europe," Mr
Prodi said in Brussels. "The current crisis favours integration by highlighting
the need for more intense action.

"The events of September 11 oblige us to act resolutely and rapidly, but not
unthinkingly, to continue down the road on which the EU has already embarked.

"We have almost fully completed economic and monetary integration. We now need
to turn together to social issues, sustainable development, justice and
security."

Mr Prodi singled out the gains already achieved in the area of judicial
co-operation and anti-terrorism since the attacks. At an emergency summit on
September 21, EU leaders agreed in principle on an arrest warrant that
eliminates the need for extradition from one EU state to another for most
serious offences.

Diplomats said this was a "quantum leap" towards EU judicial union, entailing
mutual recognition of each country's legal system.

The 15 leaders also agreed to give the EU an intelligence function for the first
time, converting Europol into a central agency for espionage data on terrorism.
At a separate meeting, EU justice ministers agreed to establish a joint
prosecuting office, known as Eurojust.

This week, the commission put forward plans to give Brussels control over
civilian and military aviation in EU member states, citing the terrorist threat
as a reason to end the system of national air traffic controls.

The measures include a proposed EU takeover of national airspace by 2004 and the
creation of an EU-level regulator.

The transport commissioner, Loyola de Palacio, refused a bail-out for struggling
airlines, seeing the crisis as a chance to break the old mould and build a
pan-European system.

She said: "It is time to get beyond national carriers and move to European
carriers."
[PS]News: [ES]

War on the Taliban:

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

Hospitals 'not ready for bio-terrorist attack'

BYLINE: By Roger Highfield Science Editor, and Nicole Martin

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 502 words

HOSPITALS are unprepared for bio-terrorism in Britain, despite Government claims
that emergency measures are in place to protect the public, a leading expert on
biological warfare warned yesterday.

As doctors called for more information from the Government, Brian Spratt, a
member of the Royal Society's working group on biological weapons, said he was
concerned about evidence that senior hospital staff had not been properly
briefed.

"I find this worrying and smacking of complacency," he said. "I talked to senior
consultants in clinical microbiology in two major hospitals on Tuesday and was
surprised to hear that, since September 11, they've received absolutely no
guidelines on preparedness for detecting biological warfare agents from the
Public Health Laboratory Service."

Both consultants said they would recognise a severe case of inhalation anthrax,
caused by breathing in spores. They were less sure about whether they could
detect mild cases so that treatment could begin sooner and warnings issued that
an attack had occurred.

"These were both good people in major hospitals. If cases presented to a small
hospital, who knows how good they would be at recognising anthrax? If you start
talking about other, admittedly less likely, biological warfare agents I am less
convinced they would pick it up early."

Prof Spratt's warning came on the day doctors' leaders urged the Government to
end secrecy surrounding emergency plans. The British Medical Association said
that in the interest of public safety more people must be told of government
measures to deal with terrorism.

Vivienne Nathanson, head of science and ethics at the BMA, said two senior fire
officers were among the first to die in the attack in New York on September 11.
They were among the few who knew about the city's contingency plans. "Whatever
plans we have need to be known to quite a lot of people so that in the event of
an attack the plan swings fully into action," she said.

"At the moment we don't exactly know the details of the disaster planning in
Britain. What we do know is that the deputy chief medical officer is working
with public health doctors around the country."

Prof Nathanson said the BMA would write to the Government. Doctors needed to to
be involved in planning for biological and chemical weapons. "Once that planning
is done it can be used to reassure the public."

A report today in the British Medical Journal said Europe was poorly prepared
for outbreaks of infectious diseases.

In the study, Julius Weinberg, a public health expert at City University, said
any terrorist attack was likely to be low-key, with the spread of an "ordinary"
infection such as salmonella, or e.coli. Such an attack would not be noticed in
the early stages without efficient surveillance systems.

The Royal Society, which issued a report on biological weapons last year and
held talks with the Government about emergency plans, is considering a follow up
report.
[PS]News: [ES]

War on the Taliban:

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 12, 2001

FBI WARNS OF NEW ATTACKS;
More terror strikes 'could include biological weapons'

BYLINE: William Lowther

SECTION: Pg. 1;2

LENGTH: 980 words


MORE terror strikes are imminent, the FBI warned last night.

And the fear was that they could include biological weapons.

An official statement alerting the public to the danger said America's
intelligence chiefs had received reliable information that terrorists intend to
hit targets in the U.S., plus American targets abroad.

While there has been widespread speculation about the probability of a second
wave of attacks, this was the first alert of its kind since the September 11
atrocities.

The FBI has no idea what the targets will be or what form the attacks will take.

But a Washington source said last night: 'There is a real fear that they may
attempt to use biological weapons.' The statement said: 'Certain information,
while not specific as to target, gives the government reason to believe that
there may be additional terrorist attacks within the United States and against
U.S. interests overseas over the next several days.

'The FBI has again alerted all local law enforcement to be on the highest alert
and we call on all people to immediately notify the FBI and local law
enforcement of any unusual or suspicious activity.' A few days ago, a senior CIA
official warned the Senate Intelligence Committee that a reprisal terrorist
attack was 'one hundred per cent certain' if the U.S. launched a bombing
campaign against Afghanistan.

Justice Department spokesman Mindy Tucker refused to reveal any details of the
intelligence information that led to the extraordinary warning, saying it was
classified.

She added: 'We are doing everything possible to prevent another attack.

Americans should go on with their lives. There's no reason Americans should live
in panic.' Fears of a widespread anthrax outbreak are growing in America
following the death last week of a man in Florida.

A third case of anthrax has been confirmed in the state, and authorities are
treating the case as a criminal investigation.

Anthrax scares have been reported in several U.S. cities and in other countries
in recent days.

The alert came on the day Britain's most senior military officer warned that the
war in Afghanistan could last as long as a year.

Chief of Defence Staff Admiral Sir Michael Boyce sought to dispel expectations
of a short, sharp war as Tony Blair was hit by the first setback in his frantic
round of diplomatic shuttles when Saudi Arabia refused to see him.

And as the bombing campaign went into a fifth night, further diplomatic tensions
became apparent with Israel.

They emerged after Mr Blair said a Palestinian state had to be set up if there
was to be any hope of avoiding further decades of war and terrorism prompted by
the Middle East conflict.

In the setback to Mr Blair's much-praised global shuttle diplomacy, the Saudis
who are vitally important to the allied coalition against Osama Bin Laden and
the Taliban blocked his plans to visit.

He had hoped to go to the Saudi capital Riyadh as part of a Middle Eastern trip
to win over Arab opinion.

When Mr Blair tried to reverse the decision in a phone call to Crown Prince
Abdullah, he was greeted with a blunt refusal, according to a newspaper run by
the Saudi royal family.

Saudi rulers are anxious to appease militant Islamists among their population.

The PM's visit took in Oman and Egypt and included a meeting with the leader of
the United Arab Emirates which only recently withdrew recognition of the regime
in Afghanistan.

But the refusal of talks from the country that is the West's key ally in the
Arab world is highly damaging to the Prime Minister's campaign to popularise the
war on terror among Moslems.

Sensitive relations with Israel also appeared to be heading for further trouble.

Last week saw an unprecedented public spat between Israel and its biggest ally
after its prime minister Ariel Sharon warned Washington not to appease Arab
states.

President Bush responded by telling Mr Sharon that his televised comments were
'unacceptable'.

Mr Blair provoked a further dispute by warning yesterday that Bin Laden was
winning the PR war in the Islamic world.

He said that ending 'injustice' to the Palestinians was a vital part of turning
the tide.

'We need to understand the real sense there is here in the Arab world about the
injustice of the conditions in which the Palestinians live,' he said in Cairo.

There was anger in Israel at what they see as a growing feeling in the West that
if only the Palestinians had their own state, there would be no Islamic
terrorism.

Mr Sharon's spokesman Raanan Gissin said: 'Tony Blair put his finger on the
problem. He didn't say how it should be resolved.

'We are not going to roll over and play dead.'

Hijackers and their cult of evil, by Bush

PRESIDENT Bush delivered an emotional condemnation of the terrorists yesterday,
one month to the day after the attacks.

Speaking at the Pentagon, where 189 people died, he said that behind the
terrorists was 'a cult of evil which seeks to harm the innocent and thrives on
human suffering'.

He added: 'Their's is the worst kind of cruelty. A cruelty that is fed, not
weakened, by tears.

'Their's is the worst kind of violence. Pure malice while daring to claim the
authority of God.' His face set hard and near tears, Mr Bush continued: 'The
terrorists dwell in dark corners of the earth, and there we will find them.' Mr
Bush then launched into his strongest verbal attack yet on the Taliban. He said:
'These rulers call themselves holy men, even with their record of drawing money
from heroin trafficking. They consider themselves pious and devout, while
subjecting women to fierce brutality.

In Britain, firemen from all of the UK's 58 brigades gathered at St Paul's
Cathedral to pay tribute to the 343 firefighters who died in the rescue mission
at the World Trade Centre.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 12, 2001

London is backing Blair;
But Standard poll shows fears of terrorist revenge attacks

BYLINE: Peter Kellner

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 793 words


THE FEARS are real, but so is the will to fight terrorism. Towards the end of
the first week of military action against Osama bin Laden and Afghanistan's
Taliban regime, almost eight out of 10 Londoners believe Britain's involvement
has increased the chances this country will be attacked by Islamic terrorists.

If Britain is attacked, then London is plainly a target. Yet the Evening
Standard/ICM poll finds that two out of three Londoners back Tony Blair's
decision to commit British forces to the fight against Bin Laden.

However, a significant minority oppose military action, and ICM's figures
suggest that opposition is likely to grow if the bombing campaign, together with
any follow-up ground assault, fails to achieve its objectives.

If things start to go wrong, Mr Blair risks losing the support of women, young
adults and Labour voters in particular. For the time being, however, the Prime
Minister seems to have judged the mood of Britain and its capital about right.

ICM has conducted two polls this week: a nationwide poll for The Guardian, and a
survey of Londoners for the Evening Standard.

The Guardian poll was conducted on Tuesday and Wednesday, after the initial
raids but before Sir Michael Boyce, the Chief of the Defence Staff, warned that
the military campaign may last months and involve the use of ground troops.

Our survey was conducted yesterday-afternoon and evening after people had had a
chance to digest Sir Michael's warning, and following widespread media
discussion about the Government's "war aims".

As our table shows, 71 per cent of Londoners back the US decision to launch
bombing raids in Afghanistan. Slightly fewer, 67 per cent, support Britain's
participation, while 31 per cent are opposed.

Mr Blair will not be surprised that men are slightly more inclined than women to
back military action (such gender gaps have often been a feature of public
opinion in past conflicts), but he may, such as the campaign 10 years ago to
eject Iraqi troops from Kuwait.

be concerned that opposition is greater among Labour than Conservative
supporters. It also seems that 18- to 24-year-olds back British action far more
narrowly than any other group.

One propaganda battle the Prime Minister has emphatically won is his campaign to
persuade the public that Osama bin Laden bears much of the blame for last
month's attacks. Fully 88 per cent say Bin Laden's group is " definitely" or
"probably" guilty of organising them. In polling terms, this amounts to
near-unanimity.

Mr Blair's ambitious hopes for a new world order also impress most Londoners,
though not nearly so overwhelmingly. Six out of 10 say "he has acted in a
statesmanlike manner during the current crisis", while almost four out of 10
think "he has gone over the top with all his talk about saving the world".

Support runs across the board: in not a single demographic group (by age,
gender, social class or political affiliation) does a majority agree with those
who accuse him of messianic tendencies.The Prime Minister also has most people
with him when, on the one hand, he seeks the overthrow of the Taliban but, on
the other, tries to cool the ardour of those who would extend the military
action to tackle other terroristsupporting regimes such as Iraq.

Indeed, the gender gap is widest on the issue of attacking Saddam Hussein and
other leaders accused of harbouring terrorists.

Men are inclined to favour broadening the military campaign, by 50-44 per cent,
while women oppose this course of action by 52-36per cent. Overall, Londoners
are evenly divided on the subject, which means that there is currently no firm
popular mandate for any action outside the borders of Afghanistan.

The public is also divided on whether Britain's Muslim leaders have done all
they reasonably could to condemn Islamic terrorism. More are willing to bestow
praise than criticism, but the margin is relatively modest.Like all polls, this
one is a snapshot of public opinion at a moment in time - after the bombing has
begun, but before its results can be measured, before the international
ramifications have worked through, and also before any British lives have been
lost. If things start to go wrong on any, or all, of these fronts, then the role
of the United Nations is likely to become a focus for opposition those opposed
to this week's raids. Thirty-four per cent of Londoners say only the UN "has the
moral and legal right to take military action against Islamic terrorism". What
is more, this view, with its explicit criticism of the US and Britain for going
ahead on their own, is even supported by almost one in four of those who broadly
support Britain's decision to take on Bin Laden and the Taliban.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ICM INTERVIEWED A REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLE OF 500 ADULTS THROUGHOUT LONDON
BY TELEPHONE YESTERDAY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 12, 2001

FBI warning over new wave of terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 366 words


The FBI has warned there is a high risk of more terrorist attacks on America
within days.

The agency, which is in charge of preventing terrorism in the US as well as the
investigation into the September 11 attacks, called on local police to be on the
''highest alert".

The warning is the strongest yet that terrorists will try to strike again in the
wake of the air attacks on Afghanistan.

And it was also revealed today that British Airways is considering arming its
pilots with stun guns and placing ''sky marshals" on flights in an effort to
tighten security on planes.

The airline is also looking at the possibility of introducing new computer
software capable of compiling a passenger ''blacklist".

Another option is installing closed-circuit TV cameras on board flights - a plan
that had already been tried by BA before last month's terrorist attacks.

But BA has ruled out arming its flight crew with guns or knives as they "may
serve only to arm an unarmed intruder".

Measures already introduced by BA since last month include a ban on passengers
carrying sharp objects on having them in their hand luggage and the locking of
cockpit doors.

BA has also brought in other measures but said these could not be publicised
"for reasons of sensitivity".

However, while the BA security changes were revealed, it was claimed aircraft
and airports in the US are no safer today than before the terrorists struck.

New security procedures are "cosmetic" said Patricia Friend, president of the
Association of Flight Attendants.

Her criticism came as the Senate voted unanimously to boost aviation security,
with a Bill calling for more air marshals, the fortifying of cockpit doors,
anti-hijacking training for flight crews and a fee on passengers to pay for the
changes.

It would also put all 28,000 airport security personnel on the federal payroll.

But Ms Friend said: "We are just as vulnerable to what happened on September 11
as we were on September 10, because all the loopholes are still there."

Checked luggage is still not given the same scrutiny as carry-on belongings, she
said. A person can check a bag on to a flight and then not board.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CAPTION: FBI agents in action at the Florida anthrax outbreak. It has
been warned that fresh terror attacks could begin within days

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                October 12, 2001

Learn skills in building for free
 US tragedy inspires art PLYMOUTH: An exhibition at the New Street Gallery is
showing work by Cornish artist Louise McClary, including two paintings produced
in the wake of the New York terrorist attacks of September 11. The exhibition
continues until October 27, and is open Monday to Saturday. Autumn fayre
PLYMOUTH: The Tamar Valley Barbershop Chorus holds an autumn fayre at the
Trinity United Church in Hartley tomorrow from 10am to 12pm.

SECTION: NEWS: 999, Pg.21

LENGTH: 61 words


FREE sessions in construction crafts are available every morning next week at
Plymouth College of Further Education.

The workshops are being organised as part of National Construction Week.

The two-hour sessions will cover brickwork, carpentry and joinery, painting and
decorating, plastering and plumbing.

Call Karen at Plymouth CFE on 01752 305830.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 12, 2001

BRITAIN BEGINS TO PAY COST OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY VICTORIA FLETCHER AND SARAH O'GRADY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 535 words


BRITAIN is starting to pay the price of terror as new figures yesterday revealed
that almost all household bills will spiral.

Homeowners will face soaring premiums for their houses and cars as insurance
companies struggle to pay for the US terror attacks.

The gloomy outlook was also hitting job security with the news that one of the
country's most prestigious companies, Rolls Royce and Bentley, was returning to
the three day week - something not seen since the days of the Seventies.

The revelation comes as airports admitted passenger numbers dropped by more than
half a million in September.

Airlines have already been hit with thousands of job losses and pay cuts.

The estimated cost of the September 11 atrocities to the insurance industry is
expected to reach GBP 34.3billion - most of which will be recouped from
homeowners and drivers. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) warned
yesterday:

"Rates are rising."

Malcolm Tarling of the ABI said: "The long term implications of the tragedy will
have serious effects for those people who pay insurance payments.

"That includes businesses as well as the domestic customer.

It's not a good time to be in the insurance marketplace. The industry has been
under pressure for some time. You only have to think about last winter's floods
and this summer's foot-and-mouth epidemic.

Those floods cost the insurance companies GBP 850million.

"Also we are living in an increasingly litigious society and the number of
claims are going up. The attacks have added to the pressure and, coupled with
depressed stock markets and a 10-fold increase in re-insurance costs, they mean
heavier premiums."

AA Insurance Services were the first company to highlight the higher premiums
saying they were a result of events in the US. Kerry Richardson, managing
director of AA Insurance Services, said: "I have never before seen the three
overall drivers of the insurance market so negative at the same time to this
extent.

"If you take the three together it puts a very negative view on the health of
the sector.

When they wash through I expect the underlying prices to go in one direction -
up."

He added that while it was difficult to predict how steep increases would be,
consumers were likely to see premiums start rising during the last part of the
year.

Higher insurance premiums could be the final nail in the coffin of the property
market.

Last week Britain's biggest mortgage lender released figures showing no monthly
price rise for the first time in two years. And this week the Halifax warned the
once-narrowing north-south property divide was opening up again.

Estate agents have already started to slash prices.

Even the British Tourist chiefs said they were slashing UK holiday prices in a
bid to woo visitors and save 75,000 jobs in the industry. Passenger numbers fell
by six per cent in September, with a drop of over 29 per cent in passengers on
routes across the Atlantic.

Since the terrorist attacks, British tourist chiefs predict a GBP 1billion fall
off in tourism in the UK with the loss of 75,000 jobs. Up to five million
visitors are expected to stay away in the coming months.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                October 12, 2001

FBI warning of more U.S terrorist attacks

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.5

LENGTH: 230 words


THE FBI has warned there is a high risk of more terrorist attacks on America
within days.

The agency, which is in charge of preventing terrorism in the United States as
well as investigating the September 11 attacks, called on local police to be on
the "highest alert".

The warning is the strongest yet that terrorists will attempt to strike again at
the country in the wake of its air strikes on Afghanistan.

In a statement, the FBI said: "Certain information, while not specific as to
target, gives the government reason to believe that there may be additional
terrorist attacks within the United States and against US interests overseas
over the next several days.

"The FBI has again alerted all local law enforcement to be on the highest alert
and we call on all people to immediately notify the FBI and local law
enforcement of any unusual or suspicious activity."

Law enforcement officials have repeatedly warned there is no guarantee the
September 11 attacks were the last attempt by terrorists to kill and disrupt
life in the country.

And the start of military action against Afghanistan's Taliban regime has
heightened the risk.

Earlier this week, a spokesman for al Qaida, the network overseen by suspected
terror mastermind Osama bin Laden, warned there were "thousands of young people"
willing to carry out suicide attacks in "a storm of aeroplanes".

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 The Gloucester Citizen

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 12, 2001

FBI: terror attacks in days: 'Very real evidence' warning: Bush says threat is
'ongoing': Senate votes to arm pilots

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 665 words


A warning of a "very real" threat of more terrorist attacks against the US
within days was given by the FBI last night in a terse bulletin which put police
across the country on high alert and called on Americans to be vigilant.

Exactly one month after the September 11 suicide hijackings shattered the
country's sense of security, the internal security agency warning did not
specify the targets under threat nor whether they were in the United States or
American interests abroad.

But investigators said the evidence was "very real" and that the threat came
from Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida organisation, blamed by Washington for the
September 11 attacks, in which about 5,400 people died.

The New York Times reported today that administration officials had said the
public alert came amid an increasing number of credible reports to the CIA and
other intelligence agencies indicating that multiple terrorist strikes were
possible, and perhaps likely, through the weekend.

"This is the real deal," a senior intelligence official told the New York Times.

In his first primetime White House news conference since September 11, Mr Bush
said: "If we receive specific intelligence that targets a specific building or
city or facility, I can assure you our government will do everything possible to
protect the citizens."

He added: "Americans tonight can know that while the threat is ongoing we are
taking every possible step to protect our country from danger." He also warned
the alert "may not be the last".

The president also signalled that the war on terrorism might go on for more than
three years, much longer than anyone had suggested.

Nato aerial surveillance planes (Awacs) are expected to begin patrolling US
skies today to help defend America from air attack while US forces and military
equipment are focused on Afghanistan.

In a bid to stop any repeat hijacking of planes in the future, the Senate
yesterday unanimously approved a bill to strengthen aviation security -
including an amendment that would allow pilots to carry guns, Reuters reported.

The measure would also require government employees to take over baggage
screening and authorise the government to put an armed air marshal on every
flight to prevent hijackers from taking over aircraft and using them as
missiles.

The US has been braced for a new assault for the past month, and there have been
six previous alerts of various kinds issued to law enforcement agencies , but
yesterday's FBI bulletin was the first to be issued directly to the public and
the starkest to date.

Mindy Tucker, the justice department spokeswoman, said new intelligence had been
received within the past few days pointing towards fresh attacks and it was
credible enough to warrant a public warning.

"We realise the importance of the public accurately understanding the kinds of
alerts we are sending out to law enforcement," Ms Tucker said.

Last Tuesday, FBI and CIA officials warned a congressional intelligence
committee that there was a "100% chance" of more terrorist incidents once
military operations began in Afghanistan.

Bombing has been under way for five days and, according to the Taliban militia,
more than 200 people have been killed.

Intelligence officials believe that the anticipated assaults were planned before
the September 11 attacks and timed to take place after expected US retaliation,
to reinforce the impression that al-Qaida could strike back at will. US
intelligence believes there are several al-Qaida cells still at large in the US.

Intelligence officials said yesterday there was no sign what form the next
attack would take. It could come in a truck loaded with explosives, a small crop
duster plane used to spread biological or chemical weapons or another hijacked
airliner.

A Home Office spokeswoman said there had been no specific threat to the UK as of
last night, but added: "We are on increased security and remaining vigilant."


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS TO COST MURDOCH POUNDS 69.4M

BYLINE: Nigel Cope

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 327 words


RUPERT MURDOCH said yesterday that his News Corp media empire would take a $
100m (pounds 69m) hit to advertising revenue as a result of the terrorist
attacks in the United States.

Speaking to shareholders at the company's annual meeting in Adelaide, Australia,
Mr Murdoch said costs at the group's 24-hour Fox News television channel had
been "blown right off budget". But the 70-year-old media veteran, who quipped
his health was "terrific" and that he had no plans to step down, said the group
was confident it could recoup a vast chunk of the initial losses and had reduced
its cost base.

He said earnings at the group's UK newspaper business, which includes The Sun,
the News of the World and The Times, were expected to be flatter than the 10 per
cent year-on-year growth originally budgeted for. Mr Murdoch said: "We had
originally budgeted for another 10 per cent this year but we think it will be
much flatter than that."

On a more positive note he pointed to a recent pick up in the advertising
market. "Revenue bookings in the past few weeks for both our TV stations and TV
network have been stronger than over the past several months. In the last few
days there are certainly strong rays of sunshine appearing."

The future of News Corp's deal to merge Hughes Electronics' DirecTV with News
Corp's Sky Global network remained uncertain, he said, with the deal having only
had a 50: 50 chance of success. "If we can pull it off it is something that will
add immensely to shareholder value," he added.

The group is not looking at any fresh investments, despite some bargains on
offer, Mr Murdoch said. Tight cost controls implemented throughout the group had
"cleared the decks" of any potential disasters and also ruled out wide -scale
redundancies.

He said News Corp's film division, which includes Twentieth Century Fox, had
seen a strong start to the year and was tipped to report 30 per cent overall
growth on 2000/01.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS HAVE HIT INDUSTRY;
 WARNING OVER UK CAR SALES

SECTION: MOTORING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 472 words


THE UK automotive industry is facing its toughest fight for survival in a
generation.

That's the considered view of Britain's leading expert on the motor industry,
Prof Garel Rhys, Director of the Centre for Automotive Industry Research at the
Cardiff University Business School.

Prof Rhys said that Britain would not be able to escape the implications of a
global decline in car sales which has been forecast for some time but now
accelerated by the US terrorist attacks.

Car makers around the world have announced plans to suspend manufacturing and
prevent a build-up of unsold stock in the last quarter. They are also modifying
their projected demand for components in the early part of next year.

The dramatic slowdown in the US had taken it to the edge of recession, said Prof
Rhys, and made buyers very cautious about spending on a new car.

He believes that the companies worst hit by the downturn will be the German
makers BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Audi and Volkswagen, and believes it will also impact
on sales for sports car maker Porsche.

Ford will also be hit in a double whammy, Professor Rhys believes, as
subsidiaries Volvo and Jaguar also sell huge numbers of cars in the US, and
these two particular companies buy a lot of components from the UK.

Prof Rhys said: "This is a genuine economic shock which will be felt outside the
financial institutions and will impact on manufacturing."

Unlike the Gulf War of the early 1990s which hit the financial markets and never
really took its toll on manufacturing, the events in the US four weeks ago have
created a situation more closely resembling the two Middle East crises in the
early and late 1970s, he said.

Then, financial problems quickly spread to manufacturing and service industries
and Britain plunged into the three-day week as millions were laid off.

"I think we have to look to that sort of thing with this crisis. It is looking
pretty grim, " said Prof Rhys.

While he felt sure that the US would go into recession next year and this would
impact on European markets, Prof Rhys said he believed that some UK regions in
the car components industry were better placed to survive than counterparts in
other countries or parts of Britain.

Prof Rhys said he believed that as the car makers looked to trim costs they
would be putting pressure on component suppliers to reduce orders and cut costs.

In the UK he expected car sales to nudge 2.3m this year, fall to 2.2m next year
and then to 2.1m in the following 12 months with a corresponding fall in
European sales over the same period.

The recession in America will probably drag down the pound and make it weaker
against the Euro but this could help our component suppliers and car makers and
reduce the impact of the decline for the UK based companies, he added.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DANGER SIGNS: BMW, whose flagship model is the 7-Series, could be among
those worst hit by a global decline in car sales

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                October 12, 2001

Terrorist attacks put GBP 45m hotel in jeopardy

BYLINE: LUCY PALMER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 152 words



PLANS for a prestigious Hilton Hotel in Manchester city centre could be scrapped
because of the terrorist atrocities in America.

Economic uncertainty and a downturn in tourism has forced Hilton to reconsider
its plans for a GBP 45m hotel on Deansgate. The 345-bed hotel was due to be
finished for the Commonwealth Games, but that now looks unlikely.

A spokeswoman for Hilton, which already operates an hotel at the airport, said:
In the wake of the tragic events of September 11, we are reassessing our
spending plans.  Like many other companies, we are having to review our position
in the light of the changed circumstances.  The Manchester Hilton is one of
several projects still being discussed.''

If it goes ahead, the 10-storey hotel will be built on the site of the Bauer
Millet car showroom, which will move to railway arches on Great Bridgewater
Street.



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: TALIBAN ROCKED: NEW TERROR ATTACKS 'IN DAYS'

BYLINE: Lucy Rock In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 265 words

HIGHLIGHT: HORROR: Last month's Trade Center blast


THE FBI last night warned more terrorist attacks could happen in the next few
days.

Agents fear America and Britain will be targeted and pleaded with people on both
sides of the Atlantic to be vigilant.

Worries over further atrocities have been heightened following Osama bin Laden's
calls for retaliation over the bombing of Afghanistan.

FBI officials admitted they did not know who, where or what was at risk. A
statement on the agency's website said: "Certain information, while not specific
as to target, gives the government reason to believe there may be terrorist
attacks within the US and against US interests overseas over the next days.

"The FBI has again told all local law enforcement to be on the highest alert and
we call on all people to immediately notify the FBI and law enforcement of any
unusual or suspicious activity."

The Justice Department's Mindy Tucker refused to say what information had
triggered the warning, but said it had been received in recent days.

She revealed there were at least five or six similar warnings since September
11, but this was the first to be made public.

Tucker added: "We wanted the public to have an accurate understanding of these
kind of alerts. Americans should go on with their lives. There's no reason they
should live in panic."

NATO surveillance planes will today begin patrolling American skies in the wake
of last month's terrorist attacks, it was revealed last night.

Five Airborne Warning and Control Systems Aircraft (AWACS) will be deployed in
an effort to stop further atrocities.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: TALIBAN ROCKED: FBI: NEW TERROR ATTACKS 'IN DAYS';
  WARNING AS BOMBS POUND THE TALIBAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 814 words

HIGHLIGHT: BEFORE: Planes in line at Herat airfield; AFTER: A swathe of craters
and wrecks; BEFORE: Army HQ at Mazar-a-sharif; AFTER: Bunkers and barracks
destroyed


THE FBI last night warned more terrorist attacks could happen in the next few
days.

Agents fear America and Britain will be targeted and appealed for people on both
sides of the Atlantic to be extra vigilant.

Worries over further atrocities have been heightened following Osama bin Laden's
calls for retaliation over the bombing of Afghanistan.

FBI officials admitted they did not know who, where or what was at risk. A
statement on the agency's website said: "Certain information, while not specific
as to target, gives the government reason to believe there may be terrorist
attacks within the US and against US interests overseas in the next days.

"The FBI has again told all local law enforcement to be on the highest alert and
we call on all people to immediately notify them of any unusual or suspicious
activity."

The Justice Department's Mindy Tucker refused to say what information had
triggered the warning, but disclosed it had been received in recent days.

She revealed there were six similar threats since September 11, but this was the
first to be made public.

Tucker added: "We wanted the public to have an understanding of these kind of
alerts. Americans should go on with their lives. There's no need to panic."

A US official added: "The information is substantial. It relates to talk of
activities or attacks against individual Americans."

The FBI has asked supervisors of water supplies, nuclear and electric power
plant operators, owners of crop dusters and drivers of hazardous waste trucks
among others to increase security to ward off attacks.

Nato surveillance aircraft will today begin patrolling American skies in the
wake of last month's terrorist attacks.

In Afghanistan US warplanes last night blitzed a Taliban munitions dump with
"bunker-buster" bombs - creating a huge fireball that could be seen from 70
miles away.

The Pentagon released new video and still pictures of the damage they have
wreaked on airfields, troop bases, radio, oil and control and command
communication centres since the raids started five days ago.

They showed hits against al-Qaeda and Taliban sites.

US Marine General Henry Osman, in charge of operational planning, said severe
damage had been done to a Taliban garrison at Mazar-e-Sharif, a radio station
near Kabul and an airfield near Herat.

The garrison site housed troops, tanks, armoured and support vehicles and other
facilities.

Other pictures showed two radio control buildings damaged and a string of broken
fighter planes and one transport aircraft.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld admitted the "full range of weaponry" was
being used to take the war against terrorism back to Osama bin Laden's doorstep.

But he refused to comment on the arrival of US troops at two bases in Pakistan
for possible ground strikes.

He said allied planes still faced danger, mainly from Stinger missiles -
originally supplied to the Afghans by the CIA in their war against the Soviet
Union.

Last night's raid followed a huge daylight bombardment.

Explosions rocked the airport area of the capital Kabul, catching the city's
population by surprise.

In Kandahar, home of Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar, fires were burning out
of control.

Round the clock raids were being mounted by B-1 and B-52 bombers based on the
British island of Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. The bunker-buster bombs,
dubbed "The Big Ones", had hit caves used by bin Laden's guerrillas and the
Taliban's command bunkers.

Mr Rumsfeld said: "I have seen several examples where there were huge secondary
explosions."

He attacked Taliban claims of growing civilian casualties. He said "It comes
with ill grace for them to be suggesting we are doing what they have made a
practice and a livelihood out of."

The Taliban claimed the death toll had reached 220 - more than 140 in the last
24 hours. Its officials claimed the village of Kouram, 20 miles from Jalalabad,
had been flattened.

It was claimed 15 people died when a mosque said to be surrounded by al-Qaeda
training camps was hit in eastern Jalalabad.

Reports from Kabul said a six-month-old girl died and her sister was severely
injured by a bomb.

The allies had no confirmation of civilian casualties. Defence Secretary Geoff
Hoon said claims were being investigated.

Mullah Omar's 10-year-old son and his stepfather were killed on the first night
of bombing, said refugees fleeing Kandahar.

The residents of Kabul were in a state of shock yesterday morning after a night
of almost constant bombardment. One young man said: "It was like an inferno. The
explosions were so huge it felt like an atomic bomb had been dropped."

Another 1,000 Taliban fighters deserted to the rebel Northern Alliance. An
official at the alliance embassy in Germany claimed its forces captured the town
of Ghowr.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: BIO-TERROR;
 WE ARE TARGET OF ANTHRAX ATTACK SAYS TABLOID BOSS

BYLINE: Andy Lines, Us Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 519 words

HIGHLIGHT: DEFIANT: Stephanie last night


THE owner of the magazine empire devastated by an anthrax outbreak said last
night that he was convinced it was "a bio-terrorist attack".

David Pecker spoke out as it was confirmed a third person from his company had
the killer disease.

He also revealed that thousands of his customers were boycotting his magazines
for fear of catching anthrax.

Hundreds of terrified employees of American Media Incorporated are still
awaiting test results to see if they have contracted the disease.

Investigators confirmed the strain found at the offices in Boca Raton, Florida,
was manmade and called Ames.

As the FBI continued to scour the building for clues Mr Pecker said: "I feel
that we had a bio-terrorist attack here.

"I think this is attack against America. The World Trade Center was attacked,
the Pentagon was attacked and American Media was attacked. I think that this is
the first bio-terrorism attack in the United States.

"This is the first time there was an anthrax case for the last 25 years. It's
not a coincidence. The scary thing is that it could happen to anybody." The
latest victim, 35-year-old Stephanie Dailey, works in the mailroom of the
offices, which houses tabloid magazines like Globe, National Enquirer and the
Star.

Last night she said defiantly: "Whoever did this doesn't scare me. I'm not
worried."

Her colleague Ernesto Blanco, 73, is also recovering after testing positive for
the disease. Their friend, London born Bob Stevens, 63, died last week after
contracting anthrax from his computer keyboard. Mr Pecker said his business had
taken hundreds of calls from people frightened to buy their magazines.

He said: "The fear and hysteria is incredible. I'm getting calls from retailers
throughout the US that our customers are afraid to touch the papers."

Investigators have not found any anthrax outside the AMI offices since they
began taking samples. Dr John Agwunobi, secretary of the Florida Department of
Health, said: "All the evidence indicates that the outbreak is limited to the
AMI building."

He said of Stephanie Daley: "We are very fortunate that it was identified during
her screening. It is important that people remember that anthrax is not
contagious."

The FBI confirmed that the outbreak was being treated as a crime.

But they said there was no link to the terrorist attacks on the US, even though
hijack ringleader Mohamed Atta flew planes from an airfield half a mile from Mr
Stevens's home and several of the gang visited a cropdusting plane business 40
miles away.

An FBI spokesman said: "We believe a letter came into America Media containing
the anthrax spores.

"The likelihood is it was not addressed to anyone in particular because it was
opened in the mail room and not sent directly to a named employee."

-HEAVY metal legends Anthrax said their name is now "not so cool". Singer Scott
Ian said: "It's as though it's 1937 and I'm a bandleader named Freddie Hitler."

The band are unlikely to change their name but are posting links on their
website on how fans can protect themselves from the disease.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: BIO-TERROR;
 WE ARE TARGET OF ANTHRAX ATTACK SAYS TABLOID BOSS

BYLINE: Andy Lines, Us Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 504 words

HIGHLIGHT: ALERT: Car searched outside HQ


THE owner of the magazine empire devastated by an anthrax outbreak said last
night that he was convinced it was "a bio-terrorist attack".

David Pecker spoke out as it was confirmed a third person from his company had
the disease.

He also revealed that thousands of his customers were boycotting his magazines
for fear of catching anthrax.

Hundreds of terrified employees of American Media Incorporated are still
awaiting test results to see if they have contracted the killer disease.

Investigators confirmed the strain found at the offices in Boca Raton, Florida
was man-made and called Ames.

As the FBI continued to scour the building for clues, Mr Pecker said: "I feel
that we had a bio-terrorist attack here."

"I think this is attack against America. The World Trade Center was attacked.
The Pentagon was attacked. And American Media was attacked. I think that this is
the first bioterrorism attack in the United States.

"This is the first time there was an anthrax case for the last 25 years. It's
not a coincidence. The scary thing is that it could happen to anybody. The
latest victim, 35-year-old Stephanie Daley, works in the mail room of the
offices, which houses tabloid magazines like Globe, National Enquirer and the
Star.

Last night she said defiantly: "Whoever did this doesn't scare me. I'm not
worried."

Her colleague Ernesto Blanco, 73, is also recovering from a similar condition.

Their friend Londoner Bob Stevens, 63, died last week after contracting anthrax
from his computer keyboard. Mr Pecker said his business had taken hundreds of
calls from people frightened to buy their magazines for fear of contracting
anthrax.

He said: "The fear and hysteria is incredible. I'm getting calls from retailers
throughout the US that our customers are afraid to touch the papers, because
they're afraid that anthrax can be communicated. "This is so devastating to me."
Investigators have not found any anthrax outside the AMI offices since they
began taking samples.

Dr John Agwunobi, secretary of the Florida Department of Health said: "All the
evidence indicates that the outbreak is limited to the AMI building."

He said of Stephanie Daley: "We are very fortunate that it was identified during
her screening."

He added: "It is important that people remember that anthrax is not contagious."

The FBI confirmed that the outbreak was being treated as a crime.

But they said there was no link to the terrorist attacks on the US, even though
the ringleader of the hijackers Mohamed Atta flew crop-dusting planes from an
airfield half a mile from Mr Stevens's home.

An FBI spokesman said: "We believe a letter came into America Media containing
the anthrax spores.

"The likelihood is it was not addressed to anyone in particular because it was
opened in the mailroom and not sent directly to a named employee."

A FLORIDA rock band called Anthrax has used its website to advise fans how to
protect themselves from the disease.

a.lines@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

SUZY IN THE CITY IN DUBLIN: TERROR ATTACKS FORCE RE-THINK

BYLINE: Edited By Suzy Jagger

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 42,43

LENGTH: 240 words


THE aftermath of the September 11 attacks in New York and Washington has forced
another Irish company to review its operations.

Aircraft maintenance company FLS Aerospace, formerly Team Aer Lingus, is to
conduct a strategic review in Dublin to assess the impact of the airline crisis
on its business.

The decision follows the grounding of several Virgin aircraft, which FLS
services, as well as the cancellation by Aer Lingus of work on five Airbus
aircraft.

A spokeswoman for the company said: "We are doing a strategic review to assess
the impact."

She said it would take time for the full impact of the crisis within the
industry to filter through and affect FLS, and said they still had business from
budget airlines which had been largely unaffected by the drop in passengers
worldwide.

FLS is also understood to be pushing the Department of Defence to accept a
tender from United Technologies subsidiary Sikorsky to supply five new
helicopters.

In a bid to clinch the deal, United is understood to have offered to give
business worth some 100m dollars to Irish companies, the bulk of which would go
to FLS.

n Irish customer relationship management company eWare has cut 15 jobs from its
operations at home and overseas.

The Sean Melly-backed company has laid off six staff in Ireland and another nine
in offices in the U.K., Holland and Germany. The company said there were no
plans for further cuts.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                October 12, 2001

Moslem community speaks out against world terrorism
 FBI warns of more terror attacks

BYLINE: BY NICK COLIGAN

SECTION: Armed Forces: War, US embassy put on anthrax alert, Pg.3

LENGTH: 857 words


ONE of the most startling images which emerged in the aftermath of the terrorist
attacks on New York and Washington were pictures of Palestinians celebrating in
the streets.

It was a solemn reminder that the West's Middle Eastern policies do not meet
with approval from all corners of the world.

But the Moslem community in North Staffordshire has been quick to condemn the
acts of terrorism which saw thousands of people lose their lives when aeroplanes
were flown into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

Abdul Qadir Hashmi is immam at the Markazi Ghausia Mosque in Waterloo Road,
Cobridge.

He condemns the attacks on the USA, but believes military action is not
necessarily the most effective way of tackling the terrorist threat.

Immam Hashmi said: "I fully condemn as a religious person the attacks on the
World Trade Center. No form of condemnation is great enough.

"But I believe a war will not solve the terrorist issue and there should have
been more diplomatic talks. The root cause of terrorism needs to be identified
and tackled to effectively wipe it out.

"The more attacks happen, the more support the Taliban are gaining. They have
more support now than they had after the World Trade Center because people see
ordinary Afghan people are suffering through no fault of their own.

"The Taliban are lifting many restrictions now and claiming it is now a war so
bin Laden has the right to self defence."

Immam Hashmi, who moved to the UK from Pakistan 18 months ago, said there was a
lot of concern for the Afghan population in his home country, where his wife and
five daughters still live.

He said: "There is a lot of concern for the innocent people in Afghanistan in
the sense there are women and children dying. There are a lot of people made
homeless now living in dire conditions.

"People are also concerned about the situation Pakistan is in. They have a
refugee crisis and internal pressures which are obviously destabilising the
region.Naturally I am concerned for the escalating violence in the region,
particularly because my family are over there.

Restaurant owner Mohammed Siddique, of Kingsley Holt, said there was fear among
people in Pakistan that the country would destabilise in the wake of the bombing
of Afghanistan.

He said: "I think Pakistan made the right decision to support the campaign
because they cannot go against Britain and the USA.

"People in Pakistan think there is proof that bin Laden is responsible but is
there enough proof to keep bombarding? The innocent will get killed and the
situation could get out of hand."

Shabbiar Malik, aged 25, a shopkeeper from Cobridge, said he did not agree with
the bombing, but felt the USA should send in forces to capture bin Laden.

He said: "I do not think we should be bombing. We complain about the IRA bombing
us but go there and bomb someone else.

"Why don't we just go and get bin Laden rather than killing innocent people?
With the amount of money the USA has got it should be able to go and get him
out. He cannot hide forever.

"The problems might spill over into Pakistan but I do not think it will be a
worldwide issue. My family lives away from the borders so it is not a problem
there at the moment. But people close to the borders maybe have something to
worry about."

THE FBI has warned there is a high risk of more terrorist attacks on America
within the next few days.

The agency - which is in charge of preventing terrorism in the United States as
well as investigating the September 11 attacks - called on local police to be on
the "highest alert".  The warning is the strongest yet that terrorists will
attempt to strike again.

In a statement, the FBI said: "Certain information, while not specific as to
target, gives the Government reason to believe that there may be additional
terrorist attacks within the United States and against US interests overseas
over the next several days.

"The FBI has again alerted all local law enforcement to be on the highest alert.

"We call on all people to immediately notify the FBI and local law enforcement
of any unusual or suspicious activity."

Law enforcement officials have repeatedly warned there is no guarantee the
September 11 attacks were the last attempt by terrorists to kill and disrupt
life in the country.

THE US Embassy in the Netherlands had an anthrax scare when a package of white
powder arrived at the building - but laboratory tests proved negative.

"Everyone is safe and sound," embassy spokeswoman Angier Peavy said.

Earlier, Dutch television reported that three embassy guards were given
antibiotics.

Peavy said Dutch officials "removed a white powdery substance" from the
building. Tests showed the substance to be "definitely not anthrax." The embassy
was open today as usual.

Anthrax, a bacterium once developed for biological warfare, is now seen as a
possible terrorist weapon of mass murder.

Fears of anthrax infections spread after an American from Florida died of the
infection last week. A third case of anthrax was confirmed in Florida yesterday,
and US authorities were treating the outbreak as a criminal investigation.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CONCERN: Abdul Qadir Hashmi, in the mosque in Cobridge Picture: Malcolm
Hart

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                October 12, 2001

US bombs blast strongholds
 FBI warns of more terror attacks

SECTION: Armed Forces: War, US embassy put on anthrax alert, Pg.3

LENGTH: 900 words


IN fresh attacks early today, two waves of US warplanes pounded positions north
and east of the Afghan capital, Kabul.

Anti-aircraft guns sprang into action, and red tracer fire was shot skywards.

The pre-dawn attacks on Kabul ushered in a sixth day of US-led raids against
Afghanistan.

In the early-morning sortie, US jets dropped three bombs in rapid succession,
and within 20 minutes, another jet streaked in high, dropping two more bombs.

These fell north of the capital, in the vicinity of the front line where Taliban
soldiers face off troops of an opposition military alliance.

The ground trembled and windows rattled in Kabul from the force of the impact.

Last night a huge fireball lit up the sky over the eastern part of the city in
the direction of a training base of bin Laden's al Qaida terror network. Huge
explosions could be heard from miles away.

Despite the intense bombing, the US has yet to knock out the danger to its
warplanes over Afghanistan.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said the United States is working with anti
-Taliban forces on the ground to pinpoint threatening military targets.

He said: "We have to acknowledge the reality that there is still an air defence
threat to the United States.

"Although major targets have been hit in the five days of bombing, the attacks
have not suppressed all the anti-aircraft guns, surface-to-air missiles and
portable missiles like the Stinger that riddle Afghanistan."

He said the military has also dropped powerful bombs on a series of massive
caves in Afghanistan that US officials suspect are used by bin Laden. Early
indications were that the caves were hideouts and contained military equipment.

He said: "I have seen several examples where there were enormous secondary
explosions, in some cases for several hours after targeting underground
facilities. Information is coming from the ground, and to the extent it's
actionable ... we then are using it for targeting".

Meanwhile the US military has set up shop at two air bases in Pakistan, putting
troops in a better position to launch commando raids or rescue missions inside
neighbouring Afghanistan.

The Americans face possible attack from Pakistanis opposed to the US-led
campaign against Osama bin Laden.

Pakistan risks political backlash from Muslim militants at home and from the
Taliban.

THE FBI has warned there is a high risk of more terrorist attacks on America
within the next few days.

The agency, which is in charge of preventing terrorism in the United States as
well as investigating the September 11 attacks, called on local police to be on
the "highest alert".

The warning is the strongest yet that terrorists will attempt to strike again.

In a statement, the FBI said: "Certain information, while not specific as to
target, gives the Government reason to believe that there may be additional
terrorist attacks within the United States and against US interests overseas
over the next several days.

"The FBI has again alerted all local law enforcement to be on the highest alert
and we call on all people to immediately notify the FBI and local law
enforcement of any unusual or suspicious activity."

Law enforcement officials have repeatedly warned there is no guarantee the
September 11 attacks were the last attempt by terrorists to kill and disrupt
life in the country.

And the start of military action against the Taliban regime has heightened the
risk.

Earlier this week, a spokesman for al Qaida, the network overseen by terror
mastermind Osama bin Laden, warned there were "thousands of young people"
willing to carry out suicide attacks in "a storm of aeroplanes".

President George Bush said he had personally reviewed the intelligence that
prompted the FBI alert. The intelligence represented "a general threat on
America", he said today.

US Attorney General John Ashcroft said: "I think the next several days are
obviously important partially because of the environment in which we find
ourselves."

Justice Department spokeswoman Mindy Tucker said the department had received new
intelligence within the past few days about a potential attack and decided to
alert the public as well as police to the possible dangers.

"We realise the importance of the public accurately understanding the kinds of
alerts we are sending out to law enforcement," she said.

She said since September 11 the FBI had sent police and law enforcement agencies
five or six alerts. One that urged extra security and vigilance over
crop-dusting operations was eventually made public.

THE US Embassy in the Netherlands had an anthrax scare when a package of white
powder arrived at the building - but laboratory tests proved negative.

"Everyone is safe and sound," embassy spokeswoman Angier Peavy said.

Earlier, Dutch television reported that three embassy guards were given
antibiotics.

Peavy said Dutch officials "removed a white powdery substance" from the
building. Tests showed the substance to be "definitely not anthrax." The embassy
was open today as usual.

Anthrax, a bacterium once developed for biological warfare, is now seen as a
possible terrorist weapon of mass murder.

Fears of anthrax infections spread after an American from Florida died of the
infection last week. A third case of anthrax was confirmed in Florida yesterday,
and US authorities were treating the outbreak as a criminal investigation.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: THREAT: Donald Rumsfeld An explosion lights the sky over Kabul Rescue
workers in New York pause for thought

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                October 12, 2001

US bombers in raids on Taliban strongholds
 Fresh attacks on Taliban Terror fight 'will last 2 years'

SECTION: Armed Forces: War, Pg.2

LENGTH: 693 words


IN fresh attacks early today, two waves of US warplanes pounded positions north
and east of the Afghan capital, Kabul.

Anti-aircraft guns sprang into action, and red tracer fire was shot skywards.

The pre-dawn attacks on Kabul ushered in a sixth day of US-led raids against
Afghanistan.

In the early-morning sortie, US jets dropped three bombs in rapid succession,
and within 20 minutes, another jet streaked in high, dropping two more bombs.

These fell north of the capital, in the vicinity of the front line where Taliban
soldiers face troops of an opposition military alliance.

The ground trembled and windows rattled in Kabul from the force of the impact.

Last night a huge fireball lit up the sky over the eastern part of the city in
the direction of a training base of bin Laden's al-Qaida terror network. Huge
explosions could be heard from miles away.

The Taliban claimed at least 200 people had been killed two days earlier in an
air strike on a remote village in a province east of Kabul.

"We're still digging bodies out of the rubble," said Zadra Azam, the deputy
governor of eastern Nangarhar province. He said villagers had rushed to help
with the rescue and recovery effort.

Despite the intense bombing, the US has yet to remove the danger to its
warplanes over Afghanistan.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said the United States is working with
anti-Taliban forces on the ground to pinpoint threatening military targets.

He said: "We have to acknowledge the reality that there is still an air defence
threat to the United States.

"Although major targets have been hit in the five days of bombing, the attacks
have not suppressed all the anti -aircraft guns, surface-to-air missiles and
portable missiles like the Stinger that riddle Afghanistan." He said the
military has also dropped powerful bombs on a series of massive caves in
Afghanistan that US officials suspect are used by bin Laden. Early indications
were that the caves were hideouts and contained military equipment.

He said: "I have seen several examples where there were enormous secondary
explosions, in some cases for several hours after targeting underground
facilities. Information is coming from the ground, and to the extent it's
actionable ... we then are using it for targeting".

The US military has set up shop at two air bases in Pakistan, putting troops in
a better position to launch commando raids or rescue missions inside
neighbouring Afghanistan.

British Defence Sec-retary Geoff Hoon hinted today that any deployment of ground
troops inside Afghanistan by America and its allies may have to wait until next
spring.

He sought to damp down expectations of an imminent land operation, warning of
the difficulties of campaigning during the harsh Afghan winter, now just two or
three weeks away.

He conceded that land operations would be all but impossible once the snows came
down over the Hindu Kush mountains, cutting off movements inside the country.

With the onset of winter expected from early November, military planners
effectively have less than a month if they are to get troops into the country to
"root out" Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida network.

Mr Hoon said: "Everyone knows that the weather in a few weeks' time in
Afghanistan will be particularly difficult.

"Historically, we know that the civil wars that have plagued Afghanistan tend to
close down in the winter months.

That is obviously a factor that any military planner must take account of."

AMERICAN president George Bush has warned the "sustained campaign" to drive
terror suspects to justice could take as long as two years.

Today's warning comes amid Taliban claims of mounting civilian casualties in the
air strikes.

Mr Bush said the attacks on Afghanistan could stop if the country's rulers
"cough up" Osama bin Laden.

Mr Bush said: "If you give him up, we will reconsider what we are doing to your
country."

The president said there had been progress in the month-long campaign against
terrorism. "We have ruined terrorist training camps, disrupted their
communications, weakened the Taliban military and destroyed most of their air
defences."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MOVED: US president George Bush wipes away a tear at a service held in
Washington to mark the first month since the attacks on September 11

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

New terror attacks within week, says FBI

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 328 words


AMERICANS all over the world were put on alert last night after the FBI issued a
dramatic warning that it was expecting fresh terrorist attacks within a week.

The bureau said that it had "reason to believe" that there would be attacks both
in America and against American interests around the world on the basis of
"certain information" it had received. It did not know what the targets might
be, but all US law enforcement agencies were placed on the highest state of
alert, and citizens were told to report anything suspicious immediately.

In his televised press conference early today, President Bush said that the FBI
warning may not be the last, but he urged people not to cower in the face of
threats from "the evildoers" who perpetrated the September 11 attacks.
"Americans can know that while the threat is ongoing we are taking every
possible step to protect our country from danger."

The US Justice Department said earlier that the FBI had passed half a dozen
confidential warnings to law enforcement officials in the past four weeks.

A spokeswoman urged the public to stay calm, however, saying: "Americans should
go on with their lives. There's no reason to live in panic."

But the release of such a specific warning appeared guaranteed to spread alarm,
given the concern about the apparent anthrax attack in Florida and Tuesday's
inflammatory al-Qaeda broadcast saying that thousands of young Muslims were
ready to die in a holy war against America.

Law enforcement agencies have been studying that video for signals the speaker
may have been trying to give to terrorists in the field.

The US Senate meanwhile passed a Bill aimed at strengthening aviation security,
allowing pilots to carry guns and requiring federal workers rather than airport
staff screen bags.

The head of the FBI's national security division is to retire at the end of next
month. Neil Gallagher was in charge of foreign counter-intelligence.


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

New terror attacks within week, says FBI

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 328 words


AMERICANS all over the world were put on alert last night after the FBI issued a
dramatic warning that it was expecting fresh terrorist attacks within a week.

The bureau said that it had "reason to believe" that there would be attacks both
in America and against American interests around the world on the basis of
"certain information" it had received. It did not know what the targets might
be, but all US law enforcement agencies were placed on the highest state of
alert, and citizens were told to report anything suspicious immediately.

In his televised press conference early today, President Bush said that the FBI
warning may not be the last, but he urged people not to cower in the face of
threats from "the evildoers" who perpetrated the September 11 attacks.
"Americans can know that while the threat is ongoing we are taking every
possible step to protect our country from danger."

The US Justice Department said earlier that the FBI had passed half a dozen
confidential warnings to law enforcement officials in the past four weeks.

A spokeswoman urged the public to stay calm, however, saying: "Americans should
go on with their lives. There's no reason to live in panic."

But the release of such a specific warning appeared guaranteed to spread alarm,
given the concern about the apparent anthrax attack in Florida and Tuesday's
inflammatory al-Qaeda broadcast saying that thousands of young Muslims were
ready to die in a holy war against America.

Law enforcement agencies have been studying that video for signals the speaker
may have been trying to give to terrorists in the field.

The US Senate meanwhile passed a Bill aimed at strengthening aviation security,
allowing pilots to carry guns and requiring federal workers rather than airport
staff screen bags.

The head of the FBI's national security division is to retire at the end of next
month. Neil Gallagher was in charge of foreign counter-intelligence.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

ANTHRAX 'CRIME BUT NOT LINKED TO TERROR ATTACKS'

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 377 words


AN ANTHRAX outbreak which has now affected a third person in Florida is being
treated as a crime, officials said.

But the FBI has tried to calm mounting panic and said there is no evidence of a
link to the September 11 terror attack.

British-born journalist Bob Stevens, 63, died of the infection and two other
employees of the magazine publisher he worked for have tested positive for
exposure to anthrax spores, but have not developed the disease.

The spores were found on Mr Stevens's computer keyboard at the offices in Boca
Raton of his employer American Media Incorporated (AMI), publishers of American
supermarket tabloid The Sun and the National Enquirer.

American attorney-general John Ashcroft said, "We are treating this as a
criminal matter and we are investigating it with great care."

Tests were still in progress, but there was little reason to believe the anthrax
was caused naturally.

"I don't think we can say it conclusively, but obviously anthrax is a very
serious matter, " he said.

Guy Lewis, US attorney for southern Florida, said, "This is not linked to the
September 11 attacks."

Mailroom worker Ernesto Blanco, 73, remained in a stable condition in hospital
after testing positive for anthrax exposure, but he has not developed the full
-blown disease.

On Wednesday night, a woman was found to have been exposed to anthrax after more
than 1,000 people who worked at AMI or visited it in the last 60 days were
tested with nasal swabs and blood tests.

The 35-year-old woman, who has not been named, is suspected to have worked in
the AMI mailroom and taken over Mr Blanco's duties when he fell ill with
pneumonia, which is not related to the anthrax.

Traces of anthrax spores have only been on Mr Stevens's computer keyboard and
nowhere else in the AMI building or at his home.

The offices will remain sealed off for the foreseeable future, and FBI
investigators and public health officials in airtight protective suits are
retracing their steps in a painstaking hunt for vital clues.

Investigators suspect the anthrax may be a strain developed in the 1950s at a
laboratory in Iowa and are urgently conducting tests at a university facility in
Arizona which specialises in the disease.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

ICAP SAYS TERROR ATTACKS WILL COST POUNDS 30M BUT BUSINESS REMAINS STRONG;
 BROKER: GROUP CONFIDENT OF PROSPECTS DESPITE DIRECT LOSS IN NEW YORK ATROCITIES

BYLINE: Abigail Townsend

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 331 words


BROKER Icap, which had its New York offices destroyed on September 11, says the
terror attacks would cost it pounds 30m.

London-based Icap had 675 employees in both towers of the World Trade Centre.

The group lost one member of staff in the atrocities.

The attacks and subsequent disruption to business means Icap will be hit by one
-off costs of pounds 30m, although after exceptional items this will be reduced
to between pounds 10m and pounds 15m.

Pre-tax profits for the six months to September 30 are forecast to be pounds
44m, up on last year's figure of pounds 32.9m, but below the pounds 47m
predicted prior to September 11.

But chief executive Michael Spencer remained confident about Icap's prospects.

He said that despite the disruption, full-year pre-tax profits were still likely
to meet analyst predictions.

The markets the group operates in were "buoyant" prior to the attacks, he
continued, and remained so.

In particular, Icap's major presence in the US government bond market had
received a boost from the war on terrorism.

Mr Spencer added, "We fully expect to emerge from this ordeal with a stronger
business than we had beforehand."

Icap is an interdealer broker specialising in interest rate swaps and the bond
market.

One of its chief competitors is US firm Cantor Fitzgerald, which lost around 700
staff in the attacks.

Mr Spencer said Icap has pledged $ US500,000 US dollars (pounds 344,640) to the
fund set up by Cantor to help bereaved families.

A number of Icap staff knew the Cantor workforce - one employee lost two of his
brothers who worked at Cantor.

Icap was inundated with offers of help, including office space, following the
attacks.

Mr Spencer said, "One of the few cheering things was the degree of assistance,
friendship, solidarity, whatever you care to call it, that was offered to us in
all directions, including previously adverse competitors."

Shares in the group lifted 15p to 623p.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

LUXURY GOODS HIT BY TERROR ATTACKS;
 RETAILING

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 363 words


RETAIL giant GUS revealed yesterday that luxury goods brand Burberry had seen a
fall in sales, but insisted its demerger was still on track.

GUS, which also owns catalogue store Argos, said the US terror attacks had hit
home and between September 11 and September 30 sales at its Burberry stores had
slumped 15pc.

The retailer said the decline in tourism and travel was a particular blow to the
shops, which sell a range of luxury and high-fashion branded clothes and goods.

But GUS said that despite recent events, it still planned to partially float the
chain by June 2002.

And while the setback since last month's atrocities had affected the brand, in
the six months to September 30 Burberry reported a 31pc jump in underlying
sales.

Argos also saw an improvement - on a like-for-like basis, sales were ahead by
13pc at the half-year stage.

Updating the City ahead of its interim results (due out on November 29) the
retailer said, "Argos Retail Group has continued to benefit from strong consumer
demand in its markets in the half year."

Chief executive John Peace added that overall GUS had made "good progress" in
the first half.

But he added, "The terrible events of September 11 in the United States have
made the economic outlook more uncertain."

Finance director David Tyler said Burberry had been hit the hardest at its US
stores - transatlantic locations include Hawaii and New York.

But he added that the bulk of Burberry's sales were generated in the Japanese
and Spanish domestic markets, both of which had been unaffected by September 11.

Mr Tyler said the partial float was "on course" despite current market
volatility, but stressed that GUS was not relying on cash from the flotation.

Instead, he said, GUS felt that both Burberry and the rest of the group would
fare better as independently run entities.

Elsewhere in the group, Argos benefited from an expanding range that now
includes white goods such as washing machines.

Also on the up was the retailer's home delivery service, Argos Direct, which
accounted for 16pc of total sales during the six-month period, up on last year's
14pc contribution.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 12, 2001

FBI warns of further terror attacks in U.S.;
 WAR ON THE TALIBAN

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 194 words


THE FBI last night warned there was a high risk of more terrorist attacks on
America within days.

The agency, which is in charge of preventing terrorism in the United States as
well as investigating the September 11 attacks, called on local police to be on
the "highest alert."

The warning is the strongest yet that terrorists will attempt to strike again at
the country in the wake of its air strikes on Afghanistan.

In a statement, the FBI said: "Certain information, while not specific as to
target, gives the government reason to believe that there may be additional
terrorist attacks within the United States and against U.S.

interests overseas over the next several days.

"The FBI has again alerted all local law enforcement to be on the highest alert
and we call on all people to immediately notify the FBI and local law
enforcement of any unusual or suspicious activity."

Law enforcement officials have repeatedly warned there is no guarantee the
September 11 attacks were the last attempt by terrorists to kill and disrupt
life in the country. And the start of military action against the Taliban has
heightened the risk.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 12, 2001

Don't count on growth;
 UN forecast counts cost of terror attacks on America

BYLINE: Robert Buckland

SECTION: Business, Pg.81

LENGTH: 524 words


GROWTH in the global economy will slow dramatically as a result of the terror
strikes on the U.S. , the United Nations declared yesterday.

It said in a gloomy economic forecast that growth was now likely to be just 1.4
per cent this year - a reduction from the 2.4 per cent it was predicting just
three months ago.

The world economy was slowing before September 11, but this had been "aggravated
and exacerbated" by the economic "shock waves" following the attacks, said Ian
Kinniburgh, top economic policy analyst in the UN Department of Economic and
Social Affairs.

"The shock is expected to reverberate through the world economy and global
financial markets in the coming months, " said the report prepared by
Kinniburgh's team.

In its admittedly "gloomy outlook, " it said the global economy was now growing
at its slowest pace in a decade, with some parts of the world already
contracting and others on the verge of doing so.

And next year would see only "a dilatory and tepid recovery" with growth of just
two per cent.

International trade is expected to register "virtually no growth" this year, the
report warns. This will hit developing countries with "profound effects" on
their efforts to combat poverty in the long-term.

The attacks alone cost around $40 billion (26 billion) in physical destruction,
air travel disruption, insurance claims, loss of financial trading and lower
consumer and business confidence.

The impact was now "spilling over" to more sectors, including manufacturing,
retailing and technology, the UN said.

Hundreds of companies in the U.S. had already lowered their earnings estimates
by 10 per cent for the third and fourth quarters, and had cut back spending
plans and laid off staff.

"The magnitude of the impact from this disruption is greater than that of the
destruction itself, " the UN said.

The U.S. is almost certain to plunge into recession by the end of the year, with
severe consequences for the Far East and Latin America.

Growth in Western Europe will also be hit, with the extent of the slowdown in
individual countries depending on their links to the U.S.

Meanwhile two insurance groups with bases in Bristol yesterday became the latest
to warn of the impact of the attacks.

French group AXA, which owns Sun Life, is to cut costs by 10 per cent or 700
million euros (438 million) next year in view of the decline in the financial
markets.

A spokesman could not comment on whether there would be job cuts, but added
"jobs are not the primary target".

And Royal & Sun Alliance said its losses resulting from the attacks on the World
Trade Centre would be 200 million - 50 million more than originally forecast.

Airport operator BAA yesterday said the number of passengers travelling on
transatlantic flights from the UK fell sharply after September 11.

North Atlantic traffic at BAA's seven UK airports was down 25.9 per cent for the
month of September and was down 38 per cent for the period September 12 to 30.

Other long-haul traffic fell 6.8 per cent in September 2001 compared with the
same month last year, BAA said.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           October 13, 2001, Saturday

EVERY PICTURE TELLS A STORY IN THE WORLD OF BOBBIE HANVEY: PREPARING POLICE FOR
MEAN STREETS;
 THE NYPD HAS BEEN LAUDED FOR ITS HEROIC ROLE IN THE AFTERMATH OF THE TERRORIST
ATTACK IN NEW YORK LAST MONTH. BOBBIE HANVEY RECALLS HIS MEETING WITH AN
ULSTERMAN WHO HELPS TRAIN THE CITY'S FINEST

BYLINE: Bobbie Hanvey

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 772 words

HIGHLIGHT: MATTHEW CURRAN: trains NYPD officers at the Police Academy at;
Rodman's Neck in the Bronx


THIRTY men, some overweight, stood in a line in the blazing sun, their shirts
soaked to the skin from the choking humidity of mid- September.

I was visiting the Police Academy at Rodman's Neck in the Bronx, New York, to
see a man who originally came from the Beechmount area of the Falls Road in
Belfast.

A voice from behind me strained across the Tannoy towards the line of 'shooters'
on the firing range.

It said: "You can only put 15 rounds in a magazine, guys. Don't try to squeeze
in any more than that. I know that the Marine down the end is looking for
perfection. That's probably why he's taking so long.

"Make sure the safety equipment is in place - face down range. You'll fire two
rounds in five seconds. On the command of five, two rounds in five seconds.

"FIRE! Cover the target. WATCH HIM! He may be down but he may not be out. He may
still come up with a gun in his hand. WATCH HIM! GOOD! Fingers off the trigger.
Standing ready. Holster your weapon."

The man responsible for training the police in weapons instruction with the NYPD
is Belfastman Matthew Curran. In 1989, he had been in America for 40 years. He
told me his story.

"My mother and I came here in 1951. My father came out two years before that,
got an apartment and furnishings together and finally sent the fare to my mother
to bring us here. I remember, even at the age of eight, noticing there seemed to
be so much of everything in New York. Over in Belfast, we had rationing in '51
but it ended here in '46 or '47."

I asked Matthew why he joined the New York Police Department.

"It was a matter of economics. I was married with one son and I had been in the
Marine Corps for three years. In 1965, when I went through the Police Academy, I
was sent to the 41st Precinct which is now known as Fort Apache. It was a big
culture shock for me, coming from Toggs Neck, a mainly Irish and German area, to
a mainly Hispanic one.

"At that time, it was one of the worst precincts in the city with more than 100
murders each year.

"There were two fellas working in the 'combat car' called Tom Mullahern and Pete
Testatori, who were portrayed in the movie Fort Apache The Bronx.

"I worked with them and learned quite a lot from them. They were two great
officers.

"Up here in the Police Academy, we test guns, test protective vests and train
all members of the department. We train them annually in their service revolver.
Once they qualify, they must come back each year and requalify."

Having a population of eight to 10 million, I wondered how many officers it took
to police New York?

Matthew replied: "We have 26,000 officers but it's not enough. I'd like to see
more officers on the ground, in their patrol cars or walking the streets on the
ground. It would make my wife and family feel more comfortable.

"Last year, five officers were killed on duty. When I joined, 50 per cent were
Irish but today it's probably 25 per cent or less. There are many sons and
grandsons of police officers like myself who are coming into the department.

"My daughter joined three years ago. She is in SPECTRE (Special Programme to
Educate Children against Drugs Abuse). She visits schools in the Bronx and
advises children against the evils of drug abuse.

I asked Matthew if there were any Dirty Harrys in the force who carried Magnum
revolvers?

"No, the 38 special is the service revolver. Magnums are not allowed. You are
not allowed to carry a 44.

"The recoil would not allow you to recover quickly enough to fire off another
round. Our Emergency Service Unit are armed with heavy weapons such as Uzis,
AD47s and special sniper rifles which are 7.62 calibre."

What advice would Matthew have for young people from this country wanting to
join the NYPD?

"To become a US citizen you must reside in this country for five years. You then
must take the exams and then wait from six months to a year before being brought
before the Civil Service Commission. After this, your name goes on a waiting
list, so, if you have eight to 10 years to spare then, by all means, go and join
the NYPD.

"The money is good now. You can earn up to $ 70,000 a year. When I started it
was $ 7,000."

My grandfather's two brothers left Brookeborough in 1909 and went to New York
where they joined the police department.

When on a 'stake-out' in the following year, they were both shot dead, so my
trip to the Bronx was, I suppose, my way of visiting ghosts from the past.

For hundreds of years, America has been our friend. Now is the time when we must
show that we are her friend also.

Bobbie Hanvey

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           October 13, 2001, Saturday

TRAVEL: ESCAPING THE TERROR;
 ON SEPTEMBER 8, POST REPORTER EMMA BRADY FLEW TO NEW YORK FOR A THREE-WEEK
AMERICAN ADVENTURE. BUT THREE DAYS LATER SHE WITNESSED THE TRAGEDY WHICH SENT
SHOCKWAVES AROUND THE WORLD. THIS IS HER TALE OF TRAVELLING DURING TROUBLED
TIMES IN THE LAND OF THE FREE New York changes forever - once the most
impressive sight was the city's amazing skyline that towered over the banks of
the East and Hudson rivers. Within hours of the terrorist attack, the two
tallest buildings had gone from view

SECTION: Pg. 49

LENGTH: 1310 words


I had spent nine months planning my dream holiday in America with my parents -
places I would visit, a list of all the must-haves I needed to buy and the
museums I should call in to.

Although a first-time traveller to New York, I already felt I knew Manhattan
well.

Images of its bustling streets were all too familiar from so many films and
television programmes.

But the most impressive sight of all was its amazing skyline that towered over
the banks of the East and Hudson rivers.

The first few days of my trip were perfect: shopping on Fifth Avenue; strolling
through Central Park; enjoying a bird's eye view of the Big Apple from the
Empire State Building.

As I gazed over Lower Manhattan and the Hudson River, the unmistakable World
Trade Centre twin towers dominated the landscape.

No-one expected what was to happen next as, just days later, the most tragic
terrorist attack unfolded in front of my own eyes.

As I stepped out of a yellow cab on 12th Avenue, at about 9am, what appeared to
be a small plane flew into one of the giant towers.

It looked like a scene from one of those action-packed Hollywood blockbusters -
a giant fireball engulfed the building as the jet sliced through the structure
like a knife through butter.

Like so many of those around us, my mother burst into tears, while my father and
I just stood open-mouthed, unable to comprehend what was happening.

From this moment on, everyone I met had a tale to tell or had been affected in
some way by the terrorist attacks. Immediate reaction to America's 'second Pearl
Harbor' was similar to the shock, disbelief and emotional outpouring in Britain
that followed the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, in 1997.

The holiday of a lifetime had suddenly become an epic journey as my family,
along with thousands of commuters and tourists, tried to find a way out of
Manhattan, as all links to the city were closed to traffic except emergency
vehicles.

This would also become a cathartic journey, watching how people up and down the
country coped with the devastating news.

A country so familiar to millions through television and film now seemed very
different - the atmosphere in cities was subdued and people appeared to be less
carefree.

While many developed a seemingly rational fear of flying after the tragedy, we
were determined to get to as far across America as possible.

Our trans-Atlantic trip started in New York and we had planned to visit
Nashville, Memphis, New Orleans and Los Angeles, before returning to Britain.

But if our coast-to-coast trek was to continue, alternative arrangements would
be necessary as all domestic and international flights were grounded.

So instead of flying to Nashville I opted for a trusty Greyhound coach to get us
all to our next destination - in a marathon 21-hour stint.

The Port Authority Bus Terminal was packed from 7am as thousands of people
clamoured for tickets to get them out of New York.

By 9am, our coach attempted to weave its way through rush-hour traffic on the
day President Bush was due to visit the tragic scene on Wall Street.

Many passengers had been stuck at airports for the last three days and were
desperate to get home to their loved ones - no matter how long it took.

As we headed out of the city, I caught my first glimpse of lower Manhattan since
the towers had come crashing down.

This was a sight that I will never forget. Muffled sobs echoed around the coach,
as many weary travellers saw smoke billowing from the gap in the skyline left by
the two towers.

Eventually, as the city gave way to the countryside, the mood lightened and
people started to talk to strangers around them - although there was still only
one topic of conversation.

And it is this one topic of conversation that has left Americans feeling more
vulnerable than ever.

Security had been noticeably stepped up at airports as a result of the terror
attacks, but at no point on our journey to Nashville were any of our bags
searched. On arrival it was relief to see friendly faces.

People still wore patriotic red, white and blue ribbons and sympathetic smiles,
but the home of country music had an overwhelming sense of calm.

Despite being hundreds of miles away from 'ground zero', local newspapers still
reported the news with historic headlines and defiant editorials.

From here we headed to Memphis. Bridges spanning the Interstates and highways
along the way were draped with Star Spangled Banners and electronic signs
flashing uplifting messages to motorists.

Six days after the tragedy rocked America, people were still grieving - and not
just in New York or Washington.

At Gracelands, Elvis fans took their time to remember the thousands of tragic
victims they had never met, as they laid floral tributes in the peaceful
Memorial Gardens.

The new security measures were very visible at Nashville International Airport
as policemen patrolled the empty check-in area and federal airport officials
checked people's luggage with a fine toothcomb.

Although I was shocked to hear I had been 'randomly selected' for a baggage
search, I knew I had nothing to hide.

But I couldn't believe the audacity of the family in front who appeared to be
moving home, as two men meticulously unpacked four suitcases and five large
boxes - one of which contained a chainsaw.

My parents and I would go our separate ways from here, and emotions ran high as
we hugged at the airport, promising each other we would return home safely.

So onwards on my American journey, and I was searched yet again. After this
second official rifled through my lingerie and laundry, I began to feel as if I
had the word 'terrorist' tattooed on my forehead.

I also knew, that one-week on from the terror attacks, there was plenty of
justification for airport officials' vigilance.

Tributes still littered public buildings and shop display windows in New
Orleans, Louisiana, which also has a World Trade Centre. The most touching
memorials were computer-generated pictures by local children which had been
attached to window shutters - one of them showed a pair of shaking hands over
the world.

New Orleans also has a global reputation for non-stop partying. Throughout the
summer and during Mardi Gras, Bourbon Street is packed with revellers enjoying
jazz, cajun cuisine and the festive spirit. Understandably, when I arrived, not
many were in the mood to rock around the clock.

My journey on to Los Angeles was fraught with tension as airport security
flocked around my bags for a third time.

It seemed that many travellers were no longer taking much interest in the
constant news bulletins, as New York prepared to pay tribute to firefighters who
had died during the collapse of the towers.

My LA flight was two-thirds empty, despite repeated messages from airlines that
the skies were safe to fly.

I was surprised to find staff and guests at my hotel in Los Angeles - many of
whom were English - were still deeply affected by the tragedy.

One guest, Tom, a 24-year-old student from Manchester, said he felt guilty about
trying to travel for pleasure when the country was still in mourning.

'I want to have a good time; I've taken a student loan out to fund my travels,
but I don't feel comfortable going out and having fun after this,' he said.

'The terrorists may have hit New York and Washington, but the fact is they had
other targets in mind and they could've been anywhere. That's what scares people
at the moment, they're scared their home towns could be next.'

I knew exactly what he meant - it seemed somewhat frivolous being a tourist in
the light of a huge human tragedy.

So we raised our glasses and made a toast to the heroes, the victims and their
families, who, like me, will never forget September 11.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 13, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: NEW YORK ON TOXIC ATTACK ALERT

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 261 words


FEARS of bioterrorism were mounting in America today as a woman in New York was
treated for anthrax and more than 50 people were given drugs in case they were
exposed.

The outbreak comes just days after British-born journalist Bob Stevens died in
Florida and two other people were confirmed as having been exposed to the spores
which cause the deadly infection.

There were also fears that media organisations were being targeted, with the
woman in New York working for broadcaster NBC and the three cases in Florida
involving staff at American Media Incorporated, publishers of tabloid magazines
including The National Enquirer.

Those fears were fuelled after it emerged the letter which is believed to have
carried the anthrax to the unnamed 38-year-old woman in New York was addressed
to newscaster Tom Brokaw.

Antibiotics

Around 25 staff at NBC have been given powerful antibiotics in case they were
exposed to the spores, while a similar number at the New York Times have been
treated after journalist Judith Miller, who is also an expert on germ warfare,
received a threatening letter containing a white 'talcum-like' powder.

The unnamed NBC employee was said to be doing well after having anthrax
confirmed early today following a skin test and being treated with antibiotics
for the last 10 days.

She developed an irritating and ulcerous rash with a black scab within days of
opening the letter on September 25. Doctors today concluded it was skin
-transmitted anthrax, whereas the cases in Florida have been inhaled anthrax.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 13, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: US JETS RESUME ATTACKS ON KABUL

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 240 words


US JETS today resumed attacks on the Afghanistan capital following a brief
suspension for the Muslim day of prayer.

British forces provided support for American planes bombarding the already war
ravaged Kabul on the sixth night of air strikes.

Several jets streaked over the city and large explosions were heard in northern
areas, rattling buildings in the heart of the capital, witnesses said.

In a neighbourhood by Kabul's airport, one person was killed and four wounded,
according to people living there. Four destroyed houses could be seen.

Appeals

The new round of attacks followed a lull in the US-led campaign against the
Taliban regime yesterday for the Muslim day of weekly prayers.

They came despite appeals for a halt in the air strikes by United Nations Human
Rights Commissioner Mary Robinson.

She said the population of Afghanistan had been suffering from famine for years,
and with winter due to close in on November 15 there was huge concern among all
the humanitarian agencies.

The Taliban said at least 200 people were killed when the village of Karam, near
the eastern town of Jalalabad, was struck by missiles on Wednesday.

No independent confirmation of the Taliban claims was possible, but
International Development Secretary Clare Short dismissed them as 'propaganda.'

'It is widely understood among Afghanistan refugees that there has not been
civilian casualties,' she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 13, 2001, Saturday

ANTHRAX TERROR;
 ALREADY ON RED ALERT FOR ANOTHER WAVE OF TERROR ATTACKS BY AL-QAEDA FORCES,
AMERICA WAS ROCKED BY NEW ANTHRAX FEARS YESTERDAY

BYLINE: Grace Mclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 11

LENGTH: 910 words


AMERICA was on red alert for "multiple" terrorist atrocities yesterday as
another anthrax case was discovered in New York.

The FBI and the Centre for Disease Control were investigating after a female NBC
News worker tested positive for the killer bacteria after handling "supicious
mail".

The third floor of NBC's HQ in Rockefeller Plaza, Manhattan, was immediately
sealed off.

The FBI were first called to the building on September 25 after a report of a
suspicious package.

The envelope contained a white powder which tested negative for anthrax - but a
later skin test on the employee proved positive.

The victim has received treatment and is responding well.

New York mayor Rudy Giuliani said: "It is likely this began on September 25. The
best thing to do is to test the areas where there may have been exposure. We
want to make sure there are no remaining anthrax spores in the area."

Later, it emerged that suspect packages containing powder have also been sent to
Giuliani's office and to the New York Times.

Trying to play down the incident, the mayor warned everyone to be observant and
to phone 911 if they receive a suspicious package.

He said: "The vast majority of times it will be talcum powder but given the
threat you never know."

The NBC worker's cutaneous anthrax infection is not the same respiratory form of
the bug that killed British-born Bob Stevens, 63.

Anthrax was discovered in the mail room of the Florida tabloid newpaper office
where he and two colleagues were struck down.

Previously, it had only been found on his keyboard.

Experts say it would be difficult - but not impossible - for anthrax to be
spread through the mail.

Public health investigators took swabs from Miami postal workers to check them
for possible exposure.

And a postal union served White House officials with notices threatening to sue
if they don't take steps to safeguard workers handling potentially -sensitive
packages. The union is even calling for the extreme step of halting
international mail.

Meanwhile, every town and city in the USA has been warned to expect more terror
strikes from al-Qaeda.

Intelligence acquired by the CIA is being treated with the utmost seriousness.
One senior official said: "This is the real deal."

He explained that the information pointed to possible multiple attacks in the
"very near future".

Terrorists have warned that the next attack will be even bigger than the
September 11 blitz on the Pentagon and the World Trade Centre. The US government
has ordered increased security for water supplies, trucks, nuclear facilities,
power plants and airfields.

As well as targets inside America, US facilities overseas are under threat of
attack. In Russia and Italy, US embassies were on high alert.

President George W Bush said the FBI warning was issued as the result of "a
general threat". He added: "I hope it's the last, but given the attitude of the
evil-doers, it may not be.

"If we receive intelligence that targets a specific building or city or
facility, I can assure you that our government will do everything possible to
protect the citizens."

The FBI said: "Certain information, while not specific as to target, gives the
government reason to believe that there may be additional terrorist acts within
the United States and against US interests overseas over the next several days.

"We call on all people to immediately notify local law enforcement of any
unusual or suspicious activity."

White House press secretary Ari Fleischer said the decision to issue the alert
is consistent with Bush's insistence that authorities immediately release news
of anthrax cases.

He explained: "It's important to be forthright with the public and to share
information so that all appropriate actions can be taken."

In Washington, the FBI has warned police to be on special alert for truck bombs.
District police have been training in how to spot terrorists.

Lorries have been banned from an area around the US Capitol building.

DC mayor Anthony Williams said: "We're approaching an emergency situation in our
neighborhoods."

Police Chief Charles Ramsey said federal agents have warned police that future
attacks may be carried out by suspected terrorists who enrolled in US truck
-driving schools.

In the last 10 days, DC police officers have stopped 700 trucks across the city
to check their cargo.

Ramsey said: "I would hope planes are out now. It's logical to think trucks may
be next.

"I don't have a unit that can stop crop-dusters or one that can stop jets - but
we can do a little something with trucks."

Drivers transporting hazardous materials have been given new security
guidelines, which include information on hijacking ploys.

The estimated death toll from the terrorist attacks stood at 5451 last night. In
New York, rescue workers have recovered 442 bodies, with 4776 listed as missing.

The estimate includes 167 people on the two planes that smashed into the World
Trade Centre.

Another 189 were killed at the Pentagon, including those aboard the hijacked
plane.

And 44 perished when a fourth hijacked plane crashed in Pennsylvania after brave
passengers fought with the hijackers.

lTwo Afghans using UK passports - possibly forged - have been arrested at Prague
airport en-route to London after a "suspicious liquid" was found in their
luggage. The substance was sent for analysis.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 13, 2001, Saturday

Risk analysis In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on America, fear is
understandable; giving in to fear is not, says Austin Williams

BYLINE: By Austin Williams

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 744 words

I was browsing the homeware section of a department store in Newcastle the other
day, when I noticed a sign announcing, "knives not sold to under 16-year-olds".
My immediate thoughts were that it was a reaction to the terrible events in New
York. Then I remembered that this ban was, in fact, the legislative consequence
of the stabbing of headmaster Philip Lawrence outside his school in north London
in 1995.

If you remember, while emotions were still running high after Dunblane (which
resulted in a ban on hand guns), adolescents became no longer trusted with
pen-knives. Less than one year later, a 20-something paranoid schizophrenic with
a machete ran riot in a school in Wolverhampton. What are the chances of that?

My point is that the public and politicians are bad at understanding the twin
factors of risk assessment: the probability that something could happen and the
consequences if it does happen. And even if we did understand risk assessment,
trying to eliminate risk is virtually impossible and minimising it can often be
counter-productive; it can even serve to reinforce, rather than eliminate, a
sense of fear.

Some newspapers, after the destruction of the twin towers, featured a photograph
of potential weapons confiscated from passengers at Heathrow to show how secure
we are. It was a picture intended to resemble a terrorists' arms cache but, in
fact, comprised a selection of nail files, tweezers, sewing kits and nail
scissors. Apart from threatening a recession in the Christmas cracker market, it
conjured up an image of a crazed beautician taking over an aircraft. Not wishing
to trivialise the loss of life in the USA, we are in danger of losing all
perspective.

In the light of the devastation of September 11, legislation is being pushed
through the Senate that air marshals be stationed on all flights, that cockpits
be sealed and fortified and that CCTV cameras be stationed in the seating areas.
These are hardly likely to reinstate Americans' confidence in air travel. It
will be like being strapped into your seats by an air stewardess wearing a life
jacket and a parachute.

Transatlantic flights are operating at or below 50 per cent capacity and, in
America, security delays are having a terrible effect on domestic airline
profits, necessitating massive injections of financial assistance from
government. Risk aversion costs a lot of money. The question is, what's the
level of risk and can the money be better spent? Even though many airlines were
already facing a profitability crisis, the near collapse among individual flight
operators goes way beyond usual downsizing. People are simply choosing to travel
less.

You might be forgiven for assuming that after the horrific destruction of the
twin towers in New York, personal anxiety is a justifiable reaction - but
caution can have much more negative consequences which can, in this case, extend
well beyond its initial frame of reference.

In the same way that inadequate transport services are often justified on the
grounds of an over-riding concern about health and safety, so the increased use
of monitoring devices sounds reasonable in the middle of a war on terrorism.
Even discussing these things seems trivial now. Ken Livingstone's car-free
cordon in central London seems almost prescient. Who would be so unfeeling as to
criticise it as a money-making scam at a time of national vigilance?

But civil liberties issues become even more important when there is no criticism
of their restriction. Since my article against speed cameras, many people have
argued that if I have done nothing wrong, I have nothing to fear. Try telling
that to the Afghan people. Perhaps the point to remember is that increased state
intervention reinforces a sense of paranoia rather than liberating us from it.

While risk consciousness seems to be all-pervasive, it is good to know that
people are still prepared to take economic and physical risks. At Rockingham
racetrack, investors have poured millions of pounds into an open-air racetrack
in the middle of England, knowing that cars would not be allowed to run on it if
it rained! Can you imagine the conversation that the track owner had with
potential funders?

Financial risk aside, after Alex Zanardi's tragic accident a week earlier, Gil
de Ferran put it all behind him and provided a terrific 240mph spectacle. Fear
of accidents is one thing - giving in to risk consciousness is quite another.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 13, 2001

VALUES PLUMMET 15 PER CENT AS TERROR ATTACKS BURST PROPERTY BUBBLE; HOUSE PRICES
TUMBLE

BYLINE: BY SARAH O'GRADY PROPERTY CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 374 words


A CRISIS in the property market is forcing developers and estate agents to slash
house values by up to 15 per cent in the wake of the terror attacks on the
United States.

Halifax, Britain's biggest mortgage lender, said the market had been teetering
on the edge of an economic slowdown and that the US atrocities had now "pushed
it over".

After two years of surging prices it is now a buyer's market - particularly at
the top end, experts said yesterday. A GBP 2million mansion in Surrey has been
reduced by GBP 300,000 as fears of smaller bonuses hit the City bankers who
would usually buy a property such as this.

Saxon Brettell, director of finance firm Cambridge Econometrics, said: "The
property bubble has finally burst and estate agents used to massive bonuses are
pricing property more realistically in a bid to keep the market afloat for
longer.

"The housing market is slow and likely to drop even further in the next few
months, so it makes sense for sellers to offer discounts and incentives to
buyers who now need to be tempted to spend their money."

He added: "The implications of the terrorist strike and its effect on the United
States, the UK and the global economy are serious. A slowdown in the number of
house buying and selling transactions has already been noted, and this reduction
in prices will become more widespread as we approach the pre-Christmas quiet
time."

Developers Galliard Homes, Rushmon Homes and Fairview have all slashed house
prices.

Galliard has cut as much as GBP 55,000 from flats in a converted school
development in Bloomsbury, central London. Guy Tkach, managing director of
Rushmon Homes, said: "There are deals to be done. Uncertainty is rife and we
feel we have to go some way to meet buyers."

But estate agents say the market is weakest at the top end - GBP 500,000-plus -
and owners who need to sell can be held to ransom by buyers determined to beat
them down.

Field Mill, a mansion in Ashford in Kent, was first priced at GBP 775,000. Now
GBP 80,000 has been knocked off the asking price. Another typical
top-of-the-market property, three-bedroom Fermain Cottage at Henley-on-Thames,
has been cut in price by GBP 25,000 - from GBP 450,000 to GBP 425,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 13, 2001

TRAVEL EDITED BY JANE MEMMLER; HOW TERROR ATTACKS MADE SHIPPING CHANGE COURSE

BYLINE: GARY BUCHANAN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 509 words


SECURITY on all ships has been stepped up after the terrorist atrocities in
America on September 11 and the ongoing military campaign has led to changes in
itineraries. Below is an update on revised schedules and destinations:

Cunard's transatlantic schedule on QE2, which commences next April, has more
crossings than ever.

Currently, the ship is docking at Boston instead of New York. Cunard is also
forging ahead with plans for the Queen Mary 2, due to launch in December 2003.

Carnival Cruises is still taking bookings for the Caribbean and all cruises are
operating normally.

Other American cruise lines are keeping their ships in US ports, reflecting
concern that Americans will not be straying far from their shores in the coming
months.

P&O has cancelled trips to Cyprus, Lebanon and Egypt, but its ships will still
call at Marmaris and Kusadasi in Turkey.

Royal Olympic Cruises has followed insurance companies' advice and withdrawn
Olympic Voyager from calling on Egypt. It will now call at Venice and Corfu for
the rest of the season.

Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises report no mass cancellations
of Caribbean or Mediterranean cruises but have changed their 2002 programme.
Next summer, Royal Caribbean's Brilliance Of The Seas and Splendour Of The Seas
will depart from Harwich on 12-night European cruises and from Barcelona on
seven-night fly cruises.

Rhapsody Of The Seas will sail from Galveston, Texas, and Grandeur Of the Seas
will be in the Mexican Riviera, not European waters.

Celebrity Cruises' newest ship, Constellation, will now sail from Dover on
14-night Baltic itineraries as well as western Mediterranean fly-cruises from
Barcelona next summer. Millennium and Mercury, due to arrive in Europe next
summer, will now sail in the Caribbean and Alaska.

Norwegian Cruise Line's new 1,936-passenger Norwegian Sun will be sailing in the
Caribbean rather than the Mediterranean next summer;

Silversea Cruises has cancelled three cruises on Silver Wind. The ship will be
withdrawn from service later this month and laid up all next year.

The Passenger Shipping Association reports no cruises from British ports being
affected. Fly-cruises from US ports are running normally, but ships are now
using Philadelphia and Boston rather than New York as the Manhattan piers are
being used in the recovery effort. PSA director William Gibbons says: "Cruising
continues to be a very safe travel option, with access to ships very strictly
controlled. Holidaymakers can rest assured that strict safety and security
measures have further increased as a precautionary measure."

INFORMATION:

Passenger Shipping Association:

020 7436 2449/ www. cruiseinformationservice. co. uk Carnival Cruises: 020 7940
4466/ www. carnival. com Celebrity Cruises: 0800 018 2525/ www.
celebritycruises. co. uk Norwegian Cruise Line: 0800 181 560/ www. uk. ncl. com
Royal Caribbean International: 0800 018 2020/www. royalcaribbean. co. uk
Silversea Cruises: 0870 333 7030/ www. silversea. com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 13, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: ANTHRAX ATTACK NO.4 IN AMERICA

BYLINE: Andy Lines And Lucy Rock In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,10

LENGTH: 304 words

HIGHLIGHT: WARNING: Rudy


A NEW YORK television worker tested positive for anthrax last night after
handling mail.

Soon afterwards, a suspect package was removed from the offices of the New York
Times.

Emergency services were called to the State Department in Washington after
suspicious white powder was found in a mail office.

In Prague, two men bound for London from Afghanistan were arrested when suspect
liquid was found in their baggage.

The scares fuelled fears of a global bio-terrorism plot against the West by
Osama bin Laden's al- Qaeda terror group.

They came as the entire US was put on red alert amid rising fears of further
"multiple" terror attacks.

Last week Briton Robert Stevens, 63, died from anthrax at a tabloid group in
Florida. Two other workers were exposed to the bacteria. The latest case
infected an unnamed woman worker at NBC News - America's biggest TV network - in
Rockefeller Plaza in Manhattan.

She has "cutaneous" anthrax, caught through the skin rather than by breathing,
and is expected fully to recover.

New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani immediately urged anyone in the city who receives a
suspicious envelope to call emergency services. But he said: "The chances this
has been contained are very good."

The FBI were alerted after NBC received an envelope containing white powder on
September 25.

The envelope initially tested negative for anthrax. But a later skin test on the
employee proved positive.

Last night the third floor of NBC was sealed off as officers in complete
protection suits searched the building.

Air conditioning in the 69-floor Rockefeller Center was also turned off.

Later, police investigated a suspicious package removed from the New York Times.

FBI officers insisted there was no proof the NBC case was linked to the
September 11 attacks.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 13, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: AMERICAN ALERT: ANTHRAX ATTACK IN NEW YORK;
 BUSH WARNS: OUR NATION IS STILL IN DANGER

BYLINE: Andy Lines And Lucy Rock In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,3

LENGTH: 649 words

HIGHLIGHT: ALERT: Bush yesterday; SCARE: TV man wears mask in New York


NEW YORK was gripped by fear last night after a woman TV worker tested positive
for anthrax.

Erin O'Connor, an assistant to veteran NBC anchorman Tom Brokaw, has anthrax
caught through the skin after opening a letter to her boss in the 69-floor
Rockefeller Centre in Manhattan.

In two other bio-terror scares a suspect package was removed from the New York
Times newspaper offices.

And the emergency services went to the State Department in Washington, where a
suspicious white powder was found in a mail office. The alerts fuelled fears of
a global poison plot against the West by Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda terror
group.

They came as American forces suspended the bombing of Afghanistan because Friday
is the Islamic holy day.

The US is on red alert following warnings of further "multiple" terrorist
attacks. President Bush said: "Our nation is still in danger.

"But we are doing all in our power to protect our citizenry."

In Prague two Afghans with British passports were arrested when suspect liquid
was found in their baggage as they waited for a London flight.

One person died from anthrax last week and two workers tested positive at a
tabloid newspaper group in Florida. They had pulmonary anthrax - the type that
is breathed in.

Erin O'Connor was exposed to a powder when opening the letter addressed to her
boss Brokaw, one of the most respected TV journalists in the US, on September
25.

She had treatment after developing a skin rash. But the FBI launched a criminal
investigation when her test came back positive for traces of cutaneous anthrax.

She is not in danger. Tom Brokaw is also being tested for anthrax.

Air conditioning in the Rockefeller Centre was turned off and the building
evacuated. Armed police were on guard.

Associated Press and all New York TV stations closed their mail rooms. CNN said:
"It would be silly to think this was not deliberate targeting of media groups."

It also emerged that the New York Times reporter who was sent a suspicious
package is a Middle East expert.

Judith Miller, author of several books on biological warfare, received a letter
containing a white powdery substance.

Attorney General John Ashcroft said the government had no evidence linking the
New York case with those in Florida.

New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani said: "The chances that this has been contained are
very good." But the alerts left the city reeling just over a month after the
September 11 attacks which killed 5,400.

Chef Robert Moussally, 34, said: "There's paranoia. I can't help being scared.
That's what terrorism wants." The Dow Jones shares index plunged nearly three
per cent on the news, but later recovered.

The State Department powder scare was the second in three days. The first was a
false alarm.

President Bush admitted the latest case "has got to cause concern for our
nation. I want everyone to know we are responding rapidly." He insisted: "We
cannot let these terrorists lock our country down. We cannot let terrorists hold
us hostage.

"Our government will fight terrorists across the sea and fight them here as
well."

And he said Ms O'CDonnor "is responding well - she didn't ingest enough to cause
death, thank God".

In Florida, scene of the first outbreak, FBI officials said tests on employees
at publishers American Media had shown up no new cases. FBI special agent Hector
Pesquera said test results on 965 people who were in the building recently have
found no new infections. A few test results were still pending.

Pentagon officials later said they believed al-Qaeda had crude chemical and
biological weapons.

A spokesman said: "I am not going to say they do not have a nuclear weapon. We
believe they have crude chemical and possibly biological capability, anthrax is
possible."

He added that there "could be a bucketful or there could be a tonne".

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 13, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: ANTHRAX ATTACK IN NEW YORK;
 BUSH WARNS: OUR NATION IS STILL IN DANGER

BYLINE: Andy Lines And Lucy Rock In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 395 words

HIGHLIGHT: ALERT: Bush yesterday


NEW YORK was gripped by fear last night after a woman TV worker tested positive
for anthrax.

In two other bio-terror scares, a suspect package was removed from the New York
Times offices and emergency services went to the State Department in Washington
where suspicious white powder was found in a mail office.

The alerts fuelled fears of a global poison plot against the West by Osama bin
Laden's al-Qaeda terror group.

They came as the US was put on red alert following warnings of further
"multiple" attacks. President Bush said last night: "Our nation is still in
danger. But we are doing all in our power to protect our citizenry."

In Prague, two Afghans with British passports were arrested when suspect liquid
was found in their baggage as they waited for a London flight.

Last week, one person died from anthrax and two other workers tested positive at
a tabloid group in Florida.

The latest case infected an unnamed woman at NBC News - America's biggest TV
network - in the 69-floor Rockefeller Centre in Manhattan.

She has anthrax caught through skin rather than by breathing, after handling
suspect mail. She is not in danger.

Mayor Rudy Giuliani urged anyone who receives a suspicious package to call
emergency services. But he said: "The chances that this has been contained are
very good."

The FBI, which has launched a criminal investigation, was first alerted after
NBC received an envelope containing white powder on September 25.

First tests for anthrax were negative. But a later skin test on the TV employee
proved positive. Air conditioning in the Centre was turned off and the building
evacuated. Armed police were on guard.

Associated Press and all New York TV stations closed mail rooms. CNN said: "It
would be silly to think this was not deliberate targeting of media groups."

The alerts left the city reeling almost exactly a month after the September 11
attacks on New York's World Trade Center and the Pentagon, which killed 5,400.
Chef Robert Moussally, 34, said: "There's paranoia. I can't help being scared.
That's what terrorism wants."

Yesterday's State Department powder scare was the second in three days. The
first was a false alarm.

As fears mounted the Dow Jones industrial average fell 187 points.

In Britain, police said they were satisfied with the present levels of alert.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 13, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: ANTHRAX ATTACK IN NEW YORK;
 NBC WOMAN TESTS POSITIVE AMID GERM BLITZ FEAR

BYLINE: Andy Lines And Lucy Rock In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 384 words

HIGHLIGHT: WARNING: Mayor Giuliani


A NEW YORK television worker tested positive for anthrax last night after
handling mail.

Soon afterwards, a suspect package was removed from the offices of the New York
Times.

Emergency services were called to the State Department in Washington after
suspicious white powder was found in a mail office.

In Prague, two men bound for London from Afghanistan were arrested when suspect
liquid was found in their baggage.

The scares fuelled fears of a global bio-terrorism plot against the West by
Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda terror group. They came as the entire US was put on
red alert amid rising fears of further "multiple" terror attacks.

Last week Briton Robert Stevens, 63, died from anthrax at a tabloid group in
Florida.

Two other workers were exposed to the bacteria.

The latest case infected an unnamed woman worker at NBC News - America's biggest
TV network - in Rockefeller Plaza in Manhattan.

She has "cutaneous" anthrax, caught through the skin rather than by breathing,
and is expected fully to recover.

New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani immediately urged anyone in the city who receives a
suspicious envelope to call emergency services. But he said: "The chances this
has been contained are very good." The FBI were alerted after NBC received an
envelope containing white powder on September 25.

The envelope initially tested negative for anthrax. But a later skin test on the
employee proved positive.

Last night the third floor of NBC was sealed off as officers in complete
protection suits searched the building.

Air conditioning in the 69-floor Rockefeller Center was also turned off.

Later, police investigated a suspicious package removed from the New York Times.
A spokeswoman said: "We had a threat and took appropriate steps."

FBI officers insisted there was no proof the NBC case was linked to the
September 11 attacks on New York's World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The
State Department scare was the second in three days. The first was false.

As fears mounted the Dow Jones industrial average fell 187 points.

The Prague suspects had British passports, but are believed to be Afghan. The
suspect liquid is being analysed.

In Britain, the Government and police said they were satisfied with the present
levels of alert.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                                October 13, 2001

Wiltshire ready for terrorist attacks .

BYLINE: Wantage staff reporter (author email wantage@nqo.com)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: Swindon



AN EMERGENCY plan is being formulated to respond to the threat of terrorist
attacks in Wiltshire.


The county is considered a potential target because of the biological research
unit at Porton Down, the army presence at Salisbury Plain and RAF bases at
Lyneham and over the Gloucestershire border at Fairford.


There is also a monitoring unit in North Wiltshire which has a central role in
ensuring forces on operations across the world are able to communicate with one
another.


Wiltshire County Council emergency planning officer Mark Kimberlain has the job
of ensuring there is a swift response in the event of an attack. He was placed
on alert following the USA atrocities and the retaliatory action currently
taking place in Afghanistan.


He said: "We have been very busy looking at how we can improve our plans.


"One of the main focuses of our work has been to help improve communications
between emergency services and other groups whose services may be called on in
the event of an emergency.


"We are making sure that all our contact information for key people is up to
date and that people are aware of their responsibilities."


Although the FBI has concluded that terrorists were not responsible for a recent
spate of anthrax cases in America, the threat of biological attack is still
considered a possibility.


Mr Kimberlin said: "This is something that we are looking at the moment. We are
working with Wiltshire Health Authority to ensure that we cover the
possibility."


The centre in Porton Down is believed to be increasing its stocks of vaccine for
anthrax, small pox and other biological threats.


The Defence Communication Services Agency, which is based at a secret location
in North Wiltshire, is at the heart of the armed forces' operations worldwide.
The agency is home to the high-tech Global Operations and Security Control
Centre (GOSCC) which has the largest video wall in Europe. It would have a vital
role in any deployment of ground troops in Afghanistan.


Spokesman Lieutenant Commander Susie Thomson said: "Our staff work 24 hours a
day regardless. We are obviously pretty busy and our main job is to keep an eye
on the situation and make sure the men and women on the ground have
communication ability."


At any one time staff are monitoring operations in Afghanistan whilst talking
directly to the ships and aircraft deployed around the world.


"It is always essential that communications don't go down, but even more vital
at the moment," said Flight Commander Thomson.


Flight Lieutenant Tom Draper, spokesman at RAF Lyneham, said the airbase had not
received any instructions to join the strike force.


"At the moment it is still very much an American push where we are supporting
them and waiting for any instructions," he said.


Lyneham's Hercules aircrews are currently in the Middle East flying regular
supply trips to Oman and the troops taking part in Britain's biggest overseas
military exercise.


More than 22,000 troops have taken up temporary residence in the hostile desert
climate of Oman and the giant Hercules from the Wiltshire air base have made a
temporary base in the south of the country at the Thumrait military complex.


Security at Lyneham has also been stepped up and every vehicle moving in and out
of the base will be painstakingly checked.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 13, 2001

FBI warns of more terror attacks

SECTION: AGENCY: PA, Pg.2

LENGTH: 403 words


A REVIEW of emergency plans to protect London from the threat of a possible
retaliatory terrorist attack was held yesterday.

The review came as the FBI warned

there is a high risk of moe terrorist attacks in America.

The new contingencies committee, chaired by Minister for London Nick Raynsford,
met for the first time. London Mayor Ken Livingstone, the Metropolitan Police,
the other emergency services and the utilities industry were among who attended.

Any additional recommendations considered necessary to boost security will be
made to the Civil Contingencies Committee which is chaired by the Home Secretary
David Blunkett.

"London's plans for coping with an emergency are in good shape," Mr Raynsford
said.

"Since September 11, we have worked hard to refine these plans to address all
potential threats and challenges."

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon said that Britons should be "vigilant" but that the
Government had no specific information suggesting a terrorist attack was
imminent in the UK.

He said: "We don't expect anything. There are no specific warnings of further
attacks, but we have said consistently since the shocking events of September 11
that people must be on the alert and vigilant. That means they should pay extra
special attention to their suspicions and things that have changed.

"Even if they are not quite sure, they should report things to their local
police. That is important because it means we are all engaged in the campaign
against terrorism," Mr Hoon said.

The FBI, which is in charge of preventing terrorism in the United States as well
as investigating the September 11 attacks, called on local police to be on the
"highest alert".

The warning is the strongest yet that terrorists will attempt to strike again at
the country in the wake of its air strikes on Afghanistan.

In a statement, the FBI said: "Certain information, while not specific as to
target, gives the government reason to believe that there may be additional
terrorist attacks within the United States and against US interests overseas
over the next several days.

"The FBI has again alerted all local law enforcement to be on the highest alert
and we call on all people to immediately notify the FBI and local law
enforcement of any unusual or suspicious activity."

HIGH SECURITY: Workers fix barbed wire around the British High Commission in New
Delhi as a precaution against attack

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 13, 2001, Saturday

INSURER FACES LOSSES OF POUNDS 200M AFTER TERROR ATTACK;
 MONEY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 164 words


INSURANCE group Royal & Sun Alliance yesterday said its losses resulting from
the attacks on the World Trade Centre would be pounds 50m more than originally
forecast.

The company now expects to face costs of up to pounds 200m, compared to an
estimate of pounds 150m made three days after the atrocities.

The figure is before tax relief and after reinsurance recoveries.

Royal & Sun Alliance was exposed to the impact of the attack through aviation,
property, worker compensation and business interruption policies.

A spokesman said it revised its estimate after consulting clients over the
nature and extent of their losses.

The London-based firm writes close to a quarter of its business on the other
side of the Atlantic. Further details of the losses are expected to be given at
Royal's third quarter results on November 8.

But the group warned the full impact of the terrorist attack on the insurance
market would not be known for "a significant time".

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 14, 2001, Sunday

ATTACK ON AFGHANISTAN: MYSTERY OF TERROR 'INSIDER DEALERS';
 MARKETS WINDFALL

BYLINE: Chris Blackhurst

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 493 words


Share speculators have failed to collect $ 2.5m (pounds 1.7m) in profits made
from the fall in the share price of United Airlines after the 11 September World
Trade Centre attacks.

The fact that the money is unclaimed more than a month later has re- awakened
investigators' interest in a story dismissed as coincidence.

It may be that investors who were able to predict the share price crash so
skilfully are reluctant to be seen profiting from tragedy. But investigators now
wonder whether there is a more sinister explanation.

The authorities are examining the possibility that if they knew what was coming,
traders were intent on taking their profits immediately, before regulators had
woken up to any possible scam. But investors failed to foresee that the first
response of the US stock markets to the disaster was to suspend all trading for
four days, thereby denying them the chance of cashing in their profits.

Further details of the futures trades that netted such huge gains in the wake of
the hijackings have been disclosed. To the embarrassment of investigators, it
has also emerged that the firm used to buy many of the "put" options - where a
trader, in effect, bets on a share price fall - on United Airlines stock was
headed until 1998 by "Buzzy" Krongard, now executive director of the CIA.

Until 1997, Mr Krongard was chairman of Alex Brown Inc, America's oldest
investment banking firm. Alex Brown was acquired by Bankers Trust, which in turn
was bought by Deutsche Bank. His last post before resigning to take his senior
role in the CIA was to head Bankers Trust - Alex Brown's private client
business, dealing with the accounts and investments of wealthy customers around
the world.

There is no suggestion that Mr Krongard had advance knowledge of the attacks.

Between 6 and 7 September, the Chicago Board Options Exchange saw purchases of
4,744 "put" option contracts in UAL versus 396 call options - where a speculator
bets on a price rising. Holders of the put options would have netted a profit of
$ 5m (pounds 3.3m) once the carrier's share price dived after 11 September. On
10 September, more trading in Chicago saw the purchase of 4,516 put options in
American Airlines, the other airline involved in the hijackings. This compares
with a mere 748 call options in American purchased that day. Investigators
cannot help but notice that no other airlines saw such trading in their put
options.

It was not just airlines that were targeted by remarkably canny investors. One
of the biggest occupants of the World Trade Centre was Morgan Stanley, the
investment bank. In the first week of September, an average of 27 put option
contracts was bought each day in its shares. The total for the three days before
the attacks was 2,157. Merrill Lynch, another WTC tenant, saw 12,215 put options
bought in the four days before the attacks, when the previous days had seen
averages of 252 contracts a day.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                October 14, 2001

Manchester Games insured before terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Rob Draper

SECTION: Pg. 107

LENGTH: 197 words


THE Commonwealth Games in Manchester will go ahead next year according to
organisers, despite the threat to the football World Cup finals over insurance
payments.

Football's world governing body FIFA revealed last week that insurers Axa were
now refusing to cover the World Cup in Korea and Japan because of the terrorist
attacks in the US last month.

Axa have given FIFA a month's notice to terminate their arrangement to insure
the finals.

FIFA had already paid GBP 7million of a GBP 12million premium to insure the
finals for GBP 600million.

The Commonwealth Games take place in Manchester next July but had already
secured the insurance cover before the terrorist attacks in New York and
Washington.

A spokesman for the Commonwealth Games said: 'We have cover for all risks in a
deal which was settled in July, a year before the Games.' The organisers have
refused to reveal who has insured the Games, but claim there are no loopholes
for the insurers to back out in the wake of increased terrorist threats.

But all major sporting events, including the Commonwealth Games, now face
multimillion pound bills to increase security during the events.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 14, 2001

Escape: Hostile? Not a bit...: So how are tourists being treated in other Muslim
holiday hotspots following the 11 September terrorist attacks? We asked some of
them:

BYLINE: Dee O'Connell and Josefine Volquartz

SECTION: Observer Escape Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 528 words


Dubai

I had booked a last minute holiday to Dubai and, as it turned out, I was due to
leave two days after the Twin Towers fell in New York. I seriously considered
not going.

When I got there I was surprised. Everyone was very friendly. I didn't stay in
the hotel all the time, and that applies to everyone I met, even in the areas
where there were no tourists. My overriding impression was that everyone felt
united in a fight against global terrorism.

News broke while we were there that one of the terrorists was from Dubai but in
terms of being a tourist there, this really didn't affect us. The only scary
thing was the plane being empty on the way back. There's nothing quite like that
to reinforce the feeling you're one of the mad ones. Lu Barron

Northern Cyprus

Travelling there about a week after the attacks in New York and Washington, we
were isolated from the media because we were in a villa that didn't have a
television, and we couldn't get many British newspapers. We asked a couple of
waiters what was happening so we could catch up with the news and they were
reluctant to talk about it at all. They just avoided the questions and we got
the impression that it was a sensitive topic.

My interpretation was that we were Westerners in a Muslim area, and that they
were uncomfortable talking about it with us. It didn't affect how the staff
treated us, but it was an incredibly sensitive situation. Nova Arnachellum

Turkey

I was in Turkey when the attacks took place - having a shave at a Turkish
barbers, as it happens. As soon as I'd finished having my shave I went to the
hotel bar, and it was deserted apart from a couple whose son-in-law worked on
Wall Street . They were just staring, white-faced at a TV showing CNN.

Because we were speaking to them, the hotel staff assumed we were in the same
predicament, and they were really sympathetic.

Throughout our stay the Turkish people seemed far more nervous about the
situation than any English tourists did. Right up until when we left, a week
after the attacks, you would see groups of Turks gathered round televisions and
radios each night. By contrast, our fellow Western tourists seemed to lose
interest after they had watched the first night's footage. Dan Pearce

Egypt

I've just come back from a week's diving in Egypt, and I have to report that
there was absolutely nothing out of the ordinary. The people were very friendly
and the troubles were never mentioned, but that was in the resort of Sharm el
-Sheikh.

Basically, everything in Egypt happened as I expected. The weather was great,
the hotel was nice, the people were superb and the airport baggage handlers
nicked my stereo. I wouldn't have had it any other way. Paul Harris

Tunisia

I travelled to Tunisia for a week on Friday, 14 September. I was made to feel
very welcome by everyone I met there. I was based in Hammamet, which is very
much a resort for tourists. All members of staff in the hotel were very
courteous and helpful. I did not experience any threat from anyone during all
the time I was there - and this from a woman travelling alone! Catherine
Skillings


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 14, 2001

Life: Terror vision: The attack on New York has made us all more anxious. With
good reason. But imagine feeling acute anxiety all the time, for no apparent
reason: a nightmare soundtrack that accompanies your life. General Anxiety
Disorder now has official recognition and the numbers of sufferers are soaring.
Jane Phillimore worries about why

BYLINE: Jane Phillimore

SECTION: Observer Life Pages, Pg. 30

LENGTH: 2700 words


The rise of anxiety - you can plot a graph to it. When researcher Glyn Lewis
compared data from 1977 and 1985, he found that the number of people who said
they suffered a range of anxiety symptoms such as panic attacks and phobias had
risen from 22 per cent in 1977, to 31 per cent in 1985. In 1992, US researchers
found that a remarkable three-quarters of people they spoke to had at least one
serious symptom of anxiety, such as panic, unreasonable fears, nervousness and
so on. 1993 figures showed that 30 per cent of the adult population experience
enough anxiety to warrant clinical intervention at some time in their lives, and
in 1998, a Department of Health survey found that one in six adults suffered
from some neurotic disorder in the week before they were interviewed.

GAD (pronounced G-A-D, rather than rhyming with 'bad') is as yet not well known
in this country, but it has dramatically changed the clinical perception of
anxiety. More properly known as Generalised Anxiety Disorder, it was originally
a dustbin diagnosis for free-floating anxiety. But in 1994, the American
Psychiatric Association's influential Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders IV (DSM-IV), gave the condition full diagnostic billing - as
excessive anxiety and worry occurring more days than not for a minimum of six
months, about a number of events. Thus, GAD has joined panic disorder, obsessive
compulsive disorder, phobias (such as fear of spiders, agoraphobia and social
phobia) and post-traumatic stress disorder as the fifth full-blown anxiety
disorder.

What's remarkable about GAD is that, unlike post-traumatic stress disorder or
phobias, where the symptoms and focus of anxiety are easily recognised, it is
hard to define. Sufferers worry about anything and possibly everything. This
makes it sound like nothing more than an extension of the everyday worry all
human beings experience. And GAD may start there. But it can escalate into a
disabling disorder in which outwardly ordinary, normally successful people are
crippled by inner lives of intense distress. And they don't need outside events
like the bombing of the World Trade Center to focus on.

Earlier this year, I had a bout of it. And it drives you mad. GAD is chronic, so
sufferers often have an anxious buzz in their ear. But it has acute-on-chronic
episodes. During these times, which can last for weeks, worrisome, doom-laden
and absurd thoughts - that my two-year-old is going to drown in the pool on
holiday three months hence, for example - would startle me awake in the middle
of the night, and then run round my head for hour upon hour. It goes something
like this: 'To stop her drowning, I'll have to keep her with me all the time,
organise a pool rota, make her wear waterwings all day, lock her door at night
in case she wanders but what if there's a fire? So, yes, I'll need -> <- a
ladder nearby' and so on, in an exhausting and pointless cycle. Worry becomes
superstitiously important: it's as if only my ability to 'worry it through' will
keep that catastrophe from happening.

As a result, every night is like being in an Orson Welles movie - perhaps less
entertaining, though with the same sustained level of apprehension spinning off
into an uncontrollable spiral of doom, fear and horribly imagined consequences.
Time goes fast while you're engaged in this vivid kind of rumination but,
meanwhile, you're awake for hours and the next day more exhausted and anxious
than ever. It's as if your internal stream of consciousness - the soundtrack
that accompanies each of us in daily life - has, like the killer T cells in an
overactive immune system, started attacking you with negativity. And there's no
direct causal link for it: in fact, GAD dwells mostly in the personal and
domestic arenas, the prod uct of small, everyday thoughts rather than those of
impending global catastrophe.

Like many GADs, I also worry that I'm making myself ill by worrying. I worry I'm
becoming so tired that I soon won't be able to think, that I'll lose control and
go crazy. Yet I still can't stop worrying. My shoulders are so tense that when I
went for one of therapist Bharti Vyas's anxiety-relieving massages, she kindly
offered me three free treatments instead of the usual one. Sleeping pills don't
work - these doomy thoughts penetrate even the mists of temazepam.

John Irvine (not his real name), 40, is a lecturer in computing from Clydebank
and has suffered from GAD for years, explains it like this. 'My mind is very
active and running and running about, like hitting a tennis racket again and
again. Then you start to ask yourself, am I doing it all right, you question
your own ability, question yourself as a human being, and when you're like that,
it's vicious.'

It's estimated that up to nine per cent of the population suffers - that's
nearly one in 10 people who are walking round with chronic worry on their mind.
But although GAD starts in your minds, it soon turns into a full body
experience. You get tremendous muscle tension and fatigue, insomnia (70 per cent
of GADs report sleep disturbance), irritability, a tight chest, pounding heart
and a feeling of suffocation. You feel jumpy, and hyper alert to anything you
consider threatening - something as simple as your child being late from school,
or being driven on a long journey. You will be on edge most of the time, and
have a total inability to relax.

Many sufferers - up to 65 per cent - also have other disorders, which
complicates diagnosis. 'I never see anyone just with GAD,' says Jim White, a
clinical psychologist who runs group cognitive therapy courses to treat anxiety
and stress in Clydebank health -> <- centre near Glasgow. In half of GADs, it's
depression, but panic disorder and social anxiety are also common.

Like depression 10 years ago, GAD brings out that British stiff upper lip among
certain sectors of the popular press. The Daily Mail recently ran a quiz on GAD,
or 'fretting' as they called it. 'Do you assume your partner has been run over
by a bus if she/he's 30 minutes late?' they ask. If so, you may be suffering
from GAD, but you're also a total wimp. The big joke among the opinion formers
of middle England is that most sufferers don't even know they've got GAD - they
just consider themselves 'born worriers'. So how can it be that bad?

You can understand the scepticism. David Nutt, Professor of Psychopharmacology
at the University of Bristol, thinks it may be years before anxiety gets taken
as seriously as other clinical disorders. 'Depression used to be something that
only wimps got,' he says. 'But now it's seen as a seriously disabling illness.
People who suffer from anxiety are still seen as wimps or worriers. It may take
another 10 or 20 years to get the same paradigm shift.'

The trouble is that, because anxiety is a normal, human function, those who
don't suffer from it to any noticeable degree think those who do should just
pull themselves together. But GAD is a matter of degree. Imagine living with a
hyped-up, apprehensive feeling continuously for the rest of your life: that's
what GADs do. They're constantly over-reacting, running flat-out just to stand
still. Worry is the daily definition of their lives. Excessive worry doesn't
kill you - though there is some risk of premature death from brain haemorrhage
or heart disease. It just means you get no enjoyment from life. There is no
respite.

John Irvine wouldn't wish it on his worst enemy. This is how he describes his
normal state of mind - and body. 'I go too deep into things. I have to worry
about everything: why did I not pass that exam, why did I not do this, or that?
I have very disturbed sleep. In my last job, I had IBS for three years. I was in
hospital getting tests done, and had medication for it for five years. I get
agitated, particularly when I'm driving. I feel slightly light-headed, giddy,
and get pins and needles in my hands and numbness in my bottom lip - the doctors
say that's from not breathing properly. I speak fast and I breathe fast. I don't
like the way I am. If I was more calm, I'd have a better quality of life.'

GADs each have their own individual focus for worry. Novelist Alexandra
Campbell, 47, says it's her children: every little snivel is the potential start
of an escalating worry cycle. Plus, of course, she worries about everything
else, too. 'If I hear a loud bang, I think it is a gun; when a lorry goes by and
the house shakes, I think it's an earthquake. As a child, I had this recurring
image of my mother playing bridge while the house was burning down, saying,
"Never mind, darling, I just want to finish this hand," so it was up to me to
stop the world collapsing. Now there's this -> -> monkey on my shoulder - an
inner running commentary the whole time. I used to get so worried and frantic it
would go over into panic. At one stage, I had panic attacks every day, going
into the supermarket, on the Tube at rush hour' When she's lying down doing
relaxation exercises to keep worry at bay, she even worries that the chandelier
above her will fall and kill her. That's GAD.

Work often triggers the worry cycle. Like everyone, GADs worry about bigger
issues - giving a presentation, finishing a project on time, failing to do their
best - but they also worry about insignificant or fanciful things: being two
minutes late, making a mistake, whether the water machine is properly cleaned,
or is spewing out legionnaire's disease. Each of these spins off a catastrophic
cycle: if I'm 10 minutes late, I won't have time to do that report properly, I
won't make the meeting, my boss will give me a verbal warning, I'll be sacked.
By running through scenarios like this in their heads, GADs feel they're
preparing themselves for the worst possible outcome, just in case. It's like the
Scout motto in Luis Bunuel's hands: a surreal prophecy of doom.

Artist Alan Macdonald says the stressful times of catastrophic thinking come
when he's preparing for a show. 'If I feel a painting doesn't work, then it's as
if everything you have ever done is a failure. My brain seems to fire
uncomfortable thoughts at me: it sets off on a long tirade of uncomfortable
moments in life which haunt me. At those times, you have very little respect for
anything you've done, you can't see a future or feel positive in any way.'

For most people, anxiety is a fuel for ambition and achievement, but in GAD the
repeated worry is almost entirely negative. GADs often feel that they can't rely
on themselves under pressure, that they'll stop coping and go crazy. As a
result, they avoid situations, or get so worried about them, that they handle
them badly and thus confirm their worst fears. Which leads to more avoidance
and, eventually, to a life less lived.

Who gets GAD? The answer is almost anyone. As psychologist Oliver James, the
author of Britain on the Couch (Arrow) says, 'Anxiety is not caused by your
genes, but by your early childhood experiences and the society you are living
in.'

Answer these two questions:

1. Do you worry about the global situation, your work/life balance and your
health?

2. Do you worry about worrying about the global situation, your work/life
balance and your health?

Say yes to both and you're well on the way to GAD.

What characterises GAD, and makes it different from normal levels of anxiety, is
one crucial thing: worrying about worry. Adrian Wells, a Reader in Clinical
Psychology at the University of Manchester, who has recently developed a
theoretical model of GAD, calls this meta-worry. 'The very fact that we are able
to worry about worry is one of those fascinating human conditions,' Wells says.
'We have beliefs about our own thoughts, and GADs believe that worrying is a way
of coping.'

Paradoxically, it turns out that normal everyday worries - which Wells calls
Type One worries - are nothing much to worry about. But if you also display
positive and negative worry beliefs (ie 'worrying helps me solve problems'; or
'worrying will make me ill') - which Wells calls Type Two worries - then you may
be at risk.

If we had to draw up a blueprint of the person who suddenly realises that their
anxiety has got out of hand - in other words that they are suffering from GAD -
it would go something like this. You are approaching 40. You've been a worrier
since your teens or childhood, but have recently noticed anxiety intruding more
and more on your life. You -> <- tense, probably talk quickly, and eat quickly.
You feel and sleep badly - either finding it hard to get to sleep, or waking up
many times during the night. If you are in a relationship - and many anxious
people prefer to avoid intimacy - then you may seek a great deal of reassurance
from your partner, or make yourself distant and remote from them. Your sexual
libido will be low.

You may have moved house or school a lot as a child, and you're probably not the
first born in the family. You won't be of a specific personality type, but
you'll undoubtedly have a tendency towards what scientists call Negative Affect
- a sensitivity to negative stimuli that leads to a general feeling of anxious
apprehension, as if you're looking at the world through blue-tinted glasses. You
tend to withdraw from situations that cause you anxiety, making your world
safer, but ultimately smaller and less interesting. This pattern of avoidance
may mean you find it hard to fulfil your potential, causing frustration and
regret.

In early childhood, you may remember your parents being inconsistent - one day
praising you, the next ignoring you. You're quite likely to describe your mother
as rejecting, and have angry and oscillating feelings towards her. Chances are,
your parents were highly overprotective - stopping you from doing things or
intervening too readily to make sure you succeeded; and low on care - not
terribly responsive.

You may have been quite bolshie as a young child. In a 1995 study, pre-school
children were videoed interacting with their mothers. The mothers of anxious
children used 'aversive control' - criticism, punishment and intrusion - yet
their children were the most non-compliant and rebellious of the lot.

As in all the anxiety disorders, women are more likely to suffer than men, by a
61 per cent to 39 per cent margin. Professor David Nutt, who is currently
writing a book on GAD, thinks this female bias may have something to do with
oestrogen, which affects the serotonin and noradrenalin receptors in the brain.
'It may also, of course, be that women are more open about their anxiety,' he
says. 'When men are stressed they tend to turn their worry into physical
symptoms such as backache, or become irritable and controlling.'

Stressful events also sensitise people towards anxiety. 'The key thing isn't
your childhood,' says Oliver James. 'Your childhood may give you the
potentiality for anxiety, but whether that potential is fulfilled is about what
sort of society you're living in.' He's wary of making unprovable comparisons
between countries, but points out that people in Denmark and Italy, for example,
don't suffer as much anxiety as those in Britain and the USA. Our fast-moving,
competitive, youth-oriented and divorce-filled society may be to blame. 'We
question everything: our material circumstances, whether we have an attractive
enough partner, we even find our own personality needs to be improved, adjusted,
made better,' James says.

People who are out of work are understandably anxious, but so are many of the
employed, now we're facing global recession. Every workplace survey confirms
rising stress levels and plummeting job satisfaction. Stress-management
consultant Ann McCracken of AMC Mentoring says that 75 to 80 per cent of the
people who come to her for help quote anxiety as a major problem. 'Almost
everyone I see, from blue-chip CEOs down to middle management, tells me they are
suffering from anxiety,' she says.

Which seems to put just about everyone in the frame. All things considered, no
wonder we are living in an age of anxiety. Thank God, or more accurately, thank
GAD. Anxiety is finally out of the closet.


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 14, 2001

SADDAM 'PLANNING TERRORIST ATTACK '

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 481 words


SADDAM Hussein could be planning a major terrorist attack in a bid to undermine
Pakistan's cooperation with the campaign to capture Bin Laden, a security expert
has warned.

Kevin O'Brien, an intelligence analyst with the Rand Corporation, said the
cooperation of the Pakistani intelligence service could be the lynchpin of the
covert operation to track down the Al Qaeda overlord.

And he warned that the Iraqi dictator is renowned for capitalising on moments of
international tension to portray himself as the true leader of those Arabs whose
one desire is to expel Western influences from the Middle East and Asia. That
could fatally undermine the position of Pakistani President Pervez Musharaff,
who has gone out of his way to cooperate with the Western allies.

His sacking last week of LieutenantGeneral Mahmood Ahmed, the boss of the ISI
intelligence service, which set the Taliban up in the first place, is seen by
intelligence experts as a crucial move.

Ousting the hardliner could make the ISI, the one intelligence agency with good
undercover agents among the Taliban and Afghanistan's majority Pathan community,
more cooperative in the hunt for Bin Laden and his acolytes.

Mr O'Brien said: "Pakistan is one to watch over the next few weeks. The whole
situation there remains very fluid.

"There's also the question of Iraq and whether Saddam Hussein gets more
involved. Historically this is definitely the kind of time he would try
something."

IF Saddam attempted to grab the headlines with a terrorist assault, a
conventional military attack or an offer to shelter Bin Laden it would
dramatically reinforce the position of the hawks in President Bush's cabinet to
go after the Iraqi dictator. But he might judge that the benefit to his position
in the Arab world made such a move worthwhile.

Mr O'Brien said: "It would make him a blatant target for the West, but you've
got to look at it from the perspective of the Arab world. There is a great
upheaval in all the Arab countries, not least Pakistan, against the war and if
Saddam can associate himself with that groundswell of public opinion he can
portray himself as the oppressed leader of the Arabs."

He said the loyalties of the ISI could prove decisive. "They created the Taliban
back in 1993 and 1994. They claim to have lost control of them, but that is
difficult to believe. If anybody can find intelligence on the activities of the
Taliban and Al Qaeda it is them."

The ISI, which has effectively run Pakistan's foreign policy for two decades is
considered responsible for the assassination of former president General
Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq and Shah Nawaz Bhutto, a brother of former Pakistani prime
minister Benazir Bhutto. They are also credited with toppling Miss Bhutto after
she gained power in 1988, and helping to acquire nuclear technology from China
and North Korea.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                            October 14, 2001, Sunday

ONE DAY BRITAIN WILL BE ATTACKED AND WE WILL LAUGH;
 WAR ON TERRORISM: SUNDAY MAIL SPEAKS TO THE SPIRITUAL LEADER OF AFGHANISTAN'S
REVILED REGIME

BYLINE: Brian Lironi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 11

LENGTH: 1080 words


In the first interview with Sami ul Haq since he was put under house arrest in
Pakistan, BRIAN LIRONI is told of the mullah's chilling desire for revenge.
Pictures: HENRY McINNES

THE soldiers of the Taliban do not get military training at Sami ul Haq's
academy but their minds are armed for war.

And the spiritual leader of the Afghan regime yesterday broke his silence to
issue a chilling warning to Britain.

He said: "Your involvement is worse than America's. It is nothing to do with
you. Read the history of Afghanistan ... attack and you will gain nothing but
your own destruction.

"One day, Britain will be attacked and then we will laugh. That would be justice
for our Arab brothers."

The fanatical cleric called for vengeance and vowed defiance while being held
under house arrest at his religious school, run as a Taliban recruitment centre
near the Pakistan-Afghan border.

Nine out of 10 members of the Taliban emerge from the college after being
drilled in their militant Islamic faith at the Dar ul Uloom Haqqania, in the
village of Akora Khattak.

Yesterday, the Sunday Mail were given privileged access to his religious academy
to witness first-hand the stone-cold hatred of the West that drives the mullahs
behind the regime sheltering Osama bin Laden.

Sipping tea surrounded by his fanatical supporters, Haq revealed there is no
chance of the Taliban meekly surrendering beneath the Allies' overwhelming
military might.

He branded Tony Blair a "paid assassin" and warned that Britain would pay a
heavy price for helping America bomb Afghanistan.

Haq is arguably the most influential voice of militant Islam and he offers
Western leaders no prospect of peace.

He told us: "I can understand why Americans are angry. But what has this got to
do with Britain?

"Tony Blair is acting like a paid assassin. He is involved in the attacks on our
Muslim brothers for financial reasons. Britain should not be involved.

"Any attack on Afghanistan is the same as an attack on Pakistan or Saudi Arabia
or any Muslim country. We are all Muslim brothers."

The mullah was one of the leaders to call a jihad - holy war - after the Soviet
invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. Now, he does not believe he even needs to call
for jihad.

He said: "Islam is very clear. When our Muslim brothers are attacked, it is the
duty of all Muslims to use every resource available to us to help them.

"There is no need for a declaration of jihad - the American terrorism started
the jihad."

When asked if that "help" included going to war in Afghanistan, he replied: "All
Muslim brothers must give whatever help we can including financial help, weapons
and our blood."

He said: "If America attacked your country and killed your brothers, you would
also go to war."

Our reporting team had been threatened that youths would stone them to death
before they even reached the gates of the school.

Instead, armed guards and Pakistani secret service personnel - stationed outside
Haq's home 24 hours a day - waved us inside. Out of the sunshine, some of his
most devoted disciples greeted us with handshakes.

We sat for several minutes under a concrete canopy. At the far end, a Toyota
Landcruiser was parked. Lining the walls were cases full of Islamic texts.

We were instructed where to sit and told that he would arrive in a few minutes.

When he appeared, all 13 people present - 10 Islamic fundamentalists and our
team - stood up. He then went round the room shaking hands while one of his
followers made introductions.

As he began speaking, everyone in the room started taking notes - the mullah's
every word is cherished and studied by his students.

At first, he expressed some sympathy for the victims of the September 11 attacks
.

"Many thousands of innocent people were killed at the World Trade Centre by
terrorists. Terrorism is against the teachings of Islam." But then he rounded on
the US for bombing the Taliban.

He said: "One act of terrorism does not make up for another. What the Americans
are doing in Afghanistan is an act of international terrorism.

"Innocent people have been killed at the World Trade Centre. What is the
difference? Our people are people too. They have rights and they have blood."

The mullah also offered a faint glimmer that the Taliban may consider helping
bring Osama bin Laden to justice - but only in an Islamic country under Muslim
law.

He said: "We have offered to bring Osama bin Laden to justice in any country in
the Muslim world. Why must he be tried in the West?

"The Americans think their system of democracy is superior but out Islamic
system is also based on justice and morality.

"We told the Americans if they show us evidence against Osama we will bring him
to trial but they did not answer."

Asked if the Taliban would consider handing bin Laden to the West if they
supplied evidence that he was responsible for the US attacks, he said: "It would
not matter if we handed over 100 Osamas and America hanged all of them.

"America wants to bring an end to the Islamic world and it will not stop. Osama
is just an excuse. It is Afghanistan now but next it will be Pakistan and then
all the other countries in central Asia.

"America is a superpower but it should learn that it cannot rule the world on
its own. I don't think they can get that into their heads.

"They should read the history of Afghanistan. Anyone who attacks Afghanistan
gets nothing, except their own destruction."

Maulana - the Islamic title for a religious professor - Sami ul Haq heads the
Council for the Defence of Afghanistan, formed to co-ordinate a response to the
US bombings in the region's murky world of religion-cum-politics.

He is one of the three mullahs placed under house by Pakistani President Pervez
Musharraf and is easily the most influential.

His father Maulana Adbul Haq, who founded the Darul Uloom Haqqania school, had
an awesome influence over the Afghan rebels who fought the Soviet Union from
1979 to 1989.

That mantle has been passed on to his son whose influence over today's Taliban
is just as strong.

He is in close contact with one-eyed Mohammad Omar, the leader of the Taliban.
And in 1997, after the Afghan regime suffered a military defeat, he closed the
religious college and sent every student to the front line.

After the interview, the mullah arranged for us to have tea then left us. We did
not wait for long.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 14, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS CRUSH LIAM'S OSCAR CHANCES;
 BLOCKBUSTER SHELVED

BYLINE: Eamonn O'hanlon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 305 words

HIGHLIGHT: DELAYED: De Caprio with director Scorsese; CRASH: Liam was in a near
fatal motorbike accident


THE terror attacks on America have almost certainly cost Irish actor Liam Neeson
any chance of success in next year's Oscars.

The Ballymena man was in the running for a best supporting actor award for his
role as Leonard DiCaprio's dad in the forthcoming epic Gangs of New York.

But bosses at Miramax studios this week shelved the $ 90million movie until next
year because of public sensitivity over the September 11 attacks on New York and
Washing-ton.

It means the movie will miss the December 31 deadline for inclusion in next
year's Academy Awards.

The movie - which also stars Daniel Day Lewis and Cameron Diaz - tells the
gritty and often violent story of Irish and Italian gangs in 1860s New York.

It is Ulster-born Neeson's biggest role since Star Wars and marks his return to
Hollywood's A-list after a motorbike accident which almost cost him his life in
July last year

The film's director Martin Scorsese and Mira-max Films co-chairman Harvey
Weinstein gave the bad news in a joint statement last week.

The statement said: "We have both thoroughly enjoyed working together on Gangs
of New York and look forward to sharing it with audiences.

"Our decision to postpone the film's release is based on its setting in downtown
Manhattan during the Civil War in the midst of the 1860's draft riots - one of
the most difficult and challenging times in American history.

"In light of the ever-changing current events, we have chosen to err on the side
of sensitivity and postpone the wide release of the film until 2002."

One fan said: "The studio has show a lot of courage in shelving such a big
movie, even though it has nothing to do with terrorism and is set 140 years in
the past.

"The bottom line is that American audiences have no stomach for violent movies
at the moment."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                October 15, 2001

Girl, 15, in sex attack terror

BYLINE: by dleask

SECTION: NEWS:999:Auto crime, Pg.1

LENGTH: 233 words


A 15-YEAR-OLD North-east girl was sexually assaulted as she walked along a
secluded woodland path.

Police said a man emerged from bushes, threw the girl to the ground then
indecently assaulted her.

She was today due to describe her terrifying ordeal to officers probing the
case.

She was attacked close to Turriff's Buckley's nightclub on Saturday night.

She said the assailant appeared from some bushes.

A police spokesman today said the girl was traumatised but unhurt after the
incident, which happened around 9.30pm.

They were due to reinterview her today in a bid to glean more vital information.

Forensic officers were yesterday scouring for clues along the path - which runs
from the town's main Queen's Road to the ground of junior football side Turriff
United.

The whole pathway was cordoned off until midday yesterday.

It runs behind Buckley's nightclub, which runs a disco from 10pm to 2am on
Saturday nights.

A police spokesman said: "We are treating this attack seriously. The girl is
being interviewed today."

The Turriff attack is not being linked to another sex assault, in Forres, early
yesterday.

There a lone female was attacked in the town's Rose Garden between 2am and 3am.

Grampian Police said people nearby would have heard the disturbance.

Anyone with any information on either of the attacks should phone Crimestoppers
free of charge on (0500) 555111.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 15, 2001

Air crash survivor visits US in crisis;
 TERRORIST FEARS: anthrax attack prompts panic

BYLINE: Daisy Blake

SECTION: News, Pg.3

LENGTH: 363 words


THE decision to get on a plane and fly across the Atlantic was difficult enough
for businesswoman Lynn Moorhouse - she and her family survived the first ever
747 crash.

But her trip to New York, which is currently gripped by fear of biolgical
attacks in the wake of the September 11 attacks, would have made even the most
seasoned flyers worried.

Mrs Moorhouse has travelled to the US to take a hearfelt message of hope and
support to communities ravaged by the terrorism attacks.

Speaking from New York yesterday, she said the city was in a state of panic
because of the anthrax scare.

Mrs Moorhouse flew to America on Saturday.

During her four-day visit Mrs Moorhouse present civic officials with a book of
condolence from the American Museum and a piece of engraved Bath Aqua glass, as
well as a message from the Mayor of Bath, Cllr Marian McNeir.

Mrs Moorhouse, who is vice-chairman of Bath Chamber of Commerce, will also meet
with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce in Manhattan.

Mrs Moorhouse, her husband Earl and their two children were passengers on the
first-ever 747 plane to crash.

When the aircraft fell to earth soon after taking off from Nairobi airport in
Kenya in 1974, the ensuing fireball cost 59 people their lives - but the entire
Moorhouse family escaped without serious injury.

It was five years before Mrs Moorhouse flew again.

Speaking from New York yesterday, Mrs Moorhouse said she knew the trip would be
emotional but she was proud to be there. She is accompanied by a friend and
colleague, Vivien Simpson, who lives in Larkhall.

Mrs Moorhouse said: "I have flown quite a few times and I still get nervous, but
thinking what those people went through puts it in perspective.

"Our hotel room is on the 52nd floor and the maid told us to look out over Times
Square. She said there were only half the number of people there usually were.

"I know this trip is going to be sobering.

"We will have to prepare ourselves to go to the World Trade Centre and for what
we are going to be looking at there."

She said that the anthrax scare had stretched already frayed nerves to breaking
point.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 15, 2001

Britain ready for anthrax attack;
 War on Terrorism: ANTIBIOTICS STOCKPILED: no immediate threat of bio-terrorism

BYLINE: Martha Linden; PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 460 words


THE Chief Medical Officer said today the Government was prepared for the
possibility of an anthrax attack.

Professor Liam Donaldson stressed that there was no evidence of an "immediate
threat or risk" but revealed antibiotics had been ordered in the past fortnight
in an effort to counter the disease.

"We don't have any evidence that there is any threat or risk but it is our
responsibility to plan and plan well and that is what we have been doing over
the last two weeks, " he said.

The Government had secured the "necessary stores" of antibiotics and other
equipment, he said, and pinpointed the need for detailed "scenario planning"
over the coming months and years in collaboration with the US.

The measures were in addition to guidance issued by the Government on how to
counter any possible threat from biological or chemical agents.

Asked if the Government was prepared for a biological attack, Prof Donaldson
said: "I think we are very well prepared. We have one of the best public health
systems in the world."

His remarks came as the number of people in the US who either have anthrax or
have been exposed to it rose to 12.

In Britain three people who worked in buildings in the US where anthrax was
detected are waiting for the results of tests.

US Health Secretary Tommy Thompson described the attacks an "act of terrorism".

Fears of biological attacks grew after spores were found on a police officer and
two lab technicians investigating an anthraxcontaminated letter sent to NBC
television's studios in New York.

A second NBC employee is also taking antibiotics after displaying possible
symptoms of the disease.

Mr Thompson said that he considered the anthrax cases in New York, Nevada and
Florida to be instances of bioterrorism.

But US Attorney General John Ashcroft said it was too early to say if there was
a direct link to Osama bin Laden, chief suspect in the devastating hijackings in
New York and Washington last month.

As panic grew in the US, several other media organisations reported potentially
infected mail, including the New York Times and CBS in Washington DC.

However, in Nevada officials said four people who may have come into contact
with a contaminated letter at a Microsoft office tested negative while results
were not known for two others.

Two of the people in Britain being tested currently worked at the newspaper
offices in Boca Raton, Florida, where five employees have already tested
positive for exposure to the disease following the death of a British-born
worker there.

The other was in New York where Erin O'Connor, 38, an assistant to NBC news
anchorman Tom Brokaw, was exposed after opening a letter addressed to her boss
and finding powder inside.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

CATHEDRAL ANTHRAX ALERT AS TERROR GROUP WARNS OF MORE ATTACKS

BYLINE: Neil Connor

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 440 words


Fears that Osama bin Laden's terrorist orgaisation is planning biological
attacks against the western allies heightened last night after an anthrax scare
at Canterbury Cathedral.

The cathedral was evacuated after a man of Arab appearance was seen dropping
white powder in one of its chapels. Firefighters in protective suits were called
in clear up the unknown substance, which scientists are now testing to discover
if it is the deadly bacteria or another biological agent.

Fears that there maybe further terrorist attacks, both biolgical and
conventional, to come were heightened over the weekend as Osama bin Laden's
organisation issued a chilling threat of more attacks against the US and
Britain. Al Qaida's group spokesman Sulaiman Abu Ghaith warned on a videotape
screened on Qatar's Al-Jazeera satellite channel that further attacks in Britain
and America were imminent.

He said Americans and Britons should leave the Arabian Peninsula 'because the
land will burn with fire under their feet' and told Muslims they 'should avoid
travelling by air or living in high buildings or towers'. In an attempt to allay
the public's fears, Home Secretary David Blunkett will today lay out his plans
to tighten up Britain's anti-terrorism legislation in the aftermath of the
September 11 terror attacks when Parliament returns from its summer break.

With the allied air strikes against Afghanistan's Taliban rulers entering a
second week, Mr Blunkett will brief MPs on his plans to protect Britain from
Osama bin Laden and his al Qaida network in an emergency statement to the House
of Commons.

Fears of a terrorist biological attack on the US were still running high last
night as three people who worked in buildings where anthrax was detected waited
for the results of tests in Britain.

Two worked at the newspaper offices in Boca Raton, Florida, where five employees
yesterday tested positive for exposure to the bacteria following the death of a
British-born worker, 63-year-old Bob Stevens, there last week.

An employee from NBC in New York has also tested positive for anthrax after
reportedly opening a contaminated letter and another letter containing the
bacteria is believed to have been sent from Malaysia to a Microsoft office in
Reno, Nevada.

Stephen Munday, deputy director of public health at Birmingham Health Authority,
said measures were in place to ensure the city could cope with an anthrax
outbreak.

He said: 'Obviously in times of greater risk these plans are updated and
revised, but we are fully equipped to deal with any potential major hazardous
incident.'

Reports, Pages 5,6,7

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: CIA KNEW OF 'ATTACK LIKE HIROSHIMA'

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 275 words


The CIA intercepted a message from an al Qaida member boasting of plans to carry
out a 'Hiroshima' on America.

It was revealed yesterday that a message sent last year, said Osama bin Laden
was planning to carry out an attack like Hiroshima, a reference to the 1946
atomic bomb dropped on the Japanese port which killed more than 200,000 people.

But in spite of a frenzied search for evidence of what the message meant,
American spies drew a blank and had no idea of the plans being laid for the
September 11 attacks.

And in another development in the investigation into the terror strikes on
America, American officials are now examining whether ringleader Mohammed Atta
not only led the attacks but came up with the daring plot.

Bin Laden's al Qaida organisation works by giving training and cash to fanatical
Muslim groups - and letting them pursue their own plans.

The insight into how the group works has led investigators to come up with a new
theory of how the attacks were planned.

American officials said it was possible Atta took his plan for co-ordinated
suicide hijackings to bin Laden, who approved the plot, and provided cash and
logistical support.

But investigators are struggling to confirm their theory, whereas in the 1998
twin bombings of the American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, informers and
witnesses were found.

September 11 left many of the key players dead.

'Part of what is so hard is that so many of the key players are dead,' said an
American official.

'With the embassy bombings, there were key arrests. They made confessions, named
names. We don't have anything like that.'

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

DAD'S DEATH SPARKS MUSICAL TRIBUTE;
 THE WAR ON TERRORISM TRIBUTE: Musician Rob Halligan (far right) wants to stage
a fund- raising concert in memory of his father Robert (right), an insurance
broker who died in the terrorist attacks on New York. Rob's band Goldsmiths will
play a gig at the Flanker and Firkin, in Greyfriars Lane, Coventry, on; November
9 at 8.30pm.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 269 words


A COVENTRY musician whose dad died in the New York terrorist attacks is
appealing for help to organise a fund-raising event.

Robert Halligan, aged 59, was working on the 99th floor of the World Trade
Centre's south tower when the catastrophe happened.

His son, Rob, aged 31, of Glenn Street, Holbrooks, wants to organise a fitting
tribute to his dad and others who died.

He is singer and guitarist in local band Goldsmiths and has written four songs
since the attacks, which he wants used either for fund-raising or as a memorial.

Rob, who works as an internet developer at Gehe UK at Walsgrave Triangle, said
it would be great to organise a benefit concert with other bands, or record the
songs on a charity CD.

He said: "While I was in America I knocked up some songs to do with it all. They
were fairly easy to write in the sense of what happened, but a couple are
painful to sing.

"I'd like other people to be involved with organising something and want to see
if anyone is interested in helping us out."

Mr Halligan senior worked as an insurance broker for AON Corporation and had
lived in America for about 20 years.

After the terrorist attacks, Rob went to the States with his brother James, aged
27, from Brighton, where they met their other brother, Trevor, aged 21, a
student in New Jersey.

Rob said: "We went through a month of hell. You go through so much from anger
and helplessness and it's still hanging over us. I wanted to do something about
it and what we decide to do could raise a significant amount of funds."

If you want to help phone 024 7666 4296.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                October 15, 2001

Put brakes on car insurance
 PREMIUMS: US terror attacks push up charges

BYLINE: JO THORNHILL

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.23

LENGTH: 474 words


SHOCKWAVES from the terrorist attacks in the US are about to hit Britain's
motorists.

Insurance premiums will show a sharp rise this year as the industry tries to
recover some of the billions it will have to pay out as a result of September
11.

Kerry Richardson, managing director of AA Insurance Services, said: "Everyone
has seen in the news that insurers and re-insurers have huge claims to deal
with.

"The market is predicting that re-insurers will put their costs up to the
insurance companies 10-fold, and the bottom line is that those costs will be
passed on to consumers."

The AA has just published the results of its latest quarterly survey of motor
insurance premiums. This shows comprehensive insurance rates are up 4.4 per cent
on the first three months of 2001. In the past 12 months average premiums have
seen a 14 per cent hike.

That means a car owner paying a GBP 580 premium this time last year is now
looking at an annual bill of around GBP 660.

Figures for non-comprehensive cover are equally alarming. Average premiums have
seen a 22 per cent increase on last year.

But, said AA Insurance, most consumers could at least avoid some of the increase
by switching providers. Buying online is another way to cut costs. Some of the
better sites include Quote and Buy (www.qandb.co.uk), BestQuote
(www.bestquote.uk.com), AA Insurance (theaa.com), Elephant.co.uk and
Insurancewide.com.

Before buying over the internet, make sure the website includes a real address
and phone number. It's also a good idea to find out if the company is a member
of the insurance industry ombudsman scheme, a trade body or other investor
protection scheme.

To see a list of ABI members visit the ABI website at www.abi.org.uk or go to
the Financial Services website at www.fsa.gov.uk.

Other ways to cut costs, include notifying your insurer if you drive fewer than
5,000 miles a year, and limiting the number of drivers you insure, especially
young people.

Opting to increase your excess n the amount you pay towards any claim n can
drastically bring down costs. Simply by doubling the excess from GBP 100 to GBP
200 can cut premiums by five per cent. Improved security also helps.

Immobilisers, trackers and alarms can all trigger discounts so be sure to
mention them to your broker. Similarly, keeping you car in a garage overnight
can also knock pounds off your premium.

Mr Richardson said: "There's lots of things people can do to cut their costs,
but one of the major ones is be a careful driver. Many policies offer up to a 65
per cent no claims discount, so that's definitely worth bearing in mind."

nFor detailed guides to car and home insurance, buying online, and how to make a
claim, visit the Fact Files at www.thisismoney.co.uk

COSTLY: Car insurance premiums are set to rise, but there are ways to keep them
down

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 15, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan : Terror fears: Governments call for calm amid worldwide
rash of incidents: Bin Laden threats increase sense of panic

BYLINE: Steven Morris and Audrey Gillan in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 923 words


Panic was spreading across the globe yesterday as more cases of anthrax emerged
and Muslims in Britain and the US were warned not to live in skyscrapers or
travel by plane.

By yesterday the number of people confirmed to have been exposed to anthrax
reached 12 - although only two have contracted it: an assistant to NBC news
presenter Tom Brokaw in New York and Robert Stevens who died earlier this month
after being infected at the offices of American Media in Florida.

Elsewhere in the US, Nevada governor Kenny Guinn said that a test on a letter
sent from Malaysia to a Microsoft office in Reno had come back positive and a
Ford worker from Edison in New Jersey had an "ambiguous test result" for anthrax
and was undergoing further tests.

But Nevada health official Barbara Hunt last night said she was "highly
optimistic" that none of the six people who had been exposed to it would be
found to have anthrax.

In Britain, three people are being tested for anthrax. It is not known whether
the three are Britons who were working in the US or Americans visiting Britain.
But two had been working at American Media. The third had been at the
Rockefeller Centre, the site of the New York case.

The cases have prompted panic-buying of the anti-anthrax drug ciprofloxacin in
the US, leading health officials to warn that widespread use of the antibiotic
before the disease was contracted might create resistant strains.

Postal workers in the US have expressed their concerns at handling mail which
could be infected. One worker in Miami said that many mail sorters were wearing
masks and latex gloves, and added: "We're all in a state of fear. After 30
years, I want to retire. I don't want to go out with anthrax."

There was further alarm at the weekend when a spokesman for Osama bin Laden's
al-Qaida network warned Muslims in Britain and the US to avoid skyscrapers and
planes.

Sulaiman Abu Ghaith also warned in the videotaped statement broadcast on the
Arabic satellite station al-Jazeera, that non-Muslims should leave the Arabian
peninsula.

Abu Ghaith issued specific threats against the prime minister, Tony Blair,
President George Bush, his two predecessors, Bill Clinton and George Bush Sr,
and the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon.

He said: "The storms will not calm, especially the aircraft storm We also say
and advise the Muslims in the United States and Britain, the children, and those
who reject the unjust US policy, not to travel by plane. We also advise them not
to live in highrise buildings and towers."

He went on: "Al-Qaida organisation orders the Americans and the infidels in the
Arabian peninsula, particularly the Americans and the British, to leave the
Arabian peninsula."

The US attorney general, John Ashcroft, said some of the people responsible for
the attacks on New York and the Pentagon were likely to be still in the country
planning other assaults.

It also emerged yesterday that an Air Canada flight due to fly from Toronto to
New York on September 11 was found to have knives concealed on board. It was
grounded minutes before it was due to take off.

Governments are asking for calm but all over the world there have been scares
over possible bioterrorism attacks. Canterbury Cathedral was evacuated after a
man of "Arab appearance" dropped a white substance in the crypt before fleeing.
Experts were examining the substance last night.

In north London, Enfield Chase railway station and surrounding restaurants and
bars were cleared on Saturday after several people reported that they felt ill
after breathing in gas. Police later said there was no suspicion of terrorist
involvement.

A flight was halted in San Jose, California, for three hours after a passenger
reported that a man had dispersed a powdery substance into the ventilation
system. The man was taken off the plane, stripped and sprayed with detergent
before it was discovered that the substance was confetti from a greetings card.

Another jet was grounded at Pearson international airport in Toronto yesterday
after baggage handlers found a white powder in the jet's cargo hold. Test
results on the substance are due today.

Part of the international departures hall at Sydney airport was cleared amid
reports that a package containing white powder was found near a check-in
counter.

In Belgium the postal service confiscated six letters containing white powder
which were sent to the Belgian Pharmaceutical Institute. Preliminary tests
suggested the powder was harmless.

A series of suspicious letters or parcels containing powder or gritty substances
were found in Germany, including Berlin, Mainz, Bad Kreuznach and Baden-Baden.
These also turned out to be harmless, prompting the government to promise action
against hoaxers.

In France, the health minister said the country has been building up stocks of
smallpox vaccines because of concerns about bioterrorism.

"We have relaunched production of 3m doses," Bernard Kouchner told RTL radio and
LCI television.

A further 5m doses are being kept in a safe location but health officials do not
plan to start a widespread vaccination campaign against the disease because the
vaccines can be "rather dangerous", he added.

The last known natural case of smallpox, which is fatal in about a third of
cases, was in Somalia more than two decades ago. But some experts fear that
smallpox manufactured by the Soviet Union in the 1980s for biowarfare could be
obtained and used in bioterrorist attacks.


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 15, 2001

Media: Oh no, sales are up: After years of decline, newspaper circulation has
shot up in the weeks since the terrorist attacks on the US. But there's a sting
in the tail. Roy Greenslade on Fleet Street's own goal

BYLINE: Roy Greenslade

SECTION: Guardian Media Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1435 words


One war begins, another ends. Newspaper sales take off, revenue nose-dives. As
we contemplate the awful consequences of the global war against terrorism after
one week, we can now see the full effects of the British press price war after
eight years.

General Rupert Murdoch's great crusade to reverse the downward circulations of
his papers after the last recession by selling them at drastically low prices
now threatens the future of the whole industry.

Advertising income has fallen away and, despite Murdoch's optimism, it is
difficult to forecast when the trend will reverse. That wouldn't matter as much
if his pricing strategy had not ensured that papers have been sold too cheaply
for too long.

The net result of his war is that many rival papers, with the notable exception
of Associated's Mail titles, have been scared to raise cover prices since 1993.
It has meant that most owners, including Murdoch of course, have been
disproportionately reliant on ad revenue.

Even those bulky Sunday broadsheets have been selling for less than the price of
a coffee, and half as much if you favour a cappuccino. Through the distribution
of bulk copies and the growth of free morning papers, owners have also helped to
foster a climate in which people could be forgiven for thinking that papers
shouldn't really cost anything at all. Now, in desperation, owners are putting
up cover prices to compensate for the lack of ad revenue.

Even that could be too little too late. We are in danger of returning to that
period of crazy newspaper economics some 30 years ago when, because the costs of
production and materials were so high, the more copies a paper sold the worse
the financial return. In those days the Times stopped trying to attract readers
because it couldn't afford to print more copies.

A similar situation must be happening currently on Saturdays with those
multi-section issues which are eating up costly newsprint and surviving on a
sparse ad diet. How long before papers on a Saturday cost the same as those on a
Sunday?

Perhaps the greatest irony of all is that General Murdoch's chickens are coming
home to roost at the very moment that newspapers have become one of the most
necessary and desirable of products. The war that has made them indispensable is
also the war that has turned a recession into a depression, putting advertisers
to flight.

The latest official circulation statistics give a fascinating insight into
underlying sales trends and, just possibly, a clue to people's ambivalence about
the way the government is tackling the war.

Just as I anticipated in the aftermath of September 11, serious news has
influenced people to turn to serious papers. Extra thousands of broadsheets and
the most serious of the tabloids - the Daily Mail- have been sold in the past
month. With the exception of the Mirror, which has devoted endless pages to the
war and covered it with an intelligence that would surely have thrilled its
greatest editor-in-chief, Hugh Cudlipp, the rest have done poorly.

The Sun made a fine start with its sensible and insistent demand that people see
it as a war against terrorists who happen to be Muslim rather than against all
Muslims. But it has given up too soon on the war and reverted to type by
publishing inappropriately silly stories and sexy pictures. The Daily Express,
Daily Star and Daily Record haven't risen to the occasion either, perhaps
because all are perceived as too trivial at a time of international crisis.

By contrast, the Guardian added more than 50,000 extra sales in September, the
highest percentage increase by far. The Times, the Independent, the Daily
Telegraph and the Financial Times all attracted more readers.

The same story occurred on Sundays. The Observer, already on an upward sales
curve, saw its total jump by 62,000, an increase over the previous month of more
than 13%. The Sunday Times's 146,000 extra sales, a month-on-month rise of more
than 11%, boosted its total to its highest point since 1973.

With the Independent on Sunday up 7%, and the Sunday Telegraph up 6%, the hunger
for serious coverage could not be more obvious. Neither the middle market pair,
the Mail on Sunday and Sunday Express, nor the red-tops performed as well as the
broadsheets.

But there is another side to these figures which Tony Blair and his government
would do well to note. The two dailies which enjoyed the largest increases, the
Guardian and the Independent, have been the most sceptical about both the
concept and the conduct of the war. Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger believes
this is no coincidence, arguing that there was a reaction to the "uniformity of
tone" evident in the Times and Telegraph, with their unquestioning backing of
the United States, which "didn't match people's feelings".

He says: "We opened our pages to a huge array of people - black, white, Jews,
Muslims, hawks, doves, sceptics - who gave readers a rounded view." Then again,
the Daily Mail, which has stood four-square with the government and allowed few
voices of dissent to intrude into its columns, sold an extra 161,000 copies last
month, far and away the highest volume of extras and eclipsing the sales uplift
of all five broadsheets put together.

If there is widespread scepticism then we will get a better view from the
reaction to the editorial in Friday's Mirror. While proclaiming its contin uing
loyalty to Blair, it dared to question whether the strategy of bombing
Afghanistan day after day was effective. "We were promised a new kind of war,"
said the Mirror, "but this is looking more like the old kind. A knee-jerk aerial
blitz on a bunch of poorly-armed guerrillas . . . If we are going to beat Bin
Laden, we need to be cleverer than this."

When the Mirror questioned the need to go to war over the Falklands in 1982, the
Sun responded by calling it a treacherous paper. Will editor David Yelland
follow Kelvin MacKenzie's example?

Yelland, like other Wapping editors, is knee-deep in his own budgetary problems
right now, the legacy of his proprietor's price war. Sun Woman has disappeared,
reporters' expenses are being cut to the bone, pounds 8m has been axed from the
Sun and News of the World marketing budget and the website - that once-great
herald of a new media future - will be serviced by a skeleton staff.

One NoW executive, faced with cuts to the journalistic chequebook, joked: "Max
Clifford is in tears."

Murdoch's imposition of 10% across-the-board cuts at News International follows
a nine-month freeze on recruitment. When that was imposed, he pledged that jobs
would not be lost but September 11 has cost his company at least pounds 70m in
advertising revenue.

At the Sunday Times, which has suffered a huge loss of ads, there is concern
among staff about job cuts. But managing editor Richard Caseby stresses that
redundancies will be a last resort, making clear that his memo to staff about
the possibility of losing eight full-time jobs and nine on retainer contracts is
a "worst-case scenario".

Over at Canary Wharf, Mirror editor Piers Morgan appears to be in a better
position with his owners. Trinity-Mirror has not queried his sending 14 staff
abroad to cover the war, nor the extra pagination he has requested, allowing him
to run some 15 pages a day on the war.

He says: "They haven't quibbled over a single bill, which is a great credit to
them in these exceptional times."

One advantage Trinity-Mirror enjoys is that it doesn't have a television
division, and it is undoubtedly the loss of TV advertising which has caused
Murdoch his greatest headache.

He might also reflect on another truth about his newspaper price war. Just
before he cut the price of the Sun in June 1993, its sale had fallen to
3,465,000. It rose to 4.1m the following year and held that for a while before
declining as its price was gradually increased. Last month, its circulation
stood at 3,511,000, fewer than 50,000 above its 1993 low. Throughout that time,
even with the cover price rises, it has always sold for less than the rival
Mirror.

The price cut worked much better at the Times, which is still selling virtually
double what it sold in 1993. To an extent, that success reflects the fact that
more people have been drawn to broadsheets in the past decade as the tabloids
continue their inexorable decline. It may be too early to tell, but I believe
the long-term result of the price war will prove to have been a disaster for
Britain's newspapers. As with all wars, incidentally, it will be the innocents
who bear the brunt.


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                October 15, 2001

Snopes snipes at US terror attacks;
 INTERNET COLUMN

BYLINE: By Giles Turnbull

SECTION:  Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1161 words


IN the wake of the terrorist attacks in America, there was a flurry of activity
on the net.

Plenty of websites appeared with useful information, and there were dozens of
informative texts being distributed by email.

But not all of them were true. In fact, most of the bizarre attackrelated
stories that infiltrated thousands of email boxes in recent weeks were hoaxes.

They included:

viewing the letters Q33NY in Wingdings font in Microsoft Word to see a
prediction of the disaster.

False, because Q33NY was a made-up number and not, as claimed, the registration
number of one of the hijacked aircraft.

the story that footage of Palestinian children celebrating the attack was
actually shot in 1991.

No it wasn't, and CNN can prove it.

a hoax story claiming that several internet domain names, such as
attackonamerica. com, were registered before September 11.

Some were, but none are linked to the events of that day - it s just a vague
coincidence.

a photograph showing a tourist on top of the World Trade Center, looking
directly at the camera, with an aircraft in sight just behind him.

The photo is a clever fake.

But how can we be sure that these are all hoaxes? Thanks to a marve llous
website, known simply as Snopes.

Snopes (www. snopes. com) has long been a repository of urban m yths and fake
journalism. The team there take great care to investigate all kinds of stories
that tend to spread by email. If they re true, they ll say so - but more often,
Snopes will uncover the facts behind the story and publish a comprehensive
debunking on the site.

There s a lot more at Snopes than just stories about the New York disaster. The
site has been around for quite some time, so it includes commentaries on some of
the bestknown urban myths and legends.

Such as the store that advertised stereo systems for 299 bananas - and then had
to give them to people who turned up bearing the fruitful payment (true).

And the rumour that the Beatles hid Paul is dead messages in their record
sleeves in the late 1960s (false).

Snopes is one of those rare websites that you can spend a long time browsing
because it is packed with so much interesting, well-written content and is not
overloaded with annoying adverts.

If you run a small business, the British government is keen for you to think
about using the internet more. So it has created a new website, Beyond Bricks
(www. beyondbricks. co. uk), to try to create an online community for
entrepreneurs and business people.

Companies, especially new startups, will be able to find information on
fundraising, accounting and company law, or design, marketing and PR.

They will also be able to make use of the community features to get to know
other business people from all over the country, with the idea that everyone
involved can benefit from the atmosphere of mutual support.

Sadly, the community aspect of the site has been hived off into a members-only
section, so to reach it you first have to register. While registration is free
and not particularly demanding, it will be a barrier to growing the community in
the long term.

A better idea would be to allow visitors to read the community section - to see
what others are saying - and only ask them to register if they wish to add their
own comments.

That way, there s more of an incentive to register, and people can see in
advance what they will get in return for doing so.

Still, there s a long way to go before this site is fully up and running. The
useful links page has only five links, with most seemingly chosen at random from
the potential list of many thousands. Even so, it s nice to see a government
department trying something new like this.

Moving home? The Post Office is now offering a free service to inform various
government agencies and departments know of your change of address.

It s at https:www. addressingthechange. co. uk (make sure you get the https:
correct.

Giles Turnbull has a website at gilest. org

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                October 15, 2001

New laws to combat terror attacks

BYLINE: IAN CRAIG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 173 words


Anthrax terror alert: Pgs 4 & 5



TOUGH new measures against terrorism were being announced in the Commons today.
As MPs returned for a new session Home Secretary David Blunkett was outlining
plans to tighten up Britain's asylum laws following the September 11 US attacks.

Chancellor Gordon Brown was also promising police powers to monitor suspicious
bank accounts.  At the same time, another bank account in London has been
frozen, in the name of a man listed by the FBI as having terrorist links.

Mr Blunkett was expected to amend asylum laws to ensure those suspected or
convicted of terrorism cannot be considered for asylum.  Other measures will
give law enforcement agencies full access to air and sea carriers' passenger and
freight lists.

To protect Britain's Muslims from any backlash, the law on incitement was due to
be extended to include religious hatred.  He was also announcing plans for a
second Bill which will provide for a complete overhaul of the UK's extradition
system.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: DESTRUCTION: VILLAGE IN 'U.S. ATTACK'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 112 words

HIGHLIGHT: EVIDENCE: Taliban officials examine the unexploded bomb;; STENCH:
Taliban soldier blocks out the smell of villagers' dead cattle;; VICTIMS:
Soldier points out row of new graves


THIS is the village the Taliban say was devastated by American air strikes.

Khorum, 20 miles east of Jalalabad, is in the heart of Taliban territory.

Western reporters were yesterday shown bodies and rubble claimed to be the
result of a bombing raid.

An unexploded bomb lay in the centre of the village.

The remains of an arm stuck out from beneath a pile of bricks that used to be a
house. A leg had been uncovered nearby.

Taliban officials said the village was flattened in an air raid by US planes and
up 200 people may have been killed. They said 160 bodies have been pulled out.

But the reporters saw only a dozen or so freshly dug graves.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: GROUND ATTACK: NAVY ELITE READY FOR EXTREME MEASURES

BYLINE: Tom Newton Dunn In Camp Fairbairn, Oman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 344 words

HIGHLIGHT: EXERCISE: A Marine on ambush drill; PRIDE: 40 Commando fly the flag
yesterday


ROYAL Marine commandos primed for war in Afghanistan yesterday practiced their
emergency reactions to enemy ambushes.

The routine exercise has taken on a whole new significance since Chief of
Defence Staff Sir Michael Boyce put them top of the list to fight the ground war
against terrorism.

The unit is Britain's only cold weather and mountain warfare experts. Experts
say they are the best troops in the world to take on the battle-hardened
Taliban.

Speaking to The Mirror at their desert HQ Camp Fairbairn on the Oman west coast,
40 Commando's commanding officer Lt Col David Capewell, 42, said: "The training
in the desert here brings us right to the peak of our performance.

"So in terms of preparations for operations we are as good as it gets. In terms
of what the future holds for us, all I can say is my men are up for anything,
that is the reason they joined."

I watched yesterday as troops, part of the 3,000-strong 3 Commando Brigade on
massive forces exercise Swift Sword II, were put through the ambush drill.

They were driving new "BV" all-terrain tracked vehicles which can shift men and
supplies across snow or sand.

On a sudden command, the BVs were bombarded by blue and green smoke flares and a
hail of blank rounds to disorientate the occupants. The commandos dived out and
initiated a retreat procedure: three men ran a few yards while three others gave
them cover fire before the roles were swapped.

After the training, Second Lieutenant David Spinks, 26, said: "At grass roots
level, the lads would like to get involved in anything that happened but it is a
case of just watching and waiting. We are versatile and can adapt to any
situation."

As well as their desert training, the crack commandos spend 10 weeks a year
inside the Arctic Circle in Norway. Marines have also operated covertly in
Afghanistan, where temperatures can plunge to minus 40C, within the last 10
years.

Although on exercise, they have a full supply of live ammunition stored on a
Navy ship, so redeployment would be quick.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: GROUND ATTACK: CAVE WAR;
 WHAT ALLIES FACE IN BLITZ ON BIN LADEN'S UNDERGROUND LAIRS

BYLINE: Stephen White

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 689 words

HIGHLIGHT: HIDEOUT: One of the many caves hewn out of the rock in Afghanistan by
bin Laden's team of labourers Picture: REX FEATURES


FOR almost nine centuries caves in Afghanistan have provided shelter from
invading armies.

Hewn out of tunnels originally dug by farmers for irrigation, Osama bin Laden
himself took the controls of heavy machinery to help turn them into an
impregnable fortress.

During the war with the Soviet Union the young bin Laden brought his expertise
from his family's construction company and money to pay for bulldozers and other
equipment to create the Taliban's underground lairs.

Some are so large a tank can drive through corridors cut into solid rock.

One tunnel system at Zhawar has 41 caves, each around 30 feet by 12 feet. All
are equipped with electricity.

The tunnels, some a quarter of a mile long, connect a hospital, a hotel, an
underground mosque, maintenance bays for T-34 tanks - even a bakery.

It was at a complex of caves in the Jalalabad in 1988 that bin Laden first saw
the potential of underground cities. Ironically, he was funded by the American
CIA in the tunnel construction.

He worked on a tunnel complex in the mountains of the Paktiya, a few miles from
the border with Pakistan.

The aim was to store weapons and create an underground field hospital as well as
provide shelter from Soviet artillery and helicopter gunships.

It is believed there are between 30 and 50 tunnel and cave complexes in
Afghanistan - a underground system from where President Bush has vowed to "smoke
out" the terror chief.

American bombers have dropped 5,000lb laser-guided bunker-blaster bombs, which
were developed for the Gulf War to strike at targets deep underground in Iraq.

No-one has been told how many cave complexes have been attacked or how
successful those raids have been.

The terrain in which they are built - often in narrow valleys with 4,000ft of
overhanging mountain - is a perfect hunting ground for the Taliban.

During an attack on the Zhawar caves in 1985-86, the mujahedeen shot down 24
Russian helicopters. Jalaluddin Haqani, now the head of the Taliban army, held
out for seven months.

When the complex was finally taken, Russian colonel Viktor Kutsenko wrote:
"After a narrow passage of mountain road, it opened up into a wide canyon of 150
metres whose sides stretched upwards for two kilometres.

"There were 41 caves in all. All had electricity. Behind a fence was a mosque
with a beautiful brick entrance and a hospital with new medical equipment made
in the United States.

"There was a library with English and Farsi books, there was a bakery and, by
the entrance, a stack of fresh nan bread.

"There was even a hotel. There was overstuffed furniture inside and the floors
were covered with carpets. Many of our aircraft had worked this site over and
the hotel and caves were still intact."

Many of the cave systems have been mothballed by al-Qaeda - their location
missed by spy satellites - and only opened when it was decided to move position.

As well as those complexes which have been strengthened and extended in recent
years, much of Afghanistan's plains are criss-crossed by underground irrigation
channels known as Karez.

Many are 100 feet deep and used by villagers and fighters to hide or move from
place to place unseen. Tunnel entrances can be just three feet across and the
complexes infested with poisonous snakes and cobras.

The Russians used to blast their enemy with concussion grenades. They were
lobbed in followed by anti-tank mines.

When detonated they set off a devastating wall of sound reverberating through
the tunnels. Smoke grenades were used to see if any were still open. Another
method was to lower a small rocket launcher armed with a nine-pound napalm
missile down the hole and fire it.

The strategy will probably be to isolate any complex and seal it off. If it is
decided to clear the system the job would probably fall to special forces,
including Britain's SAS.

Troops would have to clear each area, dealing with booby-traps and prisoners who
could be human bombs.

They would also have to face an enemy who knows every inch of the caves and who
would be prepared to fight to the death.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Statesman

                                October 15, 2001

A war in the American tradition; War on Terror: The Big Picture - The ultimate
goal of the attacks on Afghanistan is not the capture of a fanatic, but the
acceleration of western power, argues John Pilger

BYLINE: John Pilger

LENGTH: 1644 words


The Anglo-American attack on Afghanistan crosses new boundaries. It means that
America's economic wars are now backed by the perpetual threat of military
attack on any country, without legal pretence. It is also the first to endanger
populations at home. The ultimate goal is not the capture of a fanatic, which
would be no more than a media circus, but the acceleration of western imperial
power. That is a truth the modern imperialists and their fellow travellers will
not spell out, and which the public in the west, now exposed to a full-scale
jihad, has the right to know.

In his zeal, Tony Blair has come closer to an announcement of real intentions
than any British leader since Anthony Eden. Not simply the handmaiden of
Washington, Blair, in the Victorian verbosity of his extraordinary speech to the
Labour Party conference, puts us on notice that imperialism's return journey to
respectability is well under way. Hark, the Christian gentleman-bomber's vision
of a better world for 'the starving, the wretched, the dispossessed, the
ignorant, those living in want and squalor from the deserts of northern Africa
to the slums of Gaza to the mountain ranges of Afghanistan'. Hark, his unctuous
concern for the 'human rights of the suffering women of Afghanistan' as he
colludes in bombing them and preventing food reaching their starving children.

Is all this a dark joke? Far from it; as Frank Furedi reminds us in the New
Ideology of Imperialism, it is not long ago 'that the moral claims of
imperialism were seldom questioned in the west. Imperialism and the global
expansion of the western powers were represented in unambiguously positive terms
as a major contributor to human civilisation'. The quest went wrong when it was
clear that fascism, with all its ideas of racial and cultural superiority, was
imperialism, too, and the word vanished from academic discourse. In the best
Stalinist tradition, imperialism no longer existed.

Since the end of the cold war, a new opportunity has arisen. The economic and
political crises in the developing world, largely the result of imperialism,
such as the blood-letting in the Middle East and the destruction of commodity
markets in Africa, now serve as retrospective justification for imperialism.
Although the word remains unspeakable, the western intelligentsia, conservatives
and liberals alike, today boldly echo Bush and Blair's preferred euphemism,
'civilisation'. Italy's prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, and the former
liberal editor Harold Evans share a word whose true meaning relies on a
comparison with those who are uncivilised, inferior and might challenge the
'values'of the west, specifically its God-given right to control and plunder the
uncivilised.

If there was any doubt that the World Trade Center attacks were the direct
result of the ravages of imperialism, Osama Bin Laden, a mutant of imperialism,
dispelled it in his videotaped diatribe about Palestine, Iraq and the end of
America's inviolacy. Alas, he said nothing about hating modernity and
miniskirts, the explanation of those intoxicated and neutered by the supercult
of Americanism. An accounting of the sheer scale and continuity and consequences
of American imperial violence is our elite's most enduring taboo. Contrary to
myth, even the homicidal invasion of Vietnam was regarded by its tactical
critics as a 'noble cause' into which the United States 'stumbled' and became
'bogged down'. Hollywood has long purged the truth of that atrocity, just as it
has shaped, for many of us, the way we perceive contemporary history and the
rest of humanity. And now that much of the news itself is Hollywood-inspired,
amplified by amazing technology and with its internalised mission to minimise
western culpability, it is hardly surprising that many today do not see the
trail of blood.

How very appropriate that the bombing of Afghanistan is being conducted, in
part, by the same B52 bombers that destroyed much of Indochina 30 years ago. In
Cambodia alone, 600,000 people died beneath American bombs, providing the
catalyst for the rise of Pol Pot, as CIA files make clear. Once again,
newsreaders refer to Diego Garcia without explanation. It is where the B52s
refuel. Thirty-five years ago, in high secrecy and in defiance of the United
Nations, the British government of Harold Wilson expelled the entire population
of the island of Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean in order to hand it to the
Americans in perpetuity as a nuclear arms dump and a base from which its
long-range bombers could police the Middle East. Until the islanders finally won
a high court action last year, almost nothing about their imperial dispossession
appeared in the British media.

How appropriate that John Negroponte is Bush's ambassador at the United Nations.
This week, he delivered America's threat to the world that it may 'require' to
attack more and more countries. As US ambassador to Honduras in the early 1980s,
Negroponte oversaw American funding of the regime's death squads, known as
Battalion 316, that wiped out the democratic opposition, while the CIA ran its
'contra' war of terror against neighbouring Nicaragua. Murdering teachers and
slitting the throats of midwives were a speciality. This was typical of the
terrorism that Latin America has long suffered, with its principal torturers and
tyrants trained and financed by the great warrior against 'global terrorism',
which probably harbours more terrorists and assassins in Florida than any
country on earth.

The unread news today is that the 'war against terrorism' is being exploited in
order to achieve objectives that consolidate American power. These include: the
bribing and subjugation of corrupt and vulnerable governments in former Soviet
central Asia, crucial for American expansion in the region and exploitation of
the last untapped reserves of oil and gas in the world; Nato's occupation of
Macedonia, marking a final stage in its colonial odyssey in the Balkans; the
expansion of the American arms industry; and the speeding up of trade
liberalisation.

What did Blair mean when, in Brighton, he offered the poor 'access to our
markets so that we practise the free trade that we are so fond of preaching'? He
was feigning empathy for most of humanity's sense of grievance and anger: of
'feeling left out'. So, as the bombs fall, 'more inclusion', as the World Trade
Organisation puts it, is being offered the poor - that is, more privatisation,
more structural adjustment, more theft of resources and markets, more
destruction of tariffs. On Monday, the Secretary of State for Trade and
Industry, Patricia Hewitt, called a meeting of the voluntary aid agencies to
tell them that, 'since 11 September, the case is now overwhelming' for the poor
to be given 'more trade liberation'. She might have used the example of those
impoverished countries where her cabinet colleague Clare Short's ironically
named Department for International Development backs rapacious privatisation
campaigns on behalf of British multinational companies, such as those vying to
make a killing in a resource as precious as water.

Bush and Blair claim to have 'world opinion with us'. No, they have elites with
them, each with their own agenda: such as Vladimir Putin's crushing of Chechnya,
now permissible, and China's rounding up of its dissidents, now permissible.
Moreover, with every bomb that falls on Afghanistan and perhaps Iraq to come,
Islamic and Arab militancy will grow and draw the battle lines of 'a clash of
civilisations' that fanatics on both sides have long wanted. In societies
represented to us only in caricature, the west's double standards are now
understood so clearly that they overwhelm, tragically, the solidarity that
ordinary people everywhere felt with the victims of 11 September.

That, and his contribution to the re-emergence of xeno-racism in Britain, is the
messianic Blair's singular achievement. His effete, bellicose certainties
represent a political and media elite that has never known war. The public, in
contrast, has given him no mandate to kill innocent people, such as those
Afghans who risked their lives to clear landmines, killed in their beds by
American bombs. These acts of murder place Bush and Blair on the same level as
those who arranged and incited the twin towers murders. Perhaps never has a
prime minister been so out of step with the public mood, which is uneasy,
worried and measured about what should be done. Gallup finds that 82 per cent
say 'military action should only be taken after the identity of the perpetrators
was clearly established, even if this process took several months to
accomplish'.

Among those elite members paid and trusted to speak out, there is a lot of
silence. Where are those in parliament who once made their names speaking out,
and now shame themselves by saying nothing? Where are the voices of protest from
'civil society', especially those who run the increasingly corporatised aid
agencies and take the government's handouts and often its line, then declare
their 'non-political' status when their outspokenness on behalf of the
impoverished and bombed might save lives? The tireless Chris Buckley of
Christian Aid, and a few others, are honourably excepted. Where are those
proponents of academic freedom and political independence, surely one of the
jewels of western 'civilisation'? Years of promoting the jargon of 'liberal
realism' and misrepresenting imperialism as crisis management, rather than the
cause of the crisis, have taken their toll. Speaking up for international law
and the proper pursuit of justice, even diplomacy, and against our terrorism
might not be good for one's career. Or as Voltaire put it: 'It is dangerous to
be right when the government is wrong.' That does not change the fact that it is
right.

www.johnpilger.com


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2001 New Statesman Ltd

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

LEGAL AID FOR VICTIMS OF TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 209 words


BRITISH victims of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Centre will receive
free legal help in pursuing compensation claims, it was announced today.

A number of law firms have signed up to a new initiative designed to speed up
the compensation process and prevent unscrupulous lawyers from taking advantage
of victims or their families.

The Trial Lawyers Care Initiative, which was unveiled today, has been negotiated
with the backing of the White House and the US Attorney-General, John Ashcroft.

It is part of the US Government's September 11 Compensation Act, which was
announced by Congress shortly after the attacks.

Watford-based Collins Solicitors is the only British law firm so far to take
part in the initiative, under which lawyers undertake to represent clients free
of charge.

They have also agreed to deal with claims within 120 days of submission.

Desmond Collins, senior partner of Collins Solicitors, said: "It means that any
British victims or their families who want legal support can come to us and we
will ensure their interests are represented throughout."

The firm also acts for victims of the Southall and Paddington rail disasters.

Victims or their relatives can contact them on 01923 223324.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

DEBATE OVER US TERROR ATTACKS TO CONTINUE

BYLINE: Richard Hazlewood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 492 words


MPs and AMs get back to business today after the threemonth summer recess.

Political Correspondent RICHARD HAZLEWOOD looks at some of the issues that lie
ahead.

THE growing international crisis has dominated the domestic political agenda for
a month.

And when MPs and AMs return to Westminster and Cardiff today there will be no
let up in their focus on Britain's response to the terrorist attacks on the
United States on September 11.

Parliament was recalled three times during the break to discuss developments
relating to the terrorist strikes and the allied bombings of Afghanistan.

And with the new Parliamentary term starting today, much of MPs' time will be
taken up looking at Government plans to introduce emergency anti-terror laws.

Other domestic issues, however, will remain on the agenda despite the already
crowded Commons schedule.

Cardiff Central MP Jon Owen Jones' bill to legalise cannabis is due to have its
second reading on October 26, while Ceredigion MP Simon Thomas' housing bill
will be heard again next month.

The draft NHS (Wales) Bill, proposed in the Queen's speech in June, is set to be
published within the next few weeks.

Later today MPs will give a second reading to the Football Disorder bill, while
on Wednesday Welsh Secretary Paul Murphy will field members' questions before
Tony Blair makes his first appearance of the new session in Prime Minister's
Question Time.

The Government has also been forced onto the back foot over its plans for more
directly elected mayors after a fifth city - Sunderland - rejected the idea.

Last week Plaid Cymru became the first UK Parliamentary party to break the
consensus on support for attacks on Afghanistan when leader Ieuan Wyn Jones
called for an end to bombing and the resumption of diplomatic negotiations.

And tomorrow the assembly will hold its first debate on the issue.

Unlike the Commons, the assembly was not recalled early because of the terrorist
attacks.

While some time has been set aside for a debate on the Welsh context of the
crisis, some AMs want the entire plenary session dedicated to the issue.

Tomorrow's plenary will begin an hour earlier to fit in the assembly's response
to the international situation, but Tory AM Glyn Davies said: "I was deeply
disappointed by the failure to recall the assembly last month. The people of
Wales have been badly let down.

"Anything less than a full three hour debate will be a huge disappointment to
everyone who values democracy or wants the assembly to become an effective part
of the governance of Wales."

On Thursday, AMs will also be given their first opportunity to debate the
assembly's draft pounds 10.4bn budget for 2002-3.

While the Lib-Lab executive has hailed it as a boost for public services, Plaid
and the Conservatives say any new sums of money in it are a result of the
administration's failure to spend previous budgets properly.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OTHER ISSUES Cardiff Central MP Jon Owen Jones' bill to legalise
cannabis is due for a second reading later this month.

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           October 16, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: LLOYD'S BOOKS TO BE EXAMINED IN ATTACK CLAIMS FUND INQUIRY

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 378 words


The United States insurance regulator is set to examine the books at the Lloyd's
of London Insurance market following its pounds 1.3 billion loss from last
month's terrorist disaster.

The US-based National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) will be
looking at Lloyd's' cash flow and reinsurance contracts to establish whether the
market has sufficient liquidity to meet claims arising from the attack, it
emerged yesterday.

The inquiry has been triggered by the regulator's decision to reduce Lloyd's'
funding requirements following the events on September 11.

NAIC requires foreign insurers to hold enough cash in a US trust fund to cover
100 per cent of their liabilities.

But it recently agreed to reduce the amount held by Lloyd's to 60 per cent of
its liabilities due to the size and one-off nature of the disaster, so that
Lloyd's was not forced to cash-in assets to meet the requirement.

The International Underwriting Association is currently lobbying the regulator
to reduce the funding requirement for other reinsurers, including AXA and St
Paul Re UK.

The investigation, which will be headed by John Oxendine, Insurance Commissioner
for the State of Georgia, is still in its preliminary stages and its exact focus
will not be decided until NAIC meets early next month.

But it is thought it will concentrate on Lloyd's liquidity, as well as looking
at its various reinsurance contracts to ensure the market will not have problems
claiming on them. Mr Oxendine has been reported as saying that NAIC sees the
inquiry as a liquidity issue, not as a solvency issue.

Lloyd's would not comment on the investigation, but it is understood that they
have agreed to provide access to their records.

It is not the first time the market has been investigated by the US regulatory
body, which has looked at its books on two previous occasions in recent years.

A spokesman for the Financial Services Authority, which regulates the insurance
industry, said: 'The FSA have kept in close contact with Lloyds and with US
regulators in the weeks following the events of September 11.

'The FSA will continue to assist NAIC in assessing the regulatory amounts to be
held in the US by Lloyd's in respect of these events.'

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 16, 2001, Tuesday

OAPS IN ARSON ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Lisa Smith

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 191 words


ELDERLY residents are abandoning their homes in a tower block after being
evacuated three times in three weeks following arson attacks.

At least two residents of Bridgnorth House, in Meadway, Birmingham, have now put
their flats for sale and vowed never to return.

The majority of the 36 residents are city council tenants, but Joan Lyndon, aged
70, bought her home of more than 40 years.

She said: 'We pay a pounds 500 a year service charge, but the flats have been
allowed to fall into disrepair. The security door on the ground floor is broken
and vandals are getting in.

'I have now moved out with my belongings to my daughter's in Kidderminster and
put my home up for sale. Other neighbours have done the same, although we are
worried if our homes will sell.'

Mrs Lyndon added: ' When I moved here it was beautiful. It is so sad how it has
ended up.'

Birmingham housing department, which is planning a meeting with residents and
tenants, said: 'The security door is constantly vandalised as soon as it is
repaired.

'We would urge anyone with information about arson attacks and vandalism to
report them to us.'

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           October 16, 2001, Tuesday

BRITAIN ON ALERT FOR ANTHRAX ATTACKS;
 THE WAR ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 418 words


FEARS of an anthrax attack in Britain were growing today after one of America's
most powerful politicians was sent a letter laced with the deadly bacteria that
cause the disease.

Amid growing worldwide fears of biological attacks by terrorists, police
confirmed a letter containing anthrax bacteria was received yesterday in the
office of Senate majority leader Tom Daschle.

Just hours later three more people, including a seven-month old boy, had tested
positive for anthrax in the US.

The baby is the child of an ABC television news employee and had visited the
company's New York newsroom on September 28.

Officials said the boy was responding well to treatment for skin anthrax, not
the more dangerous inhaled variety.

In Florida, Ernesto Blanco has become the second employee at a publishing house
to test positive for inhaled anthrax. Photo editor Robert Stevens died of
inhalation anthrax on October 5.

A letter to a top Washington lawmaker has also tested positive.

At a news conference today New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani urged caution, but
stressed that there was no need to panic. "There's nothing to be afraid of," he
said.

The Daschle letter and similar scares in other congressional offices prompted a
halt to all mail deliveries in the Capitol - the main building of the US
Congress.

The latest three cases have come after a letter was sent to Senator Daschle, who
was not in his office when the package was opened.

It was not immediately clear whether any of the 40 staff working in his office
had been exposed to the bacteria.

Like an earlier letter containing anthrax sent to NBC's New York headquarters,
the one sent to Senator Daschle was postmarked Trenton, New Jersey.

Fifteen people have now tested positive for the deadly disease and one has died.

President George Bush said a link to Osama bin Laden's Al Qaida terrorist
network - blamed for the September 11 terror attacks - could not be ruled out
although there was no hard evidence as yet.

In the Commons, Home Secretary David Blunkett outlined details of the
Government's emergency terrorism package, including measures to tighten the law
relating to nuclear, chemical and biological materials.

"There is no immediate intelligence pointing to a specific threat to the United
Kingdom but we remain alert, domestically as well as internationally," he told
MPs.

"If we fail now to take the necessary action to protect our people, future
generations will never forgive us."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 16, 2001, Tuesday

The terrorist attack of Sept 11 may mean major events have to be cancelled

BYLINE: By SUE MOTT

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 1191 words

THERE was always the clause in the small print. Even if you were flying package
to some hapless continental beach to sip warm lager in common with thousand of
other lobster-coloured Britons, you could still get insurance cover for
something variously described as "terrorist activity".

Since Sept 11, the world - including the sports events of the world - has
discovered that the cover now comes at a price. A high one.

Football's world governing body, FIFA, have just been told by their German
insurers - a daughter company of AXA, the sponsors of the FA Cup - that their
previous contract has been cancelled and new negotiations are taking place.

Cue serious questioning of the future of international sport. Could insurance
price sport out of business? The spokesman for the German insurance company,
Ingo Koch, explained that the "risk situation" had fundamentally changed. So it
must have done everywhere. "The horrible events of Sept 11, the US troops'
bombardment of Afghanistan, the announcement of a jihad, these have totally
changed the risk situation.

"This made us cancel the contract with FIFA and now we are interested in finding
a new solution. We are working with as much responsibility as possible."

That responsibility to shareholders on one side and to athletes, governing
bodies and spectators on the other is now a matter of huge debate.

"What you have to understand is that insurance companies only insure things that
are unlikely to happen," said Jon Holmes, managing director of SFX Sportsgroup,
as well as agent to Gary Lineker and a former insurance brokerage proprietor.

"The business climate has irrevocably altered. It is not beyond the bounds of
possibility that sport events, even major ones, will have to be called off
worldwide. Those whose job it is to assess risk may decide the risk of terrorism
is now that much greater, therefore premiums must be that much greater - and
already the sums involved in football are so fantastically huge. Put it this way
- it's a problem."

It was reported starkly that the England World Cup team would be required to
travel in two planes, like the Royal Family. The implications are striking home.
A sports event, once the symbol of frivolity and comradeship, has become a
massively expensive inter-continental security alert.

The opening ceremony for the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City takes place - in
theory - in 117 days' time. The organisers have just asked the US government for
an extra $40 million for increased security arrangements. "The world has
changed. Sport will suffer like every other aspect of our lives," said Simon
Clegg, chief executive of the British Olympic Association, on his return from
Salt Lake City yesterday.

He believes the Games will go ahead, but is even now in negotiation with the
BOA's insurers to assess the necessity for an increase in cover. "The BOA takes
the safety and security of our athletes as paramount," he said. The degree to
which the world is changed is exemplified by the fact that all the British gold
medallists flew back from Sydney on the same triumphal flight. "We felt that was
entirely appropriate then. But such are these uncertain times, it may not be
appropriate any more."

It is a matter of absolute fact that those in charge of security at the Sydney
Olympics had been forced to consider the remote possibility of a terrorist plane
being flown into the Olympic Stadium during the opening ceremony. It is not such
a remote possibility to those organising the Olympiad in Athens 2004. They, like
FIFA, might have been looking at a cancelled insurance contract. But they have
not yet even negotiated their insurance cover.

When they do, they may find the cost prohibitive, even above and beyond the
figure the Greek Government are prepared to subsidise.

Sports events have a particular vulnerability, based on the high profile of the
athletes and the vast gathering of spectators to watch them. Perhaps the day
will soon dawn when travel insurance policies charge you an extra premium merely
to take your place in a stand to watch an event. Business may take the view
that, like careering down the Cresta Run or taking to a set of skis, you are
placing yourself in a high-risk environment.

Interestingly, the organisers of the Commonwealth Games in Manchester next year
are confident they have escaped a position of insurance-wrought financial peril.
Every other financial problem seems to have plagued them, resulting in a hefty
bail-out operation from the Government, but according to the public relations
manager, Tina Williamson, their insurance contract is in place and inviolable.

Kevin Keegan was the figurehead for a photo-shoot yesterday in the pouring
Mancunian rain to celebrate the insertion of spectator seats into the
newly-built stadium. As this is the only major international sports event to
take place (possibly ever again) in these isles, one can only be grateful for
their confidence.

No other major enterprise can afford to feel so secure. The Breeders' Cup horse
race is due to take place in New York this month, ostensibly a gathering of the
finest thoroughbreds of the season but with no guarantee that those responsible
for the well-being of hugely valuable bloodstock will take the risk to appear.
Apparently, bloodstock insurance is also set to rise.

Responsibly, no one is forecasting a doomsday scenario when sheer cost forbids
the movement of an extortionate thoroughbred, be it the Derby winner, Galileo,
or the captain of the England football team. But clearly every governing body of
every major sport have been reassessing their costs and peering into a very
uncertain future.

"I don't think it's a hysterical reaction," said Adrian Bevington, head of media
and communications at the FA. "But we will always cover our players. As everyone
is aware, we are a wealthy organisation. If our insurance premiums went up from
pounds 1 million to pounds 4 million - and I'm not saying those are the figures
- we would still pay them."

There may be other governing bodies, with less access to rich sponsors and
lucrative broadcasting deals, who would faint at the prospect of fourfold
increases in insurance rates. Cricket has escaped so far. "Our insurers are
aware of our intention to go to India. And we've been in Zimbabwe. But it
doesn't seem to overly concern our insurers," said Brian Havill, financial
director of the England and Wales Cricket Board.

"But we are, in the long run, expecting a hike in costs and there are other
ramifications for cricket. What happens if we lose a country like Pakistan
long-term? Cricket couldn't afford that."

The situation for world sport has been left in a serious state of flux.
Wimbledon was keeping its stiff upper lip and refusing to comment. But every
other sport seems to be admitting it has rarely known a time of such chronic
uncertainty and escalating cost.

"There is just no telling what will happen," Jon Holmes said. "You know in
August 1939 the football season began before people cottoned on to what was
happening. I'm not suggesting this situation is just the same. But there is a
similar feel."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                October 16, 2001

AGENCY: PA
 League tour is back on RUGBY LEAGUE: Jubilant rugby league bosses today began
putting the finishing touches to an amended Ashes Series after Australia bowed
to pressure to re-instate the Kangaroo tour. Australian Rugby League chairman
Colin Love announced at a hurriedly-convened press conference at NRL offices in
Sydney that the tour is back on after a change of heart by players concerned
about terrorist attacks.

SECTION: AGENCY: PA, Pg.43

LENGTH: 170 words


The 10-strong ARL board re-opened talks with the players overnight after
receiving new security assurances from the British government.

The news was been greeted with as much relief as joy at RFL headquarters in
Leeds.

The League are still reeling from a financially disastrous World Cup and the
loss of the money-spinning Kangaroo tour would have been calamitous.

RFL director Dave Callaghan said: "We are absolutely delighted that the Kangaroo
tour is back on.

"This decision is of major significance for the sport of rugby league, both in
this country and internationally."

Six days of intense lobbying, led by former RFL chief executive Maurice Lindsay,
helped persuade them to overturn their original decision, as did an
unprecedented storm of criticism of the ARL stance and the decision of the
Wallabies to go ahead with their European tour.

The tour will go ahead without the four scheduled club matches and with the
three-Test series kicking off on November 11 at Huddersfield's McAlpine Stadium.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 16, 2001

Ministers launch two-pronged attack on terror groups and their paymasters

BYLINE: Deborah Summers Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 676 words


TOUGH new powers to combat terrorism are to be awarded to police, customs and
immigration officials under emergency legislation set out by David Blunkett.

The home secretary unveiled proposals to boost security yesterday while Gordon
Brown, the chancellor, outlined moves to strengthen world-wide co-

peration against terrorist

financing.

The emergency anti-terrorism bill will cover the whole of the UK, with specific
provision to take account of the implications for Holyrood.

Mr Blunkett told MPs that the package would include new powers to remove
suspected terrorists from the UK.

Security would be strengthened at airports and on board aircraft, and British
Transport Police would be given wider powers to tackle terrorism.

The law on incitement would be extended to cover religious, as well as racial
hatred, he

confirmed.

In a statement, Mr Blunkett stressed: "There is no immediate intelligence
pointing to a specific threat to the UK, but we remain alert, domestically as
well as internationally."

The measures were given a broad welcome by Oliver Letwin, shadow home secretary,
although he warned against hasty legislation.

Mr Blunkett said wholesale revision of the government's anti-terrorist
legislation was unnecessary. "However, we do need specific and targeted
measures, which is why I intend to introduce an emergency anti-terrorism bill,"
he said.

In the next few days, separate measures would be introduced under the proceeds
of crime bill, which would complement the anti-terrorism bill.

"The tough new financial controls in the emergency bill will help staunch the
flow of terrorist funding," he said.

New laws would make religious incitement a criminal offence. The maximum penalty
would be increased from two years in prison to seven years.

He added: "I am examining wider powers in relation to incitement by people in
the UK against groups or individuals overseas, and additional powers in relation
to conspiracy."

Mr Blunkett said that none of the new powers was intended to stifle free speech,
dialogue, or debate.

Obtaining intelligence and being able to track potential terrorists was
essential to the government's efforts.

"We need comprehensive powers to require best practice to become the norm. This
legislation will therefore facilitate the exchange of information in two key
areas," he said.

"It will ensure that law enforcement agencies can access vital information on
passengers and freight. It will also enable customs and revenue officers to pass
information to the police.

"These provisions will remove barriers which currently prevent the exchange of
information in the fight against terrorism."

Mr Blunkett said there was a need for stronger powers to remove suspected
terrorists from the country, while continuing to offer a safe haven to those
genuinely fleeing persecution.

Mr Brown, detailing the financial aspects of the emergency legislation, said his
plan was the result of concerted work across governments. The measures would
"tighten the law, further empower the police and strengthen co-ordination across
the world".

Implementing UN resolutions had led to the freezing of 35 suspect bank accounts
in the UK, immobilising more than (pounds) 63m of funds. All bank accounts
associated with the individuals and organisations named in US suspect lists had
also been frozen.

THE NEW MEASURES

Terrorism:

New powers to remove suspect terrorists from UK.

Airport security strengthened.

Incitement laws to include religious hatred.

Police and customs allowed to demand the removal of facial covering or gloves.

Fingerprints taken in immigration and asylum cases to be retained for up to 10
years.

Finance:

New powers to monitor suspect bank accounts, freeze assets, and seize cash.

Strict reporting obligations to be placed on financial institutions which
suspect

that funds have terrorist

links.

A new national criminal intelligence service, using "forensic accountancy" to
track assets.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 16, 2001, Tuesday

HOLS JET SECONDS FROM MID-AIR FIGHTER ATTACK;
 AIRFORCE FEARED TERRORIST RAID

BYLINE: Ryan Parry

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 278 words

HIGHLIGHT: TERROR: Draken jets like one above intercepted flight from; Edinburgh


A PLANE packed with Scots holidaymakers was seconds away from being blown out of
the sky by Austrian fighter jets yesterday.

The pilot of the holiday flight, which took off from Edinburgh Airport, ignored
requests for identification and strayed perilously close to a massive chemical
complex.

Fearing a Twin Towers-style terrorist attack, Austrian military chiefs ordered
their top guns to confront the Turkey-bound plane as it crossed their skies.

Last night a military spokesman said: "Shooting down was an option.

"It was over in seconds but had the potential to be very grave indeed."

The drama unfolded after the Turkish airliner pilot repeatedly ignored ground
control requests to identify the flight.

The Draken fighters were scrambled and ordered to keep their gunsights on the
aircraft, which was carrying almost 170 passengers.

They were authorised to open fire if the aircraft continued to ignore them.

After receiving an emergency Code Red command, the fighter planes broke the
sound barrier to intercept the suspect plane.

It's believed that a warning system in the holiday plane's cockpit, warning of
other aircraft in the vicinity, went off.

The frantic pilot called Austrian Air Traffic control when he spotted the two
jets heading towards him at high speed.

Andreas Scherer from the Austrian Defence Ministry said: "The pilot made contact
as soon as he saw the jets and they returned to their base."

The Turkish charter firm Onur Air refused to comment last night.

But a spokesman for tour operator Sunquest, which chartered the flight, said:
"We are doing what we can to get to the bottom of this."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                October 16, 2001

Pupils give their pocket money to help terrorist attack victims.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 209 words

DATELINE: Ealing



CARING Sikh school children emptied their piggy banks to donate a pound each to
the American Red Cross fund for the families of those killed in the US terrorist
attacks.

Fourteen Featherstone Primary School pupils visited the American Embassy in
Grosvenor Square on Thursday last week to present GBP 378 to deputy ambassador
Glyn Davies and cultural attache Kimberly Murphy.

Mr Davies spent over half an hour talking to children from the Featherstone Road
school in Southall, who also presented two books of condolence containing their
own artwork, prayers and poems expressing their feelings in the wake of the
disasters in New York and Washington.

Meanwhile, a multi-faith vigil for peace is set to attract hundreds of residents
on Sunday. In a powerful display of unity, Muslim, Jewish, Christian, Hindu,
Bahai, Sikh, Buddhist, Zoro-astrian and Quaker religions will gather in Ealing
Town Hall at 3.30pm. The event follows military action in Afghanistan.

Local Muslims are keen to distance themselves from the terrorist attacks. Mosque
Alliance of West London spokesman Shahid Akmal said: "Muslims the world over
deplore these attacks. The Koran says if you kill an innocent it is as if you
have killed the whole of humanity."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 16, 2001, Tuesday

US BODY INVESTIGATES LLOYD'S;
 INSURANCE: SOLVENCY FEARS FOLLOWING TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 225 words


A UNITED States regulator is to investigate the solvency of the Lloyd's of
London insurance market to check that it can meet its pounds 1.3bn exposure to
the terrorist disaster.

It was disclosed yesterday that the US National Association of Insurance
Companies (NAIC) will be examining Lloyd's financial position to establish
whether it has sufficient cash and reserves to meet all the claims.

It is thought that the inquiry is being headed by John Oxendine, Insurance
Commissioner for the State of Georgia, who is expected to hire a firm of London
-based American accountants to assist with the inquiry.

The NAIC is due to hold a planning meeting early next month to decide how to
proceed.

Lloyd's refused to comment on the move, but a spokesman for the Financial
Services Authority, which regulates the insurance industry, confirmed that NAIC
was looking into Lloyd's solvency.

He said, "A team from NAIC have been in touch with Lloyd's and are looking at
Lloyd's solvency and the ability of Lloyd's to meet its claims, " he said.

As regulator, the FSA had been approached by NAIC, but would not be directly
involved in the investigation, he added.

It is not the first time the market's solvency has been investigated by the US
regulatory body, which has looked at its books on two previous occasions in
recent years.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 16, 2001

Rock legends to raise cash for terror attack city;
 WAR ON THE TALIBAN

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 112 words


AN epic line-up of rock legends including Mick Jagger and Sir Elton John will
join Sir Paul McCartney for his New York fund-raising show next weekend.

The Concert For New York City, which was masterminded by McCartney, promises to
be a massive event.

David Bowie, Eric Clapton, Pete Townsend of The Who, Janet Jackson, Bono, Billy
Joel and Bon Jovi are all billed to perform.

The Saturday show is to take place in front of 20,000 people at the legendary
Madison Square Gardens and will be televised live to a worldwide audience of
three billion.

Proceeds, which are expected to be around 25 million, will now go straight into
the city's relief fund.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                October 17, 2001

US terror attacks failing to faze Scotland's consumers

BYLINE: by jhill

SECTION: BUSINESS:RETAIL:Reps/Stat/Survey, Pg.10

LENGTH: 192 words


THE terrorist attacks on the United States failed to dent Scottish consumer
confidence last month with retail sales growth at its highest level for more
than a year, new figures confirmed today.

The Scottish Retail Consortium's (SRC) monthly retail sales monitor showed a
year-on-year in September of 6.7% - a 0.3% increase on August.

Scottish retail sales still lag behind the rest of the UK.

Patrick Browne, the SRC director, said: "Consumers began to pry themselves away
from their televisions and returned to the stores by the weekend following the
attacks."

Economists said increased floor space and competitive pricing led to the sales
increases. Food sales saw the largest increase, up 7.9%, while non-food growth
was put at 5.5%.

Beer sales were also up, boosted by domestic and European football, but a fall
in tourist numbers hit sales in Edinburgh in the immediate aftermath of the US
attacks.

Donald Workman, the director of corporate and commercial banking at the Royal
Bank of Scotland, said: "Scottish consumers have been motivated to continue
spending by a combination of recent interest-rate cuts and assertive pricing."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2001 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 17, 2001

Britain on high alert for anthrax terror attack;
 War on Terrorism: WAVE OF SCARES: public urged not to panic but to be vigilant

BYLINE: Wayne Veysey PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 419 words


BRITAIN was today remaining on high alert for an anthrax terror attack as the
Government revealed it was preparing new guidance to deal with public concern
over the deadly bacteria.

Police urged the public not to panic yesterday despite the wave of anthrax
scares that swept the country.

Scotland Yard said there was no intelligence of a "specific threat" of a
biological or chemical attack but warned the public to be on their guard.

A spokeswoman said: "If people are suspicious of anything they have received in
the mail or by hand they should contact police.

"The police will advise and assist them. We have asked people to be vigilant."

The Department of Health last night confirmed that it was preparing new guidance
for NHS staff to help them deal with public concerns over anthrax.

A spokesman said that the guidance would be issued "shortly", but was unable to
give a date for its release.

It is expected to help medical workers recognise and treat the disease, as well
as allay the worries of members of the public frightened by the recent spate of
cases in the US.

There were a series of anthrax scares across the country yesterday which were
investigated by police and fire services. None was found to be a bacterial
attack.

The latest alert was last night at a building in Millbank, central London, which
includes BBC studios.

Scotland Yard said officers were called to reports of a suspicious substance in
the reception area but the immediate area had already been evacuated by the
building's occupants.

Also in London, 13 workers from the Stock Exchange were hosed down at a mobile
decontamination unit after mail room staff became suspicious about a package
yesterday morning. They were later taken to the Royal London Hospital in
Whitechapel, east London.

Seven staff at the Westminster offices of the Local Government Association were
quarantined inside two floors of the building in Smith Square yesterday after
the alarm had been raised over a suspicious package received in the post.

The suspect packages at the London Stock Exchange and Smith Square were both
tested and found to be harmless, a Scotland Yard spokesman said last night.

A similar scare hit a sorting office in Liverpool after a parcel containing
powder was discovered.

The 400-strong workforce was cleared from the building, and six people who came
into contact with the package were decontaminated and screened at hospital.

Tests later showed the substance was sand.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          October 17, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: JORDAN AND LEBANON THWART NEW ATTACKS

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 334 words


Jordanian security authorities helped their Lebanese counterparts derail
terrorist plots against British, United States, Jordanian and other embassies in
Lebanon over the weekend, government officials said in Amman yesterday.

The officials declined to say who was behind the attempts, but suggested that it
was a group linked to Osama bin Laden.

An official Lebanese security official denied the Jordanian reports, saying the
security situation in the country was stable.

But Lebanese authorities in the last week stepped up security measures at
diplomatic missions and interests of Western countries and those allied with the
United States, apparently acting on information that they may be targeted.

The officials would not elaborate on the steps Jordanian authorities took after
receiving tips about the terrorist plots against American, British, Jordanian
and other embassies in Beirut, the Lebanese capital.

One of the officials identified the group that had planned the reported attacks
as Asbat al-Ansar, which is on a list of terrorist organisations linked to bin
Laden.

Al-Ansar is an Islamic extremist group believed to be based in a Palestinian
refugee camp of Ein el-Hilweh in Lebanon.

Ad-Dustour, Jordan's second largest newspaper, quoted Jordanian Information
Minister Saleh Qalab today as saying 'Security authorities have foiled two days
ago terrorist plots against a number of our embassies abroad'.

He did not mention the other diplomatic missions.

The officials confirmed Qalab's remarks.

Yesterday, an armoured personnel carrier was stationed outside the building
housing the British Consulate and the Canadian Embassy outside Beirut.

Security at the US Embassy has always been tight. Embassy officials declined to
comment on the Jordanian reports.

Earlier this week, officials in Washington said four bombing attacks had been
thwarted since September 11 against US sites in France, Turkey, Yemen and
Belgium. No details were provided.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          October 17, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: ANTI-TALIBAN ATTACKS SPUR MIDDLE EAST PEACE EFFORT

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 668 words


War in Afghanistan is stirring peace efforts in the Middle East, where Israel
and the Palestinians appear to be retreating from a year of conflict while the
United States targets Osama bin Laden.

'There is greater pressure on (Israel and the Palestinians) to behave,' said
Israeli analyst Efraim Inbar, referring to Washington's attempts to cool the
conflict as it tries to build Arab and Muslim support for its campaign against
terrorism.

A dramatic videotape in which Saudi-born bin Laden, prime suspect in the
September 11 attacks on the United States, espoused the Palestinian cause, set
into motion a chain of events that has given new impetus to Middle East
peacemaking.

In the past week alone, US and British leaders have come out strongly in support
of a Palestinian state, and a US official said Washington was considering talks
between US President George Bush and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.

Ziad Abu Amr, head of the Palestinian legislature political committee, said
chances have improved for peace efforts.

'There is a great deal of optimism. I think the United States has made a link
between the motivations...for the attack and the Israeli-Palestinian question,'
he said. 'Their more immediate consideration is to ensure there is Muslim
support for the American alliance.'

Bin Laden tried to hijack the Palestinian cause when he said in a dramatic
videotape that 'America will not live in peace before peace reigns in
Palestine'.

This caused concern in Israel, anxious to avoid being seen by Washington as the
reason militants attacked. It also put pressure on Palestinian leaders, who
distanced themselves from bin Laden and said he was exploiting their cause.

With both sides eager to get on Washington's best side, Israeli-Palestinian
violence that has claimed some 800 lives has tapered off in the past week.

Analysts insist there will be no quick fix to a year of bloodshed that began
with the eruption of a Palestinian uprising against Israeli occupation.

'We may see some de-escalation in the Israeli-Palestinian arena but not an end
to conflict,' Inbar forecast.

In response to US pressure, Israel eased some of its travel restrictions on
Palestinians but also renewed what Palestinians call a policy of assassination
in tracking and killing militants it says are behind attacks on its citizens.

US national security adviser Condoleezza Rice said that Washington was
considering a meeting between Bush and Arafat, the man Israeli Prime Minister
Ariel Sharon has branded a terrorist.

She said Arafat, who has not been invited to the United States since Bush took
office, had made 'important steps' to reduce violence and asked Israel to
relieve financial and economic pressure on the Palestinians.

Sharon may go to Washington for a meeting with Bush early next month after talks
with Blair, who met Arafat on Monday.

Israel and the Palestinians are also feeling the social and political ripples
from the attacks and hunt for bin Laden, whose face appeared on their streets a
month after the plane attacks.

In Jerusalem, his image was placed next to Arafat's on street posters which
called them 'The Twins.' 'We assume right-wing Israelis did this,' a police
spokesman said.

In Gaza, Palestinian demonstraters carried bin Laden pictures during their
protest rally after the United States attacked Afghanistan, where it believes he
is hiding.

The hunt for bin Laden is sending Israelis rushing for gas masks, fearful of an
attack like in 1991 when US-led forces ousted Iraqi forces from Kuwait and
Baghdad responded by firing Scuds at Israel. The missiles had conventional
warheads.

Israel uses the US-led hunt for bin Laden by drawing a parallel to defend its
own track-and-kill policy of Palestinians it says are planning attacks on the
Jewish state.

'We will exercise our right to self-defence just as the United States is doing
in Afghanistan,' Sharon's spokesman Raanan Gissin told Reuters at the weekend.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          October 17, 2001, Wednesday

TERROR GOES ONLINE IN ATTACK ARCHIVE;
 E-CLIPS TECHNOLOGY NEWS

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 842 words


WITHIN hours of the September attacks on New York and Washington, American
researchers rushed into action to capture how the web was reflecting the
disaster.

The aim was to create a digital record of the explosion on the web of sites
related to the attacks.

The results of this ambitious project, called the Attack Archive, are now
available in a special online archive.

"It's a valuable resource that will allow us to go back and analyse in much
greater detail what this really was about and what it meant, " said Kirsten
Foot, professor at the University of Washington, who is co-directing the
project.

The September attacks had a profound impact on the internet.

Millions turned to the web for information, while others used e-mail or instant
messaging to check on relatives and friends.

Sites sprang up paying tributes to the victims or recording personal stories -
further proof of the power of the internet in creating a global community for
the greater good.

The Attack Archive is a cooperative effort involving The Internet Archive, the
Library of Congress, webarchivist. org and many contributors from around the
world. To see the archive, visit www. webarchivist. org At the other extreme, an
internet campaign to mischievously affect the recent national Census has led to
a rather bizarre, but hugely amusing development.

Coming very near the bottom of an official list of religions put out by the
Statistics Office is Jedi Knight - yes, Obi Wan Kenobe's crew from the Star Wars
movies.

However, you can't officially say that Jedi Knight is classified as a religion,
yet.

The Home Office won't say what constitutes a religion but, as the Census does
not provide recognition to any religion - whether it be Christian, Buddhist,
Hindu or Islam - Jedis may hold out some hope.

Suppose they'll be hoping The Force is still with them.

GAME REVIEW Commandos 2: Men of Courage Format: PC Publisher: Eidos, pounds
34.99 Commandos was the innovative 1998 real-time tactical combat game that
mixed elements of stealth, action, and even puzzle-solving in a World War II
setting.

Spanish developer Pyro Studios' visually stunning sequel takes the core gameplay
of the original, adds some of the features from the 1999 stand-alone expansion
pack along with plenty of great new ideas, and ultimately provides a highly
challenging, sophisticated experience that's even better than the first.

But be warned, Commandos 2 can be as intimidating as its premise makes it sound:
You'll command a small group of elite Allied operatives deep behind enemy lines
to perform a series of important clandestine missions.

At every turn, your commandos will be avoiding the patrols of German or Japanese
forces. It can be a difficult game, especially at first, but Commandos 2 truly
evokes the intensity of the harrowing depictions of World War II that you've
probably seen in film or on television.

You'll have to do such things as rescue Allied soldiers, sabotage powerful sea
vessels, assassinate key enemy officials, get your hands on important documents,
and much more.

The objectives are plentiful and varied and the game will take you to a wide
variety of real-world settings, but the overall number of missions in Commandos
2 seems small - there are only 10 main missions. You must play through them all
sequentially, even though they aren't necessarily related to one another. In
fact, the relative length and difficulty of each mission doesn't necessarily
increase from one to the next.

All the missions are huge, and you'll spend many hours trying to accomplish the
list of objectives in each one. There's also good incentive to replay each
mission, since a number of smaller bonus levels can be unlocked if you
thoroughly explore the main missions.

And the game's two higher difficulty settings noticeably affect the way enemy
guards react, requiring you to take different paths to success. Before you can
get into the main missions, you must first get through two "sink or swim"
tutorial levels, which have to be the most difficult tutorials ever created.

The colourful, memorable cast of characters at your disposal comes mostly from
the previous Commandos games and includes a powerful Green Beret; a deadly
marine; a spy capable of disguising himself as the enemy; a sapper, your
demolitions expert; a mechanic who can commandeer enemy vehicles; a master
sniper; and even a seductive secret agent.

New additions to the roster include a fleet-footed thief and an unlikely bull
terrier whose barking can distract your foes.

You'll also join forces with Allied troops whom you can control in many of the
missions.

One welcome innovation is the 3-D rotatable environment which adds much more
interactivity to gameplay, courtesy of a brand new gaming engine.

Shoot-em up fans will probably not find enough to keep them interested in
Commandos 2 - it's more a game for the wargaming/strategy enthusiast . . . and
only those with plenty of free time and patience.

Rating: 8/10

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REALITY CHECK: Commandos 2

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 17, 2001

Terror attacks take toll on US financial firms

BYLINE: Lauren Chambliss

SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 218 words


THE health of two of America's largest financial services companies deteriorated
sharply in the final weeks of the third quarter as the 11 September tragedy took
a heavy toll on profits.

Rising insurance claims and weaker trading profits from the weeklong stock
market shutdown took a big bite out of Citigroup's profits,which fell 9%.

Citigroup, the nation's largest financial services firm, reported third-quarter
earnings of $ 3.18 billion (£2.2 billion) or 61 cents a share, against analysts'
expectations of 63 cents to 65 cents. Its Travelers insurance unit declared $
448 million in catastrophe losses related to the terrorist attacks and posted a
$ 136 million loss. Investment banking income fell too.

JP Morgan Chase, the second-largest money centre bank, saw net income plunge 27%
as the slack economy and terrorist attacks hurt its Wall Street business. It
earned $ 1.04 billion or 51 cents a share in the third quarter, compared with 70
cents a year ago.

There was some silver lining in the clouds, however. Citigroup said it expected
the fourth quarter to improve dramatically and JP Morgan Chase's earnings
represented a big improvement over the second quarter.

Also, the firm nearly doubled the expected annual savings from the merger of JP
Morgan and Chase.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                October 17, 2001

Anthrax attacks linked to US terror atrocities'

BYLINE: HUGH DOUGHERTY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 242 words





A TOP member of America's cabinet today said the US anthrax alert is linked to
the September 11 terror attacks.

Tom Ridge, director of homeland security, said: It's more than coincidence, and
we don't have the credible evidence - it's somewhere in between.'' He was the
latest senior figure to link Osama bin Laden's Al Qaida organisation to the
anthrax finds, which have killed one man and infected at least two adults and a
seven-month-old baby.

He made his statement as scares and hoaxes involving the deadly bacteria
continued around the world.  An Israeli newspaper executive opened an envelope
yesterday filled with white powder and a note reading Regards from
Afghanistan''.

In Australia, anthrax panic emptied buildings nationwide and prompted calls for
a crackdown on hoaxers.  In South Korea, postal workers handling international
letters have begun wearing gas masks and gloves.

Governments are taking the threats seriously, but are trying to raise awareness
without prompting a flood of calls from a panicked public.  Italy's Health
Ministry set up a hotline on Monday, then appealed for people to use it
responsibly after receiving 520 calls on the first day, mostly from citizens
afraid of anthrax or smallpox.

In many countries, postal workers are on high alert.  Health ministries are
stocking up on antibiotics that effectively treat anthrax.  Comment: Page 8
Postbag: Page 22


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ALERT . . . an emergency worker sprays a mailbox on New York's Fifth
Avenue after removing its contents as the city was hit by scares

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                October 18, 2001

Brotherhood of firefighters wash for cash
 N -east people rally round to help victims of terror attack.

BYLINE: by ejenkins

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER:Others, Pg.22

LENGTH: 157 words


FIREFIGHTERS are holding a special fundraising event to help emergency crews
affected by the US terrorist attacks.

The A Watch team from Aberdeen's North Anderson Drive fire station have
organised a weekend charity car wash.

They want as many drivers as possible to bring their cars along for a hose down
on Sunday from 1-4pm.

Organiser Charlie Mathieson said the crew was spurred on to raise funds after
watching the horror of last month unfold on television.

Emergency crews have been working around the clock since the tragic attacks in
New York and Washington.

Mr Mathieson said: "What the emergency services have is a brotherhood - whether
it's in this country or thousands of miles away. We knew we had to do
something."

"Some people feel what happened in America won't happen here, but you really
never know."

The team have already raised GBP 800 donations and hope that their token gesture
will go some way to help.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Broadcast

                           October 18, 2001 Thursday

C4 orders bin Laden terror attacks raft

SECTION: ARTICLE; Terrestrial; News

LENGTH: 185  words



HIGHLIGHT: Channel 4 commissions special current affairs programmes including a
review of the Islamic faith in America presented by ex-Pakistan cricket captain
Imran Kahn


Channel 4 has commissioned a raft of special current affairs programmes
following the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, including a think
piece from former cricketer Imran Khan,      writes Penny HughesC4 head of news
current affairs and business David Lloyd has asked Mentorn Barraclough Carey
(MBC) to produce the 30-minute Islam and America Through the Eyes of Imran Khan,
to air on 2 November. It will be produced by John Purdie.Lloyd has also has
ordered a one-hour documentary from MBC on the New York fire brigade, Heroes of
Ground Zero. The producer/director is Katherine English and the executive
producer is Alan Hayling. It will air on 30 October.Meanwhile, another one-hour
documentary from MBC, Bin Laden's Plan of Terror, will kick off a new series of
Dispatches on 1 November. The film, ordered by commissioning editor, current
affairs Dorothy Byrne, is produced by Eamonn Matthews and executive produced by
John Bridcut.Byrne has also ordered Bin Laden: The Early Years from 3BM
Television, which will be executive produced by Simon Berthon. No transmission
date has yet been confirmed.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Broadcast


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 18, 2001, Thursday

FOOTBALL: MCGHEE FEARED TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Allan Marshall

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 234 words


MILLWALL manager Mark McGhee feared a terrorist attack when he heard there had
been a fire and explosion close to the club's New Den ground.

Tuesday night's match against Watford had to be postponed at short notice
because of the incident, caused by gas cylinders exploding on a nearby
industrial estate.

But the Scots boss said: "My first fear was the fire and explosion was a
terrorist act and while it was disappointing the game was called off it was as
much a relief to find out it was due to a straightforward fire, nothing else."

The London club will not receive a Football League fine for the late
postponement, as it was felt the decision had been taken following events beyond
their control.

Wimbledon boss Terry Burton has welcomed news David Connolly has been cleared of
any wrongdoing in his transfer to the Dons.

Dutch club AZ Alkmaar were demanding pounds 3million in compensation from the
Republic of Ireland striker after going back on a verbal agreement to join them
in the summer.

But an arbitration committee of the Dutch Football Federation rejected Alkmaar's
claims.

Burton said: "David was always our player but it's great it has finally been
cleared up. You don't want anything hanging over his head all season."

Japan international goalkeeper Yoshikatsu Kawaguchi will arrive at Fratton Park
on Monday to finally complete his move to Portsmouth.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 18, 2001

LIONS FEARED TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: FOOTBALL

LENGTH: 102 words


    MILLWALL boss Mark McGhee feared terrorists had attacked when he first heard
of the fire and explosion near the New Den on Tuesday night.

    The Lions' First Division clash with Watford had to be postponed because gas
cylinders were exploding on a nearby industrial estate.

    McGhee said: "My first fear was of a terrorist act and, while it was
disappointing the game was called off, it was as much a relief to find out it
was due to a straightforward fire, nothing else."

    The Football League has confirmed it will not be taking disciplinary action
against Millwall for the late postponement.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2001 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 19, 2001, Friday

SOFTWARE GROUP BLAMES TERRORIST ATTACKS FOR LOSSES

BYLINE: Shahid Naqvi

SECTION: Pg. 24

LENGTH: 427 words


Nearly 160 Midland jobs are to go at Anglo-Dutch software firm CMG after it
blamed the terrorist attacks on America for a severe slump in business.

The company is to axe 105 positions from its base in Solihull and 50 from its
Derby office in a bid to save pounds 20 million.

It said the September 11 atrocity had resulted in such a significant impact on
customers in insurance, financial services and transport sectors that 470 jobs
would have to go across the group. Head of investor relations for the group Tony
Richards said under normal circumstances a lot of the staff affected would have
been redeployed as contacts came to an end.

'But conditions have changed since September 11,' he said.

'The market was tough up until that point but manageable. Insurance, financial
and airline companies have unexpectedly cancelled projects and sent people back
to us who we couldn't redeploy in the short-term. There comes a point when you
have to re-base the cost plan.'

Chairman Cor Stutterheim said he expected the challenging environment to persist
through the first half of next year.

He added: 'This decision has been balanced by our equally critical determination
to maintain the quality and flexibility of the service that we provide to our
customers.'

Just two months ago CMG was forecasting a turnover growth of more than ten per
cent in its key IT service markets of Benelux and Britain at it announced first
-half results. CMG said this expectation remained for Benelux but was doubtful
for the British market since September 11.

It now expects total UK revenues from its core ICT (information communications
technology) business in the second half of 2001 to be lower than the pounds
129.5 million achieved in the same period last year. As a result, it is cutting
350 staff in this division. The other 120 jobs will go from its mobile telecom
products business, CMG Wireless Data Solutions.

However, Mr Richards added that CMG's involvement in security work, such as
pioneering eye-recognition technology with airports, might eventually boost
business. Whether companies talking about tightening their computer-based
security would actually follow through remained to be seen, he said.

'Historically security is an area where there is more talk than money actually
spent.'

CMG added its Benelux business was 'holding up well' but trading in its German
and French operations was 'not immune to the general slowdown' but continued
broadly in line with previous expectations.

Shares closed down 58.5p at 225.5p.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 19, 2001, Friday

BOSSES TELL OF SLOWDOWN FOLLOWING TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 75

LENGTH: 233 words


THE war on terrorism has caused a serious slow down in the West Midlands economy
according to a survey by the Institute of Directors (IoD).

Almost two thirds of company directors said business had deteriorated since the
terrorist outrages in the USA and almost half said the economy was likely to
deteriorate further.

But the survey, carried out by e-mail among the IoD's 3,300 members in the West
Midlands, also showed 77 per cent of businessmen and women supported the "war on
terrorism". Some 61 per cent said they had seen a slow down in business since
September 11 and the same percentage also reported the economy had been slowing
down anyway over the past three months.

Nigel Hastilow, regional director of the IoD, said: "Our survey shows that the
uncertainty and apprehension brought about by the war is leading directly to a
slow down in economic activity.

"Our members were seeing an economic slow down before September 11.

"In the immediate aftermath of the outrages in America, decisions simply didn't
get made and economic activity more or less ground to a halt for a day or two.

"Since then there has been a revival but it is weak and patchy.

"The uncertainty about how long the conflict will last, coupled with the fear of
further terrorist attacks in the United States or Britain, suggests there are
few signs that recovery will be quick in coming."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            October 19, 2001, Friday

US ATTACKS ALL POINT TO WORK OF SADDAM;
 THE TERROR HUNT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 295 words


SADDAM HUSSEIN could be behind the US anthrax attacks, says the man who tried to
track Iraq's germ weapons for the UN.

Richard Butler said: "No one should be surprised if the path leads to Iraq."

Butler said Saddam's regime was one of few able to produce the highly-refined
anthrax sent to US Senate leader Tom Daschle at the Capitol.

Mohamed Atta, suspected leader of the September 11 hijackers, is known to have
had talks with Iraqi officials.

Butler said: "Anthrax production had the leading role in Iraq's substantial
biological weapons programme.

"We never knew precisely what Saddam Hussein achieved but we know he loaded
anthrax into shells, bombs and warheads."

The warning came as officials in Kenya found anthrax in a letter sent from
Atlanta, Georgia. It was the first confirmed case outside America and the
Kenyans were testing two other envelopes. Only five people, all in the US, have
been infected with anthrax so far. In the latest case, a female assistant of CBS
newsreader Dan Rather is recovering from the less harmful skin form of the
disease.

An assistant to Rather's NBC counterpart, Tom Brokaw, also has skin anthrax, as
has the baby son of an ABC news producer.

The FBI yesterday offered a $ 1million reward to help catch whoever is sending
the anthrax.

The House of Representatives remained closed over the spores sent to Daschle but
none of the 31 people exposed to them showed any sign of infection.

Daschle and Brokaw were sent similar letters, postmarked Trenton, New Jersey. A
sorting office worker from Trenton tested positive yesterday.

The US Postal Service plans to send a postcard to every home in America telling
people what to do if they are worried their letters might be contaminated.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 19, 2001

Theatre boss hits out after Eubank cancels show ;Fury as boxer stays grounded in
the Middle East following US terror attacks

BYLINE: By Susie Kelly

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 402 words


FORMER boxer Chris Eubank has blamed the US terrorist attacks for cancelling his
Glasgow show.

The sports personality pulled the plug on an appearance at the Pavilion because
he says he is stranded in the Middle East and it's too dangerous to fly home.

But it emerged today he has only sold 600 out of 1400 possible tickets for his
An Audience with Chris Eubank show on November 7.

And Pavilion manager Ian Gordon today hit out at Eubank's decision.

Mr Gordon has pledged to take legal action unless the boxer agrees to pay up
hundreds of pounds in compensation the theatre paid out in pre-show publicity.

He said: "Whether some other venues have not been selling I really don't know,
but this is feeble.

"If he wanted to cancel the show then he should have been up front about it. I
think it is a case of 'In the yellow corner is Chris Eubank.'

"He approached us over two months ago about the show.

"Who knows what the world events will be on November 7? We were about to start
advertising. Now we will be seeking compensation."

Eubank, 39, axed the show after claiming to be stranded in Dubai while striking
a mystery business deal.

He lives in Brighton but says he was been unable to get a flight back to London
to make the start of the eight venue tour. A concert due to start in Leeds on
October 14 was the first of eight shows to be cancelled.

In a statement, Eubank's lawyer said the ex-boxer felt his personal safety was
still at risk by flying home for the Glasgow gig.

Stuart Nuttal said: "Unfortunately, the horrific tragedy of September 11 and the
subsequent events taking place in Afghanistan and the Middle East have made the
situation extremely volatile.

"Chris, in common with a number of other high profile sporting stars has decided
that travel by air in these circumstances and in particular to and from the
Middle East, poses an unnecessary risk."

A spokeswoman for Eubank said today he had been unable to get a return flight
home to the UK.

Eubank's agent Mary Finan also denied he had cancelled the Glasgow show due to
poor ticket sales.

She said: "He wasn't worried at all about ticket sales. He felt it wasn't right
to go ahead with the rest of the shows when he had cancelled Leeds.

"He says flights have been cancelled but he is now trying to get back. He may
even drive. He is going to do a tour in 2002 and he is very sorry."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: NO FLY ZONE: boxing champ Chris Eubank has pulled out of a planned
appearance at Glasgow's Pavilion Theatre, saying he cannot fly back from a trip
to the Middle East after the terror attacks on the US

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 19, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERRORISM: FESTIVITIES - FIRMS TONE DOWN CHRISTMAS CELEBRATIONS BECAUSE
OF TERROR ATTACKS AND RECESSION

BYLINE: Anna Whitney

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 315 words


THE SQUARE MILE has grown accustomed to lavish parties to celebrate Christmas
and bumper profits, but this year's events are likely to be sombre affairs - if
they take place at all.

The terrorist attacks of 11 September and increased fears of a global recession
have combined to ensure that having fun is the furthest thing from the minds of
employees in London's financial sector.

A senior investment banker said yesterday: "I don't know if we're having a bash.
But I'd rather have a job than a party."

Commerzbank, a German retail and investment bank, announced it would not hold an
event this Christmas, but would instead donate money to the New York relief
fund.

JP Morgan Chase told staff on 8 October that parties would be cancelled because
of the attacks and "the slow conditions in many of our businesses."

Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, which lost staff in the attacks, has not yet decided
what to do.

Richard Harden, publisher of Harden's London Party Guide, said: "There's no
doubt things have changed this year." A spokesman for the Dorchester Hotel said
many Christmas bookings by financial houses and banks had been cancelled.

Lady Anson, the owner of Party Planners, said she had advised clients not to
host events as "people are in no mood to party". Mike Kershaw, the director of
The Ultimate Experience, which often organises events for City firms, was keen
to paint a less bleak picture. "Somewhat surprisingly we are still on target. A
couple of companies from the financial sector have cancelled, either because of
the economic climate or what happened on September 11. It's a depressing time to
cancel a Christmas party, people will see it as the nail in the coffin."

Fran Cutler, co-founder of 2 Active party planners, said: "Life has to carry on.
We live with terrorism every day. They're not going to cancel Christmas, are
they?"

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                October 19, 2001

HERO FIREFIGHTER TELLS HOW HE WAS BURIED IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 383 words


True grit; When the tower began to crumble; I started to run for my life, but
you can't outrun a 110-storey building. . .'


From Page One biggest charity event in Britain to raise funds for the families
of New York's fallen heroes.

Teams of United and City legends managed by Sir Alex Ferguson and Kevin Keegan
will play a fund-raising match in front of a packed crowd at the Manchester
Evening News Arena and singing star Russell Watson will top the bill of other
entertainment.  Joe said he and Thomas were proud to represent their fallen
comrades and expressed the gratitude of his home city for the generosity shown
by the people of Manchester for supporting tonight's event.  We want to thank
everyone who has done so much to show they care,'' he said.

Joe - New York Fire Department's director of fire safety education - was at home
in Brooklyn when he heard that a plane had smashed into the World Trade Center.
He drove to the nearest fire station, grabbed some gear and started to
co-ordinate the rescue operation. Then one of the massive towers collapsed and
Joe was buried in the rubble.

But Joe was one of the lucky ones - he went home to his wife Vicky and four
children, while hundreds of colleagues did not.  Joe, now in charge for fire
safety for the whole of New York, told of the disaster.  I'd started trying to
co-ordinate the ambulances and emergency vehicles,'' he said, when the second
hi-jacked plane went right over my head and smashed into the second tower.''

Joe had been working for about 40 minutes when he heard the rumbling of one of
the towers starting to crumble behind him.  I started to run for my life,'' he
said, but you can't outrun a 110-storey building.  I was buried under the
rubble. I knew I was hurt, but I couldn't breathe. There was just thick dust and
smoke, it was filling my throat and my lungs and I felt like I was
suffocating.''

Thankfully, Joe wasn't buried very deeply and was eventually dug out by an
emergency team.  Tickets for tonight's event, priced GBP 3 - 12,000 have already
been sold - will be available on the door when the Arena opens at 6pm.

Three-page preview in GO section; Nick Weaver's plea to fans: See Sport
pull-out. amanda.killelea@gmnews.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: RESCUE hero . . . Joe was buried when the Twin Towers collapsed and was
dug out by an emergency crew

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 19, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: ECONOMY DAMAGED BY ATTACKS

BYLINE: Nick Sommerlad

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 277 words

HIGHLIGHT: WARNING: McCreevy


FINANCE minister Charlie McCreevy yesterday warned the economic impact of last
month's terror attacks would stunt Ireland's economic growth both this year and
next.

Plummeting tax returns will leave the minister with less room to manoeuvre when
it comes to December's crucial budget - the last before the general election.

In a statement to the Seanad, Mr McCreevy said that "prudence" was needed to
weather the current economic storm and ensure Ireland was well placed to benefit
from the global economic upturn - when it happens. But the heady days of
double-digit growth in the Celtic Tiger economy, which lasted through the 1990s,
appear to be over.

He said: "It is very difficult, just over a month after the event, to assess the
full economic impact of the attacks on Ireland's growth and employment.

"Obviously much depends on the effect on the world economy as a whole and its
reaction to the ongoing US military response."

Ireland's open economy, which is "heavily reliant" on trade and foreign
investment, leaves it vulnerable to fluctuations in the global, and particularly
US, markets.

He pointed out that for first time since 1982 all three of the world's major
economic areas - the US, the EU and Japan - were under-performing at the same
time.

Mr McCreevy's department has already nearly halved its estimates for Irish GNP
growth this year from 11.5 per cent to 6 per cent.

Estimates for GNP growth next year vary range from 1 to 5 per cent an indication
of the uncertainty in the market, Mr McCreevy said.

He said: "Growth in Ireland both this year and next will be lower than had been
previously forecast."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                October 19, 2001

America begins battle to win back missing visitors
 Prices plummet as tourists shy away after September 11 terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Susan Bailey and Shaun Greaney

SECTION: GENERAL: TOURISM, Pg.5

LENGTH: 756 words


THE American tourist industry is hitting back after the events of September 11
and courting potential Welsh visitors with cheap flights and cut -price
accommodation.

New York's visitor numbers have been devastated by the events of September 11.

The twin towers of the World Trade Center were a magnet for tourists from all
over the world, and a favourite for many Swansea and South West Wales visitors.

The Big Apple had become more and more popular as a short-break destination,
with Welsh couples or groups of friends jetting across for a few days of
shopping and bright lights entertainment.

Now New York's marketing company, NYC, has appealed directly to Evening Post
readers to come back.

In a letter to the Post, marketing spokeswoman Sarah Handy said:"To all those
who have expressed support and concern for our incredible city, we'd like to
thank you face to face.

"Everyone who loves New York can help by simply visiting the greatest city on
earth.

"Come for a weekend, see a show, visit a museum, go shopping.

"Together we will prove that the spirit of America is unbroken, and the New York
City will emerge stronger than ever," she said.

Occupancy at New York hotels has plummeted since the terrorist attacks, and some
were damaged.

The Millennium Hilton had its windows blown out and is closed while its
superstructure is checked.

The New York Marriott, near the World Trade Center, was irreparably damaged and
the Embassy Suites Hotel has been used as a staging area for rescue workers.

Washington, scene of the second attack, has also had its tourism industry
severely undermined. The nation's capital has lost millions of dollars thanks to
the plunge in visitor numbers.

Its closest airport has been running at one-third of its capacity and hotels are
half empty.

The Smithsonian, which operates 14 museums, has seen visitor numbers crash by 40
per cent on the same time last year.

Washington now plans a $15million marketing campaign over the next three months
to bring visitors back.

Florida, home of Disneyland and some of the world's best theme parks, has also
been hit. Visit Florida, the state's marketing company, is now offering more
than 600 discounts, bargains and incentives on its website.

"They can be matched up with some incredible offers available from transatlantic
airlines to get you a Florida holiday at prices that will never be seen again,"
claimed spokeswoman Kat Burgess-Craddy.

The Disney parks were closed on September 11 immediately after news of the
attacks broke. But they reopened the following day with extra security measures,
including searching the bags of all visitors before allowing them through the
gates.

The company said:"The safety and welfare of our guests and cast members
continues to be our primary concern."

But the parks are emptier and last month 15,000 Disney workers had their hours
cut.

Flights to the Western coast of America are also going cheap, with the internet
quoting prices of around GBP 250 - approximately half the normal cost.

In Los Angeles the attacks led to the delay of about 45 movie releases and
police have been guarding the Disneyland park at Anaheim since the bombing of
Afghanistan began.

Singing for disaster fund - page 20

Pupils' hopes for peace - page 21

Charges halved as hotels struggle

SPECIAL fares are being offered to woo holidaymakers back to America's main
tourist spots, say Swansea travel agents.

Jill Burgess, of Burgess World, said people were anxious about travelling,
particularly by air.

"We are delighted that prices have been cut in line with what the marketing
people are saying.

"But it is not only New York and America - London too has cut prices. There are
special rates for London hotels at less than half the usual price," she said.

Michael Morgan, at Sketty Travel, said many people really did not want to
witness the scene of devastation in New York.

"We have seen a downturn in bookings, but that is understandable. The events of
September 11 have certainly hit the business.

"Having said that there would have been a downturn around now anyway because it
is out-of-season," he said.

Fares

EXAMPLES of special fares available at city travel agents:

New York in November, with Delta Airlines, GBP 219 including tax, available from
Burgess World.

- Los Angeles, October, again with Delta Airlines, GBP 351 including tax,
available from Burgess World.

- Los Angeles, in November, GBP 295, with British Airways, including tax,
available from Sketty Travel.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BIG ATTRACTIONS Decked out in bandleader uniform, a Mickey Mouse
balloon leads the 74th Annual Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, one of New York's
famous attractions, along Broadway. The city's skyline lit up (below) before the
new millennium with the the Secretariat building at United Nations headquarters
showing the message UN 2000. FAMOUS LANDMARKS The Statue of Liberty in New York
(right), the Epcot Centre in Florida (far right) and the Hollywood sign, Los
Angeles (below).

                    Copyright 2001 South Wales Evening Post

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 20, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: TWO DIE AS US LAUNCHES ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 92 words


yesterday that American officials informed his government that US special forces
would be conducting 'hit-and-run' operations in Taliban-ruled areas of
Afghanistan.

An unspecified number of US special forces were dropped into southern
Afghanistan on Thursday, the official said.

He added that Pakistan had been told that US forces have been in northern
Afghanistan for more than one week.

In preparation for ground action, the USS Kitty Hawk, an aircraft carrier in the
Indian Ocean, was loaded with special forces last weekend.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           October 20, 2001, Saturday

AIR ATTACK TERROR HITS JOBS AT ROLLS-ROYCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 32 words


SORROW: A statue of Henry Royce, co-founder of Rolls-Royce, at the company's
Derby aero-engine plant after 5,000 job losses were announced in the aftermath
of the US terrorist attacks

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SORROW: A statue of Henry Royce, co-founder of Rolls-Royce, at the
company's Derby aero-engine plant after 5,000 job losses were announced in the
aftermath of the US terrorist attacks

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Estates Gazette

                                October 20, 2001

COMMERCIAL MARKET SLUMPS IN WAKE OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Lucy Barnard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 194 words


    Confidence in commercial property has fallen to its lowest level for at
least seven years following the terrorist attacks of 11 September.

    According to the RICS's commercial property survey published this week, the
market has seen its second quarter decline accelerate into the third quarter.
But confidence levels in the North remain much higher.

    Net balance of new development in London has plummeted from -11% in the
second quarter to -39% in the third. More than 73% of London agents said they
had experienced a fall in office demand alongside an increase in incentives to
tenants.

    Demand for shops has fallen, with experts tipping a further slowdown by the
end of the year. For the third quarter, 29% of surveyors recorded a fall in
retail take-up, with just 8% noting a rise. Despite falls in the industrial
sub-sector,especially in London, the North maintained second-quarter figures.

    Meanwhile, supply in the Thames Valley has increased by 57% during Q3,
accordingto Healey & Baker. At the same time, take-up fell by 37%, mostly due to
lengthening negotiation periods, and demand fell by one-third.

    www.reedbusiness.com/comprop.htm

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Magazine

                 Copyright 2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 20, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERRORISM: MILITANTS - WHY A MUSLIM CLERIC IN THE SUBURBS OF WEST LONDON
DENIES TERROR ATTACKS WERE A 'BAD ACT'

BYLINE: Arifa Akbar And Cahal Milmo Sheikh Abu Qatada, right, is indignant at
accusations he is a suspected provider of 'material support' for terrorism and
the 'European ambassador' for Osama bin Laden, left Jonathan Evans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 952 words


SHEIKH ABU QATADA sits on a chair in his front room and talks with an air of
surprising calm for the man described as "Osama bin Laden's ambassador to
Europe".

The Muslim cleric, suspected by intelligence sources of being al-Qa'ida's
London-based fixer yesterday, tried to present his other face - a bookish
father-of-four in a terraced home in Acton, west London, contemplating a camping
trip rather than world domination.

The man named by the Treasury and the US authorities as a suspected provider of
"material support" to terrorism was indignant at his new reputation. "It's clear
to me that a terrorist is defined in the West as anyone who is trying to defend
his country against the West," he said. "I believe that America does not want
our emotions and empathy to go with the innocent and oppressed people of
Afghanistan who are suffering.

'"I am absolutely not a terrorist and I have never participated in terrorist
activity in Britain or in Jordan," he added, referring to the life sentence
imposed on him in Jordan in his absence for terrorism.

His benefits had been stopped by the Department for Work and Pensions on the
say-so of a Government that had attributed to him a supposed pounds 180,000 in a
bank account. He said: "I have exactly pounds 624 in my bank account today, I
live in a rented house, but I may be camping with my family soon. I have an old
Mitsubishi car, but I will sell it to anyone for pounds 700."

The last attempt at second-hand car salesmanship is said with a wry glint but
the sentiment is clear. Sheikh Abu Qatada, who has nine different aliases and
three birth dates on the Treasury's list of suspects, believed he is a wronged
man.

Wronged by the Jordanian authorities who have sentenced him in absentia to life
imprisonment for involvement in a series of explosions in the country in 1998.
Wronged by those who say he met Mr bin Laden in Peshawar in Pakistan in 1989 and
wronged most of all by a West he believes has set about the destruction of
Islam.

But he is also the man who spoke of his "respect" for Mr bin Laden and said he
believed the September 11 attacks that killed more than 5,000 on American soil
were not a "bad act".

French authorities investigating a plot to blow up the American embassy in Paris
this winter earlier this month named Qatada as the man who had recruited three
of the protagonists. All three, and Zacarias Moussaoui, the so-called 20th
hijacker, are said to have attended classes given at the Four Feathers Youth
Club off Baker Street in London.

Qatada has long been identified by security services as an open supporter of the
creation of a worldwide Islamic order. It is a deeply contradictory stance that
he seems quite happy to live with, although his family might feel differently.

Two of his four children innocently bound around him, dressed in colourful
Western clothes with bright open faces.

A translator says his wife, Ibtisam, and his four children, Sarra, 12,
Rumathyah, 10, Qatada, 7, and Aysha 3, have been so distressed by the attention,
they have been living in constant expectation of a visit from the intelligence
services and fear of hostile attackers. They sleep fully clothed at night, in a
state of alert.

Before Qatada's rise to prominence, he and his family may have seemed like any
other ordinary members of the Arab community, living in a nondescript terrace
house. His home displays typically Eastern traditions, a pile of discarded shoes
line his front passage, his living room walls are crammed with Arabic literature
books stacked to the ceiling.

There is, however, one unbefitting corner, which is stuffed with overflowing
office equipment, a computer, a fax machine and reams of paper. Guests visiting
the household typically sit on the floor, which is covered with white sheets and
large velvet cushions.

Apart from the cosy clutter of books, the room's ornamentation is purist - only
Koranic verses adorn the wall space visible beneath the books.

Qatada, who arrived in Britain from Pakistan in 1993 and was granted political
asylum, fervently denies any connection with terrorism - claiming in his
peculiar brand of disarming bonhomie that he is merely a "a big target with a
big belly" who wears Arab dress.

In his rare interviews with the media, he has always claimed he is an Islamic
scholar and teacher. Any money he collects from his Muslim brethren after Friday
prayers is to help with rents and support the impoverished, he claims.

The reality is that little is known of the Palestinian's previous history. He
was born in Bethlehem in 1960 and lived in Jordan until 1989 when he fled the
country, alleging political persecution.

Qatada does not condone the atrocities of 11 September or the perpetrators. "I
feel, without a doubt, very sorry for both the Muslims, the non-Muslims who died
without a real reason for dying."

As a Muslim, he says: "In Islamic judicial prudence, if a Muslim is attacked by
an invader it becomes obligatory for every Muslim to defend his religion
regardless of nationality. Whether that Muslim is British makes no difference.
This cannot be changed by America or Britain; it is part of Islam."

Pressed again and again to say whether he was a bin Laden supporter, he refuses
to say no. "It has not been proven that bin Laden has done any criminal
activity. America cannot prove anything. There is not a shred of evidence around
the world that he has involvement in 11 September. I do not know bin Laden in
person but I think he is a person who wants to liberate the world of the
corruption that exists, if I have understood him right. If this is bin Laden,
then there is nothing wrong with it."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                October 20, 2001

Commandos circle terrorists
 Anthrax attacks 'are linked'

SECTION: Armed Forces: War, Pg.8

LENGTH: 847 words


About 100 US commandos have carried out a secretive ground assault in the
Taliban stronghold of southern Afghanistan, opening a new phase of the war on
terrorism after nearly two weeks of punishing airstrikes, US officials said
today.

US President George Bush said American forces are "circling the terrorists so we
can bring them to justice".

Officials said the helicopter -borne commandos returned to base after several
hours inside the country.

There was no word on possible casualties in the raid, but two people were killed
when a US helicopter prepared for search-and-rescue duty crashed accidentally in
neighbouring Pakistan.

Mr Bush said he grieved for the soldiers and their families.

"The important thing for me to tell the American people is these soldiers will
not have died in vain," the president said.

The defence official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, would provide no
details of the operation except to say it occurred early this morning local
time.

Mr Bush also refused to comment on the raid, but said of the US operation in
general: "I am satisfied we are making very good progress. We are dismantling
the Taliban defences. We are destroying terrorists' hideaways. We are slowly but
surely circling the terrorists so we can bring them to justice."

Earlier in the day, officials had confirmed that special forces were in northern
and southern Afghanistan, searching for Taliban targets and for Osama bin Laden
and his al Qaida lieutenants. The use of small numbers of US troops near
Kandahar, which in effect is the Taliban headquarters, marked a shift to a
broader range of military activities - overt and covert - that Bush says is
necessary to win the war.

With regard to the helicopter crash, Mr Bush said: "It is hard to express my
gratitude to two people who are willing to sacrifice for freedom. The nation
feels the same gratitude. The soldiers died in a just cause, and we will
prevail."

The president said Americans were prepared for the casualties that come with
war. "They understand there will be sacrifices," he said.

Mr Bush, in Shanghai, China, for a world leaders' summit, refused to confirm US
forces were in Afghanistan, but he said: "Let me reiterate what I've told the
American people and the world. We will use whatever means are necessary to
achieve our objective."

A Pakistan military official said yesterday that American officials informed his
government that US special forces will be conducting "hit-and-run" operations in
Taliban-ruled areas of Afghanistan in an effort to flush out bin Laden, members
of his al Qaida network and Taliban leaders.

An unspecified number of US special forces were dropped into southern
Afghanistan on Thursday, the official said on condition of anonymity.

The official said Pakistan was told US forces have been in northern Afghanistan
for more than one week.

In preparation for ground action, the USS Kitty Hawk, an aircraft carrier in the
Indian Ocean, was loaded with special forces last weekend.

And Air Force special operations AC-130 gunships began attacking in southern
Afghanistan.

The high-firepower AC-130s typically give close air cover to forces on the
ground or going in for small-unit operations.

Special operations troops such as the US Army's Green Berets perform many
missions, including assistance to opposition forces and collection of
intelligence.

The anthrax strains surfacing in Florida, New York and Washington are all
similar, Bush administration officials say, probably indicating a single source.
"We obviously are preparing for more," said homeland security chief Tom Ridge.

Two weeks into the nation's bioterrorism scare, Ridge also said the FBI had
traced two anthrax-tainted letters to a single mailbox in New Jersey.

Authorities disclosed two more cases of the skin form of the disease: a New York
newspaper employee and a New Jersey-area postal worker. That pushed the total to
eight victims.

Capitol Hill in Washington was largely deserted during the day, save for
hazardous-materials teams checking the sprawling office buildings for evidence
that spores had spread.

Officials said they had not found any of the bacteria beyond previously known
locations, including Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle's office and a central
Senate mailroom.

Ridge announced that after extensive lab tests, officials had concluded that all
three strains of the bacteria "are indistinguishable. They are similar."

"It does appear it may have been from the same batch," he added, "But it may
have been distributed to different individuals."

The tally in the spate of anthrax infections included one death and one other
case of the inhalation form of the disease, both in Florida, and six less severe
skin infections. All involved people with connections to the news media or who
handle mail. Yesterday the New York Times said a test by Brazilian authorities
found "bacteria or spores consistent with anthrax" in a letter to the
newspaper's bureau in Rio de Janeiro. The letter was posted on October 5 from
New York and received on October 16.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FIGHTING ON: Northern Alliance fighters near Quruq, Northern
Afghanistan, prepare for battle US postal service inspectors in Ewing, New
Jersey, where a letter carrier contracted the disease

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 20, 2001, Saturday

WAITING FOR TOURIST MARKET TO PERK UP;
 MADISONS: EXPANSION PLANS ON HOLD AS NEW YORK TERROR ATTACK DETERS CUSTOMERS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 241 words


COFFEE bar chain Madisons is to rein back its expansion plans until the economic
climate improves.

The company has seen sales fall in recent weeks, particularly in London, in
light of the uncertainty following the terror attack on the US.

Chief executive Gareth LloydJones said yesterday his priority was now to build
up cash reserves before rolling out more sites next year.

"You can see how the market is, we are hearing some horror stories from central
London in terms of tourists not being around, " he said.

"So we have decided to sit back, get the basics right and then move ahead with
our strategy."

Madisons opened eight bars in the first half of the year and now runs 36 with
most in South Wales and the south west of England.

It also bought four Richoux restaurants in the capital in August last year, a
brand it has since taken to Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.

Group sales in the year to 24 June rose 52pc to pounds 14.6m as the Richoux
restaurants were integrated into the business.

Madisons however made a pre-tax loss of pounds 2m, compared to a pounds 1.7m
loss the previous year, with administration costs surging by 33pc.

Mr Lloyd-Jones said sales were in line with forecasts made earlier this year and
that customers were reacting well to innovations such as new food products.

He added the group had more than pounds 2m in the bank to drive expansion when
the market bounced back.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 20, 2001

Culture plans back on after terror attack

SECTION: News, Pg.22

LENGTH: 166 words


A MEETING to discuss Bristol's bid to become the European Capital of Culture in
2008 has been rescheduled after it was postponed following the terrorist strikes
on America.

Key figures from the West were set to hold a meeting on September 12, but it was
cancelled as a mark of respect to the people killed.

The seminar will now take place on October 31 at the Watershed Media Centre,
Bristol.

More than 90 delegates from the world of arts, local authorities and regional
agencies are expected to attend to draw up cultural and leisure projects for the
region.

The culture bid centres on the city's cultural and arts scene and its vision for
the whole of the South West.

The seminar, which is free to delegates, will consist of a series of keynote
speakers from the world of arts and culture followed by workshops.

Helen Holland, executive member for Bristol city council, will introduce the
conference. Places can be booked by calling Emma Burton on 0117 988 1569.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 21, 2001, Sunday

ATTACK ON AFGHANISTAN: BIO-TERROR 2: IOS INVESTIGATION - ANTHRAX ATTACKS NOW
BEING LINKED TO US RIGHT-WING CRANKS

BYLINE: Chris Blackhurst Top row: Bob Stevens, the Florida-based photo-editor
who died from pulmonary anthrax; Ernesto Blanco and Stephanie Daly worked in the
same building and are being treated for the disease. Middle row: Claire Fletcher
was infected by a letter addressed to her boss, Dan Rather of CBS; NBC's; Tom
Brokaw was also a target. Bottom row: Senator Tom Daschle; David; Wright, a
colleague of Stevens's, has also contracted anthrax

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1410 words


In Wynnewood Manor they know her as Terry, the mother in her mid-30s who
collected their mail every weekday for three years. Today, Terry is being
treated for exposure to anthrax, and black-jacketed FBI agents are swarming over
the route she took. The net is closing on the anthrax terrorists and Terry might
just be their critical mistake.

Terry did not pick up from public post boxes; she dealt only with residential
addresses in Wynnewood Manor, a suburb of Ewing, New Jersey, a working- class
town west of Trenton, the nearby city. Somebody left Terry a letter to post.

If she checked the address, she may have been surprised to see it was for Tom
Brokaw, the veteran NBC anchorman. What the suburban terrorist did not realise
was that while the envelope to Mr Brokaw was stamped "Trenton, NJ", it also had
a Postal Service bar code, which narrowed it down to Terry's sorting office.
When she was found to be suffering from anthrax, the search narrowed: she was on
duty the day the bar code was franked on Mr Brokaw's envelope; probably, she
collected it.

Teams of FBI officers questioned residents along the postal worker's tree-lined
postal route. Samantha Pae, 34, her fiance, and her fiance's mother were
interviewed by the FBI, who asked them how long they had lived in the area and
whether they had noticed any suspicious activity or observed vehicles with
out-of-state plates. Charlotte Piepszak, who has lived in the area for 30 years,
said FBI agents asked her if she knew any chemists.

One mailbox where the FBI suspects at least one anthrax-laced letter began its
journey has now been identified. It has been taken away for tests.

Thomas J Ridge, the Bush administration's new director of homeland security,
confirmed the FBI "has been able to identify the site where the letters were
mailed". At first, given the proximity of the anthrax mailshots to 11 September,
the authorities thought they had to be linked to extreme Muslim fundamentalists,
probably Osama bin Laden and his Al Qa'ida organisation. But in the last few
days that view has changed, with the "crank" theory gaining ground.

Investigators are increasingly convinced that a lone individual or group of
people living in the US are behind the mailings of the white powder, which have
claimed the life of a British-born picture editor and brought parts of the US
media, political and economic infrastructure to a standstill.

Despite the letters sent to Mr Brokaw in New York and to Tom Daschle, the Senate
majority leader in Washington, calling for "death to America" and praising
Allah, agents are quick to point out the messages do not mean anything. The
letters could have been sent by a right-winger, trying to stir up racial tension
in the wake of 11 September and using the hijackings as cover.

There is plenty of other circumstantial evidence pointing to the letters being
the work of someone sympathetic to the 11 September hijackers - but it is only
circumstantial. Trenton is a major Muslim area and New Jersey has featured
already in the hijackings. Jersey City, not far from Trenton, was home to two
men who boarded a plane on the day of the hijackings only for the flight to be
grounded in the aftermath of the World Trade Centre and Pentagon attacks.

The following day, the pair, Ayub Ali Khan and Mohammed Azmath, were picked up
in Texas, with $ 5,000 in cash and the same sort of knives used by the
hijackers. They are in custody, along with a third man who shared their home.
When it was searched, agents found press clippings of articles about biological
warfare.

Agents also know that the man they suspect was the hijackers' leader, Mohamed
Atta, wanted to acquire a crop-spraying aircraft. And he lived near the
newspaper offices in Florida where the only person to die in the anthrax attacks
worked. But they have found nothing in the credit card details and emails of the
hijackers to indicate that they had a quantity of anthrax or were aware that
another type of attack was imminent. One of the letters containing anthrax, sent
to Kenya, was posted before 11 September.

Investigators are also puzzled by the choice of targets. They do not bear the
hallmarks of the hijackers. Selecting media organisations guarantees publicity
but they are not politically symbolic. Mr Daschle, despite his prominence as
majority leader, is a Democrat not a Republican (indeed, investigators have
noted, few politicians have riled the right as much as Mr Daschle, with websites
calling for a concerted effort to do him down).

Investigators have matched the anthrax used in the Florida, New York and
Washington letters. They are all from the Ames strain, a variety of anthrax
developed in the US but also exported overseas. This has made them revise an
early thought that the anthrax may have originated in Russia or Iraq, two
countries with a history of developing biological weapons. Neither country is
thought to have had that particular strain.

Much has been made of the timing of the attacks, that coming so soon after 11
September they must be linked. But anthrax terrorism is not a new phenomenon,
especially in the US. For the last four years, the country has been in the grip
of anthrax. It is an American phenomenon: in 1999, the latest year for which
records are available, there were 83 criminal incidents worldwide where a
quantity of anthrax was actually present, of which 81 were in the US.

The obsession with anthrax began in April 1997, when a petri dish labelled
"anthrachs" was sent in a package to a Jewish organisation in Washington.

The dish contained a red, jelly-like substance, which after nine hours'
examination was pronounced harmless. That was after an area of the capital had
been cordoned off and the building evacuated. Emergency workers insisted that
police, who forgot to wear protective clothing and entered the "hot zone",
stripped off and had showers there and then. It was the first major anthrax
scare. It received plenty of publicity - and hundreds followed it.

In one year alone, 1999, according to The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists,
there were hoax anthrax threats made against a department store, a nightclub,
NBC, the Washington Post, a post office and a government building. In just four
days in February, there were 35 anthrax scares. In one, in Missouri, 20 people
had to leave an abortion clinic and have an outdoor shower in a snowstorm (they
kept their clothes on).

For right-wing groups in particular, making false claims about anthrax is a
weapon of choice. So frequent were the alarms that Neil Gallagher, assistant
director of the FBI's national security division, has vented his frustration:
"Not a day goes by without us hearing from somewhere in the US about an anthrax
threat." In 1994, there were 27 stories listed in the New York Times's archive
concerning "biological and chemical warfare" in the US. By 1998, it had risen to
278. Media interest - hoaxes were often treated in the press as though they had
been real - plus a spate of films and novels sent fears about anthrax attacks
spiralling upwards. This was not helped by William Cohen, the then defence
secretary, appearing on national television with a bag of sugar in his hand and
claiming an equal amount of anthrax would wipe out half the population of
Washington.

Individual states carried out doomsday tests based on imaginary anthrax
outbreaks; these often involved emergency workers donning terrifying looking
suits and were usually conducted in the full glare of local publicity. One
national test, the "Topoff exercise" in May 2000, saw the federal authorities
trying to cope with simultaneous chemical, biological and nuclear attacks in
three widely separated metropolitan areas - and failing. The resulting publicity
sent national paranoia to new levels, and just may have encouraged today's
attacker.

Iraq seeking revenge for defeat in the Gulf war was seen as one likely threat.
But there were others. In 1998, Larry Wayne Harris, a microbiologist linked to a
white supremacist group, was arrested after allegedly threatening to release
"military-grade anthrax" in Las Vegas. He did have anthrax but on examination it
turned out to be a harmless veterinary-grade strain.

Somebody, somewhere has now got hold of a lethal variety and is putting it in
the mail. They may be supportive of the hijackers or they could, just as easily,
be fulfilling a long-threatened ambition.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 21, 2001, Sunday

ATTACK ON AFGHANISTAN: BIO-TERROR 1: DOWNING STREET -'TAKE SHELTER, CLOSE DOORS
AND WINDOWS AND STAY INDOORS';
 THE GOVERNMENT'S PLANS FOR BIOLOGICAL OR CHEMICAL ATTACK MAKE CHILLING READING,
SAY GEOFFREY LEAN AND SEVERIN CARRELL

BYLINE: Geoffrey Lean And Severin Carrell Hazard experts in protective suits
investigate an anthrax scare at the ITN headquarters in central London on
Friday. The government fears that in the event of a confirmed bio-terror attack,
police and local councils would lack the expertise to tackle the disaster and
its after-effects. RAY; TANG/REX

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 714 words


The Government has long had plans to deal with the sort of mass emergency that
might be caused by a biological attack. But the prospect of it happening was so
remote that few of us gave much thought to what they might entail. Events in
America since 11 September have brought home the reality, and the document
obtained by The Independent on Sunday admits that "these plans have been stepped
up (and) revised".

The Threat

The document warns that attack could take various forms. It would be
"particularly dangerous" if it targeted major population centres or enclosed
areas (such as offices, shopping centres, Tube stations or sports arenas). It
could infect food and water supplies, and even take weeks to emerge, and "may
have the potential to cause serious harm and disruption over a wide geographical
area".

Different strategies would be required for chemical and biological attacks. A
chemical release could take less than 60 seconds, and would need an immediate
"lights and sirens" response. Some chemicals could be "delivered" as vapour or
aerosol, and cause poisoning by inhalation, which will be relatively fast
acting. Others may be liquid, which could pose a skin or inhalation hazard. But
contamination of food or water "cannot be ruled out". Biological attack could
take days to emerge and could be hard to detect.

The most crucial factors are the ability of some agents such as smallpox and
plague - but not anthrax - to spread from person to person and early detection
of the disease. "Unless the release is announced, detection and minimisation of
casualties will be dependent upon early identification of unusual patterns of
illness by doctors and laboratories."

Separate advice sent to doctors and hospitals by the Public Health Laboratory
Service says every unexplained case of severe fever should be reported, and that
just a single case of anthrax, smallpox, plague or rare forms of botulism,
should be regarded as indicating a terrorist attack.

Who's in charge?

In direct contrast to normal civil disasters, where local police and councils
take charge, ministers would take immediate control from the Cabinet Office
briefing room (Cobra) in Whitehall, by invoking national emergency plans and
bringing in the military. The level of central control would be on a scale
unseen in peacetime - involving senior officials from across government.

The Home Secretary would appoint a government liaison officer, who would
represent Cobra and lead a team involving the Home Office, the Cabinet Office,
civil contingencies secretariat, Foreign Office, Department of Health, Ministry
of Defence, Crown Prosecution Service and MI5.

The local police commander would remain in operational control, setting up his
HQ at a main police station where the government liaison team, fire brigade,
ambulance, military bomb disposal and bio-warfare experts from Porton Down would
also be based. The document warns that in the early stages of an attack the
council and police may not have the necessary expertise. They may have to wait
until Porton Down experts and detection and protection equipment arrived.

The response

In any attack, the document warns, the emergency services would be faced with a
series of major problems, including mass panic. Casualty departments doctors'
surgeries, mortuaries, and decontamination facilities are likely to be
overwhelmed.

Cordons would be set up around the area of attack. But unless there is a major,
immediate threat to their safety, unaffected residents, office and shop workers
will be told to "take shelter, close doors, windows and stay in" until the
threat has passed.

The risks of evacuation, with panic and traffic paralysis, could far outweigh
the risks of staying indoors.

Ensuring emergency personnel and the public are decontaminated would be a
further headache. It would be needed as close to the incident site as possible
to avoid further contamination. But specialist facilities could be easily
overstretched, forcing the use of temporary buildings and even just hosing
people down in the street.

Emergency services and councils are warned they could need emergency mortuaries
and body holding areas as well as, emergency housing for evacuees and inflatable
shelters.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                October 21, 2001

Life cover costs hit by the war on terrorism;
Attack fears could add to the cost of insurance, say brokers

BYLINE: Edmund Tirbutt

SECTION: Pg. 31

LENGTH: 561 words


THE era of ever cheaper term life insurance may have been dramatically ended by
the global war on terrorism.

Term insurance pays out a lump sum if a policyholder dies within a stated
period, but nothing for those who outlive the policy. Premiums have fallen by 40
per cent in the last five years, but the trend stopped with the attack on the
World Trade Centre on September 11 and no insurer has offered any new reductions
since.

Michael Ward, managing director of Direct Life & Pension Services, a low-cost
broker based in Chichester, West Sussex, says: 'Insurers are worried about the
possibility of a serious death toll resulting from a wave of terrorist attacks
and, in the unlikely event of this happening, prices could even rise.' Ward says
the price cuts could have stopped even without the new terror risks.

He says: 'Insurers have been feeling the impact of poor stock market returns.
They had largely exhausted surplus reserves built up with the benefit of
unexpectedly large increases in life expectancy.' But now is still a good time
to find a term assurance bargain as computer worker Christopher Lofts, 36, has
found out. He picked up a leaflet about lowcost cover in his Tesco store, but
his partner Diane, 30, who works as an accountant, told him to shop around.

Christopher contacted other insurers, but none could beat Tesco's prices.

He took out GBP 100,000 of level term insurance for 12 years at a premium of GBP
8.90 a month to provide security for their 22-month-old daughter Abigail.

Christopher already has insurance policies to provide financial security for two
children from a previous relationship.

Christopher, who lives near Sittingbourne, Kent, says: 'Even though Diane has a
good job, everything would be thrown up in the air if I died.

'I have wanted new cover since allowing an uncompetitive policy to lapse a year
ago. Seeing the leaflet in Tesco jogged my memory. I am confident that I got a
good deal because we really did shop around.' Unfortunately, not everyone will
be able to give up one expensive policy and start again with a cheaper one.

FOR anyone who has developed health problems since taking out a policy,
switching insurer can trigger far higher rates.

So it is worth getting help.

Insurance brokers can trawl through the market in minutes and give quotes over
the phone or the internet.

London-based LifeSearch offers to undercut any rival quote by refunding part of
its commission to clients.

Direct Life & Pension Services and London-based Term Direct are able to undercut
the standard market by sacrificing about one-third of their commissions. Direct
Life & Pension Services has even introduced a special offer this month
guaranteeing to requote in the December of the year after a customer takes out a
policy. Refunds of the difference between the old and the new premiums are
available if the company can provide a cheaper policy.

Meanwhile, adviser Torquil Clark of Wolverhampton offers a cashback deal on term
policies it has handed back GBP 1.8 million in commission refunds over the past
five years.

* Tesco Personal Finance 0845 845 1477; Direct Life & Pension Services 0800 980
1998, www.

payingtoomuch.com; LifeSearch 0800 316 3166, www.lifesearch.

co.uk; Term Direct 020 7684 8000; Torquil Clark 0800 413186, www.

tqonline.co.uk.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: COVERED: CHRISTOPHER LOFTS WITH PARTNER DIANE AND THEIR 22-MONTH-OLD
DAUGHTER ABIGAIL

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 21, 2001

FOCUS SPECIAL: The Terrorism Crisis: Anthrax Attack: How bugs turned into
weapons

BYLINE: ROBIN McKIE Science Editor

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 591 words


1 SMALLPOX Unlike other potential bio-weapons, the smallpox virus is spread from
human to human, via aerosol droplets of saliva, so there is no need to release
it as a bomb or a spray. Just infect a few martyrs and then set them loose, and
you will create a cascade of infection. The disease is best transmitted during
cool, wintry weather.

Once infection has taken place, smallpox takes 12-14 days to take effect.
Victims feel feverish, after which a rash spreads over the face and body. In
about 5 to 10 per cent of cases, a more rapid, malignant verson spreads and is
usually fatal. Vaccination is considered the best way to combat smallpox, even
after a victim has begun to display symptoms. At least two laboratories in the
former Soviet Union have been reported to be storing viruses and one may have
the capacity to produce them by the ton. It is also thought that Soviet
biologists, like the country's physicists and chemists, may have left Russia to
sell their services to other countries.

2 TULAREMIA A bacterial disease harboured by animals and ticks, it can pass
through the skin into the bloodstream, and is therefore a prime candidate for
distribution by spray or by an aerosol bomb. Symptoms include lesions, headaches
and muscle pains which appear within three days. The disease is easily
vanquished by streptomycin and tetracycline, however, and even without
treatment, 95 per cent of infected people survive.

3 BOTULISM Caused neither by a virus nor a bacterium, botulism is spread by a
toxin, botulinum. Produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum, it attacks
the nerves and can cause paralysis and death. Symptoms, which include blurred
vision, muscle weakness and slurred speech, usually manifest themselves within
two days, althought they can take up to 10 days to appear. Victims can be
treated effectively with widely available antitoxins. As a biological agent,
botulinum is extremely unstable and is therefore difficult to disperse in the
open. However, germ warfare experts warn that it could be used to infect water
and food supplies. However, as it is easily killed by chlorine, water supplies
are still likely to remain fairly safe.

4 PLAGUE Feared for thousands of years following epidemics that have decimated
populations across the world, the plague - or Black Death - is caused by the
bacterium Yersinia pestis which is spread by fleas which jump from rats to
humans. In the Middle Ages, it is estimated that more than 20 million died after
becoming infected with Y. pestis. Britain is thought to have lost 40 per cent of
its population in the seventeenth century. Early symptoms include painful
swollen nodules, which appear up to six days after exposure. The victim's blood
becomes infected, then the lungs. Coughing can then spread the disease. The
bacterium is not easily spread by aerosol, however. In addition scientists have
developed a vaccine against the plague while antibiotics, given early, are also
effective. Despite its reputation, the plague is less deadly than supposed.

5 BRUCELLOSIS Thought to have been stockpiled by the Russians during the Cold
War, brucellosis produces an infection that is not usually fatal, but which is
usually incapacitating. Russians are usually more resistant than Western
peoples, hence its popularity with the former Soviet Union. Brucellosis is
primarily a bacterial illness of farm animals such as sheep and cattle but it
can be spread to people who work with animals. The disease is characterised by
malaise and recurring fevers.


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 21, 2001

FOCUS SPECIAL: The Terrorism Crisis: Anthrax Attack: 'Anthrax is in my blood -
thanks Osama'

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 405 words


JOHANNA HUDEN , an assistant at the New York Post , emerged as the fourth person
in the city to be infected by anthrax spores. But she was back at work even
before the diagnosis was made - antibiotics prescribed for a black swelling on
her finger which she thought was caused by a cat scratch may have cleared the
infection.

Writing in the newspaper, Huden, 30, said: 'When you work for a newspaper,
you're part of the story, but not too close. This morning I am the story I'm a
victim of germ warfare. Anthrax antibodies are in my blood. Thanks, Osama.'

Huden said that five weeks ago she noticed an itchy red bump on the middle
finger of her right hand, which became swollen and then broke open and seeped
fluid, prompting her to put a plaster on it.

'Later, when I removed the Band-Aid after a long day at work, an ulcer had
formed that was jet black and dry in the middle,' she said. 'Soon the finger had
swollen severely, with the black area spreading down around the sides. I went to
a walk-in clinic that Saturday and when I removed the Band-Aid, the doctor
looked shocked. He said, "This is a very serious infection. If you waited any
longer, you'd be in hospital getting intravenous antibiotics".'

Two days later, feeling feverish, she went to a casualty ward and it was decided
to cut the infected area away.

'My whole hand was wrapped in gauze with the affected finger - the third finger
on the right hand - sticking straight up. "Is that for Osama?" asked a police
officer. We laughed. Little did he know. Or me, for that matter. But it was no
laughing matter.'

Days later, news broke that anthrax had been diagnosed in another woman in New
York, an assistant to NBC newsreader Tom Brokaw, and Huden realised she had the
same symptoms. 'I had a chest X-ray, and a nasal swab and a biopsy was taken
directly from my wound. My doctor put me on Cipro, just in case, and I was sent
home to await test results,' she said.

The preliminary test results were negative. 'But the guy from the Centres for
Disease Control said that since I'd been on antibiotics for so long, he had
guessed the biopsy would be negative,' she said.

'Then they needed more blood: the original samples had been compromised. Then I
waited some more. My worst fear was that there would be no diagnosis - that I
would be left wondering for ever.

'But then, Thursday night, the call came. Yes, I had anthrax.'


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            October 21, 2001, Sunday

THE WORLD FIGHTS BACK: HERO COP FOILS TERRORIST BOMB ATTACK AT AIRPORT

BYLINE: Alexander Hitchen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 195 words

HIGHLIGHT: AFTERMATH: Police examine remains of the bag in which bomb exploded


A TERRORIST plot to blow up the international airport at Islamabad in Pakistan
was foiled yesterday.

Militant Muslims left a briefcase containing a time-bomb in the crowded VIP
lounge.

But a policeman spotted the case, covered it in an anti-blast blanket and ran
with it to a concrete bunker in the airport car park.

The bomb exploded 30 minutes later, damaging cars but no one was hurt. The
lounge had been crowded with 150 passengers along with friends and families
seeing them off.

Airport security chief Colonel Ashraf Faiz said: "It could have been a tragic
incident if the security official hadn't spotted it." Pakistani security has
been on high alert since the beginning of the US airstrikes in neighbouring
Afghanistan.

Militant Muslims oppose the Pakistan government's backing for America's campaign
against the Taliban.

The hero constable who dealt with the bomb was last night promoted to assistant
sub-inspector. The airport remained open.

In the US, airports have revoked the security badges of thousands of former
employees who failed to give them in.

Investigators warned the badges could fall into the wrong hands.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 22, 2001

Girl injured in bomb attack tells of terror

BYLINE: By Claire Regan:cregan@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 420 words


AN 11-YEAR-OLD girl today spoke of her horror of being caught up in a blast bomb
attack as she and a young pal played outside their north Belfast homes.

Young Neidin - who did not wish to reveal her surname - and her eight-year-old
friend were outside the front doors of their neighbouring Newington Street homes
when two explosive devices were hurled over the roof tops from a loyalist area.

The first device - a firework with shrapnel taped to it - struck Neidin on the
chest before hitting the ground and exploding.

Seconds later a blast bomb was thrown into the street and went off, injuring the
eight-year-old as she fled.

The child was rushed to hospital where a piece of shrapnel was removed from her
back.

According to neighbours she has since been released but has gone to stay with a
relative in the wake of the attack.

Neidin was also taken to hospital where she was treated for shock.

Speaking to the Belfast Telegraph today, the shaken youngster described her
horror as she saw the devices coming over the top of her house.

"I saw the firework rolling down off the roof and I started to run. It just hit
me on the chest before bouncing off onto the ground," she said.

"I kept running and then the second one came over. It was really scary."

Neidin's mother, who did not wish to be named, spoke of her daughter's ordeal.

She said: "She is still very frightened.  She is clinging to me all the time and
barely leaves my side.  Things are so bad here now but we are determined to
stay. People are asking for a peace wall but what good would it do when they can
still throw things like this right over a house?"

The woman also said that the rear of her home, which backs directly onto a
loyalist area, had come under attack up to five times in recent months.

"I was injured myself on the knee once when a blast bomb came into the yard,"
she said.

"We are very much a target here and the police really aren't doing enough to
protect the people in this area or the children here.

"It is terrible that you can't even let your children out to play right outside
your own front door and under your supervision without something like this
happening."

Secretary of State, John Reid, said today he stood by his description of the
bombers as "scum" and described the attack as "an echo of the Dark Ages."

"In fact it is an insult to the peoples of the Dark Ages to associate them with
those who threw pipe bombs at two young girls last night," he added.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 22, 2001, Monday

AMERICAN VOICES IN HARMONY TOGETHER: Michael Jackson is joined by other stars on
stage at the; United We Stand: What More Can I Give? concert in Washington to
raise money for the victim's of September's terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 183 words


THOUSANDS of music fans gathered in Washington DC to see Rod Stewart, Michael
Jackson, NSYNC, Aerosmith and other pop stars at a marathon concert to celebrate
America and raise money for victims of September's terrorist attacks.

United We Stand: What More Can I Give? raised pounds 1.4million through the sale
of more than 46,000 tickets. It was one of three major benefit concerts over the
weekend.

The Backstreet Boys sang the national anthem to kick off the sold-out show at
RFK Stadium in Washington. 'We can't let them defeat us,' said band member Kevin
Richardson. 'We have to get up, get out and live our lives every day.'

In Nashville, meanwhile, themes of patriotism, generosity and defiance of
terrorism sounded as top country stars staged the third benefit concert of the
weekend.

In Washington, James Brown took the stage dressed in a gold suit. The audience
sang along to God Bless Americar and waved small American flags.

British stars Paul McCartney, David Bowie and Mick Jagger headlined the Concert
for New York at Madison Square Garden on Saturday night.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 22, 2001, Monday

POP STARS IN CONCERT FOR VICTIMS OF TERROR ATTACK;
 WAR ON TERRORISM TRIBUTES: Thousands gathered for the concert in Washington
(top), ex -president Bill Clinton (above left) makes an appearance at the New
York concert, which included a performance by Paul McCartney (right)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 196 words


TENS of thousands of music fans gathered to see Michael Jackson, *NSYNC,
Aerosmith and an array of other pop stars at a marathon concert to celebrate
America and raise money for victims of September's terrorist attacks.

More than 46,000 tickets were sold for the United We Stand: What More Can I
Give? concert, raising about two million dollars (pounds 1.4m). It was one of
three major benefit concerts being staged over the weekend.

The Backstreet Boys sang the national anthem to kick off the sell-out show at
the RFK Stadium in the US capital Washington DC.

In Nashville, themes of patriotism, generosity and defiance of terrorism were
performed by top country stars including Martina McBride, Alan Jackson and
George Jones.

Paul McCartney, David Bowie and Billy Joel headlined the Concert for New York at
Madison Square Garden on Saturday night.

Proceeds from the Washington concert will go to the American Red Cross Liberty
Fund, the Salvation Army Relief Fund, the Pentagon Relief Fund and the Rewards
for Justice Fund.

Nashville proceeds will go to the Salvation Army and for financial help for
families affected by the suicide hijackings.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 22, 2001, Monday

BA back in talks with KLM Terrorist attacks force industry consolidation
Eddington predicts demise of most top European players

BYLINE: By Carolyn Batt

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 577 words

BRITISH Airways chief executive Rod Eddington yesterday foreshadowed dramatic
consolidation in the airline industry, saying the British carrier is in talks
with KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, a year after previous merger discussions stalled.

Mr Eddington said there was a "good chance" that the number of major European
carriers would fall to three - British Airways, Lufthansa and Air France - from
the current 15 players.

Speaking on the BBC's Breakfast With Frost programme, he said: "We want and
believe that European aviation has to consolidate. . . and we want the British
Government to work with the people in Brussels, to make sure that happens in a
sensible and logical way." He added that British Airways would prefer
governments to refrain from hand-outs.

Since the terrorist attacks on September 11, British Airways and its rivals have
suffered sliding revenues and rising insurance and security costs. The company
lost pounds 48m in the first week alone and has announced 7,000 job cuts,
bringing the industry total to around 120,000.

Passenger numbers on British Airways' transatlantic and Middle Eastern routes
still remain a third below their pre-September 11 levels and Mr Eddington
admitted the group may have to consider selling its property portfolio to
survive the difficult market conditions.

He said: "We will survive but we're going to have to change the way we run our
business. . . we are going to have to tighten our belts. We've begun that
process already; there may well be more things we have to do."

Mr Eddington said British Airways was in talks with a number of airlines,
including KLM, to see if there were ways to work together "in these exceptional
times". KLM later emphasised the discussions centred on "co-operation" rather
than a merger.

British Airways also remained keen to achieve a tie-up with American Airlines,
Mr Eddington said. He added: "To do that we need anti-trust immunity, otherwise
they go to jail. We're hoping that the governments will be able to deliver that
towards the end of this year."

The clearest victims of the airline crisis are Swissair and Belgium's Sabena,
with each filing for bankruptcy earlier this month.

The Swiss government, which has set today as the deadline for deciding on the
fate of the national carrier, was engaged in last-ditch negotiations over the
weekend to find a solution to the Swissair crisis.

The most likely scenario would involve financial backing for the expansion of
Crossair, effectively turning the former Swissair subsidiary into the new
national carrier.

In another move, the Government is today expected to extend the state-backed
airline insurance introduced in the wake of the terrorist attacks after insurers
withdrew war coverage. The Government's initial emergency cover expires on
Wednesday.

Roger Wiltshire, secretary-general of the British Air Transport Association,
said: "We are maintaining operations on the assumption the Government will
extend the package for a further 30 days. However, we are expecting some subtle
changes to the terms and will want to examine the new details."

He said the Treasury, which waived a fee for the first month of insurance, might
also be planning to introduce premiums.

However, Mr Wiltshire said it was important British operators remained "on a
level playing field" with international rivals and BATA would be fighting to
ensure the Government's terms were consistent with this.
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 22, 2001

War on Terror: Anthrax attacks claim new victim

BYLINE: Paul Kendall

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 541 words


A WASHINGTON postal worker was seriously ill in hospital last night with the
deadly inhaled form of anthrax.

The man, the ninth U.S. victim of the terror campaign, worked in a depot which
handled a contaminated letter sent to Senate majority leader Tom Daschle last
week.

He is only the third person to contract the inhaled form of the disease, the
most dangerous type and the one that killed Britishborn newspaper worker Bob
Stephens in Florida.

A second Florida victim is recovering.

Six other people in New Jersey and New York have been diagnosed with a less
serious form of anthrax.

The mail man, who is being treated with strong antibiotics, complained of
feeling unwell on Friday and the diagnosis of anthrax was confirmed yesterday.

Medical authorities are testing more than 2,000 colleagues at his depot and
another 150 at a mail centre near Baltimore-Washington International Airport,
where he also worked.

Health inspectors revealed yesterday that they had found traces of anthrax in an
office building of the House of Representatives, a few blocks from the Capitol
where Senator Daschle has his office.

It was also revealed that the New York Post has received a second anthrax-laced
letter, although no one is believed to have been infected.

The contaminated letter was found unopened on Friday in the mailroom of the
newspaper, where an employee was diagnosed with anthrax last week.

It was addressed to 'Editor, New York Post' in similar block capitals to those
on letters sent to Senator Daschle and to Tom Brokaw, news presenter at
television station NBC.

But tests for anthrax at ABC TV, where a seven-month-old boy was believed to
have contracted the disease, and other media organisations in New York have come
back negative, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said yesterday.

The baby, the son of an ABC producer, had visited the network's offices, leading
investigators to believe the infection may have occurred there.

The Mayor said investigators had not identified the source.

At the Capitol building, police said there had been no new positive tests.

The building would be open today and the Senate and the House of Representatives
would be in session as scheduled tomorrow-though offices directly affected by
anthrax would stay closed.

In the UK, emergency services have been told to prepare for the largest number
of civilian casualties ever seen if terrorists launch a chemical or biological
attack.

A 16-page document issued by the Government to local councils and fire brigades
says thousands of people could be contaminated, with emergency services and
mortuaries stretched to breaking point, if an attack came without warning.

The Government has consistently-said it does not expect a chemical or biological
attack. But the document, issued by the civil contingencies secretariat of the
Cabinet Office, says such an onslaught is 'possible'.

The nightmare prospect emerged as the World Health Organisation warned
governments that smallpox could be the next biological terror weapon.

Scientists at Porton Down in Wiltshire the Government chemical and biological
warfare laboratory are said to have been told to review their supplies of
smallpox vaccine.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 22, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: Silence of FBI's terror suspects:Inquiry

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 228 words


FBI agents investigating the 11 September attacks have been frustrated by the
total silence of all the main suspects they have in custody, writes Robert Fox.

More than 150 have been rounded up since the hijackers hit the World Trade
Center and Pentagon - but only four are believed to be withholding valuable
information about the attacks.

They are being held in New York.

"We're into this thing for 35 days and nobody is talking," an FBI official said.
"Frustration is beginning to appear".

Some FBI agents now believe that the time is coming when "pressure will have to
be applied".

Torture and drugs are banned.

Any proven use of them would invalidate evidence for a trial.

Furthermore the victim could sue any agent or agency using them.

The four suspects are Zacarias Moussaoui, a French-Moroccan detained in
Minnesota in August after he allegedly tried to get lessons to fly airliners,
but did not want to learn how to land or take off.

He is alleged to have been the 20th hijacker, who missed a rendezvous with the
rest of the teams on 11 September.

With him are Mohammed Jaweed Azmath and Ayub Ali Khan, Indian citizens detained
on 12 September carrying false passports with box cutters, hair dye and $ 5,000
cash.

The fourth is Nabil Almarabh, a Boston taxi driver alleged to be part of the al
Qaeda network.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 22, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERRORISM: INTERNET - TERROR ATTACKS DEAL FATAL BLOW TO WEAK DOT.COMS

BYLINE: Charles Arthur Technology Editor Executives at lastminute.com, left, are
surviving 11 September but websites such as Brill's Content, The451.com and
Inside.com are not

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 602 words


"THAT WHICH does not kill me, makes me stronger." The philosopher Nietzsche said
it, but the economic fallout from the tragedy of 11 September means that
internet businesses which are surviving are thriving - while the weaker ones go
to the wall.

In the US, Inside.com and Brill's Content, which primarily analysed the doings
of the media, closed last week; so did The451.com, a technology site which
charged pounds 600 annually for access, and had offices in London and on New
York's pricey Fifth Avenue.

"To say you're surprised at any media business finding it hard to remain in
existence at this point would be silly," said Kurt Andersen, co-founder of
Inside.com, in a valedictory story on the site.

Try telling that to eBay, the online auction site. It just released quarterly
figures to the end of September showing that its revenues rose by 70 per cent to
$ 194.4m (pounds 135m) - and even more impressive, that its net profits were $
18.8m. Those figures would make any ordinary company happy in normal times, let
alone during wartime.

Or ask Brent Hoberman, chief executive of Lastminute.com, the one-time stock
market dot.com darling. He has seen the number of last-minute bookings made on
the site rise by more than 50 per cent.

The increase is due to the combined effects of consumers waiting until the last
moment, and suppliers such as hotels, airlines and holiday companies having more
places.

"People still have confidence enough to buy these things," said Mr Hoberman.
"But it's just that more and more of them are deciding at the last minute. And
the suppliers, who used to pretend that they didn't do business with us but
secretly always did, are even more friendly than before."

This could be the time when companies which are already established online -
such as eBay, lastminute.com, Amazon and Yahoo! - squeeze rivals out of
existence and come to dominate the online world. A dot.com manager said: "What
you're seeing is the last flushing out of people who wouldn't survive anyway in
the longer term. They're going to go to the wall, and that will leave those who
survive even stronger."

There is even room for online content companies - providing you approach it the
right way, says Drew Cullen, co-editor of The Register, an online technology
news website. Having started as an email newsletter in 1994, and gone on to the
web in 1997, it now has 200,000 readers every day. Whereas The451.com charged,
it is free. So how does it keep going?

"The thing about The451 was they spent millions when they launched on marketing
and offices, when it would have been simpler just to buy the rival, called
Computerwire. We never took part in all that venture capital fundraising stuff.
We are just a small business. OK, we have 1,000 square feet in Mayfair but it's
above a kebab shop. We cut our coat according to the cloth."

What is its income? "There's T-shirts," Mr Cullen said. "Last month we sold
pounds 10,000 worth." Many dot.coms would kill for sales like that. The company
also sold adverts and had a recruitment section. "It's all about word of mouth,
not big marketing spend," he said.

By contrast Salon, another American content site, is searching for new sources
for funding. Without it, the doors will close in the next few months. "Hindsight
is a wonderful thing," said Mr Cullen, "but you have to say that as a site it's
just misconceived. It would be better on paper."

However, he thinks there is still room for buccaneers on the web: "People think
it's over, but there's always room for entrepreneurs. Fortune favours the
brave."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 22, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERRORISM: AID AGENCIES - CHARITIES UNDER ATTACK FOR HUMANITARIAN PLEAS

BYLINE: Paul Peachey Clare Short: Dismissed charities as publicity-seekers;
Afghans receive sugar and flour, part of humanitarian aid provided by French
agency; Acted Misha Japaridze/AP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 749 words


THEY ARE the unofficial and unwilling opposition. Britain's aid agencies have
become the most vociferous opponents of the bombing of Afghanistan.

And in return, they have been attacked by the Government and accused of
exaggerating the scale of the humanitarian disaster to help to raise funds.

Despite being barred by the charity laws from taking up an overtly political
stance, they stand accused of employing the spin doctors' dark arts to pursue an
anti-war agenda. As millions are threatened with starvation, aid agencies face
accusations of being "emotional" for contradicting official pronouncements on
aid delivery into Afghanistan.

"We're conscious that we're forced to be more political," said Fiona Fox, a
spokeswoman for Cafod, one of the charities that is calling for a pause in the
bombing. Because Third World governments are often weaker than large charities,
the latter are "inadvertently pushed into being political.

"Cafod doesn't want this," she said. "At the moment, we feel we're on the side
of the angels. But if we're associated with being political and using it
politically, it will not be good in the long run."

When Tony Blair sought to justify the bombings last week, the World Food
Programme (WFP) rejected his claims that the Taliban were severely disrupting
food supplies. Clare Short, the Secretary of State for International
Development, then provoked fury in some circles by dismissing the charities as
publicity-seekers.

"There are some agencies who quite frankly want to raise money in their own
countries and therefore want to be in the news," she said.

Political consensus reigns in Westminster, with the military policy supported
overwhelmingly by MPs, forcing charities into the role of being the main
opponents to the bombing campaign. Aid workers have assumed higher profiles as
they try to spread the humanitarian message.

Christian Aid has been at the forefront of the campaign, calling for a pause in
the air strikes while the humanitarian crisis worsens.

The WFP has raised its estimate of the number of Afghans who desperately need
food from 5 million to 7.5 million after the 11 September attacks. It said it
aimed to move in 52,000 tons of food during the next month to counter the
effects of the harsh winter.

Dominic Nutt, a spokesman for Christian Aid, was in Afghanistan for five weeks
before the suicide hijackings, preparing for an appeal to counter the drought in
the region. "We've got people living here on the ground. It's been up to us to
raise even a question mark over the Government's policy," he said.

Mary Robinson, the UN Commissioner for Human Rights, was the first to call for a
pause to allow for a safe passage of aid.

Senior Christian Aid staff, who had been meeting every morning under their
international director, Roger Riddell, a former chief economist for the
Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries, decided to back her call. They were joined
by five other big aid agencies, including Cafod and Oxfam.

The charities said the bombing made it impossible to deliver the huge amounts of
food needed. Afghan truck drivers were refusing to take the aid and only a
fraction of the food needed was getting through. The consequences of failing to
deliver aid were underlined last week when Christian Aid received its first
reports of deaths from famine in the north of the country.

But the Government insists that the Taliban are the primary cause of the
humanitarian crisis and the main obstacle to getting in aid.

John Davison of Christian Aid said: "To be attacked in the way we have is
disappointing. To be accused by New Labour minister of spinning the story is
unbelievable.

"The suggestion that we are doing it for the money, that we are ramping up the
status of the crisis in order to get more funds - a suggestion which has been
made - shows great ignorance or dishonesty.

"I don't know if Clare Short has got any people in Afghanistan telling her
what's going on, but we have."

Oxfam, which has 120 local staff in Afghanistan and is in constant contact with
other aid workers in Pakistan, also criticised the Government's approach.

Barbara Stocking, who joined the charity as a director in May after serving as
an NHS director for the southeast region, backed the decision to call for a
pause in the attacks.

Helen Palmer, an Oxfam spokeswoman, said: "Clare Short's approach was very
unhelpful. She was implying that we make it up as we go along."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 22, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: US ATTACKS HAVE KILLED CELTIC TIGER

BYLINE: Sean O'hara

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 277 words


TERROR attacks in New York and Washington have finally killed the Celtic Tiger,
a leading economist warned yesterday.

The Republic is now officially in recession after the suicide bombings which
came after a slowdown in the IT sector and the foot and mouth crisis.

According to Robbie Kelleher of Davy Stockbrokers in Dublin, the economy will
get worse before it gets better.

Technology and tourism - two of the key areas - are on the slide and the
construction industry's boom is over.

Mr Kelleher said the number of new houses built next year could fall by up to 30
per cent.

He said: "It's clear that the economy fell off a cliff at the end of spring.

"Ireland is a small and very open economy.

"If you consider what has happened to our major export markets, and what has
happened to technology and tourism, it is not so surprising."

While forecasting growth of one per cent for next year, Mr Kelleher warned the
figure could in fact be minus three or minus four per cent when the full impact
of the downturn becomes clear.

Ireland has enjoyed runaway growth averaging more than nine per cent over the
last eight years.

Just 12 months ago, computer firms like Compaq and Intel were luring skilled
workers with Caribbean holidays and luxury cars. Now, staff are counting
themselves lucky to still have a job.

David McKenna, chief executive of Dublin-based Marlborough recruitment group,
said: "The collapse of some of the tech firms has introduced a bit of reality.

"People had been getting so greedy. They wanted more money, more share options,
more cars, more perks.

"Eventually someone had to shout stop."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 22, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: FEAR OF ATTACKS: AHERN SMALLPOX FEAR

BYLINE: Sean O'hara

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 141 words

HIGHLIGHT: CHEMICAL WARFARE; A soldier kitted out in full uniform and protective
suit needed in the event of a chemical or biological attack


TAOISEACH Bertie Ahern has been warned to get smallpox jabs amid fears he could
be targeted by germ warfare.

The killer bug was eradicated by the World Health Organisation 25 years ago but
experts fear it could be used by terrorists.

A spokesman for the global health body said: "We are advising governments to
check their level of preparedness for diseases like smallpox.

"It is one of 11 diseases that could be used by extremists and terrorists in
biological attacks."

The Irish Medicines Board has managed to get 300,000 doses of the vaccine since
the September 11 attacks on America.

Committee member Dr Joan Gilvarry said: "We will finalise the emergency plan for
smallpox over the coming few weeks.

"It is still to be discussed whether the stocks should be reserved for senior
politicians like the Taoiseach."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 22, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: FEAR OF ATTACKS: BERTIE GOES NUCLEAR;
 NEW REPORT ADDS FUEL TO SHUT DOWN SELLAFIELD CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: Damien Lane

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 813 words

HIGHLIGHT: THREAT: Sellafield and Vitaly Kreydich, right, blinded after;
Chernobyl in 1986


A TERRORIST attack on Sellafield would kill a million people, a startling EU
report has revealed.

The report details the carnage that would result from a terror attack on nuclear
waste tanks at the site.

Experts claim a hijacked plane crashing into storage facilities which house
130,000 litres of radioactive liquid at the site would cause an accident greater
than Chernobyl.

The predicted one million deaths, many of which would unavoidably occur in
Ireland, will add weight to Taoiseach Bertie Ahern's campaign to have the plant
closed.

A chilling extract from the report reads: "Events that could breach a tank and
its surroundings include an explosion, aircraft crash, earthquake or act of
sabotage."

The top-level report, commissioned by the European parliament, also reveals how
the nuclear power plant has continuously breached safety agreements.

It concludes Sellafield poses a serious health and safety risk.

The damning report, entitled Possible Toxic Effects from Nuclear Reprocessing at
Sellafield, will increase pressure on the government to force the closure of
Sellafield.

And it says radiation doses from the plant already exceed agreed levels.

The report, penned by nine of the top nuclear safety experts from Europe and the
United States, adds: "The releases (of spent nuclear fuel) at Sellafield
correspond to a large-scale nuclear accident every year."

It says radioactive discharges from Sellafield have led to doses exceeding "10
times current UK and three times EU limits".

The 130-page report into the plant in Cumbria took six years to complete.

Mr Ahern said last week that Sellafield should close in the wake of the terror
attacks on America.

At the Fianna Fail Ard Fheis he raged: "We demand that Sellafield is shut. It is
not acceptable that the Irish Sea is used as a kitchen sink by the nuclear
industry.

"In the heightened threat from terrorism, the existing risks from Sellafield are
now unacceptably increased.

"It poses an additional and unacceptable threat to our environment and to our
national security."

British scientist John Large, an independent nuclear expert, recently revealed
he had identified seven possible terrorist targets on the Sellafield site.

They include a building called B215 which houses 21 concrete and steel tanks
containing more than 1,500 cubic metres of high-level radioactive liquid waste.

Mr Large said: "It would be very easy for a terrorist group to target it."

Gordon Thompson, executive director of the Institute for Resource and Security
Studies in Massachusetts, said an explosion caused by an aircraft impact would
fling a plume of radioactivity miles into the atmosphere.

Burning fuel would continue to pump radioactivity into the air, causing hundreds
of thousands of deaths by cancer.

Up to 2,646lb of the highly radioactive and long-lasting isotope caesium-137
would be released into the atmosphere, leading to contamination of Britain,
Ireland, continental Europe and beyond.

The contamination would cause more than two million cases of cancer.

A safety report on Sellafield published last year by the Nuclear Installations
Inspectorate in Britain said the building would not withstand crashing planes.

However, British Nuclear Fuels Limited said the tanks referred to in the report
are among "the most robust buildings" on the Sellafield site and surrounded by a
"huge biological shield".

A spokesman added: "It's scaremongering at its worst and borders on science
fiction.

"The views are those of well-known anti-nuclear organisations who appear to be
using September 11 for their own ideological aims."

The risk of radioactive material being released in a terrorist attack has led to
calls for anti-aircraft batteries to be installed to shoot down aeroplanes
before they could crash into the plant.

BNFL recently said it had taken into account the risk of jets hitting its
facilities.

It said: "Major nuclear facilities including, for example, reactors and highly
active waste stores, are constructed to extremely robust engineering standards
and incorporate large quantities of reinforced concrete as an integral part of
the construction."

But Labour's Emmett Stagg said the government had failed to "acknowledge the
unprecedented threat Sellafield posed to the health and safety of the Irish
people".

He said: "A much more assertive campaign of action is required from the
government, particularly to the increased concerns about a possible terrorist
attack on Sellafield."

A motion will be tabled in the Dail on Tuesday to get Sellafield shut down and
Labour also hope to initiate immediate legal action and undertake a diplomatic
offensive to get support for a closure.

The party are also calling on government to insist on the right to station Irish
inspectors inside Sellafield.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 22, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: FEAR OF ATTACKS: BERTIE GOES NUCLEAR;
 FURIOUS TAOISEACH ORDERS BUNGLING JACOB TO PUBLISH HIS EMERGENCY FACT SHEET

BYLINE: Damien Lane

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 459 words

HIGHLIGHT: ROW: Taoiseach Bertie Ahern was angry with bungling Minister Jacob,
right, after our story


BUNGLING Energy Minister Joe Jacob has been ordered to publish his fact sheet on
what to do in the event of a nuclear or chemical attack.

Taoiseach Bertie Ahern personally told Jacob to make the nuclear response plan
available immediately after the government conceded its response to the threat
of germ warfare was a shambles.

After the suicide plane attacks on New York, Washington and Pennsylvania on
September 11, Jacob promised a fact sheet would be distributed to every house
within weeks.

But a spokesman for the under-fire minister said on Friday that the plan had yet
to be finalised and wouldn't be published before the New Year.

Government insiders told the Irish Mirror that Mr Ahern is furious with junior
Public Enterprise Minister Jacob.

One revealed: "It's been a tough week for the government. Their response to two
dozen anthrax scares, including one in government buildings, was a total
shambles.

"When the Taoiseach read in the papers that Joe Jacob's plan was being further
delayed he hit the roof."

Mr Ahern established an emergency task force on Thursday to deal decisively with
the threat from nuclear, chemical and biological attack.

He appointed Defence Minister Michael Smith to co-ordinate the response and
insisted Jacob's fact sheet be published immediately, even though it is
incomplete.

Minister Smith said: "There is a very significant nuclear plan already in place.
One of the things our committee will do is communicate what is already there to
the public very soon.

"I would expect notices appearing in the local and national newspapers in the
next week in relation to this, and if certain things have to be added to it
later we'll add them to it, but present it to the public as it is now."

Minister Smith has also been told to ensure the nuclear emergency plan is sent
to all health and security agencies.

And he has asked health authorities to prepare for smallpox and plague
outbreaks, as reported by the Irish Mirror last week.

Hospitals will be told what to do in the event of an outbreak and sufficient
vaccines are on order.

The task force is also drawing up plans to evacuate the Taoiseach, President
McAleese, army and Garda chiefs and other VIPs in the event of a national
emergency.

They would be taken to a secure site to continue to run the country in case
disaster strikes.

Minister Smith,who admitted the response to last week's scares was inadequate,
also promised that the national emergency task force would be "consistent and
effective".

He is also advancing plans to strengthen the army, with 30 recruits being sought
for the elite anti-terrorist squad, the Rangers.

And he has ordered 4,000 protective chemical and biological suits.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 22, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: FEAR OF ATTACKS: OMAR SON, 10, KILLED IN AIR STRIKES

BYLINE: Charlie Bain In Peshawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 438 words

HIGHLIGHT: LOSS: Taliban chief Omar


A DOCTOR told yesterday how the 10-year-old son of Taliban leader Mullah
Mohammed Omar died on the first night of the allied bombing campaign.

Dr Abdul Bari said the one-eyed chieftain of Afghanistan's ruling party came to
Kandahar City Hospital late at night cradling his son who had been hit with
shrapnel.

Dr Bari said: "He walked into the hospital and said, 'This is my son. Please
admit him and help him'."

Despite emergency treatment the boy died after two hours. Dr Bari added: "He had
very bad abdominal injuries and a badly fractured right leg.

"The boy has been injured before. He came to the hospital two or three years ago
after another attack on Mullah Omar's house."

Dr Bari claimed Mullah Omar's uncle also died that night.

The pair are believed to have been hit in or near Omar's heavily-guarded
bungalow in Kandahar where the leader had lived for the past six years.

The house was the prime target for US missile strikes on the first night of the
bombing.

Pentagon sources hinted the day after the debut strikes that they had hit the
home and believed they had killed the 42-year-old Mullah.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld was said to be so angry after military
chiefs told him they had failed that he kicked a glass door in the Pentagon.

Dr Bari claimed a distraught Omar left the hospital minutes after dropping off
his son.

He said: "After he left the hospital that night we didn't see Mullah Omar again
in Kandahar. That night I was told he was so angry that he went to Sangsar to
declare his holy jihad."

Sangsar, a village in southern Afghanistan, was believed to have been a target
on the second night of strikes.

Dr Bari spoke out at the refugee crossing point of Chaman on the southern
Afghanistan border with Pakistan. He was one of around 15,000 refugees who
assembled there after fleeing the country.

He managed to cross the border near Quetta in south western Pakistan but had to
leave his wife and two children at the crossing point.

He said: "My home is in the same area as Mullah Omar's in Kandahar.

"It is not a safe area at the moment and I had to get out as quickly as
possible.

"The American soldiers are arriving for two or three hours at 10.30 at night and
shooting at Taliban soldiers and then disappearing."

He claimed he had seen 110 casualties in Kandahar City Hospital on the first two
nights of the bombing, but would not to say whether they were military or
civilian.

He added: "I have come from the hospital and there are only five days medical
supplies left. I believe all the patients are going to die."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           October 23, 2001, Tuesday

US TERROR ATTACKS 'LEAVE CONSUMER CONFIDENCE AT AN ALL-TIME LOW'

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 244 words

HIGHLIGHT: TASTE OF THE HIGH LIFE: Peter Hewitt, the newly-elected chairman of;
Signal


CONSUMER confidence has fallen to an all-time low in the wake of the US
terrorist attacks, an industry watchdog said yesterday.

The Consumers' Association said its quarterly trends survey had reached its
worst level since records began in January 1999.

It also discovered declining optimism about future investment and property
values, while there was increasing concern over employment prospects.

The survey found that 61 per cent of respondents were "very" or "fairly"
confident about prospects, while 12 per cent were not optimistic.

Those who were undecided accounted for 27 per cent and contributed to an overall
balance for October of plus 29, against the plus 37 recorded in July.

The study showed expectations for future property values had fallen, with
homeowners predicting a rise of 3.9 per cent in prices over the coming 12
months, compared with 4.8 per cent in July.

Confidence in the future value of investments, such as shares, unit trusts, Peps
and Isas, also fell sharply.

And consumers have become less optimistic about employment prospects, with 17
per cent expecting to change jobs, compared with 18 per cent in July and 21 per
cent in January.

However, the study also found the number of consumers worried about taking on
more debt had fallen over the last three months and was at its lowest level for
18 months.

The Consumers' Association interviewed more than 1,500 households between
October 5 and 11.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           October 23, 2001, Tuesday

ONE ATTACK - NOT TWO;
 WAR ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 80 words


A BRITISH company responsible for 22 per cent of the pounds 2.3 billion
insurance covering the World Trade Centre has gone to court in a bid to prevent
the building's owners defining the September 11 terror outrage as two attacks -
which would double the coverage to pounds 4.6 billion.

SR International Business Insurance Co Ltd said it was "prepared to honour its
insurance obligations" for the attack, but will not pay twice because two planes
were used in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 23, 2001

Race crimes soaring;
Terror attacks on U.S. create a legacy of hate

BYLINE: Gavin Madeley

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 391 words


RACIST attacks have soared by nearly 40 per cent, according to alarming new
figures.

Strathclyde Police dealt with 841 racially motivated attacks between April 1 and
September 30, compared with 601 in the same period last year.

There is evidence that the situation has worsened since last month's terrorist
atrocities in New York and Washington.

Half of all recorded racial incidents occurred in or near shops, restaurants or
takeaways.

Waiter Surjit Singh Chhokar was stabbed to death in the street in Wishaw,
Lanarkshire, in November 1998, but two murder trials failed to find anyone

1999/2000. This year, the number of attacks has risen to 180.

Yesterday, 40 members of Glasgow's black and minority community met Strathclyde
Chief Constable Willie Rae and politicians, including joint police board
convener Bashir Maan, and accused officers of failing to do enough to deter
racist thugs.

At the seminar, the first of its kind in Britain, community leaders and
businessmen demanded increased police patrols and a telephone hotline to help
combat the rise in attacks.

Community spokesman Nasim Malik, 37, who owns a grocer's shop in Govanhill,
Glasgow, said: 'We see all these people here at this meeting but we want to know
what special resources police have set up to protect us.'

Senior community relations officer Maggie Chetty said: 'Even non-physical racial
abuse has a devastating impact on stress, health issues and family life. People
hurling these insults do not discriminate between Moslems, Indians and
Pakistanis.' Yesterday's meeting was arranged in January after fears arose in
Govanhill over rising racist crimes against shopkeepers.

Chief Constable Rae told the meeting: 'We want to stamp out racism but we need
the community to keep telling us when it happens. We will then target those
responsible.' Meanwhile in Edinburgh, Chief Constable Cameron also condemned the
rise in racism.

In the most serious incident, a mosque in the city's Annandale Street was
firebombed. A 16-year-old boy has been charged in connection with the incident.

Sir Roy said: 'It is a matter of personal and professional disgust to me the way
many members of our ethnic minority communities are being treated.

'This force and other agencies are doing everything in our power to root out
racism.'


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                                October 23, 2001

London hotels suffer at hands of US terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Andrea Cockram

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 174 words


London hotels saw occupancy levels plunge 17.2% in September, according to
figures released today by hotel consultancy PKF.

The drop, which was accompanied by a 6.6% fall in room rates, was driven by a
45.5% fall in rooms occupied by US visitors to the capital in the wake of the
events of 11 September.

There was also a 39% drop in the number of rooms occupied by Japanese visitors.

The performance of regional hotels held up, however, with only a 1.7% drop in
occupancy and a 1.5% increase in room rate.

Managing director of hotel consultancy services at PKF, Melvin Gold, said:
"Whilst London hotels have suffered over the last few months from the
combination of the US downturn and the foot-and-mouth outbreak, the events of 11
September have caused an additional drop in occupancy levels.

"October performance figures are likely to be even worse as they will reflect a
full month of travellers' fearful reactions to September 11, combined with
impact on rates of hoteliers' discounting tactics as they try to fill empty
rooms."

EGi News 23/10/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 23, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: 'TERROR LEADER' SEIZED IN LONDON;
Egyptian held in dawn raid by Yard antiterrorist officers

BYLINE: Philip Nettleton

SECTION: Pg. 1;2

LENGTH: 473 words


SCOTLAND Yard today arrested an Egyptian on suspicion of masterminding terrorist
attacks.

Yasser al-Siri, 38, was held following a raid on a house in west London.

Al-Siri was found guilty of involvement in a bomb attack on the Egyptian prime
minister in 1993 in which a five-year-old girl was killed. He was sentenced to
death in his absence. He has been living in Britain for four years and claiming
benefits.

It is also alleged that al-Siri, who runs an Islamic fundamentalist organisation
in London, provided vital help to Osama bin Laden's hitmen.

He is believed to have supplied the key document to assist assassins in the
murder of the Taliban's main opposition leader in station. In the assassination
of the Northern Alliance leader Massood, the hitmen, carrying stolen Belgian
passports, entered Afghanistan posing as journalists after securing visas with a
letter of introduction from al-Siri, it is claimed.

The men went to the Afghan Embassy in London using the names Karim Touzani, 34,
and Kacem Bakkali, 28, and then went to the Pakistani High Commission in Lowndes
Square.

There they applied as journalists for visas to enter the country. Multiple entry
visas were granted for a year on 16 July this year.

Al-Siri is the director of the Islamic Observation Centre, which describes
itself as "an organisation concerned with human rights issues for Muslims all
over the world". He arrived in Britain eight eight years ago and claimed asylum
claiming thousands of pounds in state benefits.

Afghanistan. The elimination of Northern Alliance commander Ahmad Shah Massood
came just three days before the suicide hijackings in America.

A police source describes the arrest of al-Siri as "significant" and says he is
being questioned for a "whole range of suspected terrorist incidents".

Police said he was not arrested "directly for the 11 September" attacks but do
not rule out a connection to Bin Laden's al Qaeda terror network.

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman says the arrest was not made at the request of the
FBI. Egyptian officials claim al-Siri helped train 36 militants who were
arrested in 1995 for planning suicide attacks on ministers, journalists,
politicians and policemen.

They say he is one of three men living in Britain who are senior figures in
guerrilla organisations which have killed dozens of tourists.

All attempts by Egypt to have him extradited have failed with successive British
governments citing insufficient evidence.

Al-Siri maintains his innocence and says he is a peaceful dissident.

He was arrested at 7am under section 40 of the Terrorism Act 2000 and is
suspected of being involved in the "commission, preparation or instigation of
acts of terrorism".

He is being held at a central London police

More reports: Page 4, 5, 10 and 11


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: YASSER AL-SIRI: CONVICTED OF INVOLVEMENT IN A 1993 BOMB ATTACK IN EGYPT
AND SENTENCED TO DEATH IN HIS ABSENCE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 23, 2001

Business: Hotel lettings slump 17% after US terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Ross Davies

SECTION: Pg. 35

LENGTH: 222 words


THE scale of the crisis facing London's hoteliers was revealed today by figures
showing that occupancy rates fell by more than 17% in the aftermath of the 11
September attacks on the US.

London hotel lettings had been falling since the start of the year due to the US
downturn and foot-and-mouth disease, according to a survey from business adviser
Pannell Kerr Forster (PKF).

After 11 September they went into freefall as the number of rooms occupied by
Americans nearly halved. Those taken by Japanese visitors fell by two-fifths.

The drop in demand had a devastating effect on yield, which fell by 22.7%.

This month's losses may be even worse, according to PKF's head of hotel
consultancy services, Melvin Gold, because they reflect a full month's trading
and heavy discounting.

September and October are traditionally the strongest months of the year for
London hotels.

By contrast, regional hotel performance, less sensitive to US tourism, was
"relatively encouraging" with a 1.7% drop in occupancy and a 1.5% increase in
room rate.

There are some 100,000 hotel rooms in London and between 1995 and the end of
last year 12,000 new or reopened rooms came on to the market with another 1,000
or so far this year.

"This year will be remembered by hoteliers for its uncertainty," Gold said.


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 23, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: Terrorists: FBI finds no evidence of al-Qaida network in
UK: Investigation focus moves to continent

BYLINE: Nick Hopkins Crime correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 496 words


The FBI-led investigation into the September 11 attacks has concluded there is
"no evidence at this stage" to suggest that an al-Qaida terrorist network was
operating in Britain at the time of the atrocities, the Guardian has learned.

FBI officers who flew to London following the hijackings have returned home or
been relocated to Germany or Spain, the countries that have become the focus of
the investigation outside the US.

The FBI has asked Scotland Yard and MI5 to trace up to 24 people thought to be
living or in hiding in Britain, but no one on the list is considered to be a
"significant player" who will take the investigation forward. Many are already
known to the police. Though UK investigators have been told they are not "centre
stage", they have begun monitoring a number of mosques that are known to have
recruited up to 200 "young and idealistic" British Muslims in the past two years
to fight in places like Chechnya and Kashmir.

Illegal funding of proscribed terrorist groups is also an area of concern for
the police and security services.

"There is no al-Qaida grouping or formal Bin Laden support network in the UK
that we are aware of," said a source.

"There are people in the UK who believe in what Osama bin Laden is doing, but
there is little or no evidence that an organisation in the UK is planning or
carrying out terrorist acts. Britain is not considered a hub for this kind of
terrorism."

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch and MI5 are scrutinising the activities of
outspoken radicals, including Sheikh Omar Bakri Muhammad, the leader of the
militant Islamist group Al-Muhajiroun, and Sheikh Abu Qatada.

The Jordanian authorities also believe Mr Qatada, 40, a Palestinian who lives in
Acton, west London, played a key role in financing a plan to launch coordinated
terrorist attacks to coincide with the millennium.

The source told the Guardian that the FBI wanted the British to "look at the
people that have been seen before and decide whether they are dangerous, whether
they are stirring up disorder". The FBI and the French police have also asked
Scotland Yard to provide background material on Kamel Daoudi, who was arrested
in Leicester four weeks ago and has been deported to France.

He is a suspected member of the Takfir wa'al Hijra (Repentance and Holy Fight)
movement which began in Egypt. The FBI believes there is evidence to suggest he
was part of a plot to "suicide bomb" a US target in Paris, probably the American
embassy, using a stolen lorry or hijacked helicopter. The attack was supposed to
have coincided with the hijackings on September 11, but was aborted.

Germany remains at the centre of the worldwide inquiry - Mohammed Atta, the
suspected leader of the hijackers, lived and studied there. But Spain is now
thought to have been the second European hub for Bin Laden's supporters.

Special report on Britain's response to the terrorism crisis
guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                                October 23, 2001

Premiums set to soar following terror attacks in the United States

BYLINE: by

SECTION: Pg.7

LENGTH: 140 words


INSURANCE giant AXA has warned it is set to increase some commercial insurance
premiums by up to 80 per cent following last month's terrorist attacks in the
United States.

The Paris-based group said its Corporate Solutions subsidiary planned to raise
the cost of commercial property cover by about 80 per cent, while liability
insurance was set to soar by up to 35 per cent.

The steep rises were due to higher reinsurance costs faced by the group
following the US disaster, said a spokeswoman for the group.

Royal and Sun Alliance, the UK's second largest property and casualty insurer,
also warned that it might be forced to increase commercial premiums by double
figures.

Some property and casualty policies could go up by as much as 80 per cent but it
would depend on their location and exposure to risk, said a spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Hull Daily Mail

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 23, 2001, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACKS CAUSED SLOWDOWN IN UK HOUSING MARKET

BYLINE: Philip Thornton

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 467 words


THE HOUSING market suffered a slowdown in the wake of the 11 September terrorist
attacks, a leading industry body said today.

House price rises in England and Wales slowed last month to their lowest level
since April, the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said. The number of
inquiries from prospective buyers fell away "sharply" in the days following the
attacks on New York and Washington. However, some surveyors reported a pick-up
towards the end of last month.

The number of firms reporting price rises outnumbered those witnessing falls by
38 per cent, compared with 49 per cent in August. This was the lowest level
since April and was the second consecutive monthly fall. The average number of
homes on agents' books rose to 75 (up 4 per cent), the highest since October
2000, and a sign that sellers were trying to avoid a market downturn.

Ian Perry, Rics' national housing spokesman, said he had originally forecast a
downturn in the autumn, coupled with recovery in the early part of 2002. "We can
now expect to see that recovery delayed until the spring or possibly the summer
of next year," he said.

Surveyors expect prices to fall over the next three months, the first time they
have forecast a drop for almost a year. The survey also revealed a north-south
split with southern England showing a more marked slowdown in prices, which Rics
said reflected the recent surge. But prices in the Midlands, the North and Wales
held up. In the South-east the index fell so steeply it was within a whisker of
recording a fall in prices although Rics said this was mainly due to seasonal
factors.

The regional split was echoed by anecdotal evidence. Andrew Pridell, of Clifford
Dann in Sussex, said the market closed down for a fortnight after 11 September.
"Buyers and sellers are nervous and no one is rushing in," he said. But a
spokesman for Abson Blaza Property Services in Wakefield, West Yorkshire, said:
"There are no negative factors affecting the housing market in this area, with
good enquiries and sales being achieved."

But Mr Perry said mortgage rates, currently at a 40-year low, had supported the
market.

There was more bad news from the industrial side of the economy with car
production falling 5 per cent in September while the 21 per cent surge in August
was revised back to 13 per cent. Economists said this meant hopes of a continued
revival in manufacturing output had been dashed. Meanwhile, an index projecting
future economic activity said the economy had already reached a turning point
and growth would probably accelerate in the first half of next year. The
so-called "leading indicator" compiled by NTC Research rose for the 11th
straight month in September to its highest level since December 1996.

Allsopp interview, page 17

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          October 24, 2001, Wednesday

CASH DRIED UP AFTER US TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Tom Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 214 words


THE strings for the IRA's dramatic step on guns were pulled from the other side
of the Atlantic.

Revulsion against all forms of terrorism is now so strong in the US that the IRA
were warned funds could dry up within weeks.

A senior Republican fundraiser, who has gathered millions of dollars for the
cause, met Sinn Fein representatives in Dublin earlier this month. The message
was that there was already a drop in support.

Families which have given money for generations are now questioning the IRA's
links to worldwide terrorism.

Sinn Fein are relying on traditional sources to finance an election campaign in
Eire next month.

They have ambitions to be a pan-Irish party and set great store by the
respectability given by membership of the Nothern Ireland administration.

It was to soothe the anti- terrorist mood that Martin McGuinness was sent to New
York to meet Senator Edward Kennedy and make a simultaneous announcement of IRA
disarmament while Gerry Adams was making it at home.

But McGuinness was highly embarrassed when he was grilled about the IRA's links
to Colombian and other terrorists.

After the terrorist outrages of September 11, Irish- Americans now have no
stomach for the "armed struggle" and are in "give peace a chance" mood.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 24, 2001

CITY AND BUSINESS EDITED BY STEPHEN KAHN; TERRORIST ATTACK CLAIMS TO COST
LLOYD'S GBP 5.4BN

BYLINE: BRIAN HANNEY

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 205 words


LLOYD'S OF LONDON yesterday confirmed it faces total gross claims of GBP
5.4billion as a result of the terrorist attacks on the US.

This backs up the figure arrived at by ratings agency Standard & Poor's, which
said the claims would put a "significant strain" on the market with some claims
being irrecoverable. The figure is the largest in Lloyd's history.

S&P said its estimate, calculated after discussions with Lloyd's management, was
for claims before reinsurance treaties kicked in.

According to Lloyd's own calculations, the market's net exposure to the
terrorist attacks after reinsurance will be GBP 1.3billion but it has not ruled
out increasing that figure.

S&P said the reinsurance in place at individual syndicates was mainly of quite
high quality, but calls were still likely to be made on Lloyd's central reserve
fund.

The agency added that a decision by American regulators to relax funding
requirements to 60 per cent of liabilities from 100 per cent had helped ease the
immediate liquidity strain on the market, though the burden would remain
significant.

S&P recently lowered its rating on Lloyd's to A from A-plus following the
attacks and will keep it on negative credit watch.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 24, 2001

In brief: Gadafy horror at terror attacks

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 28 words


Libya's president, Colonel Gadafy, yesterday described last month's attacks on
the United States as "horrifying" in an interview with al-Jazeera television.


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 24, 2001

Baghdad denies any hand in terror attacks

BYLINE: Kay Jardine

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 472 words


IRAQ'S deputy prime minister denied yesterday that his country had anything to
do with the September 11 atrocities or the spate of anthrax attacks in the
United States.

The denial by Tariq Aziz came after a former leader of the United State's secret
service, the Central Intelligence Agency, said he believed Iraq was behind the
spate of terrorist attacks involving the deadly biological weapon.

Mr Aziz said any allegations against Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi leader, and his
country, were biased.

"Iraq has nothing to do with what happened in America in September, he said.

"We worked on anthrax in the 80s, and in the 90s we destroyed all our anthrax
assets. They were not high-grade."

Iraq would not let UN weapons inspectors back into his country, he said.

"We proved our good intentions for seven-and-a-half years. Why should we? They
were here for a purpose, and their goal was to finish their job, and lift the
sanctions.

"They finished their job - but the sanctions were not lifted."

However, James Woolsey, a former CIA chief, said: "Anything that Mr Aziz says or
the Iraqi government says on this point, such as when he claimed that they had
destroyed all their anthrax stocks, is sort of like looking at a weather vane
that's put on backwards.

"It's a reliable indicator - but in the opposite direction from what it says.

"And Mr Aziz is a famous liar, and I think anyone who believes that Iraq
destroyed its anthrax and other biological weapons stocks but just didn't want
the UN inspectors to look at this for some reason.

"As we say over here, I have a bridge in Brooklyn I'd be glad to sell you!"

He added: "I think if one looks back into the 90s such as the World Trade Centre
bombing of '93 and some of the other terrorist attacks, and looks at the
co-ordination of what happened on September 11 and looks at the fact that some
of the anthrax that has been used here is very finely ground and very
professionally prepared, it is very difficult for any rational person to assume
that this is being done either by some lone Unabomber or really by a group of
folks out in the middle of some caves in Afghanistan.

"There's just too much sophistication here overall. I'm not going to claim that
there is proof positive at this point that Iraq has committed any one particular
assault against us, but they are the leading rogue state in the world and their
capabilities for biological warfare."

Iraqi newspapers and officials accused Washington of fabricating the anthrax
attacks as a pretext to broaden its anti-terrorism campaign to include more
countries.

Al-Thawra, the newspaper of the ruling Ba'ath party, said: "The aim is to create
suspicion around countries listed by the United States (as sponsors of
terrorism) in order to commit aggression against them."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     October 24, 2001, Wednesday Edition 1

Iraq denies terror attack involvement

SECTION: NEWS UK AND WORLD, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 260 words







Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz yesterday denied his country had
anything to do with the September 11 atrocities or the spate of anthrax attacks
in the US.

A former CIA leader told him he believed Iraq was still storing the deadly
biological weapon and was a prime suspect behind the anthrax terror

But Mr Aziz said any allegations against Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein and his
country were "biased"

"Iraq has nothing to do with what happened in America in September," Mr Aziz
told BBC Radio 4's World At One programme

"We worked on anthrax in the 80s, and in the 90s we destroyed all our anthrax
assets. They were not high-grade.

He added that Iraq would not let UN weapons inspectors back into the country

"We proved our good intentions for seven and a half years. Why should we? They
were here for a purpose, and their goal was to finish their job, and lift the
sanctions. They finished their job but the sanctions were not lifted.

James Woolsey, a former CIA chief, told the programme: "Anything that Mr Aziz
says or the Iraqi government says on this point, such as when he claimed that
they had destroyed all of their anthrax stocks, is sort of like looking at a
weather vane that's put on backwards

"It's a reliable indicator but in the opposite direction from what it says." He
added: "I'm not going to claim that there is a proof positive at this point that
Iraq has committed any one particular assault against us, but they are the
leading rogue state in the world...

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          October 24, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACKS PLANNED IN GERMANY

BYLINE: Mark Ellis, Foreign Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 262 words

HIGHLIGHT: BRIEF: Ashcroft


THE US atrocities were planned by a six-strong cell of Arab terrorists in
Germany and three of them are at large, the US Attorney General said yesterday.

John Ashcroft said the group were based in Hamburg from around 1999, and planned
the attacks in a tiny flat rented by terror leader Mohamed Atta.

Mr Ashcroft made his comments as it was revealed that a Muslim fanatic was being
held at Frankfurt airport. The Attorney General named the three remaining Arab
fugitives as Said Bahaji, Ramsi Binalshibh and Zakariya Essabar.

Germany has previously issued international arrest warrants for the three. Mr
Ashcroft said that they have "extensive" connections to the hijackers.

He said Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi are suspected of hijacking the planes
that hit New York, and Ziad Jarrah is suspected of flying the plane that crashed
in Pennsylvania.

He added that the three hijackers were roommates in Hamburg while attending
college there in the 1990s.

The Attorney General revealed intelligence which linked the hijackers and the
fugitives.

He said Binalshibh and Atta started a Muslim prayer group in Hamburg and Essabar
went to Florida in February at a time when both Atta and al-Shehhi were known to
be there.

The Muslim arrested in Frankfurt is a 29-year-old Turk, who was last night held
on suspicion of planning to murder.

His luggage had a balaclava, camouflage clothing, a chemical weapons protection
suit and materials that could be used for an explosives detonator.

Germany have identified the student only as Harun A.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              New Musical Express

                                October 24, 2001

Bon Jovi's new album spurred on by US terrorist attacks; Bon Jovi 'bounce' Back

LENGTH: 106 words

SUMMARY: Frontman Jon Bon Jovi says the provisional title 'Bounce' "pretty much
personifies what the USA is going through"...



http:/www.nme.com/NME/External/Artists/Artist_Page/0,1226,10069,00.html say the
WORLD TRADE CENTER terrorist attack has spurred them on in writing songs for
their new album.

Jon Bon Jovi, speaking to http:/www.mtv.com , said the new album, due next
summer, is provisionally titled 'Bounce'.

He said: "The name pretty much personifies what this country is going through.
We bounce back. There's a song called 'Still Standing' and one called 'Another
Reason To Believe'' so it's pretty obvious what the stories are about."

The band say thaey have written about 25 songs for the follow-up to 2000's
'Crush'.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                        Copyright 2001 IPC Magazines Ltd

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           October 25, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: FBI TERROR ATTACK DETAINEE FOUND DEAD IN HIS CELL

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 236 words


A Pakistani man arrested by the FBI in its investigation of the September 11
terrorist attacks was found dead in his jail cell.

The 55-year-old man, whose identity was not immediately released, was found dead
on Tuesday morning at the Hudson County Jail in Kearny.

A post mortem was under way yesterday to determine the cause of death.

The jail's medical director, Lionel Anicette, said he believed the man died of a
heart attack.

Doctors tested nasal swabs, blood and tissue for anthrax, and all the tests were
negative, officials said.

The man's cellmate and a handful of guards also received nasal-swab tests for
anthrax, which also came back negative, jail administrator Kurt Thoens said.

The man was arrested on September 19 as part of the investigation into the
terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.

Mr Anicette said that connection led authorities to test the man's body for
anthrax as a precaution.

The man's body showed no signs of trauma or foul play, authorities said. He had
been held on immigration charges, authorities said.

He had recently complained of pain in his gums, saw a dentist and was given
tetracycline.

Special Agent Sandra Carroll, a spokeswoman for the FBI's Newark office, said:
'We never filed criminal charges against the individual.

'I can't say whether we considered him an integral part of the September 11
investigation or not.'

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           October 25, 2001, Thursday

AUCTION TO HELP TERROR ATTACK VICTIMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 99 words


A CHARITY auction will be held in the Chicago Rock cafe at Coventry's SkyDome to
raise money for New York firefighters and their families in the wake of last
month's terrorist attacks.

A range of goodies will be up for grabs including a football signed by Coventry
City Football Club and vouchers for shops and businesses.

The auction is open to everyone and will be held next Wednesday - Hallowe'en -
starting at 8pm.

A spokesman for the West Midlands Fire Service said: "So far, we have raised
pounds 220,000 and are hoping to raise several hundred pounds at the auction."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                October 25, 2001

AIRLINE CRISIS DEEPENS AFTER TERROR ATTACKS; BA NOSEDIVES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 381 words


British Airways fortunes are nosediving after the terror attacks in America with
a quarter of its passengers deserting it.

The airline has already begun ditching 7,200 workers and its chairman Lord
Marshall warned of "more blood on the wall" He told a civil aviation summit that
further job losses are on the cards unless more people start flying again.

And he warned that global economic recovery would be delayed if business
travellers stayed out of the air.

He said: "Airline blood is already on the walls and there will be more.

"Extraordinary times call for extraordinary solutions and there is no doubt that
the European airline industry is crying out for consolidation - that is
cross-border merger, acquisition and joint equity venture."

Lord Marshall said that following the end of hostilities during the Gulf War it
was a year before air travel recovered.

He added: "Right now it is too early to predict when recovery might occur and
how it could emerge."

And union bosses urged BA to sell off the London Eye Millennium Wheel to
generate GBP 70million for the airline - DOUBLE the savings from the proposed
pay cuts.

But BA said it had no plans to sell the "big wheel", which has attracted more
than five million visitors since it opened on the banks ofthe River Thames in
central London last year.

John Edmonds, general secretary of the GMB, hit back at the decision.

He said: "While we understand BA would like to keep their pretty attraction,
they should be concentrating on keeping their planes in the air and their
customers happy.

"By sacking thousands of loyal workers, BA are effectively running up the white
flag."

Lord Marshall also called for an early decision on building a new terminal at
Heathrow, which he said would boost the industry - and he suggested mergers
would prevent airlines going bust. He hoped that ministers would respond to the
industry's calls for continued support in the plight they faced.

It was already experiencing the under-currents of structural turmoil, especially
in Europe.

The Amalgamated Engineering and Electrical Union, which organised the summit in
London, called on Tony Blair's Government to compensate airlines for shortterm
losses in the days after the terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 Express Newspapers

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 25, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: Deadline on terror' quiz: Britain

BYLINE: Martin Mcglown

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 91 words


DETECTIVES have been given until Saturday to charge or release an Egyptian
arrested on Tuesday on suspicion of masterminding terrorist attacks, writes
Martin McGlown.

Bow Street magistrates granted officers an extension to interview Yasser
al-Siri, 38, who was held after a raid on his Maida Vale home. He was found
guilty of involvement in a bomb attack on the Egyptian premier in 1993 and
sentenced to death in his absence.

He maintains his innocence. Police are not believed to be linking him directly
to the US atrocities.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 25, 2001

RECONSIDERING AUTONOMY IN WAKE OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 129 words


UNTIL recently, I had considered that the best way forward for Scotland would
have been to obtain independence.

However, the events in America and Afghanistan have forced me to change my mind.

I feel that it has been brought home to me the need for the British people to
stand united in the face of these adversities.

Whilst I would still like to see the Scottish Parliament have more teeth, as
well as a form of federalism in Britain, there are still so many issues in the
world today in which the British people really should not be divided.

If anything good is to come from the recent terrible events, I hope it is that
we all have a new respect for one another, irrespective of ethnic background or
nationality.

James Kidd, Croftfoot, Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 25, 2001, Thursday

MARKET REPORT: LOGICA SOOTHES FEARS OVER TERROR ATTACKS' EFFECT ON ITS TRADING

BYLINE: Michael Jivkov

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1141 words


THE IT SERVICES group Logica was the top blue-chip performer yesterday rising
47p to 773p after management reassured investors that its business had hardly
been disrupted by last month's attacks in the US and that they expected a strong
performance for the current year.

Before the soothing words from the group, investors had fretted that Logica
would be forced to lower its guidance for the year given last week's warning
from peer CMG. Logica has been able to largely avoid the worst of the current
economic slowdown and the attacks on the US due to its focus on providing
services to the non -cyclical utility and energy sector.

Broker SG Securities was not impressed and downgraded its rating to "hold" from
"buy" and cut its forecasts for the next two years. Despite the fact it views
Logica as one of the premium stocks in the sector, the French broker told
clients it was unconvinced that the group would escape this phase of the
business cycle unscathed.

Investors checked out of Hilton, down 4.5p at 184.75p, yesterday as Deutsche
Bank removed the stock from its UK Focus List. The broker had recently lowered
its profits forecast for the group. It is understood that Deutsche is worried
about the poor environment for hotels and that there are no signs of
improvement. The collapse of joint venture talks with BSkyB were also a
disappointment for the analysts at the German brokerage. Sentiment towards
Hilton shares have generally been unsettled this week after third quarter
results from the group's US division Hilton Corp. The figures were significantly
below expectations with management blaming falling occupancy rates at its larger
hotels following the 11 September attacks.

Deutsche Bank replaced Hilton with engineer FKI, up 7p at 146p, and advised
clients to build a position ahead of results at the end of November. It
applauded the group's robust cashflow and margins and reassuring track record.

The FTSE 100 had a solid start to the session with dealers reporting heavy
buying from institutions sending blue chips 100 points higher. However, as the
buying petered out profit takers moved in leaving the FTSE 100 down 25.7 points
to 5,167.6 at the close. Second liners fared better as the FTSE 250 put on 11.1
points to 5,404.8.

Oil stocks were under pressure from American Petroleum Institute figures as
fears of a glut of crude oil continued to weigh on the market in the absence of
any OPEC decision on output. The mild weather added to fears that even normal
levels of demand, already vastly weakened by cuts in the airline industry, will
not be attained in the coming weeks. BP fell 18p to 557p, Shell retreated 12.5p
to 518p and Enterprise Oil fell 4.5p to 500.5p.

Lattice firmed 4p to 159p after the company accepted the regulator's price
control proposals for Transco, its gas pipelines business. There had been fears
of uncertainty had the group decided to challenge the proposals with an appeal
to the Competition Commission. Vodafone fell 4.5p to 165.25p after Merrill Lynch
downgraded its rating to "accumulate" from "buy" and reduced its 2002 price
target to 195p from 245p on valuation grounds. Vodafone shares have had a strong
run since August, gaining nearly 30 per cent. Merrill, however, continues to
rate Vodafone as the best pick in the European telecom sector.

AstraZeneca fell 40p to 3,220p after third-quarter earnings which came in
slightly below consensus forecasts. There were also worries that the group's
latest ulcer drug Nexium will fail to achieve the success of its previous
blockbuster Losec. Autonomy gained 9.5p to 282.5p ahead of today's third quarter
results. House broker Deutsche Bank is expecting sales of around $ 10m but most
market players will be focusing on the group's outlook statement for the
remainder of the year.

AIM listed Murchison United was suspended at 31p after announcing the purchase
of Rio Tinto's 49 per cent holding in the Portuguese copper miner Somincor.
Murchision paid $ 81m (pounds 57m) for the shares and will fund the acquisition
through a combination of debt and equity. The group has also made a tender offer
for a further 17 per cent interest in Somincor, which is currently owned by the
Portuguese government. Investors can expect positive sounds from Deutsche Bank
in the coming days. The broker is understood to value the deal at 100p per
Murchision share and is expected to come out with a "buy" note on the stock.

Nettec rose 3.25p to 13.25p after management confirmed market rumours that it
had received a number of bids for the group. Bioglan Pharma lost 1p to 12.5p
despite news of the purchase of 30,000 shares by director Ian Bennett at 24p.

Birmingham City rose 3p to 27p after the AIM listed club was, in effect, put up
for sale after the announcement that the chairman, David Sullivan, had put his
78 per cent holding on the market.

MARKET MOVERS

Dixons 201.5p (up 10.5p, 5.5 per cent). Rally after falls on back of worries of
a weakening retail sector.

Sainsbury 370.5p (up 12.75p, 3.5 per cent). Investors warm to better than
expected second quarter sales figures.

Royal & Sun Alliance 376p (up 8.5p, 2.3 per cent). Morgan Stanley reiterates
"outperform" rating.

Allied Domecq 368p (up 8p, 2.2 per cent). Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein says
"buy" after news of FTC's blocking of Seagram-Diageo deal.

P&O Princess 231p (up 18.5p, 8.7 per cent). Reports in line with expectations in
third-quarter results.

Cambridge Antibody 1,990p (up 135p, 7.2 per cent). Continues to gain from recent
positive sounds from Morgan Stanley.

Brockhampton 305p (up 50p, 19.6 per cent). In pounds 70m agreed bid from South
Downs.

SDL 70.5p (up 9.5p, 15.5 per cent). Old Mutual upgrades to "add" from "hold"
after third-quarter trading statement.

Oystertec 45.5p (up 5.5p, 13.6 per cent). Unveils pounds 28m acquisition.

GW Pharma 108p (up 13p, 13.7 per cent). Investor enthusiasm ignited by
relaxation of cannabis laws.

GUS 483p (down 35p, 6.7 per cent). Worries over Experian unit exposure to US
persist.

WPP 559p (down 14p, 2.4 per cent). Caution ahead of third- quarter trading news
today.

Hanson 480.5p (down 7.5p, 1.5 per cent). Morgan Stanley starts coverage with
"neutral" rating.

Pace Micro 281p (down 16p, 5.4 per cent). Profit-takers move in after recent
strong run.

Selfridges 289.5p (down 7p, 2.4 per cent). Cautious comments on retailers from
brokerage WestLB.

Alfred McAlpine 403.5p (down 4p, 1.1 per cent). Merrill Lynch downgrade to
"neutral" from "accumulate" after completion of housing business disposal.

WMRC 7p (down 4.5p, 39.1 per cent). Cuts headcount by 15 per cent blaming global
slowdown.

Monotub 250p (down 40p, 13.7 per cent). Concerns over promotional sales after
not doing well.

SEAQ TRADES: 141,541

SEAQ VOLUMES: 2.56bn

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           October 25, 2001, Thursday

FEARS FOR THE FUTURE;
 CONFIDENCE HAS FALLEN SINCE US TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 248 words


CONSUMER confidence has fallen to an all-time low in the wake of the US
terrorist attacks, an industry watchdog said this week.

The Consumers' Association said its quarterly trends survey had reached its
worst level since records began in January 1999.

It also discovered declining optimism about future investment and property
values, while there was increasing concern over employment prospects.

The survey found that 61 per cent of respondents were "very" or "fairly"
confident about prospects, while 12 per cent were not optimistic.

Those who were undecided accounted for 27 per cent and contributed to an overall
balance for October of plus 29, against the plus 37 recorded in July.

The study showed expectations for future property values had fallen, with
homeowners predicting a rise of 3.9 per cent in prices over the coming 12
months, compared with 4.8 per cent in July.

Confidence in the future value of investments, such as shares, unit trusts, Peps
and Isas, also fell sharply.

And consumers have become less optimistic about employment prospects, with 17
per cent expecting to change jobs, compared with 18 per cent in July and 21 per
cent in January.

However, the study also found the number of consumers worried about taking on
more debt had fallen over the last three months and was at its lowest level for
18 months.

The Consumers' Association interviewed more than 1,500 households between
October 5 and 11 to complete its survey.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                                October 25, 2001

Vicious dog attack terrorises animals .

BYLINE: Wantage staff reporter (author email wantage@nqo.com)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 322 words

DATELINE: Swindon


A VICIOUS dog is terrorising other animals in Abbey Meads.


The latest attack left labrador Bruce battered and bruised, and his owners with
a GBP 350 vet bill.


A large Alsatian set upon Bruce during a walk in a savage attack that lasted
three minutes.


Afterwards, the female owner, aged between 35 and 45, just walked away from the
scene without a word.


Bruce's owner Sandra Sawyer, of Wynwards Road, was left shaken.


She said: "Bruce was off his lead having a splash in the stream, when this
Alsatian just appeared.


"Bruce is as soppy as anything and he just rolled over onto his back.


"This dog went in for the kill and Bruce was screaming like nothing on earth.


"The owner couldn't get away quick enough."


The attack happened on Saturday on the conservation area between Abbey Meads and
Green Fields.


Bruce, who is four years old, was treated at Bath Road Surgery by vet Richard
Gowshall.


He received treatment for five puncture wounds, and had 20 stitches to repair
his tail, which was nearly ripped off.


Sandra said: "He is in a lot of pain, and is having to take painkillers and
antibiotics, to ward off infection."


There has been a spate of similar attacks by a dog fitting the same description.


The large, long-haired Alsatian was off his lead when the attack occurred.


Sandra, 42, and her husband Ian, 44, are keen to see the dog under control and
have contacted the police.


She said: "I will be taking a stick out with me in future."


"I want something done about it, I don't want to be in fear every time I walk my
dog.


"It should be kept on a lead and it should have a muzzle, as it is obvious the
owners do not have it under control.


"Next time a dog could be killed, or it could attack a child."


Anyone with any information about the dog or its owner should contact Westlea
Police Station on Swindon 528111.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 26, 2001

TERROR ATTACKS LOWER DEMAND FOR HOME LOANS

BYLINE: BY SARAH O'GRADY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 346 words


DEMAND for mortgages dropped last month in the clearest signal yet that the US
terrorist attacks have hit the housing market.

Figures released yesterday showed a fall in home loan applications for the first
time since March.

The British Bankers' Association said mortgage lending was down 17 per cent
compared to August, with banks advancing GBP 9.78billion, down from GBP
11.8billion in July.

Peter Vipond, BBA's head of research and statistics, said: "While there is
usually a fall in mortgage demand during September, this year's figures were
much weaker than in previous years."

Experts fear that property prices may fall as sellers are forced to cut their
asking price.

John Wriglesworth, housing economist at the property website hometrack, said:
"The terrorist attacks in the US and the war in Afghanistan have taken their
toll on the market, though many of the reasons for the slowdown relate to
worries about a UK recession.

"The fundamentals that determine the health of this market remain strong, with
unemployment rates still comparatively very low and mortgage interest rates the
lowest for nearly 50 years." Net lending, in seasonally adjusted terms,
increased by GBP 3.67billion.

The number of loan approvals for remortgaging fell by 11 per cent to 43,943,
while new loans for home improvements dropped by seven per cent. There were also
fewer mortgage approvals during September, suggesting demand will continue to
moderate.

WHAT A MOVING EXPERIENCE. . . .

A CORPSE, an artificial leg and a 25-year-old side of beef are among the
unexpected items people have found when moving into a new home.

Almost one in three find a surprise awaiting them in their new abode, reports a
survey by the Bankers Automated Clearing Service. The most commonly discarded
item was underwear, with 15 per cent of the 1,022 people quizzed finding
knickers stuffed behind radiators or under stairs.

Animals, both dead and alive, were found by one in five people, while two
respondents said they had discovered a headstone and a blow-up doll.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                October 26, 2001

Police probe Muslim's terror attacks booklet

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.5

LENGTH: 412 words


POLICE are examining a "contemptible" booklet, on sale in Gloucester, which
makes controversial claims about who was responsible for the September 11
atrocities in America.

The 62-page book, pictured right, is on sale at a supermarket in the Barton area
where most of Gloucestershire's Muslims live. It was printed by Nadeem Mohammed,
a Muslim based in Birmingham, and consists of a selection of newspaper and
internet reports.

Gloucester's Muslim Welfare Association has distanced itself from the claims
made in the booklet and stressed that such material is banned from the city's
two mosques.

A police spokeswoman said they had obtained a copy of the booklet to assess
whether it contained incitements to racial or religious hatred.

Called Who really attacked America?, the pamphlet claims to provide conclusive
evidence that Osama bin Laden was not responsible for the terrorist attacks in
the USA.

Articles from various media sources across the world are reprinted in the book
alongside the claim that they "give overwhelming evidence that a more sinister
plot lies behind the attack".

Different theories are given on who could have been responsible for the attacks,
including one claim that it was an Israeli conspiracy to turn US public opinion
against Arab states.

Gloucester MP Parmjit Dhanda condemned the booklet.

"Tony Blair has presented us with conclusive evidence as to who murdered 7,000
people in the World Trade Centre and bin Laden, through his actions and
interviews, has implied that he is the guilty one," he said. "Only in the minds
of the most outlandish conspiracy theorists is anyone other than bin Laden
responsible for the attacks.

"I do not think that any further comment on this issue is worthy of the
literature n it is beyond contempt."

Yacoob Motala, 32, runs the Motala Supermarket, where the booklet is on sale. He
stressed that Muslims in Britain do not feel that enough evidence has been
presented to justify attacks on Afghanistan or bin Laden.

"The media is only telling one side of the story n that the Taliban attacked
America n even though there has been no evidence," he said. "You can't just go
and bomb another country."

But he said whoever did plan the attacks on American should be brought to
justice.

Ismail Mehter, spokesman for the Gloucester Muslim Welfare Association, said:
"The Muslim community of Gloucester condemns any material or publication which
incites violence."

- Comment: Page 11

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 The Gloucester Citizen

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 26, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: Crime: Dollars 100m fraud probe linked to terror attack:
Firm's offices destroyed on September 11

BYLINE: David Gow in New York

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 567 words


The FBI has joined forces with criminal investigators around the world to look
into an alleged fraud worth up to Dollars 100m (pounds 70m) by managers of a New
York-based private investment company which had offices in the destroyed World
Trade Centre, it was reported last night.

Amid allegations that First Equity Enterprises used the terrorist attacks on the
twin towers to divert attention from the fraud, the Financial Times said the US
authorities, including the postal inspection service, were investigating the
disappearance of three or four of its senior managers.

Separately, it was reported in New Zealand that Auckland police were
investigating the same currency fraud after being contacted by 50 New Zealand
investors who had lost some NZDollars 20m (pounds 5.8m).

First Equity, which lost its offices, but no employees, on September 11, is the
sal5es and accounting arm of Evergreen International Spot Trading, a foreign
exchange broker for private investors which is reportedly owned by Russian-born
entrepreneur Andrei Koudachev.

The FBI in Washington and New York refused to comment on any investigation.

Calls to Evergreen's three New York offices went unanswered last night. The
company has also removed its website from the internet.

But Albert Gugliemo, Evergreen's president and one of only four remaining staff
after 100 were laid off following the terrorist attacks, was quoted as saying:
"Lawyers are crawling all over this. There are banks involved and they don't
want to be stung."

Evergreen and its subsidiary are said to have built up 1,500 investors in 14
countries over the past four years, with British investors among those who fear
they have lost their money, including one reported to have put in Dollars 12m.

First Equity ceased trading two weeks after the attacks and, since then,
according to the Financial Times, private investigators have traced some of the
alleged missing money to Swiss bank accounts.

Mr Gugliemo said two big US banks, JP Morgan Chase and Bank One, the National
Australia Bank, owner of the Clydesdale and Yorkshire Banks in the UK, and Bank
of New Zealand acted as the main account intermediaries, handling clients'
transactions.

One British private investor, quoted by the Financial Times, said: "I invested
pounds 20,000 18 months ago and within a year it had generated 27% growth. I was
so encouraged, I put in a further pounds 20,000. Now I've lost nearly pounds
50,000."

The case is the first of its kind to emerge since the September 11 attacks left
part of New York's financial centre in rubble, killing thousands of financial
staff in banks, insurance companies and brokerages.

The events of September 11 have become the costliest manmade catastrophe on
record and the total cost to the world insurance industry, initially put at
between Dollars 10bn and Dollars 15bn (pounds 7bn to pounds 10bn), has been
steadily creeping up, and could could be more than Dollars 30bn.

A report by New York's comptroller, Alan Hevesi, into the financial effects of
the disaster published earlier this month estimated the city could lose 115,300
jobs this year, while the value of the buildings account for Dollars 45bn and
the blow to the economy could run to another Dollars 60bn.

Additionally, as many as 90,000 pieces of mail a day continue to flood in to
World Trade Centre addresses.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 26, 2001, Friday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: STRATEGY - FIRST US GROUND ATTACK 'COULD HAVE ENDED
IN DISASTER'

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta Rumsfeld: Surprised by toughness of the Taliban; Special
forces:; More than 100 elite US troops met fierce resistance on a raid into;
Afghanistan and were flown out of the country Reuters

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 554 words


THE MUCH-HYPED first American ground attack on Afghan-istan ran into
unexpectedly fierce resistance and almost ended in disaster, senior defence
sources have disclosed.

The public admissions by Donald Rumsfeld, the US Secretary of State for Defence,
and US Navy Rear Admiral John Stufflebeem that they were surprised by the
toughness of the Taliban gives a glimpse of how badly things could have gone
wrong.

The attack was meant to be a purely cosmetic exercise for the benefit of the
media and the public against a relatively safe and poorly defended target.

But there had been a failure of intelligence, and the troops from the elite 75th
Rangers Regiment ran into such heavy fire on the ground near Kandahar that they
had to beat a hasty retreat. A Chinook helicopter airlifting them out lost its
undercarriage and had to make a forced landing.

The Pentagon presented the operation as a complete success and evidence that
Operation Enduring Freedom was going according to plan. There was blanket and
mainly adulatory media coverage on both sides of the Atlantic with the prognosis
that the ground war had begun.

But, instead, what happened last weekend made US and British planners at central
command in Tampa, Florida, reappraise the military campaign, and continue with
air strikes rather than carry out any more missions on the ground. Within 24
hours the Pentagon has requested special forces troops from Britain and
Australia. And the British Government was forced to consider a much larger
deployment of ground troops than originally envisaged.

The near-shambles on the first Afghan ground mission had unhappy memories for
the Americans of Somalia, where 18 soldiers died when their two Black Hawk
helicopters were shot down by militiamen. There, too, intelligence had
underestimated the opposition.

One senior defence source said of the Afghan operation: "The intelligence had
been quite clear that the target near Kandahar was pretty easy to take out.

"But what the Rangers discovered was the Taliban force there fighting back quite
hard. The enemy regrouped very well and their counter attack was such that the
Rangers made a tactical withdrawl.

"That's when the Chinook got into difficulties and lost its undercarriage. Some
of us are surprised that such senior US figures are surprised at the tenacity of
the Afghans. They had been fighting for the last 20 years."

The British chief of defence staff, Admiral Sir Michael Boyce, pointed out that
to beat the Taliban in their own lair would need serious long- term commitment
and not just commando raids.

Pointedly, he added: "The quick pinprick operation will be valid for certain
targets where you have really good intelligence. Sometimes one might have to
stay longer to achieve a proper reconnaissannce of the area you are looking at."

Sir Michael's views were contrary to that of those of some US officials who
suggested this was going to be a "new kind of war" of sophisticated commando
operations.

The difference in emphasis between the British defence chief and the US
officials first appeared when some in Washington talked about a short campaign.
But the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, General Richard Myers, now speaks
about Operation Enduring Freedom stretching into next spring or beyond.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 26, 2001, Friday

PEER URGES RETHINK ON HEATHROW'S TERMINAL 5;
 AVIATION: LORD DESAI SAYS A DOWNTURN FOR AIRLINES SINCE THE TERRORIST ATTACKS
WILL MAKE THE INDUSTRY FOCUS ON BULK FLIGHTS AND CHEAPER PRICES

BYLINE: Steve Boggan An artist's impression of the concourse for the proposed
Terminal 5 at Heathrow airport; Aviation is undergoing massive changes since 11;
September. Many campaigners believe the general attitude towards air travel must
be reassessed David Sandison; John Stewart: 'Airports contribute little to
output'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 901 words


LORD DESAI, the Labour peer, has called on the Government to "mothball" plans
for Heathrow airport's fifth terminal after the disclosure in The Independent
that ministers planned to approve it while the military strikes on Afghanistan
were dominating headlines.

In line with environmentalists and campaign groups, Professor Meghnad Desai,
director of the Centre for the Study of Global Governance, said yesterday that
plans for the terminal should be put on hold because of the damage done to the
aviation industry by the atrocities in the United States.

His comments will add to the controversy already surrounding Stephen Byers, the
Secretary of State for Transport, and his special adviser Jo Moore, who was
forced to apologise last week over a memo she issued on 11 September which said
the terror attacks presented an opportunity for the Government to "bury" bad
news.

Sources at the Department of Transport have told The Independent that an
announcement on Terminal 5, which was due to be made next month, was being
brought forward to coincide with the launch of a land attack on Afghanistan, but
Lord Desai said caution should be exercised.

"There is about to be a huge restructuring of the aviation industry and it would
make good sense to see how that will turn out before going further," he said.
"What I believe will change forever is business travel. At the moment, the
business sector is not flying and is working in different ways.

"When they realise how much money they are saving using modern
telecommunications and conferencing systems, many won't go back on aeroplanes.
What we will see instead is a different kind of aviation industry built on
cheaper prices and bulk leisure flights."

Last month, transatlantic traffic suffered a 25.9 per cent drop on the month
before. BA closed its routes to Belfast and axed more than 7,000 staff while,
across Europe, Swissair and Sabena needed government handouts to survive and
other airlines were on the brink of collapse.

In spite of the gloom, however, Heathrow airport still believes T5, a structure
boasting two half mile-long terminal buildings, a 600-room hotel, offices and
hundreds of shops, will be badly needed.

Jon Phillips, Heathrow's director of communications, said: "We regard the
current situation as a short-term scenario and believe we must still plan for
the long term. Terminal 5 continues to be extremely important for Heathrow's
success. It is about adding quality as well as capacity."

The terminal's supporters, which include the Confederation of British Industry
and the Transport and General Workers' Union, along with its detractors,
pressure groups such as the residents' group Hacan ClearSkies and Friends of the
Earth, aired their views at a heated public inquiry lasting from 1995 to 1999.

Friends of the Earth pointed out that aircraft are responsible for 3.5 per cent
of global warming, a figure expected to rise to 17 per cent over the next 50
years. Hacan said pollution affects the health of people living under the
Heathrow flight path, while noise can impair children's ability to concentrate
and learn. They argue increased passenger numbers and an extra 49,000 car
journeys to the airport can only make matters worse.

Heathrow, however, disagrees. Mr Phillips said: "Terminal 5 has been designed to
take the new 600-seater A380 passenger jets so with these, and as airlines trade
up to larger planes at every level, we will be able to deliver extra passengers
without a corresponding increase in flights."

Economically, the CBI and the London Chamber of Commerce have backed Heathrow's
claim that further development is vital for Britain's economy. They argue that
airports in Paris and Frankfurt are simply waiting to cash in on overcrowding in
London, drawing off pounds 600m in revenue for Britain.

Opponents, however, say that is nonsense. John Stewart, chairman of Hacan
ClearSkies, says air transport accounts for only 0.7 per cent of UK gross
domestic output- while airports contribute just 0.13 per cent of it.

Hacan is also concerned that the British Airports Authority, which runs
Heathrow, predicts Terminal 5 will create 63,000 new jobs. But, locally,
unemployment is running at less than 1.5 per cent, about 9,000 people, so other
businesses may suffer from staff being poached to work at the airport. The
airport points to polls it has undertaken that show that 60 per cent of local
people support the extension.

Paul de Zylva, Friends of the Earth aviation campaigner, agreed with Lord Desai
that time should be taken before committing to the new terminal.

"It is time to reassess our attitude to air travel," he said. "We think the
future is in high-speed railways which, apart from the English section of the
Eurostar route, are proving to be very successful in north-west Europe. Between
40 to 45 per cent of aircraft ... are bound for journeys of 500km or less. With
decent railways, those journeys could be faster than flying.

"For decades, the international agreement that makes aviation fuel tax free and
the absence of VAT on new aircraft hase amounted to huge subsidies for the
airlines. They have to stop and, instead, be put into rail travel.

"We don't want to stop the aviation industry, but make it more responsible. It
doesn't make sense to have thousands of half-full aircraft flying round the
planet every day."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       October 26, 2001, Friday Edition 1

Terror attack no excuse

SECTION: BUSI, Pg. 36

LENGTH: 202 words







Advertising group WPP's attempt to pull out of its 434m bid for the Tempus media
buying firm was yesterday rejected by the Takeover Panel.

WPP told the panel earlier this month it wanted to withdraw its offer because of
a "material adverse change" condition in its bid following the September 11
terrorist attacks but WPP today said the panel had ruled it should not be
permitted to invoke this condition

Job cuts follow big contract dea

SOFTWARE and IT services group Cedar said it was cutting 320 jobs as it
celebrated the company's biggest contract win

Cedar, of Cobham, Surrey, which designs and builds software systems, blamed
difficult trading conditions for the job losses, which will be split between its
UK and US businesses

Royal Doulton to cut workforc

CERAMICS giant Royal Doulton is to cut more than 350 jobs

The Stoke-on-Trent company blamed a slump in the world ceramics market earlier
this year and the knock-on effects of September 11 for the decision

The redundancies, affecting a total of 367 workers, will take effect on January
11 after 90-day notices were handed out at the 200-year-old company earlier this
month

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 26, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: TOP GUN IS ATTACKED

BYLINE: Patrick Mulchrone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 120 words


A US pilot had to take dramatic evasive action when his jet came under missile
attack over Afghanistan yesterday.

Defence chiefs had believed the bombing of Taliban positions had destroyed all
their surface-to-air missiles.

But it is now thought the jet was targeted by a shoulder-launched missile given
to the mujahadeen in the 1980s by either Britain or the US.

The missiles can be assembled and fired in just five seconds.

The aircraft was one of two flying in formation. They were preparing to attack
when the missile was fired.

The pilot's evasive weaving and diving was filmed by TV cameras.

It is only the second time a jet has come under missile attack since the
offensive began.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 26, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: FURBY'S GOSPEL: NOVEL ATTACK

BYLINE: Kevan Furbank

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 273 words

HIGHLIGHT: DEADLY: Anthrax terror weapon


I AM grateful to reader G Scanlon, of Newry, Co Down, who draws my attention to
a 1991 novel by Irish thriller writer Gordon Thomas, called Deadly Perfume.

The plot tells of a master of global terrorism called Khalil Raza who has been
hired by a cabal of mullahs to wage holy war against the West.

He plans to poison the world's water supply with a perfume that is really
deadly... anthrax. Coincidence? Perhaps. But Mr Thomas will have a lot of
explaining to do if it turns out his book has been available in the hill
fortresses of Afghanistan.

Meanwhile, the anthrax scare has forced us to put in place strict security
measures at the Irish Mirror's secret underground bunker.

Staff open letters while wearing airtight anti-contamination suits, elbow
-length rubber gloves and surgical masks over their faces.

It's like something out of ER. The chief security guard studies the letter
carefully then holds out his hand to his glamourous receptionist.

"Letter opener," he snaps. There's a tense moment as he gently prises open the
flap, then a sigh of relief as the contents are revealed to be another very dull
Green Party press release. The security guard unbends, whips off his mask and
tells his receptionist: "It's all yours, Kim. Seal that sucker up."

Well, it's something like that. But what I'm trying to point out is the attacks
have badly backfired on Osama bin Liner and his Taliban terrors. Instead of
being reduced to gibbering panic, they have simply stiffened the West's resolve.

Perhaps Osama should have sent Green Party press releases. Now they would have
seriously damaged morale.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 26, 2001, Friday

FOOTBALL: ISRAELIS FEAR A TERROR ATTACK.. IN CHELSEA!;
 BUT HAPOEL WON'T BOTTLE OUT LIKE PETIT & CO

BYLINE: Darren Lewis

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 60,64

LENGTH: 367 words

HIGHLIGHT: Tel Aviv, 2001; POWDER KEG: Tensions rise in the streets of Tel; Aviv
this week; King's Rd, 2001; SHOPPERS' PARADISE: Business as usual on the streets
of King's Road


THE security row over Chelsea's UEFA Cup tie against Hapoel Tel Aviv boiled over
last night when the Israelis revealed they are confining players to the team
hotel in case of a terrorist attack in London.

Six Chelsea stars were vilified for refusing to travel to Israel for the first
leg of the UEFA Cup tie, and now the return has been thrown into more
controversy.

Hapoel chiefs have declared their squad will stay in a hotel 30 minutes away
from Stamford Bridge and that they will not be allowed to travel into central
London.

However, club officials will be allowed to fulfil obligations to attend meetings
with the Jewish community in London.

Intruders

Special security staff will also accompany the squad on their trip to ensure
that intruders do not make contact with the players at their hotel - the
location of which is being kept secret - or their training sessions.

Hapoel chairman Moshe Teomin said: "Our players will be kept in the hotel, but
management, which have arranged meetings with Jewish organisations, will be
allowed to go."

The Hapoel players are also claiming they are worried about anthrax attacks when
they come to London, even though none have been reported in the UK.

Speaking in Israel, Hapoel captain Shimon Gershon said this week: "We are a
little bit afraid to go to London in case of anthrax."

The outburst has sparked derision in Israel and has added further spice to next
Thursday's crunch match.

The fears are all the more amazing considering the volatile situation inthe
players' homeland. Tel Aviv has been rocked by drive-by shootings, riots and
suicide bombs in the last six months.

Israel's World Cup qualifier against Austria was called off after the safety of
the Austrian team could not be guaranteed.

However, Chelsea's first-leg tie went ahead because club officials WERE happy
with the safety arrangements.

Hapoel go into next week's second leg with a 2-0 advantage gained at the expense
of a weakened Blues side.

Emmanuel Petit, Marcel Desailly, Graeme Le Saux, Eidur Gudjohnson, Albert Ferrer
and William Gallas all exercised a get-out clause handed to them by the club
before the tie in Israel.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              New Musical Express

                                October 26, 2001

Cranberries star fears touring US following terrorist attacks; Dolores 'linger's
Over Us Problem

LENGTH: 152 words

SUMMARY: Dolores O'Riordan says she "won't be in a hurry" to visit the US at the
moment, even though the band have a new album to promote...



THE CRANBERRIES frontwoman DOLORES O'RIORDAN has revealed that she fears touring
the US following the terrorist attacks on the country.

The Cranberries are a huge draw in the US, a country where they have sold the
majority of their 33 million albums. However, O'Riordan now says she feels it
would be too dangerous to visit to support new album 'Wake Up And Smell The
Coffee'.

Speaking to The Mirror newspaper today (October 26), O'Riordan says she watched
CNN footage of the second 'plane smashing into the World Trade Center. She
added: "It was so shocking because I guess no one ever thought someone would do
this to America. I wouldn't be in a hurry to go over there now. It's way too
dangerous at the moment."

The diminutive frontwoman added: "We were planning to go on tour next year, but
if all hell breaks loose I'm not going anywhere. I'm staying at home with my
family."


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                        Copyright 2001 IPC Magazines Ltd

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 26, 2001

Muslims condemn terrorist attacks.

BYLINE: Keith Raffaelli (author email kraffaelli@lancashire.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: Bury



THE acts of terrorism in the USA and the bombing of Afghanistan came under the
spotlight at a special meeting.

Bury North MP David Chaytor was the guest at the event, held at the Jinnah Day
Care Centre in Bury.

Also among the 50 guests were Bury Council leader Councillor John Byrne and
representatives from the ethnic and host communities.

Jinnah chairman Mr Shafique Naqshbandi said that the aim of last Friday's (Oct
12) meeting was twofold.

"We wanted to let the people of Bury know that Muslims totally and utterly
condemn what happened in America on September 11.

"Secondly, we wanted to know what the fears were of local Muslim people and the
women and children." He added: "It was made perfectly clear at the meeting that,
while obviously we are afraid, there have been no significant complaints or any
abuse."

The meeting also highlighted the current bombing of Afghanistan and questioned
whether such military action would ultimately achieve the proper objectives.

In particular, some of those attending the meeting were worried about what the
implications could be for neighbouring Pakistan.

Mr Naqshbandi continued: "If the objective is to catch Bin Laden and others in
his movement, then there should be peace in Afghanistan and no repercussions for
the country they come from.

"Pakistan is at the sharp end and the country is unstable at the moment. People
are being killed there by the security forces. Our fears are genuine."

The chairman described the meeting as "very good" and said that Mr Chaytor was
impressed by what he heard.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           October 27, 2001, Saturday

CASHIER TELLS OF RAIDERS' TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 241 words


A CASHIER injured by two robbers at a north Warwickshire post office has vowed
to carry on working.

The woman, who does not wish to be named, received bruising to her wrists and
was pushed violently against a display case when the robbers struck at the
Birmingham Road post office, Ansley, at 8.30pm on Thursday.

The two men stole cash from the till and ran towards the Stockingford area.

The brave assistant said she was in shock afterwards but was determined to
return to her job.

She said: "I was like a jelly afterwards.

"You see this kind of thing on Crimewatch but you never think it could actually
happen to you."

She said she was getting stock from the back when two men came in. She said
hello and they ignored her.

She said: "One of them asked for a pack of Rizla, which I got, and the other put
a Tracker bar on the counter.

"Because of my gut feeling I didn't open the till all the way because I didn't
want to show the notes.

"One of them reach-ed over and slammed the till into my wrist and I was pushed
into the display case at the back so that all of the cigarettes fell off.

"It did make me think twice about working at the post office but I'm not going
to let them beat me. Obviously I'll be more wary in the future."

She said the men were both black, and aged 23-26 years old.

Police are appealing for anyone who saw what happened or has information to call
them on 024 7664 1111.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 27, 2001, Saturday

British holidaymakers look to home Survey reveals up to a million tourists will
opt for winter breaks in the United Kingdom following US terror attacks on
September 11

BYLINE: By Rosemary Behan

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 632 words

Nearly one million people in Britain have decided to holiday at home instead of
abroad between now and the New Year as a result of last month's terrorist
attacks in the United States, according to a survey conducted by the English
Tourism Council (ETC).

A telephone poll carried out among a sample of 1,001 British adults between
October 5 and 7 suggested that one out of every 10 people say the events of
September 11 have affected their holiday plans between now and the end of
December. From an adult population of 40 million, this means that up to four
million people have changed their travel plans. Nearly a fifth of those
questioned - translating into 900,000 people - have opted for British holidays
instead of travelling abroad.

The survey found that a further one million people have postponed trips, while
two million say they are holdling off making any firm plans until the situation
is clearer. About 15 per cent (700,000) have chosen to cancel their holidays,
whether at home or abroad.

The survey findings confirm widespread reports of a downturn in business for
many tour operators and airlines that provide overseas holidays. Some operators
are now successfully selling holiday packages in Britain to people who were
planning to go abroad.

A spokesman for the Association of British Travel Agents, which this week
launched a poster campaign encouraging people to book holidays in Britain, said
domestic bookings were up by 10 per cent on this time last year.

John Slatcher, managing director of Shearings, Britain's biggest coach-tour
operator, said his company had seen an "incredible" rise in bookings for
holidays in the next three months. Bookings for November, for example, have
risen from 27,000 to 38,800 - a 40 per cent increase year-on-year.

Mr Slatcher said that, because of the uncertainty caused by the events of
September 11, "people are stopping in the UK". English seaside resorts, historic
towns such as York, Stratford and Cirencester and all areas of Scotland were
proving the most popular destinations, he said. Bookings for next year were also
up 34 per cent. "I don't know how long this will go on for, but we're certainly
not complaining," he said.

Nick Cust, joint managing director of Supabreak, one of Britain's biggest
short-break operators, said the company had had a "record trading day" on
Monday, with a 22 per cent rise in last-minute, half-term holiday bookings
compared to last year. London had started to recover from a downturn, while
other parts of the country were "very much up on last year". "Edinburgh, York,
Bath and coastal towns such as Brighton, Bournemouth and Blackpool are proving
very strong", he said.

An increase in the number of holidays taken at home would provide a much needed
boost to domestic tourism following the negative impact of foot and mouth
disease. It could also help to mitigate the predicted fall in the number of
overseas visitors coming to Britain following the terrorist attacks.

English tourism is worth pounds 52 billion a year to the economy. However,
pounds 4 out of every pounds 5 spent on tourism in Britain comes from domestic
tourists.

Mary Lynch, chief executive of the ETC, said: "The impact of the terrorist
attacks has been enormous. But we could take the edge off some of the worst
effects on tourism by making it easy for people to holiday at home. During the
height of the foot and mouth outbreak, we saw a big surge in late bookings as it
got nearer to holiday periods and there may still be lots of last-minute
bookings for trips in England.

"People planning trips for next year may be thinking more about holidaying at
home. This should be an opportunity for tourism businesses in England to impress
holidaymakers from the UK with their quality and value for money."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 27, 2001

Claims are set to flood in;Terror attacks and weather will hit travel, home and
car insurance, says Anthea Masey

BYLINE: Anthea Massey

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 595 words


Travel, home, and car insurance premiums are likely to soar in the wake of the
disastrous events of 11 September.

The knock-on effect of the enormous claims which the worldwide insurance
industry faces as a result of the tragedy will inevitably hit the amount which
people pay for travel, home, and car insurance, with hikes of up to 40%
predicted.

This will hit consumers at a time when insurance premiums are already rising
sharply. It is estimated that the general insurance industry is paying out
(pounds) 1.20 in claims for every (pounds) 1 it collects in premiums. And the
outlook is not good.

Home insurance is feeling the impact of last year's floods, which cost the
industry (pounds) 760m. And car insurance is having to bear the brunt of the
growing number of accident victims who are claiming damages.

Big insurance companies offset the risk of having to pay out massive claims on
major disasters, such as those of September 11, by paying what are known as
reinsurance premiums to outside reinsurance companies who take on part of the
risk.

A major disaster could bankrupt one or two large insurance companies, but the
practice of reinsurance spreads the risk among a large number of companies.
Large claims, like those for major hurricanes and those which will result from
the events of September 11, will have the effect of putting up reinsurance
premiums.

In the days after the World Trade Centre disaster, reinsurance premiums were
predicted to rise by a staggering tenfold. These estimates have now come down to
between three and four times.

Most of these increases will be passed on in higher premiums. Commercial
customers will suffer the biggest increases with huge rises in the cost of
insuring commercial premises predicted, but some of the impact inevitably will
fall on the ordinary consumer.

Suzanne Moore, of the Association of British Insurers, said it is hard to
predict when consumers will see these increases reflected in their premiums.

"It could take several years before the impact is felt, and then the increases
could be incremental and spread out over a number of years. And there is always
the effect of competition. People are buying over the telephone or online, and
there is a lot of evidence that consumers are shopping around for even small
savings.

"This means the market for all these types of insurance is now very competitive.
Any company which suddenly increases its premiums out of line with the
competition will simply lose customers. It is a powerful disincentive to raise
premiums."

Moore said the industry currently is more worried about the effect that an
increasingly litigious nation is having on insurance premiums, especially car
insurance.

''People are much more willing to put in a claim for personal damages after a
car accident. The growing number of companies handling personal injury claims
has encouraged the trend, and there is the problem that many injuries, such as
whiplash, can be difficult to verify.

"The ABI is currently in discussions with the claims companies, the Law Society,
and personal injury lawyers to see if there is an easier and less expensive way
of settling these claims."

Gavin Hill-Smith, of AA Insurance Services, agrees that September 11 will
increase premiums, but he is not putting a figure on how much or when.

"There are other factors which might cause premiums to rise. For example, the
burglary rate tends to go up during a recession, so if our economy falters,
rising burglary rates will put up household insurance.''

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SPATE OF CLAIMS: Floods, like this one in England, and car insurance
hits are combining with the New York attacks to push premiums skywards

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                October 27, 2001

Attack on terrorism

BYLINE: by SHardy

SECTION: Pg.12

LENGTH: 46 words


Manzoor Moghal stated that "the perception among Muslims in Britain and the
world is that this (the attacks on Afghanistan) is an attack upon Islam". Our
Prime Minister Mr Tony Blair has often said that it is an attack on terrorism
and not Islam.

Frank Evans, Enderby.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2001 Leicester Mercury

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 28, 2001, Sunday

ATTACK ON AFGHANISTAN: BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM - US HUNT FOR 'MISSING' ANTHRAX
LETTERS

BYLINE: Rupert Cornwell In Washington

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 360 words


The American government suspects that at least one more letter steeped in
anthrax has passed through the US postal service, raising fears of a new round
of scares and infections.

The authorities had believed that all the cases in the Washington area could be
traced back to the letter sent to the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle, which
led to the death of two Washington postal workers. But they now say the
contamination of a worker at an entirely separate State Department distribution
centre has effectively destroyed that hope.

The acknowledgement came as the mail centres of the Supreme Court, the CIA and a
high-profile military hospital in Washington joined the growing list of
government and media sites where the deadly disease has turned up.

US authorities seem no nearer finding out the source of the anthrax attacks than
they were a week ago. The pendulum of suspicion appears to be swinging away from
the al-Qa'ida network or hostile foreign states to homegrown domestic
terrorists.

Most noticeably, in the anthrax search, as in the hunt for those behind the 11
September terrorist attacks, the Bush administration is bending over backwards
to play down any Iraqi connection, despite repeated pointers that Saddam
Hussein's regime might be involved. The latest of these came on Friday when the
Czech government confirmed that Mohamed Atta, one of the ringleaders of the
suicide hijacking plot, met an Iraqi intelligence officer, Ahmed Khalil Ibrahim
Samir al-Ani, in Prague during a brief foray from the US in early April.

Publicly, US officials have refused to attach much importance to it. Anything
which directly implicates Baghdad would - by the logic of Mr Bush's vow to go
after not only terrorists but states which sponsored them - oblige Washington to
mount an attack on Iraq. This would tear asunder the coalition of Arab and
Muslim countries uneasily backing the war.

In the case of anthrax, Mr Bush aides prefer to talk of anything except links
with Iraq, even though the latter is one of the three or four states which have
produced the lethal anthrax spores found in the letter to Senator Daschle.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                October 28, 2001

Scientists link Iraq to anthrax terror attacks

BYLINE: Simon Reeve

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 464 words


By Simon Reeve IRAQ has been identified as the most likely source of the anthrax
used to terrorise America during recent weeks.

Now plans are now being considered for retaliatory military strikes against
Saddam Hussein, according to American government officials.

Although studies of the anthrax spores sent through the mail are continuing,
American scientists have discovered ' hallmarks' that point to Iraqi
involvement.

American investigators are increasingly convinced that the anthrax was smuggled
into the US and mailed to a number of targets by unidentified 'sleeper'
supporters of Osama Bin Laden's Al Qaeda organisation.

Sources admit the American government may never be able to conclusively prove
Iraqi involvement, nor identify and capture the individuals who posted the
anthrax that has killed two postal workers and a newspaper picture editor.

But they increasingly believe Iraq supplied anthrax to Bin Laden's terrorist
group, and expect the war on terrorism to be widened to include attacks on
Saddam Hussein's regime.

'The first giveaway pointing us towards Iraq is just how professional some of
this anthrax is,' said one senior US intelligence source. 'Anthrax is not hard
to produce, but it is difficult to turn it into a potent weapon.'

Scientists have discovered that the anthrax particles posted to Senator Tom
Daschle were much smaller and more potent than anthrax used in other attacks.

In recent days, American scientists have also discovered the presence of a thin
brown coating around the spores identified as a clay that can help to keep
anthrax particles airborne and prevents them sticking together.

The clay is easy to obtain, but difficult to mix with anthrax, and Iraqi
scientists are the only biological warfare specialists known to have used the
clay in their anthrax programme. 'It is increasingly likely this anthrax was
produced outside America and then smuggled into the country by Al Qaeda
operatives we have not yet identified,' said another US official.

Options for retaliation against Iraq include missile strikes on Baghdad and
carpet-bombing major Iraqi military bases.

Hawks within the American establishment remembering that the US threatened Iraq
with nuclear retaliation if chemical or biological weapons were used against
Allied forces during the Gulf War are believed to have proposed the use of even
deadlier weapons.

However, unless conclusive proof of Iraqi involvement emerges, the US
administration will move slowly against Saddam, first demanding that he hands
over suspects linked to previous terrorist attacks.

Simon Reeve is the author of The New Jackals: Ramzi Yousef, Osama Bin Laden And
The Future of Terrorism, published in paperback by Andre Deutsch at GBP 7.99.


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            October 28, 2001 Sunday

Scientists link Iraq to anthrax terror attacks

BYLINE: SIMON REEVE

SECTION: FB; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 453 words


By Simon Reeve IRAQ has been identified as the most likely source of the anthrax
used to terrorise America during recent weeks.

Now plans are now being considered for retaliatory military strikes against
Saddam Hussein, according to American government officials.

Although studies of the anthrax spores sent through the mail are continuing,
American scientists have discovered ' hallmarks' that point to Iraqi
involvement.

American investigators are increasingly convinced that the anthrax was smuggled
into the US and mailed to a number of targets by unidentified 'sleeper'
supporters of Osama Bin Laden's Al Qaeda organisation.

Sources admit the American government may never be able to conclusively prove
Iraqi involvement, nor identify and capture the individuals who posted the
anthrax that has killed two postal workers and a newspaper picture editor.

But they increasingly believe Iraq supplied anthrax to Bin Laden's terrorist
group, and expect the war on terrorism to be widened to include attacks on
Saddam Hussein's regime.

'The first giveaway pointing us towards Iraq is just how professional some of
this [anthrax] is,' said one senior US intelligence source. 'Anthrax is not hard
to produce, but it is difficult to turn it into a potent weapon.'

Scientists have discovered that the anthrax particles posted to Senator Tom
Daschle were much smaller and more potent than anthrax used in other attacks.

In recent days, American scientists have also discovered the presence of a thin
brown coating around the spores identified as a clay that can help to keep
anthrax particles airborne and prevents them sticking together.

The clay is easy to obtain, but difficult to mix with anthrax, and Iraqi
scientists are the only biological warfare specialists known to have used the
clay in their anthrax programme. 'It is increasingly likely this anthrax was
produced outside America and then smuggled into the country by Al Qaeda
operatives we have not yet identified,' said another US official.

Options for retaliation against Iraq include missile strikes on Baghdad and
carpet-bombing major Iraqi military bases.

Hawks within the American establishment remembering that the US threatened Iraq
with nuclear retaliation if chemical or biological weapons were used against
Allied forces during the Gulf War are believed to have proposed the use of even
deadlier weapons.

However, unless conclusive proof of Iraqi involvement emerges, the US
administration will move slowly against Saddam, first demanding that he hands
over suspects linked to previous terrorist attacks.

Simon Reeve is the author of The New Jackals: Ramzi Yousef, Osama Bin Laden And
The Future of Terrorism, published in paperback by Andre Deutsch at Pounds 7.99.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 28, 2001, Sunday

Tariq Aziz: we are ready for war Exclusive: Saddam's deputy says West faces
'grave' consequences Iraq prepares for American blitz as anthrax postal campaign
escalates US defence minister warns Britain 'The terrorists will attack you
next'

BYLINE: BY HALA JABER in Baghdad AND DAVID WASTELL in Washington

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 655 words

IRAQ SAID yesterday that it expects to be attacked by America and Britain, and
warned of the "grave" consequences if any attempt was made to topple Saddam
Hussein from power.

In an exclusive interview with The Sunday Telegraph, Tariq Aziz, the Iraqi
deputy prime minister, alleged that the Baghdad regime had learned of plans by
the West to strike "300 targets with 1,000 missiles".

He accused America and Britain of trying to remove Saddam under the pretext of
waging war against terrorism. "We know that they are preparing for such an
attack," he said. "We are watching what is being said and what is being done in
the United States and in Britain and we know that it is just a matter of time
before such an attack.

"That is going to be a very grave mistake. The Arab world is not going to
tolerate that. Many countries are not going to tolerate that because they know
that this is unjust and is sheer aggression."

He said that while he did not expect an attack against Iraq to result in Arab
military retaliation, it would cause the painstakingly assembled coalition
against terrorism to fall apart, isolating Britain and America.

Mr Aziz was speaking as America and Britain completed their third week of
bombing attacks on Afghanistan with the heaviest assault yet on the capital,
Kabul. US warplanes also pounded Taliban positions across Afghanistan in an
assault lasting more than 11 hours, reportedly killing nine people.

Meanwhile, Paul Wolfowitz, America's deputy defence secretary, told The Sunday
Telegraph that Britons should brace themselves for biological weapons attacks.
He said that the West - and Britain and America in particular - should expect a
large-scale chemical or biological weapons assault. He believes that al-Qaeda,
Osama bin Laden's terrorist group, will target civilians, hoping for tens of
thousands of casualties.

"It would be prudent to anticipate that these murderers will attack the UK as
well, and more so because you are so closely identified with us." Mr Wolfowitz's
remarks are a sharp contrast to the British Government's repeated claim that
such an attack is unlikely.

Mr Wolfowitz suspects that Iraq could have been involved in the current anthrax
attacks. "We know they have worked on weapons of mass destruction, as have a
number of other states that support terror," he said. Mr Aziz dismissed such
allegations. "This is not only baseless, it is also ridiculous," he said, adding
that while Iraq developed anthrax in the 1980s, the programme was destroyed in
the 1990s during the United Nations inspections. "When they decide to attack
Iraq it will be for their own agenda because they want to replace this
government because it is independent and will not bow. It will not be because of
what is happening in the US."

Mr Aziz was sceptical of Tony Blair's reassurances that Britain would not
participate in any attacks against Iraq without absolute proof of its direct
involvement in the September 11 attacks. "I hope they will make a wise judgment,
but I cannot be sure that they will not follow suit with the Americans," he
said.

In an attempt to help the Americans with their presentation of the Afghan
campaign, Alastair Campbell, Mr Blair's chief media adviser, flew to Washington
secretly last week for talks with Karen Hughes, his opposite number.

Mr Wolfowitz said the Pentagon assumed that Kabul would not be captured from the
Taliban before winter. "Don't build a plan that depends on getting something
done by Christmas," he said. With only three weeks until the Muslim holy month
of Ramadan, and with snow already arriving in the higher mountains, American
officials are increasingly pessimistic about creating a large Taliban-free zone
this year.

About 200 sorting offices along America's east coast were being tested for
anthrax yesterday, with traces of the spores already found in New York's main
office.

Additional reporting by Andrew Alderson

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 28, 2001, Sunday

FOOTBALL: YANKS A MILLION;
 GERS STAR'S TRIBUTE TO TERROR ATTACK HEROES

BYLINE: Joe Mchugh

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 80

LENGTH: 409 words

HIGHLIGHT: MY HEROES: American ace Claudio Reyna is proud to display his New;
York Fire Department T-shirt after the first of his two goals for Rangers


AMERICAN star Claudio Reyna paid tribute to the heroes of the New York Fire
Department, after scoring both goals in Rangers 2-0 victory over Livingston last
night.

Reyna, who used to live in the shadow of the Twin Towers celebrated by revealing
a T-shirt with the fire department's initials on.

And afterwards Rangers manager Dick Advocaat revealed just how deeply Reyna had
been affected by the terror attacks on New York which killed over 6000 people,
including some 300 firefighters.

Advocaat said: "You can see what an impact the terrorist attacks have had on the
boy.

"His heart is there. He used to live there himself and his parents and a lot of
his family and friends are still there.

"He scored two good goals for us and under the circumstances his performances
have been amazing."

Reyna returned to the States last month to star in his country's World Cup
victory over Trinidad that booked America their fourth consecutive World Cup
Finals place.

While Reyna celebrated his first two goals of the season referee John Underhill
was being widely criticised for a series of howlers during last night's game.

Underhill sent off Livi defender Marvyn Andrews in the 64th minute for a penalty
box foul on Tore Andre Flo but refused to dismiss Rangers defender Arthur Numan
for decking Barry Wilson in a first- half flashpoint.

Rangers were denied three good penalty claims early in the first half before
Tore Andre Flo missed from the spot after Andrews had been red-carded.

The Ibrox side were already two goals up by that stage thanks to strikes from
Reyna in the 23rd and 57th minutes.

Earlier in the day an injury time goal from Joos Valgaeren gave Celtic a
dramatic victory over battling Kilmarnock, but thanks to Reyna's heroic Rangers
stayed in touch with their arch rivals.

It was a win which will leave Rangers in good heart for their UEFA Cup trip to
Moscow Dynamo on Thursday.

But Advocaat has slammed UEFA for allowing teams from the Champions League into
the UEFA Cup.

Rangers are expected to beat Moscow Dynamo to clinch a place in next Friday's
third-round draw where they will be joined by eight Champions League drop outs.

He said: "Going into the UEFA Cup is a good escape but if you are being honest
to other clubs it is not the right decision.

"For a lot of clubs it is good but for the clubs involved in the UEFA Cup it is
not good to haveexcellent teams dropping in.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                      $%Investment Adviser adviser adviser

                           October 29, 2001 2001 2001

Its the consumer, stupid; Our round table panel continues last weeks debate
about whether the US consumer can provide salvation from the bear gripping world
markets. Unemployment, the New York attacks and the so-called "war on terror"
all rate as big factors that must be addresse addresse addresse

SECTION: ISSN. 1361-1593 1593 1593

LENGTH: 3299 words words words


The following experts took part in Investment Advisers round table discussion on
15 October 2001:

Chairman: Jason Mitchell, editor of Investment Adviser

Edward Bonham Carter, chief executive of Jupiter

Philip Coggan, markets editor, Financial Times

Mark Dampier, head of research,Hargreaves Lansdown

Ayse Ferliel, funds analyst, Investment Adviser

Simon Fraser, chief investment officer, Fidelity Investments

David Gasparro, chief investment officer (retail and private banking), Schroders

Jason Hollands, deputy managing director, BestInvest

Michael Hughes, chief investment officer, Baring Asset Management

Chairman: Philip Coggan , do you think US consumer confidence has been shattered
in the wake of 11 September?

Coggan: I think it is a longer term issue than that there is a problem with debt
having been taken on during the years of the bull run. The private sector
financial deficit of the US now stands at 5 or 6 per cent of GDP. Wynne Godley
of the Levy Institute, Bard College, New York and Bill Martins of Phillips &
Drew research seems to indicate that, one, countries have never got out of
thatproblem without quite a long period of subdued growth. People have to build
up their savings and therefore cut back on their spending.  spending.  spending.

The other problem is getting rid of your debt during an era of virtually no
inflation. We were all told to borrow as much as we could during the Eighties
and it caused a lot of pain in the short term when interest rates went up but
inflation eroded that away. Now, people think interest rates are cheap so it
will be easier to service the debt but they are going to have to work off that
debt over a very long period.

That will constrain their ability to take on more debt and spend more. We have
had this long period in which consumption growth has outgrown GDP and some way
or another it must come back down to the level of GDP growth. So, we are in the
era that Albert Edwards global strategist at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein is
always going on about as an ice age.

It is going to be very difficult people will have to come to terms with the fact
that there is low inflation, low nominal growth and they are not going to get
the sort of pay rises that they are used to, they are not going to get the
return on savings they are used to. And it is going to be quite a big
psychological adjustment.

Chairman: In the light of the bubble that we had in the Nineties, does anyone
think this recession could be worse than in the early-Nineties?

Hollands: Have you not heard that Gordon Brown has abolished boom and bust?

Dampier: The key to it must be unemployment. If the unemployment rate starts to
rise dramatically I think we will have real problems.

Clearly, if you lose your job you have no chance of servicing anything at all.
In the US that seems to be the key having talked to US fund managers, they are
not so worried about the debt as long as people have their jobs. If you havea
job at least you can service the debt. It might take years and years to pay off
but that does not matter.

The unemployment rate in the US is still relatively low and I know it is going
to go up but the question is by how much.

Hollands: Its not just the government that has buried bad news in the wake of 11
September, many businesses have also brought forward bad news. You cannot
underestimate the impact that will have. When the post office a business that
seems to be at the cutting edge of economic trends starts laying off workers,
bringing forward its chance to cut costs, that affects confidence

Chairman: Simon Fraser , how do you feel about US consumer confidence?

Fraser: I dont disagree with anything that has been said. It has been shaken and
will take a long time to come back. I think unemployment is the key issue.
Ibelieve the economic recovery when it comes will be different in structure from
previous times.

To some extent you have seen some of that already in the UK with much more of a
shift towards the government sector than before. I suspect that is what we will
see in the US as well. You have already seen that from the government. Not only
has it directly intervened in the money markets but it has put money into
different parts of the economy through increased spending.

Ferliel: Why do we all link everything to US consumer expenditure why do you
think we do not look at the production side? We seem to be obsessed with
consumption-led growth and why dont we look at the other side of the equation?

Hughes: We are answering your questions, actually. We are not looking at it from
any other perspective.

The only thing that has changed is that you now have a much bigger gap between
growth and demand than you would have had because of the way demand has fallen.
That capital spending hasnt completely disappeared.

What you are finding is that, arguably, there is another investment cycle. You
see it in the energy sector. You are certainly seeing it in the government
sector not only in defence spending, but in major infrastructure projects, you
have had a major investment in railways worldwide.

All those things take time to come through and you clearly can see a different
pattern to the productive side of the equation than we have seen previously.

I am sympathetic with the idea that one should look at both sides of the
equation but it is not so surprising that everyone is looking at the consumer
side because it is the actual gap that transformed the relation.

Gasparro: The other issue was that before 11 September we were all sitting there
going, well the economy is slowing down, maybe it is showing some signs
ofstabilisation. The really big issue was whether the consumer would hang in
there. As we know, capital expenditure had fallen through the floor and thats
why there is now a heightened interest in the consumer. They are the key to
going forward.

Chairman: Do you think there is a reluctance within the industry to be truly
objective about what has happened it has a strong vested interest in talking up
markets?

Hughes: I think there is an element of decoupling between the City, the
financial markets community, and the markets themselves. For City institutions
this is like 1973/74, in terms of the way that people are losing their jobs
within the industry, packages are being redesigned.

However, certainly in London markets in 1973 to 1974, many institutions were
partnerships many people were actually putting more money into the
partnerships.But many of the partnerships have gone and I think this time round
you are goingto see a much bigger impact on the way that people perceive their
jobs in the financial industry. That is leading to more pessimism about the
world than is actually there.

Yet, overall, I think the policy moves that we have been describing will
actually help.

Coggan: I think the financial services industry has a real problem as a result
of the last three years. First, any one who has a Pep or Isa going back to 1998
has probably lost money. Second, those who were in tech funds who were clearly
either foolish or badly advised during the peak in March 2000 have lost an awful
lot of their money.

We have just had Railtrack where people invested in something that they thought
was backed by the government and they might well find they have lost alltheir
money. They have been encouraged by governments to go into employee share option
schemes. Some of them will now be so far under water that they are being filmed
by David Attenborough.

The government wants people to save for the long term but, of course, interest
rates and building society rates are very low. I think a lot of individual
investors must have become deeply disillusioned. They were encouragedto trade

online and that was a disaster too. They have been told that they have been
mis-sold endowments and pension policies. What actually are they supposed to
puttheir money in to?

And yet society does require people to save money in long-term savings. How are
we going to get people to put money aside when every thing seems to have ripped
them off?

Chairman: Do you agree that stocks are overvalued at the moment in terms of P/E
ratios the average P/E on the FTSE all-share is around 19 while the average
historical P/E is 14?

Coggan: Up to 1960 there was a quite different relationship between the bond
yield and the earnings yield. The question is and if we knew the answer to it
wecould all make an awful lot of money whether the relationship that has held
overthe past 20 years what is known as the Fed model where the earnings yield
ratio and the bonds yield ratio should be one whether that will continue to
hold. Greater minds than mine at the FT tell me that it is complete nonsense to
compare the bonds yield with the earnings yield for the very good reason that
one is a nominal asset and the other one is a real one.

So, they may have a relationship in the short term but that does not tell you
what the actual level of their relationship should be.

Hughes: Everything we have talked about today strikes me as identifying what the
differences are between the current situation and the trade-off between growth
and inflation in the past. Hence using the average P/E in the last 20 or 30
years may not have validity if you do not believe the trade-off between growth
and inflation for the next 20 or 30 is going to be comparable to price earnings.

I dont think it is. Either way it is not so surprising that you get different
P/E ranges for different circumstances. In that sense, one needs to question
what circumstances we think we are in. At the trough of the last downturn in
theMSCI in 1992 the P/E was 23; in the trough of the Seventies and Eighties
downturn the P/E was at 11.5. Currently, for the MSCI, we are at around 20 to
21. So, the market is telling us that it believes that this downturn the trade
off between growth and inflation is actually going to be worse than the early
Nineties but arguably is not going to give you the problems you had in the
Seventies and Eighties.

The issue for me is how this trade off of growth and inflation is likely to
unfold over the next few years. It goes back to our discussion earlier about
savings behaviour it is quite conceivable that a V-shaped recovery might take
the form of not 4 per cent growth and 2 per cent inflation but 2 per cent
growthand 1 per cent inflation. The trade-off is the same; the same ratio too
but the economic conditions you have relating to that are very different.

So, first I dont think it is right to use the recent past even going back 20 or
30 years as a guide to fair valuations. Second, I am utterly opposed to
usinggovernment bond markets as a guide to equity valuations in times of low
inflation because the way they work in that environment is quite different to
how they work and are related in conditions of high inflation.

During the past two years we have seen a negative correlation between bonds and
equities. That may not be a permanent state of affairs but I think it is a
product of low inflation. Yet, there is a very strong set of messages coming
from the current corporate bond market. Corporate bond spreads have come down,
implying that corporate earnings should be better in the future. In that case,
21 September when equities troughed could be seen as a turning point.

Chairman: I understand that P/E ratios for the Nasdaq are infinite what does
that say about that market?

Hughes: Well, you have to value the stocks differently.

Bonham Carter: Use price-to-sales ratios.

Chairman: Jeremy Siegel finance professor at Wharton has been saying that the
high P/E is justifiable because of the high-tech revolution and because the
proliferation of mutual funds has made markets less risky. Does anybody have
anythoughts on that? Do those sorts of changes justify higher P/Es?

Bonham Carter: I have to confess, Im coming out of the closet I was half a
new-paradigmist because I thought there had been some change in the rate of
trend in productivity growth in certain industries. And the question was how
long was that going to be sustained?

The problem is that until you go through the sums you cannot get a view on what
was secular a generational change and what was cyclical. I suspect that quite a
lot of the new paradigm stuff is just the result of the cycle rather than some
long-term change in productivity.

There have been some changes in ratings due to productivity changes. Id be wary
of getting too excited about technology. The only benefit I can see in it, by
and large, accrues to the consumer. The benefits, as can be seen from the
previous railway and electricity booms, get passed on through the economy in
theform of lower prices to the consumer. Shareholders rarely benefit from this
innovation. Competition between technology companies will reduce earnings and
valuations. Very few shareholder benefit from innovative companies, with the
exception of Microsoft.

Gasparro: When you look at the implied earnings growth in the US market allowing
that these figures are about a month out of date there was indeed a peak in the
tech bubble around March 2000.

According to numbers from the New York stockbroker Bernstein, the old economy
was discounting long-run earnings growth at 4 per cent, the new economy at 2
percent; its now 6 and 11 per cent respectively.

There are two questions I would ask from that. Is six a reasonable number for
long-run earnings growth in the old economy? And is 11 a reasonable number for
growth stocks?

Its come down a long way from 20 but my guess is that it will overreact a bit
further. Typically, people think they come back to fair value when stocks look
cheap; personally, I think there is further to go.

Chairman: Does anyone think that the US authorities monetary and fiscal actions
will fail to stimulate the economy?

Hollands: I think they have been bold to do all they can.

Chairman: Obviously, the US government is now going into public deficit and its
conceivable that if things dont improve within a year or even 18 months, they
may have to put up taxes.

Hughes: Why?

Chairman: Well, they could carry on with that deficit, but for how long is that
sustainable?

Hughes: Well, the US has repaid its debt over five to 10 years; if it only goes
to a halfway stage between the debt ratio it has now and what it had, it could
run deficits of 4 per cent of GDP over seven years.

Gasparro: It is well within Maastricht.

Coggan: But doesnt the UK government have more of a problem it has already got a
lot of spending planned faster than the trend growth rate of the economy over
the next few years. We have a reasonably sized trade deficit and we are notthe
worlds largest economy where everybody wants our dollars nine tenths of the
time.

Our consumption growth has been quite rapid, and if we are going to put our
fiscal stimulus on top of all that and the extra defence spending, at some
pointthe UK will hit the classic trade deficit problem, where sterling
collapses.

Something that we have all got so used to over the last 30 or 40 years. So maybe
we are all worrying about the wrong country from that point of view.

Chairman: How do you feel about President George Bushs change of mind? It seems
to me that he has essentially gone back to Keynesian methods?

Hughes: The extent to which Bush has used fiscal and monetary stimuli makes him
a pragmatist.

The Fed brought interest rates down relatively quickly, though there is a debate
about whether they did indeed work. And if you take into account the dollars
position as well, Im not so sure the government provided sufficient attention to
the fiscal side of things.

Chairman: What effect do you think the military action will have on the
population?

Do you think that this is a running sore on US consumer confidence?

Hollands: The problem with this is that it will take a while to find out what
the end objective is. Announcing a war on terrorism after the World Trade
Centerblew up is too vague and a sure way to wane consumer confidence. The war
could take years.

Now it appears that assuming the governments doves are willing there are more
objectives with al-Qaeda, rather than just removing the Taliban. But if this
spirals out to Iraq will the coalition hold together? These are very
destabilising things. It could go on for years and years.

Chairman: And that reinforces the recession and the bear?

Dampier: It depends on the definition of the war though. Politicians have
declared war on all sorts of thing. Theyve declared war on drugs at least three
or four times. So, Im just a bit wary of the phrase. When you look at the
pictures of Kabul or wherever, they look exactly the same as anywhere else in
the world.

Sorry, Im being very cynical here but aircraft up in the air and a few bombs
going off doesnt actually accounts for a war in itself. I think far more
important is the effect on the American psychology at home which, obviously,
theTwin Towers going down had a major impact on.

The Americans have always thought they were insulated from virtually anything
anyway and thats the bigger thing, more so than the military action taking
placenow. I dont think that actually affects the Americans in a major way at
all. Actually its more likely that it affects us; were much closer to the whole
blasted thing!

Coggan: Yes. If all they do is just what theyre doing. But the military action
by whom is the question. I mean a military action by al-Qaeda in America,again.
That would clearly have a very significant effect and, obviously, if Pakistan or
Saudi Arabia fell to fundamentalist groups I cant see the markets reacting very
well.

Bonham Carter: Certainly not the oil market.

Chairman: Would anyone like to predict when the FTSE will return to its recent
peaks? No?

Dampier: Not especially

Hughes: Can I put the question another way round: how many of you believe that
the FTSE 100, the Dow and the Nasdaq, will reach their peaks within the next
four years?

Bonham Carter: Any one of the indices?

Hughes: Preferably all of them.

Bonham Carter: Simultaneously, on the same day?

Gasparro: Why did you choose four years?

Hughes: Because its five years since the peak.

Bonham Carter: I find it hard to believe that well get there in four years.

Chairman: What was the peak?

Coggan: It was 6930.2 and Michael Hughes predicted in 1993 that it would be 7000
by the end of 1999. I confidently predict that the Techmark, the Nasdaq andthe
Neuer Markt will not get back to their peaks within the next four years.

Ferliel: Can I just remind you that at the beginning of this year many leading
commentators predicted that the FTSE would go above 7000 by the end of this
year.

Dampier: Well, I think you should take those sorts of predictions with a pinch
of salt.

Fraser: I think the better question here is whether this a good time to invest
in equities. Thats a different question.

Bonham Carter: A better time than it was?

Fraser: My answer would be yes. The markets live on fear and greed. There is a
lot of fear around because there is a high degree of risk that the US war
willget worse. As weve just discussed, given that six or nine months ago I do
not think we would have predicted this level of fear. Its pretty unprecedented.
Without putting everything in the markets right now, I dont think it is a bad
time to invest.

Chairman:

Do you think there are any bears left in the market?

Fraser: Yes, I think in certain sectors of the market there probably are still
some bears.

But I think the speed in which they are coming out of the market has really
accelerated since 11 September.

Peoples expectations have changed dramatically since.  since.  since.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001 2001 2001

LANGUAGE: English english english

            Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited limited
                                    limited

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 29, 2001, Monday

Terrorist attacks 'not to blame for recession'

BYLINE: By David Litterick

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 221 words

THE world is on the brink of the worst economic downturn since the Second World
War, but it has little to do with the US terrorist attacks, Deloitte & Touche
argues in its latest quarterly economic review.

Economic adviser Roger Bootle believes that UK interest rates could fall below
4pc as a result of the slowdown, which will see UK economic growth next year of
just 1.7pc.

However, he believes that the UK will avoid the recession suffered by North
America, much of Asia and possibly a number of eurozone nations.

He said: "The appalling terrorist attacks will be widely blamed for this. We
believe, though, that this assessment will be mistaken. The world was on course
for a serious downturn anyway.

"While the aftermath of the September outrages will, of course, be negative, the
lesson of history is that the economic significance of non-economic events is
often exaggerated at the time."

Meanwhile, research from Ernst & Young showed a rise of 35pc in the number of
profits warnings issued by quoted UK companies in the third quarter. Some 128
companies issued warnings, including seven companies which warned twice in the
three months to 30 September.

The software and computer services sector again accounted for the largest number
of warnings, generating a fifth of the total.
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 29, 2001

War on Terror: Are the anthrax attacks work of lone psychopath?: 10.000 family
and friends gather for memorial service

BYLINE: Daniel Jeffreys

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 282 words


SUSPICION was growing last night that the anthrax crisis is the work of a
Rightwing American terrorist group or a lone psychopath rather than Osama Bin
Laden's terror group.

FBI and CIA agents were sifting through dozens of past anthrax threats looking
for links to the current letter campaign.

More than 300 domestic threats have been made to use anthrax against the U.S.
government and politicians in the last four years.

Although none was put into effect, the FBI is considering the possibility that
one of those has moved from threats to action.

Despite White House statements that the anthrax attacks are the work of Bin
Laden, few senior FBI officials share that view.

According to FBI sources, the consensus is that the anthrax letters were sent by
a 'mad scientist' similar to Unabomber Theodore Kaczynski, who launched a
sevenyear letter bomb campaign.

The FBI says it has intelligence on 'six or seven' men who were admirers of
Kaczynski and have a similar isolated lifestyle.

A senior detective in New York who has profiled dozens of serial killers said
yesterday that the wording of the anthrax letters points to a lone sociopath.

'This has all the hallmarks of a man who gets satisfaction from hurting people,'
he said. 'He will not stop until he is caught.' The second-most-favoured theory
is that the letters were sent by Rightwing extremists linked to Oklahoma City
bomber Timothy McVeigh.

Experts on 'survivalist' groups and extreme-right 'Aryan' militants have been
drafted into the investigation.

Last night, a female post office worker in New Jersey became the eighth
confirmed case of inhalation anthrax, the most serious form.


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 29, 2001

War on Terror: Is anthrax attacker a new Unabomber?

BYLINE: Daniel Jeffreys

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 541 words



SUSPICION was growing last night that the anthrax crisis is the work of a
Rightwing American terrorist group or a lone psychopath rather than Osama Bin
Laden's terror group.

Agents from the FBI and CIA were sifting through dozens of past anthrax threats
looking for links to the current crisis.

More than 300 domestic threats have been made to use anthrax against U.S.

government agencies and leading politicians in the last four years. Although
none was put into effect, the FBI is considering the possibility that one of
those who promised an attack in the past has moved from threats to action.

Despite White House statements that the anthrax attacks are the work of Bin
Laden, few senior FBI officials share that view, putting the White House and the
FBI on a political collision course.

According to FBI sources, the consensus at the bureau is that the anthrax
letters which have now infected 13 and killed three were sent by a 'mad
scientist' similar to Unabomber Theodore Kaczynski , a mathematical genius who
left a university career to launch a seven-year terror campaign using letter
bombs.

The FBI says it has intelligence on 'six or seven' men who were admirers of
Kaczynski and have a similar lifestyle in remote houses cut off from mainstream
U.S. society. All the men are thought to have the technical ability to make
anthrax or the scientific skills required to obtain the necessary knowledge.

A senior detective with the New York Police Department who has profiled dozens
of serial killers said yesterday that the wording of the anthrax letters points
to a lone sociopath, especially the way they were made more specific and
threatening after the first anthrax cases failed to attract sufficient
attention.

'This has all the hallmarks of a man who gets satisfaction from hurting people,'
says the detective.

'He will not stop until he is caught.' The second-most-favoured theory says the
letters have been sent by Rightwing extremists linked to Oklahoma City bomber
Timothy McVeigh. Experts on 'survivalist' groups and extreme-right 'Aryan'
militants have been drafted into the investigation.

Christian Identity, a white supremacist group based in Oklahoma, has
consistently threatened to use biological weapons against U.S. government
targets and companies owned by Jews. The group has long been suspected of
involvement in the Oklahoma City bombing.

McVeigh was in close contact with Christian Identity in the weeks before he blew
up the Murrah building.

FBI sources say they have identified 16 microbiologists in the U.S.

with links to Rightwing extremists who have the technical capability to make
anthrax spores. The Bureau plans to interview all of them over the next few
days.

The hunt for a lone perpetrator is much more complicated. White House sources
confirmed yesterday that the anthrax sent to Senator Tom Daschle was
sophisticated but could have been made by any scientist with a doctorate in
microbiology with access to a wellstocked laboratory.

More than 10,000 scientists in the U.S. fit this profile and there are several
hundred laboratories which could do the job. There is also the possibility a
lone criminal may have obtained anthrax by theft.


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 29, 2001

Wide range of results set to reveal impact of terrorist attacks on US

BYLINE: Christopher Sims

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1119 words


Month of September looms large

in reports

FURTHER pointers to the financial impact of the September 11 attacks in the
United States will come this week as companies operating in various parts of the
economy report their results, most of which include the month of September.

Today's figures from easyJet, the second-largest discount airline in Europe,
will show it has shrugged off the terrorist attacks that laid low so many flag

carriers.

The market is expecting no shocks as the group has already forecast that its
full-year profits would be in line with expect-

ations, which range around (pounds) 35m, up from (pounds) 22m. The discounters
cut their fares to keep the public travelling and this led to a 27% increase in
easyJet's passenger numbers last month. Load factor topped 83%.

The proportion of passengers booking over the internet now exceeds 90%, which
will help to keep costs low.

The winter is always a more challenging time for airlines and investors will be
hoping for an optimistic view of prospects from the group.

BAA is in a similar sector, though the discount airlines avoid the big airports
with their high landing fees if they can. The airports operator is set to post
flat first-half earnings today, but the uncertain outlook will focus attention
on its long-awaited trading update.

BAA said earlier this month that it was too early to provide a profit forecast
after passenger numbers at Heathrow and Gatwick slumped last month.

"The focus will be on any updates on traffic volumes and trends since September
and what measures the company is taking to offset the decline in traffic,"
Merrill Lynch analyst Marcus Casey said.

BAA earns its main income from its retail operations and from take-off and
landing fees. The latter are regulated by the Civil Aviation Authority, which
will publish draft changes to how it regulates that income on November 2.

Under the incumbent regula-

tory system, BAA is allowed to earn 7.5% on the asset base of its London
airports, and revenue from its retail operations is used to reduce airline
charges.

But analysts expect this to change - the authority from 2003 will stop
regulating BAA's retail and property activities and the regulated airline
charges are

likely to rise.

The risk for BAA's investors is that low-return assets such as the Heathrow
Express rail service and other surface links to its airports are kicked out of
the regulatory structure.

Some observers believe that longer check-in times at BAA's airports due to
tightened secu-

rity might be leading to more passengers munching on

"burgers and Cokes" at airports while waiting for the flights.

"We've heard that catering demand has been quite robust because people are
checking in a lot earlier now," one said.

"But it will be interesting to find out if there is any economic impact coming
through at the luxury items or discretionary spending end."

The drinks sector is featured by results from Allied Domecq tomorrow.

Allied has indicated that it is hard to assess the short-term impact of the US
attacks. People appear to be drinking less in bars but more in the home, leaving
overall consumption little changed. For the past year profits of some (pounds)
450m are expected, up from (pounds) 417m, despite some difficult markets.

Investors will be keen to hear how the group's acquisition-led expansion is
going. It has raised it to third-largest world producer following purchases in
New Zealand, Spain, California and Argentina. In spirits, other alliances are on
the cards as the industry faces further consoli-

dation.

Whitbread is expected to produce first-half operating profits tomorrow from
ongoing businesses of some (pounds) 133m.

A comparison with last year is not possible because of the group's big
restructuring. Whitbread will have benefited from buoyant consumer spending and
it reported first-quarter sales up by 3.9% on a like-for-like basis. It is
planning to double the

number of its David Lloyd fitness clubs, which are trading strongly.

Marriott hotels will have gained from converting Swallow units to the brand.
Further news of the disposal of Pelican is expected.

ICI shares were firm last Friday ahead of third-quarter results from the
chemicals specialist on Thursday. The market is looking for profits of some
(pounds) 105m, down from (pounds) 122m.

Peter Caldwell, of broker Gerrard, says the group is nowadays positioned closer
to the consumer with products like paint, food starches and fragrances, and is
thus vulnerable to lower consumer confidence.

In US paints ICI has been helped by a contract with Home Depot, the home
improvement retailer. ICI's industrial markets are weakening, though Caldwell
points out this has been going on for some time so comparisons should become
less adverse, with the exception of electronics

markets.

ICI's balance sheet will be studied carefully, given its heavy borrowings and
problems with the sale of the industrial business. However, falling interest
rates have been a great help.

Shell's recent habit of posting upbeat figures should come to an end on Thursday
as it becomes the latest oil company to show negative earnings growth.

However, upstream operations involving exploration and production are unlikely
to have

suffered to the same extent as some of its rivals.

For a start, Shell does not have high exposure to US natural gas prices, which
have fallen by around 30% on an annual basis.

But refining margins have declined significantly in all regions outside the US,
so Shell is expected to show a third-

quarter profit of (pounds) 2bn, against (pounds) 2.47bn last time.

Forecasts of annual revenue growth of 22% should help reduce BSkyB's first
-quarter pre-tax loss on Friday to (pounds) 25m from (pounds) 31.7m previously.

Healthy subscriber numbers and an increase in the average amount paid by each
user are benefiting the pay-TV operation.

However, analysts are expecting a slight slowdown in quarterly subscriber growth
after BSkyB switched off its analogue signal earlier this year, and

Gerrard believes around 60,000 customers will not have moved to digital
services.

Consumer products giant Unilever disappointed the City with a trading statement
that indicated sales growth in the third quarter was likely to slow to 4%. If
that is proved correct on Friday, earnings will only have grown by less than 2%
in the nine months so far - leaving Unilever with a mountain to climb to meet
its target of "low double-digit" earnings growth for this year.

It is likely prospects will have weakened further since the

earlier trading statement.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TIME ON THEIR HANDS: Longer delays at BAA-operated airports could mean
passengers spending more time - and money - in airport retail outlets. Picture:
Fiona Hanson

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 29, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: OUTRAGE IN CITY: LET'S CASH IN;
 EXCLUSIVE: FURY AS REPORT BOASTS US TERROR ATTACK IS 'HISTORIC CHANCE' FOR RICH
TO GET RICHER

BYLINE: Clinton Manning And Paul Gilfeather

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 615 words

HIGHLIGHT: CALLOUS: A page from the report in the Lloyd's Names newsletter which
says September 11 presents a great chance to make money; PROFITS: The; Lloyd's
building, London


A GHOULISH report which claims the US atrocity is a golden opportunity for the
rich and famous sparked fury last night.

According to the newsletter, the 2,800 backers of insurance giant Lloyd's of
London, called Names, are set to profit from spiralling insurance premiums in
the aftermath of September 11.

The report, in the Association of Lloyd's Members News says some have already
rocketed by 1,400 per cent.

And it ruthlessly adds: "Lloyd's is currently enjoying one of the strongest
markets in living memory.

"Names may now have a historic opportunity for profitable underwriting.

"The market was hardening before the attacks, but since September 11 rates have
shot up to a level where very large profits are possible."

MPs from all political parties last night slammed the callous nature of the
report.

They urged ministers to intervene in a bid to stop the Names profiting from the
misery of others.

Labour MP for West Bromwich East, Tom Watson, stormed: "This is a national
disgrace and must not be allowed. I am calling on the Department of Trade and
Industry to investigate this kind of behaviour and stop it from happening again.

"They are obviously there to make money but should be stopped from dancing on
the graves of all those who perished in that terrible tragedy."

Liberal Democrat MP Norman Baker called on the Names to donate their expected
windfall to some of the charities that have been set up since the World Trade
Center was destroyed.

Mr Baker, the MP for Lewes, East Sussex, said: "It is a pity that it appears
these very wealthy people are going to profit from September 11.

"There are rather more deserving causes and any extra cash made from the
disaster should be donated there.

"But when it went wrong they started to cry wolf."

Lib Dem trade spokesman Dr Vincent Cable said: "This is highly insensitive
stuff.

"When the Lloyd's Names took a big hit a few years back they asked for public
sympathy.

"Even now they regularly petition the Commons for support. But now we hear some
of

them are about to cash in on the worst disaster for 50 years."

The newsletter's report is in extremely bad taste.

Under the heading "The Terrorist Attacks on the United States", it starts off:
"Part 1: The Opportunity".

The author reveals that leading airlines have seen their premiums rise by 400 to
600 per cent since the atrocities.

And he can hardly contain himself as he tells how aviation war rates have risen
by 1,400 per cent while maritime war rates have jumped by up to 500 per cent.

One insurance expert said last night: "There is a nasty echo of the
insensitivity shown by Jo Moore.

"But of course, this is a newsletter intended for people who insure against
death and disaster and therefore make money out of it."

The row is likely to be inflamed by the fact that some of the cash going to the
Names will come from taxpayers.

That is because the Government is meeting the extra cost of airline insurance as
firms struggle to stay afloat.

Ministers recently agreed to extend airlines' war and terrorism cover until
November 24.

The Mirror's splashed on the war every day bar one and circulation is up. The
Sun turned to "Queen has rubber duck in bath" and its sales are down. This could
be the start of something more profound.

The Mirror was the red-top tabloid of choice at a time of crisis. It did and
still does respond to a call to get serious. The Sun seemed out of sorts..and is
stuck somewhere in a muddled middle where Cilla Black and Desmond Lynam squabble
over ITV's footballing "Desaster"

- PETER PRESTON, THE OBSERVER AND FORMER EDITOR OF THE GUARDIAN

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 30, 2001

US gets warning of new terror attack;
 War on Terrorism: ON GUARD: FBI has 'specific and credible' information of
threat

BYLINE: Wayne Veysey ;Hugh Dougherty PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 440 words


AMERICA was on high alert today after US Attorney-General John Ashcroft warned
the country could face more possible terrorist attacks this week.

He said last night that the FBI has "specific and credible" information that a
fresh terrorist attack is planned on the US within the next week.

But Mr Ashcroft said the intelligence they have received does not reveal the
target or the method of the attack.

The alert was the second to be issued this month and Mr Ashcroft said it was
intended to warn police forces and government agencies across the country to be
ready for an attack.

"The administration had concluded, based on information developed, that there
may be additional terrorist attacks within the United States and against United
States interests over the next week, " said Mr Ashcroft.

"The administration views this information as credible, but unfortunately it
does not contain specific information as to the timing or target." Mr Ashcroft
went on: "We have notified law enforcement to continue on highest alert and to
notify the FBI immediately of any unusual or suspicious activities.

"We ask for the patience of the American people if and when they come across the
increased precautions being taken.

"We urge Americans in the course of their normal activities to remain alert and
to report suspicious or inappropriate behaviour to the appropriate authorities."

Mr Ashcroft's comments came as Tony Blair was today striving to bolster domestic
support for the allies' campaign against Afghanistan.

He was urging the public to remember the horror of the September 11 terror
attacks which prompted military action.

In a speech to the Welsh Assembly in Cardiff, Mr Blair was to appeal to the
public to "never forget" the images of the airliner attacks on New York,
Washington and Pennsylvania and the human misery which accompanied them.

Speaking last night, Mr Ashcroft said bodies including the Federal Aviation
Administration, the departments of transport and energy and the Nuclear
Regulatory Administration had been put on the highest state of alert in
anticipation of the threat.

And FBI director Robert Mueller said: "On every occasion when the government has
received credible information we have chosen to warn our colleagues in the law
enforcement community and we have chosen to do so even though it is not specific
as to intended target or intended method."

In Britain 38-year-old Yasser AlSiri, originally from Egypt, has been charged by
police with terrorismrelated offences.

He was today appearing at top security Belmarsh Magistrates Court in south -east
London.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           October 30, 2001, Tuesday

E-BUSINESS: FEAR OF FLYING AFTER TERROR ATTACKS SEES VIDEO REVOLUTION

BYLINE: Steve Pain Technology Editor

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 865 words


Demand for high-tech Internet video products is soaring in the wake of the
terrorist attacks on the US.

The storm kicked up by the September 11 outrage and the global economic slowdown
are combining to create a tailwind for the Internet video market, they say.

Interest in Internet video products has hit a new peak in recent weeks as
companies have grounded employees over safety concerns and to save on travel
costs.

'We have received four to five times as many sales leads after the attacks,'
said Steve Lea, general manager for European operations at RealNetworks, a major
US company which sells software to 'stream' video and sound to Internet
-connected computers.

RealNetworks - which together with Microsoft dominates the Internet media
software market - cancelled an annual user conference that was scheduled to take
place a few days after the US attacks, replacing it with an online alternative.

Nevertheless, some 2,000 people still paid to have the presentations streamed to
their PCs over the Web.

As companies restrict corporate travel, they have found an affordable
alternative in video messaging to keep in touch with their employees, said Dan
Rivkin, director of content at London-based Internet video production company
UCTX.

'We've seen increasing interest in the past few weeks,' he said.

A multinational communications company is endorsing Internet video, while
another company cancelled ten tradeshows and is now using streaming video to
reach the audience it would otherwise have missed, Mr Rivkin said.

For investors it was obvious that highly specialised video and teleconferencing
companies would benefit from travel restrictions in the aftermath of the
attacks.

Polycom, which makes top-of-the-line video communication equipment for virtual
meetings between small groups of people, jumped 33 per cent on the first trading
day after the attacks.

ACT Teleconferencing jumped 47 percent.

These companies provide business-class video and teleconferencing equipment.
Video installations can costs tens of thousands of pounds to hook up just a few
conference rooms across the globe with good cameras and large screens. On top of
that come hefty charges for dedicated high-speed connections.

Initially, mainstream Internet media companies such as RealNetworks did not
benefit. In fact, Real shares lost almost half of their value in the week after
the attacks.

But they have since doubled to in value, outperforming the US S&P software
index, which has risen 33 per cent from its trough on September 21.

The mainstream Internet media market uses out-of-the-box software from
RealNetworks, Microsoft or Apple to cut video into small data packets and send
it over the Internet to PCs.

Big corporations often use their big Intranet pipes, which allow faster download
speeds and improve the quality of the images.

Microsoft European president Jean-Philippe Courtois said that Norwegian client
Statoil, which has offices around Europe, Africa and the Middle East, is using
its standard NetMeeting software extensively.

'The attacks are going to reinforce that behaviour. Companies are going to be
more prescriptive to use technology to avoid travelling,' he said.

A system that allows video broadcasts to be sent to individual computers around
the world by satellite has been invented by British scientists.

Broadcast information can be delivered faster, in higher quality and up to one
million times cheaper than using broadband Web streaming, Chelmsford company
Enformatica claims.

The development could revolutionise mobile communications, making broadcasts
easily and cheaply available not just on computers but on mobile phones, pagers
and handheld devices, said Enformatica chairman William Poel.

Enformatica already uses Enfocast to run a Business Media Network.

, which provides companies with a mixture of broadcast channels as well as a
range of tailored data.

But the company believes there is huge potential to provide video material to
consumers using the satellite system, making it much cheaper and easier than
broadband Internet streaming, which is the current norm.

Mr Poel said: 'It is important to establish the fundamental difference between
broadcast and broadband.

'Broadcast delivery to a mass audience is some six orders of magnitude cheaper
than web streaming.

'Enfocast provides a delivery channel that means that desktops can be targeted
anywhere in the world with an individually-tailored broadcast service.

'Obvious extensions in the future include cellphones and pager networks and we
are already working on systems that will address these needs.'

Mr Poel added: 'Not only does such a platform deliver, it provides the medium
compatible with the aspirations of those who work in today's rich multimedia
environments who are currently prevented from addressing mass audiences in real
time, because of the limitations of unicast delivery.

'We are the only off-the-shelf service that allows organisations to address
individual PC users with pop-up information that can be delivered instantly
across an organisation globally. It is a British first.'

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 30, 2001, Tuesday

US ON HIGH ALERT IN NEW TERROR WARNING;
 FBI CLAIMS THAT ATTACK PLANNED WITHIN WEEK PAYING TRIBUTE: A young girl hands a
New York firefighter a flower to place on a make-shift memorial in the rubble of
the World Trade Centre

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 317 words


AMERICA was on high alert today after US Attorney-General John Ashcroft warned
the country could face more terrorist attacks this week.

He said last night that the FBI has 'specific and credible' information that a
fresh terrorist attack is planned on the US within the next week.

But Mr Ashcroft said the intelligence they have received does not reveal the
target or the method of the attack.

The alert was the second to be issued this month and Mr Ashcroft said it was
intended to warn police forces and government agencies across the country to be
ready for an attack.

'The administration had concluded, based on information developed, that there
may be additional terrorist attacks within the United States and against United
States interests over the next week,' said Mr Ashcroft.

Suspicious activities

'The administration views this information as credible but unfortunately it does
not contain specific information as to the timing or target.' Mr Ashcroft went
on: 'We have notified law enforcement to continue on highest alert and to notify
the FBI immediately of any unusual or suspicious activities.

'We ask for the patience of the American people if and when they come across the
increased precautions being taken.

'We urge Americans in the course of their normal activities to remain alert and
to report suspicious or inappropriate behaviour to the appropriate authorities.'

Mr Ashcroft's comments came as Tony Blair was today striving to bolster domestic
support for the allies' campaign against Afghanistan.

He was urging the public to remember the horror of the September 11 terror
attacks which prompted military action.

In a speech to the Welsh Assembly in Cardiff, Mr Blair was to appeal to the
public to 'never forget' the images of the airliner attacks on New York,
Washington and Pennsylvania and the human misery which accompanied them.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 30, 2001, Tuesday

MAN HURT IN TERROR CAR ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 123 words


A MAN was beaten and bundled into the back of his car before being taken on a
terrifying journey through Birmingham.

The 19-year-old man was staying with friends in Berkley Road, Hay Mills, and had
gone to collect something from his car when he was set about by two men.

The two men forced him to hand over the keys to his N-registered Ford Fiesta car
before they bundled him inside and attacked him.

Pushed

The man, who suffered facial injuries, was finally pushed out of the car a short
time later in Acocks Green.

The incident happened at around 5am on Saturday. The attackers were described as
white and in their late teens.

Police at Stechford are investigating and can be contacted on 0845 133 5000.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           October 30, 2001, Tuesday

U.S. ON ALERT OVER NEW TERROR THREAT;
 WAR ON TERRORISMFBI WARNS OF FRESH ATTACKS ON COUNTRY AND ITS INTERESTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 300 words


AMERICA was on high alert today after a warning that the country could face more
terrorist attacks this week.

US Attorney-General John Ashcroft warned that the FBI had "specific and
credible" information that a fresh terrorist attack is planned on the US within
the next seven days.

But Mr Ashcroft said the intelligence they have received does not reveal the
target or the method of the attack.

The alert was the second to be issued this month and Mr Ashcroft said it was
intended to warn police forces and government agencies across the country to be
ready for an attack.

He said: "The administration had concluded, based on information developed, that
there may be additional terrorist attacks within the United States and against
United States interests over the next week.

"The administration views this information as credible but unfortunately it does
not contain specific information as to the timing or target.

"We have notified law enforcement to continue on highest alert and to notify the
FBI immediately of any unusual or suspicious activities.

"We ask for the patience of the American people if and when they come across the
increased precautions being taken."

Speaking last night, Mr Ashcroft said bodies including the Federal Aviation
Admin-istration, the departments of transport and energy and the Nuclear
Regulatory Adminis-tration had been put on the highest state of alert.

Mr Ashcroft's comments came as Tony Blair was today striving to bolster domestic
support for the allies' campaign against Afghanistan.

He was urging the public to remember the horror of the September 11 terror
attacks which prompted military action.

And FBI director Robert Mueller said the information was being released because
it was believed to be credible.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 30, 2001

FBI warning of new terror attacks on US

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 597 words


AMERICA ON ALERT

America was on high alert today after US Attorney-General John Ashcroft warned
the country could face more possible terrorist attacks this week.

He said the FBI has "specific and credible" information that a fresh terrorist
attack is planned on the US within the next seven days, although the
intelligence does not reveal the target or the method.

The alert was the second to be issued this month and Mr Ashcroft said it was
intended to warn police forces and government agencies across the country to be
ready for an attack.

Mr Ashcroft said: "The administration views this information as credible but
unfortunately it does not contain specific information as to the timing or
target.

"We have notified law enforcement to continue on highest alert and to notify the
FBI immediately of any unusual or suspicious activities.

"We urge Americans in the course of their normal activities to remain alert and
to report suspicious or inappropriate behaviour to the appropriate authorities."

The warning came as the number of people with confirmed anthrax infection grew,
with a mail worker in New Jersey confirmed as having inhalation anthrax.

Preliminary tests indicate a

61-year-old New York hospital stockroom employee has also contracted the
deadliest form of the disease - the first New York resident to be affected.

A further six people in Washington remain in hospital where they are being
treated for suspected inhalation anthrax.

In all, three people have died in the nation's worst experience with
bioterrorism.

Clean-ups were under way in government offices across Washington where a series
of discoveries have been made of anthrax spores.

The bacteria have been found in mailrooms used by the Supreme Court, State
Department, Health Department, CIA and the White House, while an office block
used by Congress was closed after an anthrax-laced letter was opened in it.

Around the world the anthrax scare has caused panic. Chemists in Thailand are
selling vaccines to the disease and Malaysia has been gripped with a series of
anthrax hoaxes.

In Britain Tony Blair was striving to bolster domestic support for the allies'
campaign against Afghanistan, urging the public to remember the horror of the
September 11 terror attacks.

In a speech to the Welsh Assembly in Cardiff, Mr Blair appealed to the public to
"never forget" the images of the airliner attacks on New York, Washington and
Pennsylvania and the human misery which accompanied them.

With some critics questioning the effectiveness of the military campaign and
demanding a pause in the Anglo-American air strikes - and a new poll showing
falling public support - the Prime Minister sought to stiffen resolve for the
pursuit of Osama bin Laden, his al Qaida network and their Taliban protectors.

Mr Blair said: "It is important that we never forget why we are doing this;
never forget how we felt watching the planes fly into the Trade towers; never
forget those answerphone messages; never forget how we felt imagining how
mothers told children they were about to die.

"Never forget the guts of the firefighters and police who died trying to save
others; never forget the gloating menace of Osama bin Laden in his propaganda
videos, never forget that long list of countries who lost sons and daughters,
never forget they were of all faiths and none, many Muslims."

In London 38-year-old Yasser Al-Siri, originally from Egypt, was appearing at
top security Belmarsh Magistrates Court today, charged with terrorism-related
offences.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PRECAUTION: chemists in Bangkok are offering medicine to protect
against anthrax

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 30, 2001

America put on highest alert for new terror attack within a week

BYLINE: Catherine Macleod Political Editor And Tom Gordon

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 733 words


AMERICA'S 18,000 local law enforcement agencies were put on "highest alert" last
night after the FBI warned fresh terror attacks were expected within a week.

John Ashcroft, the attorney general, said there was new "credible" information
about additional attacks within the US and against US interests, although
specific targets and methods were as yet unknown.

Officials said the threats were "most likely" linked to Osama bin Laden and the
al Qaeda network.

Mr Ashcroft said the FBI had now received "certain information" about additional
terror attacks. Although there were no details about targets or methods, Robert
Mueller, the director of the FBI, said there was no reason to believe anthrax
would be used.

The warning was the second issued since the September 11 terrorist attacks on
the US. On October 11, the FBI put all local law enforcement agencies on highest
alert and urged people to report any suspicious activity.

The new calls for heightened vigilance against terrorism will form the backdrop
to a defiant and emotionally charged speech by Tony Blair in Wales today.

The prime minister will tell the British people why the UK should not falter in
its support for the allied action in Afghanistan, and face down critics of the
coalition's tactics.

He will use the pre-arranged visit to Wales, for a meeting of the joint
consultative committee of the devolved UK parliaments, to insist the war aims
are "on track".

He will say: "It's important we never forget why we are doing this, never forget
how we felt watching the planes fly into the Trade Towers. Never forget those
answerphone messages. Never forget how we felt imagining mothers telling their
children they were about to die."

He will go on to tell the nation that it is terrorists, not Islam, who have been
the target of the 800 air missions so far.

"For it is not that we are at war with Islam. It is the al Qaeda and Taliban who
are at war with anyone, whatever their faith, who does not share their maniacal
and fanatical view of the world".

Downing Street's sensitivity to public opinion was underscored last night by a
Guardian/ICM poll showing support for Anglo-American military slipped from 74 to
62% in the last fortnight. While 57% of people supported the use of British
ground troops, almost as many said they would back a break in the offensive to
allow more aid supplies to be sent into Afghanistan.

Adam Ingram, the armed forces minister, last night conceded it was possible the
allies might never acquire the intelligence needed to pinpoint Osama bin Laden's
position.

He also said it was possible

From page 1

British troops would never be deployed in Afghanistan.

However, he told the BBC the capture of bin Laden and the use of troops were
both "probable".

Bringing bin Laden to account was "something which could happen, it is something
which could happen quickly, it may take longer," he said.

After it emerged at the weekend that three British Muslims killed in Afghanistan
had travelled there to fight alongside the Taliban, the government said others
who did so could face legal action on their return.

Geoff Hoon, the defence secretary, said: "I hope that anyone who is
contemplating going to Afghanistan does think very carefully about the
consequences both to them and their families in terms of the grief they might
suffer."

After stray coalition air strikes killed more than 20 civilians in Afghanistan
over the weekend, the Pentagon was yesterday forced to defend the prosecution of
its war on terror.

As US jets pounded a network of caves in northern Afghanistan suspected of
hiding al Qaeda leaders, Donald Rumsfeld, the US defence secretary, said:
"Responsibility for every single casualty in this war - be they innocent Afghans
or innocent Americans - rests at the feet of the Taliban and al Qaeda."

He accused their leaders of working together to move forces into civilian
buildings where non-combatants will become human shields.

"Their leadership are the ones that are hiding in mosques and forcing their
civilians to act as human shields."

He acknowledged: "There are instances were there are unintended consequences of
this conflict and ordnance ends up where it should not. But let us be clear. No
nation in human history has done more to avoid civilian casualties than the
United States in this war."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LEAP OF FAITH: A boy jumps between tanks at a position held by the
Northern Alliance. Tony Blair insists the military strategy is on track in spite
of differences with the alliance. Picture: Sergei Ilnitsky

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           October 30, 2001, Tuesday

US FEARS NEW TERROR STRIKE;
 INTELLIGENCE WARNS OF ATTACK THIS WEEK

BYLINE: Wayne Veysey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 235 words


AMERICA was on high terror alert today.

US Attorney General John Ashcroft warned the country could face more terrorist
attacks this week.

He said the FBI has "specific and credible" information that a fresh terrorist
attack is planned on the US within the next seven days.

But Mr Ashcroft said the intelligence received does not reveal the target or the
method of attack.

The alert was the second to be issued this month and Mr Ashcroft said it was
intended to warn police forces and government agencies across the country to be
ready for attack.

"The administration had concluded, based on information developed, that there
may be additional terrorist attacks within the United States and against United
States interests over the next week, " said Mr Ashcroft.

"We ask for the patience of the American people if and when they come across the
increased precautions."

FBI director Robert Mueller said the information was being released because it
was believed to be credible.

Their comments came as Tony Blair was today striving to bolster domestic support
for the allies' campaign against Afghanistan, by urging the public to remember
the horror of the September 11 terror attacks.

In Britain 38-year-old Yasser Al-Siri, originally from Egypt, was today
appearing at top security Belmarsh magistrates court in south-east London,
charged with terrorism-related offences.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR ALERT: Attorney General John Ashcroft issuing the new terrorism
warning to all US citizens

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 30, 2001, Tuesday

FBI: NEW TERRORIST ATTACKS THIS WEEK

BYLINE: Andy Lines In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 274 words

HIGHLIGHT: WARNING: Ashcroft


THE FBI warned last night that it has "specific and credible" information that
there will be more terrorist attacks in the next week.

US Attorney General John Ashcroft told Americans to be on the "highest alert
over the next seven days" in a live national television broadcast. President
George Bush ordered him to make the threats public after being briefed on the
details.

Aides said it was a "tough call" but he felt the American people should be told.

Mr Ashcroft said: "The administration has concluded based on information that
has been developed that there may be additional terrorist attacks within the
United States and against US interests over the next week.

"We urge Americans in the course of their normal activities to remain alert and
to report unusual circumstances and inappropriate behaviour to the appropriate
authorities."

Earlier President Bush was asked whether the government expected more attack
from groups linked to Osama bin Laden. He said: "We believe the country must
stay on alert, that our enemies still hate us.

"The American public must go about their lives. I understand it's a fine
balance."

FBI director Robert Mueller said all 18,000 US law enforcement agencies had been
told of the threats.

The alert is the second this month. On October 11 the FBI said it had
information that more terrorism attacks could occur within days.

Mr Mueller and Mr Ashcroft declined to discuss the nature or source of the
information that prompted the new warning.

But they took it so seriously that Mr Ashcroft cancelled plans to go to Toronto
and address a conference of police chiefs.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 30, 2001

Terror attacks 'a chance to profit'
 Lloyd's backers criticised over 'distasteful' newsletter

BYLINE: Nicky Burridge

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.24

LENGTH: 307 words


BACKERS of the Lloyd's of London insurance market were yesterday criticised for
calling last month's terrorist attacks a "historic opportunity" to make money.

The Association of Lloyd's Members said in a newsletter to Names, the
individuals who underwrite the market, that since the disaster insurance
premiums had "shot up to a level where very large profits are possible".

The group said rates had risen by an average of 40 per cent since the attacks
and it had taken measures to help members "take maximum advantage" of the
improved conditions.

It said: "The combination of a strongly improving market before the terrorist
attacks and the massive increases after, mean that Lloyd's is enjoying one of
the strongest markets in living memory.

"Names may now have a historic opportunity for profitable underwriting."

It said Lloyd's was now enjoying "one of the strongest markets in living
memory".

Aviation premiums had soared by between 400 and 600 per cent following the
disaster, and aviation war rates had jumped a massive 1,400 per cent, it
claimed.

But the report was criticised by Vincent Cable, Liberal Democrat Trade and
Industry spokesman, who said: "Boasting about profits seems rather distasteful.
I was baffled and thought it was insensitive."

Norman Baker, Liberal Democrat MP for Lewes, said: "I think it's very
distasteful... to (focus) on the opportunity for increased profit as a result of
a tragedy for a large number of people." It was not long ago that members had
come "cap in hand" to the Government, and they should now donate their excess
profits to a good cause, he said.

The Association of Lloyd's Members declined to comment on the letter, and a
spokesman for the Lloyd's of London insurance market emphasised that it was not
produced by the market but by the Association of Lloyd's Members.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 30, 2001

Warning of new terror attack in US

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.26

LENGTH: 388 words


THE FBI has "specific and credible" information that a fresh terrorist attack is
planned on America within the next week, US Attorney-General John Ashcroft said
last night.

But Mr Ashcroft said the intelligence they have received dies not reveal the
target or the method of the attack, as he put America on the highest state of
alert.

The alert was the second to be issued this month and Mr Ashcroft said it was
intended to warn police forces and government agencies across the country to be
ready for an attack.

"The administration had concluded, based on information developed, that there
may be additional terrorist attacks within the United States and against United
States interests over the next week," said Mr Ashcroft.

"The administration views this information as credible but unfortunately it does
not contain specific information as to the timing or target."

Mr Ashcroft went on: "We have notified law enforcement to continue on highest
alert and to notify the FBI immediately of any unusual or suspicious activities.

"We ask for the patience of the American people if and when they come across the
increased precautions being taken.

"We urge Americans in the course of their normal activities to remain alert and
to report suspicious or inappropriate behaviour to the appropriate authorities."

Mr Ashcroft said bodies including the Federal Aviation Administration, the
departments of transport and energy and the Nuclear Regulatory Administration
had been put on the highest state of alert last night in anticipation of the
threat.

And FBI director Robert Mueller said the information was being released because
it was believed to be credible.

"On every occasion when the government has received credible information we have
chosen to warn our colleagues in the law enforcement community and we have
chosen to do so even though it is not specific as to intended target or intended
method," said Mr Mueller.

"I know how difficult it is for officers they represent and all other state and
local officers to respond without greater detail.

"We are again asking them and through them, local communities, to remain
extremely vigilant."

Mr Mueller said he believed telling the American people of the warning would be
a "force multiplier'' which would help disrupt any planned terrorist activities.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 31, 2001

Housewife tells of terror attack

BYLINE: By Maureen Coleman:mcoleman@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 348 words


A NORTH Belfast woman today told how she was seconds away from serious injury
after a pipe bomb was thrown into the back yard of her home.

Rosemary Black - who recently recovered from breast cancer - was bending down to
take clothes from the washing machine when the device was hurled at the kitchen
window of the house at Newington Street.

The pipe bomb exploded, shattering the living room window and four windows
upstairs.

Mrs Black sustained cuts to the arm and head and was badly shaken.

Speaking to the Belfast Telegraph this morning the 59-year-old said she had been
told by police that bending down to the washing machine had helped save her from
serious injury.

"I was in the house on my own and at around 9pm I went to the kitchen to take
the washing out of the machine," she said.

"As I bent down I heard a loud thud and the pipe bomb exploded.

"The night before around five fireworks were thrown at the house and I knew the
difference when I heard the pipe bomb.

"Had I been standing at the time it would have been a lot worse.

"I got cut by flying glass but the police have told me that I had a lucky
escape."

Mrs Black, whose husband Edward was working when the attack took place, spent
the night at her son's house nearby.

"I didn't sleep a wink last night, this has made me so nervous," she said.

"I have angina and I underwent surgery for breast cancer last year.

"It's been a terrible time for us and this is the last thing that we needed."

The Blacks, who have lived in Newington Street for 28 years, are planning to
start a new life in Co Down.

"We put the house on the market before all this happened," said Rosemary.

"We hope the house sells because we really want the move.

"We're not going because of these people, they're not driving us from our home."

The attack comes days after fresh violence erupted in the Newington/Tigers Bay
areas.

Condemning the attack Sinn Fein councillor Gerard Brophy said the UDA was
responsible.

"It's a miracle she wasn't seriously injured or killed," he said.


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                October 31, 2001

KABUL ATTACK IMMINENT;
 WAR ON TERROR, Non-stop bombing in preparation

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 262 words


ALMOST 100 U.S. warplanes bombed targets in Afghanistan as the opposition
Northern Alliance moved elite troops to the front line to prepare for an
"imminent attack" on the capital Kabul.

The Pentagon said yesterday's air strikes were mainly carried out against
Taliban troops defending Kabul and Mazar-i-Sharif. Kandahar was also under a
sustained attack that the Taliban called "relentless".

As U.S. jets flew overhead, Afghanistan's opposition deployed hundreds of elite
fighters near the front north of Kabul - well-armed, trained, and ready for the
order to march on the capital.

A huge explosion at the Bagram front line, about 25 miles north of Kabul,
created a mushroom cloud that billowed at least 1,000 feet into the sky.

The origin of the explosion was not clear, since there were no aircraft
immediately overhead.

The Taliban and Northern Alliance have been battling for control of the air base
at Bagram.

Opposition commanders, impatient at three weeks of limited air attacks by
American warplanes, have been pushing for an all-out U.S. air assault against
front lines outside Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif.

Abdul Rahman, a brigade commander near the front lines north of Kabul, said he
was told 10 days ago to prepare for an attack on the capital and added: "Now we
are ready."

The U.S. general leading the campaign in Afghanistan brushed aside suggestions
that the war was becoming bogged down and refused to rule out the use of ground
troops.

General Tommy Franks said: "We are committed to this for as long as it takes."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 31, 2001

Top house prices down 10% after terrorism attacks

BYLINE: Mira Bar-Hillel

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 462 words


THE PRICE of some of London's most expensive properties has been cut by up to 10
per cent in the wake of the terrorist attacks of 11 September, leading estate
agents revealed today.

Knight Frank said the top end of the market would not recover until next spring
as buyers continue to fear a global recession after the attacks.

The agents' statistics show a central London price rise of only 0.8 per cent for
the third quarter of 2001, compared with nine per cent in the first half of the
year.

In October, they actually fell by 0.8 per cent (prices in Surrey and Oxfordshire
were down by 0.4 per cent and 0.3 per cent respectively).

The Hometrack index also found that, since 11 September, sellers in Kensington,
Chelsea, Holland Park and Knightsbridge have been accepting offers at barely 90
per cent of the asking prices.

For property at the top end of the market, this can mean sellers lose tens of
thousands of pounds, says Hometrack.

Across the capital as a whole, research by the Alliance & Leicester found that
the percentage of Londoners intending to move home in the near future has fallen
from 12 per cent four months ago to only seven per cent.

Economist John Wriglesworth agreed with Knight Frank that the top end of the
housing market would falter for months to come.

"The property boom is probably now over. The housing market was already heading
for a slowdown, but the attacks on 11 September have greatly increased people's
feelings of insecurity," he said. "The market is stagnating because of worries
over recession and the war in Afghanistan."

David Moulton, Knight Frank's residential research manager, added: "The prime
property market in London was already starting to calm down in July and August
as a result of a muchneeded increase in homes for sale.

Immediately after 11 September, buyers disappeared, while a steady supply of new
property is still coming onto the market. As a result, buyers who need to move
are having to accept low offers."

Mr Moulton describes the current performance of the UK housing market in general
as "relatively sound", because of the historically low mortgage rates.

However, the top end of the market is "driven by very different factors", he
added.

"Much of Knight Frank's client base is heavily exposed to the performance of
global stock markets. Many of our clients have postponed moving house or
investing in residential property until the future can be viewed with more
certainty."

Earlier this month the Halifax predicted that, while prices would not plummet,
the number of sales would fall sharply. This would especially affect London,
because "City comments relating to reduced bonus earnings next year are starting
to have an effect on confidence".


LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 31, 2001

Gwyneth gets a gas mask fearing more terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 44 words


GWYNETH PALTROW has bought a gas mask in case of more terrorist attacks.

The Hollywood star also has a survival kit of food, water, batteries and mobile
phones. Paltrow, who has a home in New York, said: "It's scary but I have to
take precautions."


LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                October 31, 2001

Praying for peace
 CHURCH: Attendance rises in the aftermath of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: LOUISE THOMAS

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.20

LENGTH: 383 words


ATTENDANCES at churches across Plymouth have increased since the September 11
terrorist attacks on America.

After years of declining congregations, places of worship in the city are seeing
new faces and worshippers returning to church.

The Rev Alan Rothwell, minister at Keyham Methodist Church and Stonehouse Crown
Centre, said numbers had been increasing as people searched for answers.

"The events of September 11 were a turning point in history," he said.

"It brings people back to question what life is all about.

"I am not saying there has been an overwhelming rush back to the true
understanding of the Christian faith, but people are certainly starting to seek
answers about life.

"Fear does play a part.  One of the great messages of the Christian Gospel is
the love of Christ who said 'you should not let your heart be troubled, believe
in me and I will give you a peace that this world cannot.' People are looking
for that peace again."

Mr Rothwell said Keyham Methodist and Stonehouse Crown Centre would each see
about 30 people each Sunday.  This number has increased by about 20 per cent
each week since the terrorist attacks.

The response has been reflected at churches across the country.

In some areas of Britain attendance is up by more than 50 per cent.

Reassurance

Whether it is a temporary conversion remains to be seen. But for the time being,
it is churches where people appear to be turning for reassurance and answers.

At Plymouth Christian Centre, Cattedown, numbers have increased by about a dozen
each Sunday since the attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon.

Senior Pastor David Beresford said: "I have noticed an increase.  People are
thinking more about the global situation and what will happen, there is great
uncertainty about the future.

"In some places there has been a dramatic increase in the number of people going
to church. We have seen a steady flow of visitors at the Christian Centre.

"Militant Islam is a concept we do not know anything about. People making
themselves human bombs is a concept that is beyond anything in the Judaism or
Christian ethic.

"People are asking if there is anything in the Bible about all of this.  They
are asking what it is going to lead to and if there is going to be a global
conflict."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 31, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: New warning: 'Attack at will orders issued to terrorists'
: Bin Laden's followers in US free to go it alone, says FBI

BYLINE: Julian Borger and Matthew Engel in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 915 words


Investigators in the US believe Osama bin Laden has delegated authority to his
followers, possibly including al-Qaida cells still at large in America, to
decide when and how to mount fresh attacks, it was reported yesterday.

Intelligence reports about such "attack at will" orders are believed to have
prompted the FBI's global alert on Monday which warned of a new wave of
terrorist assaults. They represent a new threshold in the threat to the US,
because they imply that even if Bin Laden and his top lieutenants are isolated,
captured or killed in Afghanistan, his cells could still strike at the US
heartland.

The Washington Post said the FBI has identified six al-Qaida cells within the
US. Investigators believe that at least some have been disrupted by the arrests
of suspects after September 11, but admit that some may still be on the loose.

Americans appear bemused as to how to respond to government warnings for them to
be on heightened alert after one yesterday spoke, vaguely, of a new "credible
but non-specific" threat of a terror attack.

Canada's Solicitor General, Lawrence MacAuley confirmed yesterday that
information his country provided was behind the warning.

In a series of breakfast TV appearances and then a press conference, Tom Ridge,
the homeland security coordinator, gave a rather spluttering defence of the
decision to go public. But he defended it on grounds of both open government and
public safety.

He said it was better to share information, however incomplete it might be. "If
everybody has a heightened sense of alert, we send a signal not only to
Americans, but also to those who would terrorise us, that we are on guard," he
said.

The latest warning was sent out to the 18,000 agencies responsible for US law
enforcement, ranging from the New York police department to small-town
operations with one patrol car. It mentioned the attack might occur, somehow,
somewhere, at home or abroad, in about the next week.

A similar, and equally nebulous, message went out on October 11, exactly a month
after the hijacks. Some officials believe it may have deflected action planned
at the time.

The administration is aware of the danger of diminishing returns, and of the
impression that officials are concerned to protect their own hide as well as the
public. "It's a case of damned if we do say anything and damned if we don't,"
said one White House source.

Far from Washington, the agencies did their best to wrestle with the
implications of the vague warning, and responded in contrasting ways.

In Aberdeen, South Dakota (pop: 25,000) the highway patrol switched at once to
12-hour shifts, wearing tactical gear and carrying M-16 rifles.

But when the news arrived over the old-fashioned teletype machine at the
Aberdeen police HQ, it was decided not to go on to official high alert, which
was last invoked during flooding a few years back.

"We understand it can happen here the same as anywhere else, but we need to have
more information that would be relevant to South Dakota," said the assistant
police chief, Ron Vanmeter

Meanwhile, the White House reverted to its policy of the two senior figures
playing Box and Cox. Vice-president Dick Cheney was hustled back to his "secret
location" as Mr Bush visited the least secret place imaginable: to throw the
ceremonial first pitch at last night's World Series baseball game at Yankee
Stadium, New York.

The Federal Aviation Administration imposed strict restrictions on small planes
flying anywhere near the stadium during last night's game. Restrictions were
also placed on flights near nuclear power plants and other sensitive sites.

By contrast, the governor of Louisiana, Mike Foster, cancelled a trip to
Washington in case he could not get back to his office to take charge if
anything happened.

The warning came a matter of hours after the 442-metre (1,450ft) Sears Tower,
the tallest building in the US - slightly higher than either of the World Trade
Centre towers were - reopened its 103rd-floor observation deck after a
seven-week closure.

"We're sending a message that the terrorists have failed," said a spokesman.

In suburban gardens across the country the flags that have been out for the past
seven weeks have now been partly superseded by millions of Halloween displays,
often featuring ghosts, mock graveyards, impaled witches and spookily arranged
cotton wool.

Some schools have warned children that their costumes for today's festivities
should be non-violent and non-scary.

But the tradition of deliberate scariness remains. White House spokesman Ari
Fleischer insisted yesterday that among the mountain of non-evidence, there was
no hint that such attacks might have anything to do with Halloween.

A country on edge

* A liquified natural gas tanker entered Boston harbour yesterday surrounded by
coastguard boats while police cars cruised streets onshore, because of fears
that the tanker could be a terrorist target

* A Florida highway patrol trooper sparked an anthrax alert when he said he felt
nauseous and began hyper-ventilating after stopping a Middle Eastern man for
speeding. He was rushed to a medical centre by helicopter and hosed down for
possible contamination, but was said yesterday to have suffered an anxiety
attack

* Film and pop star Jennifer Lopez is too frightened to travel to New York to
promote her new fashion line, sources close to the star told the New York Post


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                                October 31, 2001

HORRIFIC SIGHT: Film-maker Paul Berriff, from Hessle, stands among the rubble of
Ground Zero, New York. He is the first cameraman to enter the site since the
terrorist attacks

BYLINE: by pauljohnson3

SECTION: NEWS:999:Disasters, Pg.1

LENGTH: 30 words


HORRIFIC SIGHT: Film-maker Paul Berriff, from Hessle, stands among the rubble of
Ground Zero, New York. He is the first cameraman to enter the site since the
terrorist attacks

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Hull Daily Mail

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     October 31, 2001, Wednesday Edition 1

Terror attacks cost hundreds of hotel chain jobs

SECTION: BUSI, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 340 words







Whitbread has announced a jobs cull across its Marriott hotel chain, but it
looks as if workers in its North-East operation have escaped.

Marriott is to cut 300 jobs, but says the axe will fall hardest at the Luton
head office and at its London hotels, which have suffered a near-25pc fall in
trade since September 11

The company has four hotels in this region, at the MetroCentre, Durham, Gosforth
Park and Sunderland, the last three of which it inherited when its parent
Whitbread bought the Swallow chain. A Whitbread spokesman said the North-East
would suffer "negligible job losses" as trade had risen in its hotels outside
London

Whitbread yesterday posted a small rise in comparable first half sales despite
the bad news from its Marriott division

Like for like sales across the leisure group grew by 4.2pc, but the company
recorded a 25pc decline in pre-tax profit to 135.7m

But results for the six months to September 1 were distorted by the sale of the
pubs and bars division in May and operating profits before exceptional items
pushed ahead 10pc to 137.2m

Whitbread said its hotels business had been hit hard by the foot-and-mouth
epidemic, but it believes its Travel Inns division can protect it from the worst
of the downturn

Like-for-like sales in Whitbread's restaurant division rose 3.7pc, mainly driven
by good sales at Pizza Hut, while its sports and leisure division, which
includes David Lloyd Leisure clubs, saw sales increase 18.2pc. Chairman Sir John
Banham said: "The last six months have demonstrated the potential of the future
Whitbread businesses to outperform their markets and to achieve significant
progress towards the demanding financial targets the board has set.

The company invested 2.3m in North-East properties this year, creating 75 jobs.
Projects included refurbishing Brewers Fayre pubs in Northumberland and
Gateshead. It has also opened a new Pizza Hut in Newcastle and invested 1m in
Newton Aycliffe Travel Inn

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          October 31, 2001, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 48 words


Two men were today recovering in hospital after being injured in a paramilitary
-style shooting in Co Down. The incident is believed to have taken place in a
field at Ballyreagh Road, Newtownards, before 7 last night. Loyalist
paramilitaries were thought to have been responsible.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          October 31, 2001, Wednesday

Land of the free imprisoned by its fear of terrorist attack

BYLINE: Katty Kay and Damian Whitworth in Washington

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 695 words


RICHARD CHENEY, the American Vice-President, was taken to a secret location once
again last night after the FBI braced the country for another possible terrorist
attack.

The White House simultaneously urged Americans to carry on as normal, provoking
accusations that the high-profile alert smacked of crying wolf.

The Administration was also trying to calm the nation's fears of the existing
anthrax threat as a woman fought for her life after being stricken by the most
serious form of anthrax infection.

The 61-year-old hospital worker is the first person outside a post room or media
company to be infected by the bacteria, provoking concerns that spores could be
spreading sickness through the wider world. The woman works at the Manhattan
Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital, in a basement storage supply room close to the
mailroom. But she did not have responsibility for handling post, and no
contaminated mail has been found in the building, prompting officials to admit
that the anthrax scare could be entering a new phase.

"The reason that this particular case is concerning is because it doesn't fit
the pattern that we've seen with the other illnesses," said Stephen Ostroff of
the US Centres for Disease Control. "There's no clear linkage with mail in the
way that all of the other cases had a very clear linkage."

Further alarm was caused by the case of a New Jersey woman who has contracted
the less serious cutaneous form of the disease. She was responding well to
treatment but is perplexing investigators because she also had no apparent
connection either to the mail service or the media.

The Administration was forced to defend its warning of an unspecific threat
within the next week against criticism that it had issued a similar alert
earlier this month and nothing happened.

"The decibel level was louder, and there were more sources. Again, it was just a
convergence of credible sources that occasioned the alert. More than usual is
all I can tell you," Tom Ridge, the Homeland Security Director, said.

The White House said that the public might not see the results but that did not
mean there were none. "There's no doubt that putting the nation on a higher
alert status can very well disrupt or prevent a terrorist attack," Ari
Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said.

The warning was issued hours after President Bush dodged a question on whether
the previous high security alert was still in effect since there had been no
announcement that it was over.

Officials stressed a particular need for security at energy facilities but there
was also a blanket alert to security personnel at shopping malls, airports and
police precincts. The Federal Aviation Authority announced last night that small
planes were banned from flying within 12 miles of nuclear power plants until
November 7. There would be exemptions for law enforcement or medical and rescue
flights. The FAA also banned small planes from flying near Yankee Stadium in New
York during this week's World Series.

Officials did not believe the warning was linked to the anthrax attacks or to
today's Hallowe'en festivities. Mr Ridge confirmed, however, that the alert was
related to Osama bin Laden. It may have been prompted by information suggesting
that al-Qaeda cells can operate independently without having to get direct
approval from bin Laden.

President Bush heeded his advice to Americans to live normally by visiting
Wootton High School in Rockville, Maryland. He was later due to throw the first
pitch at the World Series game between the New York Yankees and the Arizona
Diamondbacks.

Confused by warnings of a potentially imminent attack and directions to carry on
as normal, Americans struggled to reconcile the alert with instructions to take
their children to school as usual.

A New York Times opinion poll suggested that the Government was failing to guide
the public through the crisis and that confidence in the Administration's
handling of the war, at home and abroad, was slipping. Only 18 per cent believed
that the Government could protect them from terrorism. Unspecific alerts merely
increased the confusion.


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       Nuclear Engineering International

                                October 31, 2001

LEAD NEWS; TERRORIST ATTACKS IN UNITED STATES PROMPT ALERT AT NUCLEAR
FACILITIES.

SECTION: Pg.2

LENGTH: 788 words

DATELINE: USA


Nuclear facilities worldwide are on a state of alert in the wake of the
terrorist attacks that destroyed the World Trade Center in New York City and
severely damaged the Pentagon on 11 September. It is likely that the attacks
will upset plans for a revival of the nuclear power industry.

US energy secretary Spencer Abraham warned the IAEA conference last month that
terrorists could target nuclear plants or attempt to steal materials to make
bombs. He said they will use any method and that "the terrible events
demonstrate in the clearest possible fashion the importance of maintaining the
highest levels of security over nuclear materials."

Mr Abraham brought a message from President Bush urging the agency to keep pace
with "the real and growing threat of nuclear proliferation."

There have been several reports that Saudi exile Osama bin Laden, the man
believed to be behind the attacks, has attempted to acquire uranium-235. At the
trial of four men accused of participating in the 1998 embassy bombings in
Africa, Jamal Ahmed al Fadl, a defector from bin Laden's network said that in
1993 he had acted as a go-between in an attempt to acquire a cylinder containing
highly enriched uranium. Al Fadl claimed he had been ordered to buy the uranium
from a former Sudanese military officer for $1.5 million but, before the deal
went through, he was removed from the negotiations.

A former Russian intelligence official said Russian security forces halted an
attempt in 1998 to sell an unspecified amount of Soviet-origin, bomb-grade
uranium to a Pakistani company controlled by bin Laden.

Following the attack, all US nuclear power plants, non-power reactors, nuclear
fuel facilities, and gaseous diffusion plants heeded the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission's advice to go to the highest level of security as a precautionary
measure. At the same time, the Department of Energy was placing atomic weapons
laboratories on the same degree of vigilance.

On the day of the attacks most of the Savannah River Site employees were sent
home just before 1:00pm.

NRC spokesman William Beecher commented: "While there was no credible general or
specific threats to any of these facilities, the recommendation was considered
prudent."

The heightened security measures included, among other things, increasing
patrols to the perimeter areas of the plants, inspecting all barriers, and
increasing the number of security personnel. Beecher said containments at US
nuclear plants are designed to withstand a direct hit from an airliner.

Nuclear critics predicted Congress would take a closer look at the safety of
nuclear waste transportation by roads and rails.

The heightened security measures are likely to remain for some time and could
have permanent effects. The cost of the additional security measures remains
unclear, but federal regulators have indicated they are ready to approve
requests for electricity rate increases, should they be requested.

American Nuclear Insurers said the terrorist attacks help make a case for
renewal of the federal Price-Anderson nuclear insurance law, which is due to
expire in less than 11 months. If a nuclear plant had been the target of the
terrorists, rather than the World Trade Center or the Pentagon, up to $9.5
billion in financial support would have been immediately available, a spokesman
said. There would be no need for injured parties to wait for courts to decide
who was negligent. Under Price-Anderson, the money would come from a fee all US
nuclear facilities pay, plus post-event assessments on nuclear operators if the
damage were severe. Congress would decide how to provide financial support
beyond the liability limit, if necessary.

Nuclear plants are designed to withstand the impact of an aircraft crash.

But the IAEA admitted that plants were only designed for accidental impacts from
the smaller aircraft widely used during the 1960s and 1970s, when most nuclear
plants were built.

Around the world, nuclear plant operators have been questioned about security at
their plant and, in particular, whether the plant can withstand the impact of a
jetliner.

The Rosenergoatom press centre said: "There are no security threats at the
atomic energy facilities." Russian nuclear plant security systems "are one of
the most reliable in the world and constantly operate in a state of full
readiness."

Japan's economy, trade and industry minister, Takeo Hiranuma, said Japan needs
to tighten security at its reactors to defend against possible terrorist
attacks. "Nuclear reactors have been designed to be perfectly safe against
horizontal shock of earthquakes, but they are not prepared for a vertical
descent by a missile or aircraft," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                  Copyright 2001 Wilmington Publishing Limited

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Banker

                                November 1, 2001

A New Economic Order - September 11 Was A Setback For Globalisation. In The Wake
Of The Terrorist Attacks In The US, Cross-border Flows Of Everything - People,
Goods, Ideas And Capital - Are Likely To Suffer.  Charles Piggott Looks At How
Emer

SECTION: Cover Story

LENGTH: 2809 words


Long after the dust has settled on New York and Washington, the social, economic
and political aftershocks of September 11 will continue to reverberate around
the world. Already the global financial implications are becoming clearer.

Developing countries' economies may now be added to the long and growing list of
victims of the terrorist attacks. Failing US economic confidence both at homeand
overseas and rising international political tensions are already affecting
international financial flows. The effects of a downturn in the global economy
and the accompanied fall-off in financial flows are likely to be magnified in
emerging market economies that rely heavily on foreign capital and western
import markets.

David Anthony, an economist responsible for the Economist Intelligence Unit's
country risk alerts, says: "September 11 was an important trigger. It changed
everything, tipping the scales between confidence and risk. Now the exuberance
of two years ago - in which everything was glorious and the sky was the limit -
has gone."

Bad timing

Unfortunately for emerging markets, the attacks of September 11 came just as
capital flows to developing countries were beginning to pick up. "The monthly
figures were showing a recovery of capital flows to major emerging markets
before the crisis struck," says Alison Cozzini of financial information
providerCrossBorder Capital. Ms Cozzini adds that capital flows to Mexico,
Brazil, Chinaand Russia were all picking up in the months before the crisis.

Countries sensitive to trade and international capital flows will be most
affected. Heavily indebted countries in Latin American and exporting countries
in Asia are likely to feel the brunt of the knock-on effects of what is
happening in developed countries economies.

Chris Vermont, head of project and structured finance at ANZ Banking Group in
London, says: "Developing market deals are still being done, but there will be
more questions asked in credit committees, and in general a heightened
awarenessof risks."

Likely financial casualties of September 11 are Turkey and Argentina, which both
depend on foreign capital and are in the middle of financial crises; Brazil,
caught up in financial contagion both from the US and Argentina; high-tech
exporting east Asian economies; and Mexico, with its growing economic links to
its northern neighbour, the US.

In Washington, there is a growing consensus that emerging markets are heading
for crisis once again. Charles Dallara, managing director of the Washington-
based International Institute of Finance (IIF), which represents more than 300
commercial banks, warns: "The near-term outlook for financial flows to emerging
markets is at its most sobering level since the difficult years of the debt
crisis in the 1980s." This view was pressed in a recent letter calling for
concerted global action to UK Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown in his
role as chairman of the International Monetary and Financial Committee of the
IMF.

Some emerging markets may prove better insulated against an economic and
financial downturn, ironically by virtue of their economic isolation. For
example, Russia and China both enjoy a relatively slender trade with the US and
neither country could have expected large foreign capital inflows in the next
few years in any case. Since neither country is likely to be hit by faltering
USconsumer and financial market confidence, forecasts of economic growth of 7%
in China's economy and 5% in Russia's economy may not be significantly affected.

Lower capital flows

Although individual countries directly involved in retaliation against suspected
terrorists may benefit from increased US and multilateral financial aid in
return for support, emerging markets can expect to receive much lower private
capital flows in the wake of the September 11 attacks. The IIF forecaststhis
year's total net flow of private capital to emerging markets will fall to $
106bn - $ 61bn less than for 2000 (see table on page 24).

Also worrying is the fact that the net flows from private creditors, including
bonds and loans, will turn significantly negative this year. IIF director of
research Kevin Barnes says: "Already there is clear short-term risk aversion in
the markets. What is not clear is how strong and how lasting this will be."

According to figures revised in the light of the attack, Mr Barnes expects an
outflow of funds from emerging markets to private creditors including banks and
bond investors of $ 22bn this year. Last year emerging market received inflows
of $ 20bn.

Countries that have developed domestic bond markets or have a limited reliance
on foreign capital are likely to be in a stronger position than countries
reliant on international capital markets.

The IMF is concerned that reduced access to foreign capital could put further
pressure on emerging market currencies, compounding the financial weaknesses of
their economies in the coming months.

In his first public address at the end of September, the IMF's new chief
economist, Ken Rogoff, said: "There is no doubt that the attack is having a
negative effect on activity now in many regions of the globe, and that it has
increased what were already significant downside risks to the short-term global
outlook, including for emerging market economies."

Mr Rogoff's boss, managing director Horst Kohler, was quick to put the IMF on
standby. The day after the attacks, Mr Kohler put out a statement assuring that
the IMF "stands ready to assist its member countries as appropriate" in
recognition of the potential for financial market contagion.

The events of September 11 may prove a hammer blow for countries over- dependent
on international finance. The IMF will be watching countries with large external
borrowing requirements particularly closely. Argentina, Brazil and Turkey's
financial problems were already coming to a head before the crisis and have been
compounded by capital flight and financial market contagion in thewake of the
attacks.

Argentina and Turkey

An IMF bail-out of Turkey was under negotiation at the time of the terrorist
attacks, while Argentina was struggling with the prospect of default on its $
130bn debt.

The IIF's director of research, Mr Barnes, says: "The consequences of major
problems in the economies of Turkey and Argentina are much greater and more
undesirable on top of what has already happened." The IIF is forecasting net
outflows of private capital from Turkey of $ 16bn this year, compared with
inflows of $ 10bn last year. Meanwhile, net outflows from Argentina are forecast
at $ 7bn.

Capital market fall-out

The sharp rise in emerging market bond spreads also suggests that developing
countries will find it harder to raise money in the international capital
markets. In the week following the crisis, JP Morgan's emerging market bond
index showed an average 64 point widening of spreads. Since June, emerging
markets spreads have risen by more than 250 basis points.

Says Mr Vermont of ANZ, which has an office in Pakistan: "In the immediate
aftermath there was complete shock, nobody knew what would happen next. But now
the extreme circumspection in the financial markets has passed and on the whole
developing markets have not suffered from knee-jerk reactions." Now that fears
over indiscriminate bombing in the Middle East have largely passed, bankers say
lending to trusted Middle Eastern countries and institutions will continue.
ANZ's Mr Vermont says: "Some deals have been put on ice, others are going
ahead."

Although some emerging market deals have been cancelled, more are going ahead
than have been pulled. Financing deals for power projects in Kuwait and Qatar
are still proceeding. Romanian state-owned oil and gas company SNP Petrom
managed to tap the international fixed-income markets two weeks after its
planned launch day of September 11, and other emerging market borrowers are
still lining up to come to the markets.

Sergei Zhiltsov from ABN Amro's emerging market fixed-income desk, which co-
lead the Petrom deal, says: "We expect that investors may be more cautious and
re-evaluate their global strategies in favour of safer investments, but we
haven't seen a significant scaling back so far. So far, so good."

Bankers talk of delays in the deal flow rather than outright cancellations.
Isolated examples of failed deals include a postponed syndicated loan for
Bahrain International Bank following an incorrect report in Le Monde of links
with terrorist Osama bin Laden. By the time the report was retracted, it had
already hit the newswires, causing some banks to pull out of syndication.

Although it looks as though a few Middle Eastern deals and others were postponed
in the immediate wake of the crisis, some loans to Middle East banks have
already gone ahead relatively unscathed. For example the syndication of a $
250m, five-year loan to Emirates Bank appears to have been relatively
uneventful.

The market reaction to emerging markets in general may become clear only when
sovereign borrowers come to the markets in the next few months. Turkey, for
example, had indicated plans to borrow $ 750m before the end of this year,
although this may be postponed depending on conditions in the international
capital markets. How Turkey is received by the capital markets will be a good
litmus test for emerging markets in general.

Other emerging market borrowers preparing to approach the debt markets include
the City of Moscow, Chile, Estonia, Israel, Latvia, Bulgaria, Colombia, Czech
Republic, Iran, Guatemala, Morocco, Peru and Russia. In addition, there are
probably 24 or so emerging market companies that had made public their plansto
borrow in the debt capital markets.

Exporters feel the pain

In addition to emerging market borrowers, countries dependent on exports to
consumer markets in the US and other western countries will also be hurt by
failing confidence. As the crisis broker, the IMF was forecasting that world
exports of goods (not including services) would fall from $ 6250bn to $
6220bnduring 2001. Although world trade fell in the wake of the 1997 financial
market crisis, trade levels have been rising every other year since 1993.

Given the heavy dependence on exports among emerging market countries, GDP
forecasts for emerging market countries have in general been cut to about half
of last year's performance. Roughly 85% of Mexican imports go to consumers in
the US. South Korea, Taiwan and other south-east Asian exporting countries will
also be hurt. Soon after the terrorist attacks, the IIF forecast economic
growthin emerging market economies of just 2.8%, down from 5.6% last year.

Trade finance

The terrorist attacks and any recession that follows will affect trade flows.
However, trade finance professionals are upbeat about the continued prospects
for trade deals. Trevor Utting, head of research at LTP Trade, a company that
provides dealing and advisory services to the trade finance market, says:
"Countries will always need to keep trade lines open and the market knows this."

Trade-related financial deals have always been more robust than other forms of
capital flows such as equities, bonds and syndicated bank lending in the context
of adverse world events. This is partly because countries are thought less
likely to default on loans backed by trade than any other type of loan.

Although trade finance deals are often private, bankers involved in trade
finance say the markets have remained pretty much open in the wake of September
11. Mr Utting of LTP says: "The pricing may have changed a bit, but the trade
finance market is still open. Trade finance is always less affected by capital
flight than other markets. Trade deals continue because they have to."

An added hindrance to trade and project related lending is the fact that events
of September 11 will make it harder for exporters and banks to obtain political
risk and trade insurance cover for the countries they deal with. Charles Berry,
chairman of BPL Global, a specialist insurance broker for trade and political
risk insurance, says: "The market is open and is writing business.However, less
capacity inevitably means a shift in the terms of trade away from clients and in
favour of insurers."

Although political risk insurance covering trade and project finance deals in
emerging market countries has been a growing sector, it will be harder to get
insurance cover. Mr Berry adds: "By far the biggest impact will not be the
changed perception of risk in these countries, but the dynamic of what is
happening in the insurance sector as a whole. This will make it harder and more
expensive for most policyholders to get political risk and trade credit
insurance cover."

Political risk

Risk models that analyse and compare countries' social and political stability
have long been used to help calculate the risk of lending to emerging market
countries. However, in the light of events of September 11, it may no longer be
enough simply to factor in the likelihood that a president is toppled by the
opposition or that a government falls victim to a corruption scandal.

Ben McTurnon, ratings editor at risk consultancy Political Risk Services, says:
"What changed after September 11 is that we now have to take into account the
possibility that a well-organised and well-financed group can bring a country as
large and powerful as the US to its knees. Suddenly the danger that apresident
is toppled does not look so bad compared with the risk of a fundamentalist group
getting hold of a nuclear or biological weapon."

John Wade, senior political risk consultant at international risk consultancy
Control Risks Group, also thinks country risk models need to be updated: "The
world changed on September 11. Although it is too early to predict the outcome
for every individual country, it is clear that the geo-political risks need to
be re-evaluated in the light of what happened in the US."

Instability fears

In terms of knock-on effects, CRG's Mr Wade is worried by the increased pressure
on international friction points, for example relations between India and
Pakistan; Israel, Gaza and the West Bank, and also the possibility of the
overthrow or assassination of Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf. He also
worries that instability in Pakistan caused by the perception that the US
intends war against Islam could extend to Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and other
strongly Muslim states.

The threat of escalation in the US-led war on terrorism changes the risk profile
of many countries. PRS's Mr McTurnon says: "In middle eastern and south-east
Asian countries, there may be the perception of a looming war againstIslam and
this will affect stability. Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Indonesia are obvious
examples of countries that may become destabilised."

Although the net effect of September 11 was to increase country risk around the
world, analysts admit that the coalition against terror may strengthen western
relations with some developing countries. For example although Pakistan has seen
anti-western demonstrations in the street, the government's pro-US stance in the
wake of the terrorist attacks has already brought swift financial aid. While the
situation in Pakistan is finely balanced, the removal of sanctions placed on
Pakistan in 1998 following nuclear tests and the rescheduling of $ 379m in
bilateral US debt may bring some relief.

Aid in return for support

Similarly, Uzbekistan is likely to receive increased international financial
support in return for allowing US military personnel to operate on its soil.
Iran could also benefit from more open contact and financial assistance from
thewest. Mr Wade says: "There has been a lot of coming and going between Iran
and the West recently, but there are also traditional forces that may prevent
closerinternational relations."

Other countries may be perceived as comparatively less risky. For example, it is
possible that Latin America benefits from capital outflows from middle eastern
and south east Asian countries that face an uncertain Muslim reaction tothe
US-led war against terrorism. It would not be surprising if US emerging market
financiers concentrate more on Latin American countries closer to home
inpreference to countries on the other side of the globe that have large Muslim
populations that could potentially react adversely to US- led military action.

Says Mr McTurnon: "Two months ago, Ecuador may have looked like one of the
riskiest countries in which to invest. Now there is a greater concern with
political risks in middle eastern countries and Ecuador could appear relatively
less risky." Others believe all emerging markets will be hit by indiscriminate
financial market contagion.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Banker

                                November 1, 2001

Ministers Of Information - The Recent Terrorist Attacks In New York Have Not
Only Revealed Massive National Security Breaches But Also The Dangers To
Business Of Information Loss. Parveen Bansal Reports

SECTION: Banking Technology

LENGTH: 1467 words


In an information-LED economy, the failure of an information network is
dangerously detrimental to business. Those without suitable back-up or recovery
plans in place operate at their own peril. The September 11 attacks in the US
not only raised a myriad of security concerns but also highlighted theimportance
of businesses having comprehensive disaster recovery plans to restoreservice as
quickly as is possible - regardless of the severity of loss.

Business interruptions do not necessarily need to be on the level of a terrorist
attack or an earthquake to affect significantly information availability. In
fact, the most common threats are day-to-day logical disasters such as hardware
corruption, database crashes or simple human error.

According to Hitachi Data Systems (HDS), "logical" disasters usually happen four
times a year. The recovery time from these outrages is 12 hours on average,or 48
hours a year. On a grander scale, natural disasters, such as fires or floods,
occur less frequently, but are usually more devastating to the business as they
result in loss of network hardware. Research by Gartner Dataquest on application
downtime shows that an average of 40% of downtime is caused by application
failures; 40% by operator error; and approximately 20% by systems
orenvironmental failures.

The consequences of computer-related downtime, coupled with an inadequate
recovery solution, can be staggering. Although major operational risk losses
areseen to have low probabilities, their impact can be large and perhaps exceed
those of market or credit risks. An example is the effects of the system
failureat the London Stock Exchange last year, which lead to the dissemination
of corrupted data, causing an eight-hour disruption to trading on the last day
of the financial year.

Information is vital

Considering the high price of business downtime, organisations cannot afford any
interruption that denies information availability. Because many enterprises that
experience a disaster never recover, and an estimated two out of five
enterprises that experience a disaster go out of business within five years
(Gartner), it is no longer acceptable to recover data in three to four days.
Recovery for the information economy needs to be immediate and automated.

Ludovic Leforestier, marketing manager, of HDS Europe, says: "The essence of
disaster recovery is to preserve business continuity - to keep the most
business-critical applications and systems running at all times to minimise
downtime and avoid loss of revenue."

He added, "It is not that companies do not have disaster recovery strategies in
place already. A common problem is that companies make disaster recovery
strategies and set up systems, but fail to conduct regular tests and find that
not all of their data can be recovered. It is advisable to conduct tests
quarterly and each time a new application is added to the current systems."

Disaster recovery is essential but is often neglected by cutting corners. Mr
Leforestier says: "Although the level of investment is very high for enterprise
storage systems, they are, in fact, the most reliable systems - more than any
other piece of software or hardware."

Phil Jones, director of architecture and technology at HDS, says: "Disaster
recovery systems are like an insurance policy. You are always nervous without
one and hope to never claim against them but, every so often, you have to."

Location, location location

According to Gartner, in the early-1990s, business continuity was positioned
mainly in terms of disaster recovery. In the event of a major disaster,
technology assets were to be recovered in an alternate location. The typical
recovery time objective (RTO) - the desired time to recover applications - was
approximately three days. The typical recovery point objective (RPO) - the
acceptable transaction loss - was 24 hours.

By the mid-1990s, business continuity initiatives had expanded to include
recovery of critical-work processes, recognising the need for an alternate
location as well as alternative human resources to man these centres, (eg, call
centres). In the late-1990s, businesses began to understand the long- term
implications of systems and application failure to their businesses. RTOs were
reduced to less than 24 hours, and RPOs were often set up at the point of
disaster - allowing no loss of work or transactions.

Take for example Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein (DKW), whose office was in the
immediate vicinity of the World Trade Center and which was hit by power losses.
Jim O'Connor at DKW says that by using remote shadowing software from Advanced
Systems Concepts the company could restart business within an hour of the
failure at their Manhattan site.

The problem was communicating and transporting the work of a staff of hundreds
to the disaster recovery site. Its most critical system, the payment system, was
running and able to continue with business as usual since information was
replicated in real time to its disaster recovery site in nearby Queens.

It is recognising the widespread impact an outage can have on the financial
markets in the trading arena that the development of a new Basel Accord has
comeabout. This wants companies to think about how they will manage such
operationalrisk - which it defines as including major failure of information
technology systems or events such as major fires or other disasters.

Minor infractions

Beyond such major interruptions, businesses today need to consider and provide
for a broader range of risks, including operational risk, security risk (such as
cybercrime), lack of capacity, application failure, partner/ outsourcing
unavailability, and loss of physical structures.

Three of the most important considerations within such complications are: data
availability; data integrity; and recovery time requirements. These
considerations determine the technologies and methods used to support the
disaster recovery plan. Deploying a disaster recovery infrastructure requires
much more than just installing synchronous remote copy. Often, in the case of
environmental disasters, it is usually the communication links that are the
first to go down. According to HDS, a first step would be to define and
evaluatethe inherent risks within the business, the processes and infrastructure
that might be inadequate. The next step would be to present ways in which many
of these risks can be eliminated through a combination of process improvement
and infrastructure enhancement.

Paul Sleep of Auspex Systems says: "The organisation would have to decide what
they see as the business critical data. Mostly, it is not necessary to
immediately make available all the data within an organisation." He continued
tosay the driver for disaster recovery solutions is "how fast can we get the
business back up and running".

While there are solutions to provide tolerance of component failure, the issue
of site loss is often overlooked, with potentially dire consequences of major
business interruption and loss of information.

Recent research reveals that many IT departments are looking at application
service providers to form part or all of their disaster recovery policy. The
survey, co-sponsored by ASP enablers SevenMountains Software, shows that 67% of
IT manager respondents would use an ASP as part of a disaster recovery policy.

Patrick Coates, managing director of SevenMountains Software expands: "With
increasing pressure to provide 24x7 computing, regardless of what disasters may
take place, the ASP model has two roles to play. Firstly, it provides itself as
a good disaster recovery model in itself. Alternatively, those who have not
embraced the ASP model for the first level of application provision can see it
playing a secondary back-up-style role. Either way, normal service to end-users
is resumed in a timely and controlled manner.

"This emphasis on uptime may also indicate why 63% of respondents saw
reliability as the most important factor when choosing an ASP."

Many organisations are now seeing that the ASP model has wider implications. It
gives access to more than reduced costs and manageable expenditure, and can also
be used to safeguard data and increase the overall level of security. In this
case, one must consider the disaster recovery strategy of the service provider,
which needs to be just as good if, not better.

It is essential to deliver continuous, instantaneous access to mission- critical
information, to manage it on a worldwide basis, and to protect it from disaster,
be it major or minor. The solution to not only reducing but eradicating downtime
is to develop an enterprise-wide flow of information acrossmultiple platforms
and to apply it across geographical boundaries.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 1, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: CHERNOBYL ALERT IN NUCLEAR ATTACK FEAR;
 ATOMIC AGENCY'S WARNING DEVASTATION: Chernobyl nuclear power station after the
1986 accident

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 307 words


A NUCLEAR attack by terrorists is 'far more likely' now than it was before the
September 11 outrage, the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency warned
today.

It would come most probably in the form of radioactive contamination or the
targeting of nuclear facilities to cause a Chernobyl-style disaster, said agency
director general Mohamed ElBaradei.

Although the chances of terrorists having the resources and technical ability to
build a nuclear bomb were remote, the possibility could not be ruled out, he
said.

The International Atomic Energy Agency, the UN nuclear watchdog agency based in
Vienna, carries out verification inspections and sets world safety and security
standards.

Mr ElBaradei said: 'The willingness of terrorists to sacrifice their lives to
achieve their evil aims creates a new dimension in the fight against terrorism.

Unconventional

'We are not just dealing with the possibility of governments diverting nuclear
materials into clandestine weapons programmes.

'Now we have been alerted to the potential of terrorists targeting nuclear
facilities or using radioactive sources to incite panic, contaminate property,
and even cause injury or death among civilian populations.

'An unconventional threat requires an unconventional response, and the whole
world needs to join together and take responsibility for the security of nuclear
material,' he added.

In the short term, the agency would need at least an extra 30-50 million dollars
a year to strengthen and expand its programmes to meet the terrorist threat.

The warning came as experts from around the world met at the agency in Vienna to
discuss nuclear terrorism.

Mr ElBaradei said radiation knew no frontiers, and nations had to recognise that
the safety and security of nuclear material was a global concern.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                November 1, 2001

How to trade in the Middle East
 SEMINAR: Uncertainty after terrorist attacks

BYLINE: JAMES GARNETT

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.33

LENGTH: 253 words


BUSINESSES trading in the Middle East are attending a seminar today to discuss
the impact of the terrorist crisis.

It will focus on the implications of the current climate for business and
provide a 'virtual tour' of the Arab world.

It comes after reports that some sectors of the South West economy, such as
tourism and aersospace, are already feeling the effect of a downturn following
September 11.

Organised by the University of Exeter's Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies
and Trade Partners UK, a branch of the DTI/Foreign Office, the seminar will
feature specialists on the Arab economy.

Neil Blakeman, Trade Partner UK's international trade director for the South
West, said: "A greater understanding about the cultures firms are trading with
is obviously key and many companies do already understand their markets in this
way.

"However, they are less certain about what the current situation means for their
business, the particular attitudes they may face from their clients and
suppliers, or issues such as possible threats to personal or company security."

Dr Steve Brand, member of the South West Economy Centre at the University of
Plymouth, said: "The seminar would be most valuable for people looking to go
into Arab markets.

"With there being such stark cultural differences between Muslim and mainstream
Western culture, it is something that needs to be embraced, all the more so
because of the events of September 11."

The seminar is being held today at the University of Exeter.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 1, 2001

DID A BEST-SELLING NOVEL INSPIRE TERRORIST ATTACKS ON AMERICA?; FEARS OF THE MAN
WHO SAW ANTHRAX COMING

BYLINE: DERMOT PURGAVIE INNEW YORK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1160 words


HE WAS a Manhattan carpet importer called Jason Papparis. Two years ago, in a
grisly glimpse of the future, his lungs were destroyed by a powder that arrived
at his office in an envelope and he died - murdered with anthrax sent by
terrorists.

Then it was only fiction and the New York City medical examiner was quoted as
saying it seemed "beyond the realm of possibility".

But to writer Robin Cook, such an event was not only possible, it had a dark
inevitability - so he made Papparis America's first anthrax-bymail victim in his
thriller Vector.

"One of the purposes of my books is to try to alert people to medical dangers,
to get them interested in an issue before it develops into a catastrophe, " he
says. "I started writing because I thought there was a distortion between what
people thought they knew and what they actually knew about medical problems."

Thirty years on Cook, a Harvardtrained doctor, has more than 100 million copies
of his books in print and is one of the biggest names in "disease lit"; an
author of bestselling medical thrillers that always seem to tap into the
neurosis of the moment.

Somehow, the themes he picks on manage to anticipate the headlines - his latest
book is about stem cell research - and Vector, published in 1999, eerily
prefaced the anthrax crisis that now grips America. It was billed as the "latest
urban nightmare", and in an author's note at the end Cook wrote that the premise
of the story, in which extremists conspire to kill thousands of New Yorkers by
releasing high grade anthrax in a government building, was technically quite
feasible.

And he warned it was no longer a question of whether but when there would be a
bio-terrorism attack in the US or Europe. "All the experts I had talked to
believed that an attack was inevitable and I hoped that the book would light a
little fire. It sold well but didn't generate the sort of discussion I would
have liked. It never took on the urgency that was needed and that I hoped for."

TWO years later America was shocked and woefully unprepared when anthrax
suddenly showed up in a country where fear was in danger of turning to panic
after the devastating terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. Now, anxious
Americans are stocking up on everything from gas masks and antibiotics to
germproof bodysuits and bioshelter tents that sell for GBP 1,400.

As they grapple with the outbreak, scientists and government officials admit
they had been taken by surprise and that much of what they thought they knew
about anthrax was turning out to be wrong. They said that although anthrax had
been on everybody's list of potential bioweapons, nobody expected processed
anthrax spores to turn up in the mail. Well, nobody except Cook.

"One of the things that makes me feel uncomfortable, " he adds, "is that the
book starts out with anthrax going in an envelope." The plotters post it to the
unfortunate Papparis to test its potency before deploying it against the
government.

Cook, who has written 23 books but is still on the staff of the Massachusetts
Eye and Ear Infirmary in Boston, says he first became tuned in to the risks of
bio-terrorism at a conference organised by the Centres for Disease Control in
Atlanta five years ago.

"I became aware that the threat was much more acute than I had realised. There
seemed to be no question in the minds of the experts that this was a real and
serious problem and that an attack was going to happen, but nobody seemed to be
paying any attention."

So, after further research at the US Army Medical Research Institute and New
York's Office of Emergency Management, he wrote Vector in which Yuri Davydov, a
disgruntled immigrant who used to be a technician in the Soviet bio-weapons
programme, is financed by the People's Aryan Army to cook up anthrax in his
basement. The plan was not only to plant it in the ventilation system of
government offices but to spray it all round Central Park.

Cook believes that those who have now mailed anthrax to media companies and
branches of the government are homegrown anarchists like those in his book. "My
feeling is that this is domestic terrorism, that some group is just using
September 11 and its aftermath to launch something that they had been thinking
about for some time."

And he contests the government view, as expressed by the US Office of Homeland
Security, that you would need a PhD in microbiology to be able to process
effective anthrax spores.

"It's not very difficult, " Cook explains. "Someone with college or even high
school knowledge could probably do it. And there is very little monitoring of
anthrax supplies. It's in labs all around the country and there has been minimal
attention to its security. All you need is a white coat and a name tag."

Cook's books have theatrically terse titles - Coma, Fever, Outbreak, Contagion,
Toxin, Shock. They plug into the prevailing paranoia and they are successful, he
believes, because we all feel biologically vulnerable.

"We all realise we're at risk. You can read about great white sharks and you can
say, 'I'm not going in the ocean'. But you can't say you're not going to go in a
hospital."

EIGHT of Cook's books have been adapted for the cinema or television and he was
so anxious for Vector to be made into a movie that he was even willing to give
it away. "I thought the subject was so important that I offered to sell the
rights to Hollywood for just $ 1 but nobody was interested.

"Now it's too late. The public's attention has been captured. There's a
difference between putting Gothic elements in a novel to arouse interest in an
issue and making an exploitative movie that would just raise people's
anxieties."

His next novel will return to the issue of stem cell research and what he sees
as a historic moment in human evolution. "Until now all the medicine that we've
done has not been curative. It's been a way of helping the body's own defences
in some fashion. But stem cell research has the potential for creating true
cures for many illnesses. If you're a doctor, the idea of actually having the
ability to cure people rather than just putting your finger in the dyke is the
most exciting aspect."

Meanwhile he contemplates science's sinister downside. He has written about
anthrax, the ebola virus, E coli bacteria, botulism toxin, smallpox and other
fearsome perils but he thinks that even more intimidating threats could be out
there.

"I have researched all the bugs.

Now you can take a gene from one and put it in others to produce awful things,
and what I fear most is the capability of state-run bio-terrorism to fashion new
and dreadful organisms that we know nothing about."

To order your copy of Vector at GBP 5.99, p&p free, call the Express Bookshop on
0870 366 6091 or send a cheque/PO to Express Bookshop, PO Box 345, Falmouth TR11
2YX.

Robin Cook's new novel, Shock, is published on November 23.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 1, 2001, Thursday

50 DAYS THAT SHOOK THE WORLD: MUSLIM VERDICT: WE'RE THE VICTIMS OF TERROR
ATTACKS TOO, SO IT IS ALSO IN OUR INTERESTS TO GET RID OF THIS SCOURGE

BYLINE: Mahmud Al-rashid Muslim Council Of Britain

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 605 words

HIGHLIGHT: STRUGGLE: An Afghan boy rests his hand on a fence at the Chaman
crossing


THERE is still a strong feeling in Britain that Muslims as a community are
responsible for the September 11 terror attacks.

The fact that Mrs Thatcher said she had not heard enough condemnation from
Muslims was not helpful.

She implied that British Muslims were partly responsible for the atrocity.

That seems to be a feeling that is gaining support in Britain.

But what people are ignoring is that there were more Muslims killed in the twin
towers attack than actual British citizens.

Muslims are suffering from terrorist attacks around the world and we are equally
targets of terrorism and it is very much in our interests to get rid of this
scourge.

We should not be painted as though we are on the other side. We are all in it
together.

A terrorist bomb does not discriminate between a Muslim, a Christian or a Jew.
If it explodes it will kill everyone.

Another issue is the idea that Muslims are the enemy within. This is very
inflammatory and untrue.

I don't know anyone who wants to go and fight with the Taliban.

And from an Islamic point of view it is un-Islamic to do so because when you
become a British citizen you owe allegiance to the country.

People are saying thousands of British Muslims have gone to fight for the
Taliban. It is not true.

Senior police officers say only a handful of people have gone.

Many Muslims do go abroad to help in a humanitarian way. It is not only in
Afghanistan. A fellow lawyer has gone to Kosovo to help re-build the legal
systems there.

It is not clear that people have gone to fight for the Taliban. To paint us as
an enemy within is abhorrent.

You get people like my wife Sarah is white but because she is a Muslim she has
been tainted since the September 11 attacks.

Her family fought in both world wars, her father was in the RAF. You can't get
any more British.

But we went on a half-term break last week and were at a supermarket in
Nuneaton. Admittedly there were not that many Asian faces around.

She said that people had looked at her as though she she had semtex strapped to
her body.

Sarah is white but was wearing a head scarf. People were looking at her because
of the scarf. And her family have probably been here longer than the Royal
Family.

It is very unhelpful, these attempts to label a whole community as the enemy
within.

You couldn't get any more English than my sister, who cheers every time England
score a goal.

But many Asians feel alienated. I'm a lawyer and I'm in the courts day in and
day out helping white people.

I was born in Bangladesh, but in 30 years I've only been there once for four
days.

I am 37 now. This is my country - the place where I have invested my future.

This is where I hope I'll be buried, with my parents. I know this is very
personal but it is how I feel.

I did not feel alienated before September 11.Perhaps there are other Asians who
feel differently.

But for me it was not a problem.

Since that fateful day, there has been a change. Suddenly we are on the back
foot and feel that we have to justify our Britishness.

I pay a lot of tax by virtue of the job I do. Why should I have to justify my
Britishness?

The global situation is very tense. Tony Blair is doing his best. I read his
interview in the Mirror yesterday and he has made a big effort to help.

He has not labelled everyone appeasers and that is an important point. Vitally
important.

He said our democracy is strong enough to cope with different opinions. That was
a fantastic phrase.

I'm sure he believes it, I just hope other people believe it as well.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 1, 2001, Thursday

HEALTH ZONE: REAL LIVES: WITH DOGGED DEVOTION;
 DOGS HAVE ALWAYS BEEN MAN'S BEST FRIEND, BUT SOME ARE PARTICULARLY SPECIAL.
FOLLOWING THE NEW YORK TERROR ATTACKS, POLICE DOGS HELPED IN THE SEARCH FOR
BODIES. ANN BIRD SPOKE TO THE OWNERS OF THREE WONDER DOGS - THE UK'S MOST CARING
CANINES.

BYLINE: Ann Bird

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 38,39

LENGTH: 1125 words

HIGHLIGHT: RING OF CONFIDENCE: Toby can dial for an ambulance; INSEPARABLE:;
"Rosie is simply my best friend," says Andrea; MOTHER'S HELPER: Cal alerts; Tony
to her epileptic fits; SOME FEAT: Rosie helps Andrea to get dressed


'Rosie can do really delicate tasks. She's the ballerina of border collies'

ANDREA Smith, 37, from Bournemouth, is wheelchair-bound after an accident 12
years ago. Her border collie, Rosie, acts as her carer by dressing her and even
dialling her mobile phone.

Andrea knows all about caring for others. She was a nurse when she suffered a
major injury after a patient collapsed on her.

Now largely confined to a wheelchair, Andrea doesn't even have the strength to
pull on her clothes. Her collie Rosie does that - and she can even dial Andrea's
mobile phone.

After her accident, life for Andrea became limited and lonely. But that changed
when Rosie arrived last year.

"She's amazing," says Andrea. "She's so dainty, with very long legs and tiny
paws, that she can do really delicate tasks - she's the ballerina of border
collies! I couldn't have a mobile phone before I got her because I didn't have
the strength to push the buttons, but now she just gives me her paw and I can
direct it to the right button and she can press it."

Rosie can do dozens of tasks, from taking Andrea's money out of cashpoint
machines to pushing the button at pelican crossings.

Andrea says: "Motorists are more likely to stop when they see Rosie, so it's
easier for me to cross the road. People wouldn't always hold doors open for me,
perhaps because I don't look as disabled as I am. But now they spot Rosie in her
'Dogs For The Disabled' jacket and do."

Even simple tasks such as flushing a toilet were impossible for Andrea before
Rosie. The collie brings extra security too. Andrea remembers the time when a
man who'd stumbled over her wheelchair turned abusive and followed them down the
street. But a growl from Rosie sent him packing.

Although her life has improved beyond all measure, Andrea still spends about
five hours a day lying on a special pressurising mattress, taking painkillers
including morphine.

Rosie's support can't be over-estimated at these times, as she just sits
patiently by the bed. Says Andrea: "She's simply my best friend."

'Toby rests his head on the side of bath while I wash'

LES Charles, 53, is a diabetic. He lives in Brighton with his labrador-great
dane cross Toby, who can recognise when his master is about to slip into a
diabetic coma.

Toby has saved Les's life - not just once, but many times. The wonder dog
recognises when his master is about to slip into a coma and will even call the
emergency services.

This can happen to Les without warning up to three times a week. If they are
alone at home, Toby will press a special button on the phone and paramedics can
be round in minutes. If they are out in town, the dog will jump around to alert
passers-by.

The combination of Toby's special "Support Dog" jacket and a label on his lead
referring to Les's diabetes should then be enough for others to act by giving
Les a Coke to restore his blood sugar levels. Toby can spot an imminent fit from
a combination of signs - profuse sweating is one, but the dog also notices
changes in Les's speech or balance. "I may start staggering around as if I'm
drunk," says Les. "Then Toby will wrap his lead around me and if I do actually
collapse, he'll stay right by my side."

But not everyone is pleased to see Toby. Says Les: "At Harry Ramsden's fish and
chip restaurant here in Brighton, the manager said 'you're not bringing that dog
in here'."

If only people knew just how vital Toby is to Les's safety. Before he had the
three-year-old, Les would sometimes be in a coma for 24 hours.

That's frightening in itself, but even more so when you realise it could happen
anywhere - in the bath, or while cooking.

Toby wasn't brought up to be a lifesaver. Originally, he was simply Les's pet.
What's even more unusual is that he was the first dog Support Dogs had ever
trained to recognise the symptoms of an imminent diabetic coma.

These days, Les and Toby are inseparable. The dog even rests his head on the
side of the bath while Les washes.

Next year Les, who cannot work, hopes to take Toby on a plane: "And he'll be
with me in the cabin, not in the hold".

'I wouldn't have become a mum without Cal'

TONY Brown-Griffin, 32, lives in north Kent. She suffers from epilepsy, but her
Belgian shepherd, Cal, can spot the tell-tale signs and alert his mistress 15
minutes before a seizure.

Tony wouldn't have become a mum had she not had Cal - that's how important her
dog is to her.

Tony had her first epileptic seizure eight years ago when she was in hospital
following a bad asthma attack. Before she found out about "wonder dogs" through
the British Epilepsy Association, Tony would have been too nervous to look after
a baby, knowing she could have a seizure at any time.

But Cal gives her crucial time to ensure 18-month-old Grace is safe. She now has
an attack about three times a week. Sometimes it's just an "absence", when
"people assume I'm just ignoring them". At other times she will collapse and go
into convulsions. She says: "When Cal spots the signs, he pats my hand or gets
all fidgety. At that point I make sure my daughter's safe."

The dog watches Tony and monitors her appearance. If there is any deviation -
such as a tightening of facial muscles, twitching eyelids or dilating pupils -
Cal will raise the alarm. Before Cal, Tony sometimes suffered up to 12 seizures
a week. Since then, the frequency has reduced greatly. Tony feels that it's down
to the confidence Cal has given her. "Cal simply puts me in control of
everything," she says.

The ultimate sniffer dogs

DOGS' ability to detect anything from drugs at airports to illegal immigrants in
lorries is well known.

But did you know that some experts claim they can even sniff out skin cancer?
Dogs' melanoma-sniffing skills were first documented in The Lancet in 1989,
which reported how a doberman-border collie cross had become interested in a
woman's mole and even tried to bite it off. The mole turned out to be cancerous.
Dermatologists have since tested the theory with astonishing near 100 per cent
accuracy.

Val Strong at Dogs For The Disabled says: "Not only is their sense of smell so
good, they can detect different textures on skin too."

So if your hound is taking an overly keen interest in one of your moles, perhaps
a trip to your GP might be a good idea.

Contacts

-Dogs For The Disabled welcomes donations. For more information call 08700
776600 or email info@dogsforthedisabled.org or visit www.dogsforthedisabled.org

-To make a donation to Support Dogs or for information call 0114 257 7997.
Alternatively, write to Support Dogs at the John Fisher Centre, Trianco House,
Thorncliff Park Estate, Chapeltown, Sheffield S35 2PH.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 1, 2001, Thursday

THOMAS COOK PLANS PAY AND JOB CUTS;
 TRAVEL: COMPANY TO SHED 1,500 UK WORKERS AS BOOKINGS SUFFER IN AFTERMATH OF
TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Catrin Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 655 words


MORE than 250 people in Wales face job uncertainty today after travel giant
Thomas Cook announced it is to cut 1,500 jobs in the UK.

It is also asking staff to take a pay cut of up to 10pc in an attempt to cut
costs in the aftermath of the US terrorist attacks.

Half the job cuts will be compulsory as the German-owned group moves to make
savings of pounds 140m over the next year in this country.

UK executives have agreed to cut their pay by 15pc and the company is asking
staff who earn more than pounds 10,000 to reduce their salaries by between 3pc
and 10pc.

The job cuts will be spread across Thomas Cook's network of 700 shops, tour
operators JMC, Neilson, Style, Club 18-30, Sunworld Ireland and Skiers World and
its JMC Airlines, the country's second largest charter airline. The company has
31 shops in Wales, employing 255 people.

A spokesperson said it was too early to say which jobs would be affected. No
"breakdown" had yet been made, she said.

Union officials said the job and pay cuts were a "double blow" for workers.

Thomas Cook, which announced last week that around 2,600 jobs would be lost
across Europe, said that since the September 11 outrage bookings for this winter
and next summer's holidays had declined significantly across the industry.

Chief executive Alan Stewart, one of those whose pay will be cut by 15pc, said,
"We are currently experiencing very tough market conditions. Whilst the measures
we are taking are very unfortunate, they are also necessary at this time."

Thomas Cook said staff pay would be reviewed again in March and pledged that
wage rates would be restored once the industry returned to normality.

Other voluntary moves already introduced include unpaid leave and reduced hours,
which Thomas Cook said would remain in place for the foreseeable future.

Mr Stewart said the market had picked up in the past week and departures for
November had sold well.

"However, customers are not currently committing themselves for holidays later
this winter and for next summer, and this is clearly having a significant impact
on revenues, " he said.

"In line with the capacity cuts we are taking, we have no choice but to make the
unfortunate decision to reduce our headcount."

Thomas Cook, which employs 12,500 staff in the UK, said JMC Airlines would close
up to four of its regional airline bases in the next few weeks.

Staff earning between pounds 10,000 and pounds 20,000 will be asked to agree a
3pc pay cut, rising to 5pc for those paid between pounds 20,000 and pounds
30,000, 7.5pc for workers on pounds 30,000 to pounds 70,000 and 10pc for anyone
earning more than pounds 70,000.

The Transport Salaried Staffs Association met its local officials yesterday and
will hold talks with the company later this week.

"This is a real blow to the employees. Not only are they faced with the threat
of redundancy but they are now being asked to accept less in their pay packets,
" said TSSA official Jo Twite.

"Most people working in the retail shops don't earn very much in the first
place.

"Our concern is that by agreeing to a pay reduction now, there is no guarantee
that jobs will be safeguarded in the future."

Sector takes battering after September 11 NEWS that Thomas Cook is to slice
1,500 from its workforce follows a spate of job cuts in the UK travel industry
since the September 11 attacks.

Last week the same company slashed 2,600 jobs around the world.

Market rivals Thomson is to cut up to 400 jobs at its head offices under a
restructuring programme announced this week.

German-owned Thomson, however, denied the cutback was linked to the US terrorist
attacks.

British Airways declared it was going to shed 5,200 posts in addition to the
1,800 it announced before the attacks.

The national carrier, which has seen share prices plunge to a 10year low, says
it will also cut employees' pay.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DOWNTURN: High street chain Thomas Cook is looking to make savings of
pounds 140m over the next year Picture: SIMON RIDGWAY

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                November 2, 2001

Couple live in fear of attack;
 WORRIED: family man in terror after fire bombers start blaze

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 439 words


A TROWBRIDGE couple say they are living in terror after a homemade petrol bomb
was thrown at their home.

Michael and Pamela Townsend, who are both registered disabled, were in their
Westfield Road home on Wednesday night with their four-year-old nephew, Thomas
Jefferies, when the kitchen Someone had filled a milk bottle with petrol and
thrown it at the kitchen window.

It is the latest in a series of vandal attacks on the couple's home.

Mr Townsend, 59, who contracted TB after a back injury at 15, said: "It started
earlier in the evening, about 7.30, when I had eggs thrown at me - I was
plastered from head to foot.

"We were in the living room at about 9 when we heard something like gravel at
the window and then noticed it was on fire."

The window frame was alight, the net curtains were destroyed and Mr Townsend
burned his hands as he tried to tackle the blaze.

"We have good neighbours around here but I'm worried about leaving my wife alone
now, " he said.

"I was meant to be going on a fishing trip in a couple of weeks but I might have
to cancel, " he added.

"I just wish they would pack it in before too much damage is caused - there will
be a loss of life before long if they are not careful."

About half-a-dozen youths, thought to be aged between 15 and 18, were seen in
the area when the eggs were thrown, but it is not known who threw the petrol
bomb at the house.

Police took fragments of glass from the milk bottle to check for finger prints.

Mrs Townsend, 54, who suffers from diabetes, angina and arthritis, said: "I'm
not going to be pushed out of my home by them. We are not leaving but I am
terrified. I think that no matter where we go they will probably find us.

"I haven't got a clue why they would do this to us. I suppose they have got
nothing else to do and wanted to do something."

It was first thought to have been a horrifying Halloween prank but the couple
have been repeatedly targeted since Saturday night when the front door was
kicked and damaged.

On Monday morning the family discovered the garden gate had been stolen and an
attempt had been made to steal a trailer parked on the drive.

Thomas's mother, Kathy Jefferies, 24, who rushed to be with her family yesterday
morning from her home in Corsham, said: "My son is asthmatic and my aunt and
uncle are not in great health.

"If they had been asleep I dread to think what would have happened."

Sgt Roger Ball at Trowbridge Police Station said: "We have had the forensic team
investigating at the scene but as yet there have been no arrests and our
inquiries are still continuing."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                November 2, 2001

Bath urged to capitalise on 'these difficult times';
 WEAK FOREIGN MARKET: terror attacks 'turned off US visitors like a tap'

BYLINE: Daisy Blake

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 346 words


BATH'S tourism sector should take advantage of the domestic market as the number
of overseas visitors dwindles.

That was the message given by Dick Ensom, president of the Bath Hotels and
Restaurants Association (BHRA), at the organisation's AGM.

He said the city's hotels and restaurants must grasp the opportunity to promote
themselves in Britain while foreign markets was weak.

He said: "There can be no doubt that the home tourism market is very strong at
the moment, a direct result of very unhappy circumstances.

"So let's not wring our hands over the weakness of the foreign market, but grasp
the opportunity which these difficult times have engendered, to promote
ourselves here in Britain."

He said overseas trade had been battered by a combination of the strong pound,
the effects of foot-and-mouth and the terrorist attacks in the US.

The foot-and-mouth epidemic is thought to have cost the city an estimated 19m in
lost income from tourists who have decided not to visit this year. Mr Ensom
added that the US terrorist attacks had caused the flow of Americans to Britain
"to be turned off like a tap".

Mr Ensom said some businesses in the city, where visitors annually spend 195m,
had been hit hard.

But he said others had not suffered as badly, and some had even prospered, with
many tourists choosing Bath for a short break instead of destinations such as
Exmoor or the Lake District.

"I don't suggest that in absolute terms Bath had a great spring and early
summer, but many parts of Britain would die for the volume of business we
continued to enjoy, " he said.

He said the September 11 attacks had not only stopped Americans flying, but also
many British people as well.

He said the difficulties had highlighted the importance of tourism and
encouraged the council to pour more money into promoting the sector.

He also spoke about the opportunities the city's new spa development would
bring.

"We should have a world class spa, offering us a world class opportunity to
re-affirm Bath as a world class city."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                November 2, 2001

Sophisticated scientists behind anthrax attacks;
 War on Terrorism

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 227 words


THE hunt was today under way for the sophisticated scientists believed to be
behind America's deadly anthrax attacks.

Four people have now died from the infection caused by the deadly spores, and a
further 12 cases have been confirmed, six of the more deadly inhalation form of
the disease, and six with skin anthrax.

And panic was spreading as two postal offices in midWestern states found traces
of anthrax on their equipment, the first time the spores have been found outside
the east coast.

Anthrax was found on postal equipment sent to a firm in Indiana for repair and
on garbage bags in a postal centre in Kansas City, Missouri.

The bags had been put round trays which came from the Brentwood sorting office
in Washington where two postal workers died of the infection, two more are
suffering inhalation anthrax, and three remain in hospital suspected of having
contracted it.

Experts are increasingly convinced that well-trained scientists engineered the
attacks, using advanced techniques learned through years of study.

Alan Zelicoff, senior scientist at the Centre for National Security and Arms
Control at the Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque.

"We didn't think that anybody could come up with the appropriate coatings for
anthrax spores to make them float through the air with the greatest of ease, "
he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            November 2, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: DEADLY ATTACKS SPREADING

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 148 words


Traces of anthrax have been found at a postal facility in Missouri, extending
the anthrax threat to the Midwest from the US East Coast.

And in Vilnius, Lithuania, a laboratory confirmed that traces of anthrax were
found in at least one mailbag used by the US Embassy in the former Soviet Baltic
republic, marking the first such case in Europe.

Spores were found in yet more government buildings yesterday, this time in four
Food and Drug Administration mailrooms near Washington. The FDA said yesterday
preliminary tests found anthrax spores in the mailrooms of four of its buildings
in Rockville, Maryland. Further tests were under way.

In New York, investigators were looking for clues in the death of Kathy Nguyen,
a hospital worker who died two days ago after inhaling anthrax. Her death had
officials worried the attacks could be hitting a new group of Americans.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            November 2, 2001, Friday

POUNDS 10M ORDER FOR AEROSPACE FIRM;
 NEW JOY AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Jon Griffin Business Editor

SECTION: ROP; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 314 words


BIRMINGHAM aerospace supplier Apollo is fighting back hard from the impact of
the US atrocities - with a new pounds 10 million order.

The Tyseley-based group, which recently announced 100 job losses, has won a
lucrative Ministry of Defence order in partnership with Unipart Defence
Logistics.

The order will see the two organisations manage and supply a wide range of
metals in an initial five-year contract, worth an estimated pounds 10 million.

It follows a turbulent period for Apollo, which recently announced 20 per cent
of its 550-strong workforce were to go in line with cutbacks from major aircraft
builders. Around half the employees are based at the Birmingham headquarters.

Unipart's Surestock division will act as the main contractor with Apollo engaged
as the nominated supplier, providing a range of supply chain management services
and metal products.

Clive Orford, Apollo director responsible for strategic development, said: 'This
contract is the start of a long term partnership with Unipart and the MOD.

'As a materials supply chain specialist we are ideally suited as Unipart's
partner to advise and work with the MOD to help develop their logistics
operations and procurement processes.

'We believe that significant savings can be made through process improvements
and by providing a single point of contact for all materials requirements.'

The contract joy comes just four months after Apollo unveiled a pounds 300
million deal with aerospace giant BAE Systems.

Expertise

The Birmingham group, which has more than 600 employees across nine
international locations, will supply the UK aerospace group with pounds 50
million worth of its products and expertise over the next 10 years.

Apollo is the world's leading supplier of specialist materials and services for
the aerospace, defence and other hi-tech industries.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            November 2, 2001, Friday

PUPILS FORGE LINKS WITH NEW YORK;
 TERROR ATTACKS PROMPT CHILDREN AND POLICE TO SHOW THEIR SUPPORT

BYLINE: Laura Capewell PEN PALS: Pupils (left to right) twins Helen and Anthony
Davies and; Mary Watkins with their letter from America

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 255 words


CHILDREN at a Rugby secondary school have formed friendships across the Atlantic
after writing to pupils at a New York high school.

The youngsters at Bishop Wulstan RC School wrote to pupils at Ralph G Reed
Junior High School, in Central Islip, New York, after receiving the address from
a woman with relatives in the area.

They sent off their letters after the terrorist attacks last month and this week
received a response.

Now staff at the Oak Street school are hoping to set up e-mail links. Year seven
teacher Charlotte Welton explained: "Our students wrote "Dear schoolchildren . .
." and whatever they felt they wanted to wish them. Some of them said they were
on the bus on the morning the terror attacks happened in New York and they were
really shocked. They said they hoped they and their families are OK.

"Because we are a Catholic school, we said lots of prayers after it all
happened, and when the children were doing the letters they wanted to talk about
the whole situation because, like all of us, they didn't understand how it could
have happened."

The letter back from the New York school thanked the children for their kindness
and warm wishes. It talked about America and Britain as friends and allies and
expressed how grateful the staff and pupils are that Rugby children are thinking
of them.

Miss Welton added: "The children are really pleased to have had a reply and we
are now talking to our ICT co-ordinators to set up e-mail links so we can carry
on the correspondence."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            November 2, 2001, Friday

AIRBUS JOBS THREAT;
 LOSSES CAN'T BE RULED OUT AT NORTH WALES FACTORY AS US TERROR ATTACKS TAKE
THEIR TOLL

BYLINE: Carl Butler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 491 words


JOB losses cannot be ruled out at the North Wales Airbus factory in the wake of
the terror attacks on America.

Airbus managing director and general manager Tom Williams has warned employees
it would be "foolish to promise that we will emerge from this period unscathed".

BAE's Airbus wing-making factory at Broughton, Deeside, has already suffered a
freeze on recruitment and production rates because of the industry's downturn
following the terrorist atrocities.

Writing in the company's newspaper, Mr Williams said he believed there would be
an eventual upturn and Broughton, which employs just over 5,000 workers, and its
sister Airbus factory at Filton, Bristol, would be well placed to take
advantage.

But he said it would be some time before the full extent of the shocking tragedy
in New York and Washington became clear.

Mr Williams said a review of overtime and shift patterns may be considered.

"These steps are aimed at reducing our break even point while minimising the
impact on employment; however, we cannot rule out the potential for job losses,
" he said.

"We are meeting with airline customers, some of whom have cash flow problems. So
far our order book remains unchanged. There will undoubtedly be some
rescheduling but we are working hard to deliver sold aircraft.

"It will be foolish to promise that we will emerge from this period unscathed.
But we an take some reassurance that we have entered this period on a sounder
footing than many others in the industry."

He added: "Key investments under way in the UK will be completed - the new West
factory at Broughton and the new office block at Filton for example. Brian Fleet
(the Broughton manager) has begun a review of our other investment plans.

"It is vital we continue to prepare for A380 (the giant 550seater Airbus), but
we must avoid unnecessary investment related solely to capacity increases.

"As far as recruitment is concerned, our apprentices, an investment in our
future, have been taken on."

Work on the A380 will mean increases in engineering staff and sub-contractors.
"All other vacancies are under review, especially those positions which might be
filled through internal candidates, " he said.

BAE Broughton union convenor Rob Dowy said: "We have further meetings with Tom
Williams later this month when he is going to bring us up to date. We have done
as much as we can at a local level to mitigate the position at an early stage.

"We understand the whole industry is in crisis and we are doing whatever we can
and will be looking for government support. The situation does look bleak for
the whole industry. It beggars belief what has happened.

"It is good news that our parent company has taken a responsible stance and not
made a knee jerk reaction. No one who works in this industry will remain
untouched. A lot of people in our supply chain are nervous and rightly so. This
is no one's fault."

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                November 2, 2001

War on terror: Sellafield on attack alert

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 190 words


AIRCRAFT deliberately crashed into the Sellafield nuclear processing plant in
Cumbria could cause 50 times the devastation of Chernobyl, a conference of the
world's nuclear safety experts will be told today.

The International Atomic Energy Agency is meeting in Vienna to discuss growing
fears that terrorists could be planning an atomic attack.

It warns that the September 11 outrages mean an act of nuclear terrorism must be
considered 'much more likely'.

European government officials, including those in Britain, said last night they
were reviewing security measures at nuclear installations because of mounting
concern they could be the next target.

The IAEA is warning that the prospect of nuclear attacks mean 'there is no
sanctuary any more, no safety zone'.

It is calling for all countries, including the UK, to urgently review security.

A report, details of which were broadcast last night by Channel 4's Dispatches,
warns that an aircraft deliberately flown into Sellafield could be several dozen
times more serious than Chernobyl which exposed more than five million people to
increased radiation.


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                November 2, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: California bridges 'face terror attack'

BYLINE: James Langton

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 419 words



TERRORISTS are planning to blow up the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco as
one of a number of targets on the west coast of America, the governor of
California said last night.

Governor Gray Davis claimed law enforcement agents had uncovered "credible
evidence" of a plot to blow up four bridges in California during the rush-hour
between today and next Wednesday.

Suspected targets include the Golden Gate, the Vincent Thomas Bridge in Los
Angeles and the Coronado Bridge in San Diego.

Announcing increased security, the governor said he had ordered National Guard
troops to protect bridges. "The best preparation is to let the terrorists know:
'We know what you're up to. We're ready. You're not going to succeed,'" he said.

The targets were named just two days after US attorney general John Ashcroft and
FBI director Robert Mueller placed America on the highest alert, warning
"credible" intelligence indicated a likely attack on the USor its interests
overseas in the coming days, linked to Osama bin Laden and his al Qaeda network.
The FBI had said on

Monday that the threat to California was " uncorroborated", but added later it
was checking intelligence reports of six planned attacks in California and
Oregon over the next five days. "No further information about the alleged
attacks is known at this time," an FBI statement said.

Security around the 4,200ft Golden Gate suspension bridge, which spans the
entrance to San Francisco Bay and carries some 270,000 vehicles a day, was
stepped up two weeks ago after four Pakistani men, believed to be illegal
immigrants, were arrested while seen videotaping the bridge. They were later
released without charge. Coastguard boats are patrolling the waters in the area.

Police diving teams have also checked underwater supports of the Vincent Thomas
Bridge.

The warning was also sent to authorities in the states of Nevada, Arizona,
Montana, Idaho and Utah, where the next Winter Olympic Games will be held in
February. Washington intelligence experts believe the most dangerous period in
the current alert will be over the next 24 hours Part of an American Airlines
terminal at John F Kennedy airport in New York was closed for several hours last
night after Federal Aviation Authority officials saw security workers failing to
stop passengers even after they had set off metal detectors.

Eight flights, including one to London, were halted as passengers were
rescreened. The FAA said it would hold an inquiry.


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                November 2, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: Prudential sheds 2,100 jobs in wake of US terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 98 words



PRUDENTIAL is to cut 2,100 jobs in Britain as the embattled insurance industry
fights to cut costs in the wake of the 11 September attacks. About half will be
compulsory redundancies.

Union sources said 1,250 jobs would go at the company's Reading base, more than
200 in London and 140 in Ilford. The remainder will be spread around the
country.

Prudential also revealed today that it is ending its involvement in general
insurance as part of a deal with Swiss group Winterthur. Winterthur will sell
motor and home policies through Prudential's Churchill operation.


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                November 2, 2001

Londoner's Diary: KEN Livingstone remains confident that London can deal with a
terror attack - despite all the worries about anthrax.

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 93 words



* KEN Livingstone remains confident that London can deal with a terror attack -
despite all the worries about anthrax.

"We reviewed our existing protection. Several years ago we held a major exercise
on the Underground and regarding precautions we're completely on top of it," the
Mayor told me last night at the London First Diwali 2001 Dinner at the Hotel
Intercontinental in Hyde Park, also attended by Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy.
"I'm not worried," added Ken. "I use the Tube every day and I've no intention of
changing my plans."


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 2, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: NEW TARGETS - THE THREAT TO EUROPE: ATTACKS ON NUCLEAR STATIONS
FEARED

BYLINE: Alex Williams And Nic North

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 632 words

HIGHLIGHT: ALERT: Sellafield could be a target; RISK: Hinkley Point power
station; HEAVILY PROTECTED: French nuclear plants have missile defence systems
and guards


TERROR attacks on nuclear power stations are "far more likely" after the events
of September 11, experts warned yesterday.

The International Atomic Energy Agency said a hijacked plane crashing into a
nuclear facility could cause a Chernobyl-style disaster.

An attack on the Sellafield nuclear fuel plant in Cumbria could kill thousands
and render swathes of Britain and Ireland uninhabitable.

Nuclear installations in Britain are designed to withstand earthquakes,
tornadoes and the impact of small aircraft, not commercial airliners laden with
fuel.

IAEA director general Mohamed El Baradei said: "The willingness of terrorists to
sacrifice their lives to achieve their evil aims creates a new dimension in the
fight on terrorism.

"We are not just dealing with the possibility of governments diverting nuclear
materials into clandestine weapons programmes. Now we have been alerted to the
potential of terrorists targeting nuclear facilities.

"The whole world needs to join together and take responsibility for the security
of nuclear material."

The warning came as worldwide experts gathered for today's meeting at the UN
nuclear watchdog agency to discuss nuclear terrorism. Mr El Baradei said
radiation knows no frontiers and nations have to demonstrate their security
systems are strong.

The IAEA said it needs at least pounds 21million more a year to research nuclear
terrorism.

The use of nuclear material in peaceful programmes worldwide has increased six
-fold since 1970. There are now 438 nuclear power reactors, 651 research
reactors - of which 284 are operational - and 250 fuel cycle plants.

Britain has 15 nuclear sites. Like the World Trade Center, they are designed to
withstand only accidental impacts and ground vehicle attacks.

The reactors have a concrete shell - of four to 10ft - and a steel lining. The
base is the strongest part, with the top being the most vulnerable.

Yesterday, the Japanese tested the security of a power plant by crashing a 20
-tonne Phantom Jet at 500mph into a concrete structure.

The jet vaporised after piercing the concrete by just 2.4 inches. But David Kyd
of the IAEA said: "No one has tried crashing a 200-tonne plane full of fuel into
a plant.

"Prior to September 11, the scenario was unthinkable and therefore their design
was not conceived to withstand the impact of a jumbo jet laden with fuel."

Dr Frank Barnaby, a nuclear physicist at Oxford Research Group, warned that
Sellafield and Cap de la Hague in Normandy are likely targets because they are
home to the only reprocessing plants in Europe outside Russia.

Sellafield employs 6,000 people and has 70 tonnes of plutonium, vast stores of
uranium and 1,500 cubic metres of radioactive waste.

He said: "The 21 huge tanks of very, very radioactive liquid stored in
reprocessing plants are the very big risks. They contain a huge amount of
radioactivity."

A direct hit by an airliner could destroy a plant's cooling system, which would
cause the nuclear rods to overheat and produce a steam explosion.

The initial hit would produce a fireball that would last a minute and send
radioactivity two miles into the atmosphere. Subsequent fall-out would spread
further.

Dr Barnaby said areas "hundreds of miles away" would be affected and there would
be intense fires for days. Bosses at Dungeness in Kent yesterday said their
complex was almost impregnable with the reactors buried halfway into the ground.

On the continent, France and Hungary are deploying ground-to-air missiles near
nuclear sites.

France has 19 nuclear plants producing 76 per cent of the nation's electricity,
the highest proportion of any country. In Britain, security has been stepped up
but missile defence has not been contemplated.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           November 3, 2001, Saturday

HEALTH: FIGHTING OFF TERRORISTS' THREATS - THIS TIME IT'S PERSONAL;
 AS GLOBAL FEARS OF MORE TERRORIST ATTACKS GROW, GABRIELLE FAGAN TALKS TO A
SECURITY EXPERT ABOUT HOW WE CAN PROTECT OURSELVES

BYLINE: Gabrielle Fagan Postal workers now take no risks when opening suspicious
packages

SECTION: Pg. 46

LENGTH: 858 words


The warning from the FBI that Britain as well as the US could face terrorist
attacks this week will trigger renewed fears among millions of people for their
personal safety.

Despite general guidance from the Government and police in the UK, many
individuals and companies still feel totally at a loss to know exactly what to
do to protect themselves, especially when the threat is so unspecific.

Uncertainty and anxiety as a result of September 11 have already resulted in
employees and businesses altering work patterns and reducing overseas travel to
avoid potentially risky situations.

That's coupled with growing unease in the workplace over the insidious and
frightening threat of germ warfare experienced in the States with potentially
deadly anthrax germs delivered in the post.

British-based security expert James Rainey is currently inundated with daily
calls from companies on both sides of the Atlantic seeking advice on countering
attacks. His response is blunt: 'The public must face up to the fact that
heightened awareness and vigilance plus personal security strategies must now
become part of our daily lives.

'This is vital now and for the foreseeable future. The terrorist attack on
America was the most successful ever because of its global impact on almost
every country in the world.

'Undoubtedly a terrorist organisation will now aim to repeat that effect. To
beat any counter-terrorist action ranged against it, it may take a different
form or focus on a new target. But this should not be seen as a short-term
problem.'

Rainey, 51, who has worldwide experience of combating terrorism both in a 25
year army career and as a security consultant, urges: 'Industry and commerce
must not become paralysed by fear because that negative reaction was undoubtedly
one of the aims of the terrorist action.'

In response to the current crisis his company, Genric Ltd - whose staff include
former SAS members - has just launched a complete security strategy for
individuals.

Available on video, it highlights the risks from terrorism and crime ranging
from car bombs to personal attack. It aims to educate people about security
procedures and arm them with easy-to-practise techniques to reduce danger.

Key risk areas are pinpointed, such as airport departure and arrival lounges,
the car and hotels, while office and street security is also included.
Guidelines can be further enhanced by training tailor-made for individuals or
firms.

'Companies should see this latest threat as a starting point to analyse and
evaluate the security risks facing them and consider whether their precautions
are adequate and appropriate,' says Rainey.

'We know through the tremendous upsurge in our business that employees are well
aware that the office and travel environments are not as safe and secure as they
once thought.'

And he stresses: 'This is not intended to frighten people. Exactly the reverse,
because it is vital that people are reassured by being informed and prepared and
so are confident to carry on working and travelling normally.'

But he warns that individuals should not assume the dangers increase when they
are abroad.

'People are more vulnerable in their home country, where they drop their guard
because they are more trusting about surroundings and strangers. Basic security
precautions should be practised wherever you are so they are automatic.'

SECURITY GUIDELINES

DEALING WITH POST: Be alert for packages that are heavy for their size with
weight unevenly distributed, signs of grease marks or smelling of engine oil or
marzipan.

Parcel bombs may have extra stamps, protruding silver foil or wires or show
signs of being tampered with.

If they contain powder or anything suspicious, stay calm and try not to inhale.
Leave the package where it can be viewed from all sides. Evacuate the area and
isolate all those who may have been contaminated. Alert emergency services.

AIR TRAVEL: Airports have been terrorist targets so minimise time there by
checking ahead about flight delays or cancellations. Avoid sitting by windows,
litter bins or unattended luggage where explosive devices could be hidden. Don't
sit next to military or security personnel who could be terrorist targets.

Ideally ensure you can carry locked luggage unassisted. Only label with company
address, not your name or nationality. Collect baggage immediately to avoid
tampering. Ensure any company driver meeting you uses a coded greeting to
confirm validity.

IN FLIGHT: Statistically hijackers are less likely to choose passengers sitting
by a window. Be near but not next to an exit, as security services may storm
those doors.

HOTEL SECURITY: Ensure your room is above the first floor and below the seventh.
Be vigilant against theft or attacks in lifts and tell reception not to disclose
your room number without permission. Secure room door with a rubber door wedge.

Safe And Secure Video/CD-Rom is available from International News Productions
Ltd, 292 Vauxhall Bridge Road, London SW1V 1AE. Tel: 020 7821 6264. Genric Ltd:
Tel: 01752 707 469, www.genric.co.uk.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 3, 2001

CITY & BUSINESS EDITED BY STEPHEN KAHN :; US TERROR ATTACKS COST 500 JOBS AT
HOTELS GROUP

BYLINE: ANDREW JOHNSON

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 90

LENGTH: 129 words


THE Millennium & Copthorne hotels group has laid off more than 500 staff because
of the terror attacks on the US.

Chief executive John Wilson warned that profits for the second half would slump.
Next year, he said, would prove "challenging".

The firm operates upmarket hotels in Europe, Asia and North America. One of its
properties, the Millennium Hilton, is in Ground Zero, New York, and is still
closed. The losses from this have been covered by the company's insurance but US
revenues have fallen 61 per cent in the second half of September and 39 per cent
in October on the same periods last time.

In the first half of this year, Millennium reported a pre-tax profit of GBP
46million, down 14 per cent on last time.

The shares fell 3p to 213p.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 3, 2001, Saturday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: AIR ATTACKS - 'CLEAR EVIDENCE' REVEALED OF MASS
CIVILIAN CASUALTIES

BYLINE: Andrew Gumbel Prayers being said yesterday at the graves of relatives
killed in; American attacks on Chowkar-Karez. Up to 35 civilians may have died
Mian; Khursheed/Reuters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 581 words


WESTERN JOURNALISTS and human rights organisations published the clearest
evidence yet of mass civilian casualties as a result of the American bombing
campaign yesterday.

At least 25 people, and possibly as many as 35, were wiped out on the night of
22 October in Chowkar-Karez, a small village 25 miles north of the Taliban
stronghold of Kandahar, according to reports based on the accounts of
eyewitnesses in the village and survivors ferried to hospital in the Pakistani
city of Quetta.

The Pentagon has confirmed that an AC-130 Spectre gunship attacked the village.
According to the villagers, however, there were several aircraft, not just one.

Explosions from the attack, they reported, pulverised the mud walls of houses
and gouged craters 15ft deep in the ground. The planes then returned and opened
fire on terrified villagers running through the streets, resulting in the worst
of the casualties.

According to Human Rights Watch, the first organisation to publish the
eyewitness accounts, the villagers were unanimous in saying no relevant target
was in the area.

"If there were military targets in the area, we'd like to know what they were,"
said Sidney Jones, Asia director of Human Rights Watch. "The Pentagon has got to
do more to avoid these deaths."

A spokesman for the US military insisted the village was a legitimate target.
"There was a positively identified Taliban encampment, which included al-Qa'ida
collaborators, in the vicinity of Chowkar that was struck on October," the
Pentagon official told The Washington Post. "The encampment was fully developed
and was a legitimate military target under the law of armed conflict."

Evidence unearthed by Western journalists who visited the village on Thursday,
however, suggested the attack might just as easily have been the result of a
terrible mistake.

A Kandahar man identifying himself only as Mehmood told The New York Times that
he had brought a large number of relatives to Chowkar-Karez in the belief that
they would be safer there than in Kandahar.

The line of cars coming into the village carrying them might have been mistaken
for a Taliban military convoy, he suggested. "I brought my family here for
safety, and now there are 19 dead, including my wife, my two children, my
brother, sister, sister-in-law, nieces, nephews and my uncle," Mehmood said.

Human Rights Watch noted that in previous cases it had investigated, ordinary
Afghans were quick to identify potential targets in the area. "It is impossible
for (us) to verify independently whether Taliban or al-Qa'ida military targets
existed in the area of Chowkar-Karez village, but the consistent statements of
all witnesses and survivors that there were none is notable," the organisation
said.

Visiting journalists counted 18 fresh graves but were told the villagers had not
been able to sort out numerous severed limbs and body parts to give each person
their own final resting place. "As we buried the dead, the planes came again,"
said an old farmer called Mangal, who claimed to have lost 30 relatives
including 12 women and 14 children. "We had to work quickly. Not everyone got
their own grave."

The United States has faced growing criticism for the civilian casualties of the
bombing campaign, with many political analysts fearing that reports like the
ones from Chowkar-Karez will bolster support for the Taliban in the Islamic
world and destabilise the friendly government in Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 3, 2001, Saturday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: INTELLIGENCE - TERRORISTS SPOKE OF ATTACK MORE
DEVASTATING THAN 11 SEPTEMBER

BYLINE: David Usborne In New York The north tower of the Golden Gate Bridge in
San Francisco. It is one of four suspension bridges in California that could be
possible terrorist targets, according to the FBI, which urged new vigilance
Justin; Sullivan/Reuters; Gray Davis: Decided to publicise FBI warning

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1180 words


A SERIES of intercepted telephone conversations between suspected members of
Osama bin Laden's al-Qa'ida network prompted George Bush's decision to order a
general terror alert for the United States on Monday, reports said yesterday.

The calls indicated an attack against America that would be even more
devastating than the 11 September assaults.

The CIA and the FBI presented the information to President Bush and his national
security team on Monday morning. While the intelligence from the telephone calls
was chilling, officials wrangled for hours over whether the public should hear
about it.

A general warning issued by the Attorney General, John Ashcroft, on 11 October,
had drawn sharp criticism from some Congressmen. They complained that the
warning then was too vague to be of much use to the authorities but sufficiently
ominous to unsettle already nervous Americans.

Mr Bush, supported by Mr Ashcroft, finally resolved that the latest alert had to
be put out, even though, as on 11 October, there was little of a specific nature
that could be passed on either to authorities around the country or to the
public. Mr Bush considered the contents of the telephone intercepts too
significant to ignore, officials have revealed.

The US government was still wrestling yesterday with the issue of whether and
when to pass on security alerts to the citizenry. The Governor of California,
Gray Davis, decided on his own on Thursday to make public a confidential warning
that had been conveyed to him and to seven other western states by the FBI on
Wednesday. The warning said terrorists might be planning attacks on suspension
bridges in the West Coast, beginning yesterday.

The Governor's announcement, made at a hastily arranged press conference,
triggered charges yesterday that he was overreacting and sowing panic
unnecessarily among Californians.

Transcripts of the al-Qa'ida intercepts have not been made available. Officials
said, however, that they were especially frightening. The operatives who were
overheard were apparently speaking in tones of great urgency. They were
reportedly talking about attacks that would be bigger than those of 11
September, which killed about 5,000 Americans.

US intelligence agencies believed the intercepts were credible partly because
the interlocutors wrongly expressed their confidence that no one was
eavesdropping on them. They were, therefore, speaking relatively freely. They
also suggested that attacks would occur in the ensuing days.

Mr Bush and his advisers were faced with a dilemma when they saw the
information. In spite of the compelling nature of the telephone calls, once
again there was nothing in the way of details. Nobody was able to say what the
nature of the new strikes might be, when they would occur exactly, or even if
they would take place on US soil or against American targets abroad.

The FBI, headed by Robert Mueller, was opposed to issuing a country- wide alert
while nothing more specific could be made available. The agency feared that law
enforcement authorities around the country would be irritated by a warning that
had no substance. But Mr Ashcroft and other members of Mr Bush's cabinet
disagreed, and the President made his decision on Monday afternoon. Mr Ashcroft
then went before the microphones half an hour before the evening television news
bulletins.

White House officials spent part of the week defending the decision to go
public. There is a cry-wolf risk involved; the more times the government says
there is new danger when nothing ends up happening, the less inclined people are
likely to be to take the next warning seriously.

There is speculation that nothing happened after the alert on 11 October because
whatever had been planned by al-Qa'ida was either postponed or cancelled after
some of its operatives were caught in the international anti -terror operation
and arrested.

It is also possible that, in issuing the alerts, the government is addressing
the terrorists as well as everyone else. The message, in other words, is: We
know what you are up to, we are ready for it and we are ready for you.

And while most cities across America were already on very high alert, the new
warning on Monday may have galvanised officials once more to be on their toes.
The warning led to a few additional preventive measures being taken. No-flight
zones were established around all of America's nuclear power plants last week as
well as around the Sears Tower in Chicago, now the country's tallest skyscraper.

Politics is also playing a part. Washington is acutely aware of the trouble that
would ensue if another terror strike were to take place and the media was to
find out subsequently that public officials had had some degree of prior
warning, but had chosen to keep it to themselves. The advantage of going public
with the alerts is that all political rear- ends are thus conveniently covered.

Notably, Governor Davis, a Democrat, faces a re-election race next year. With
his dramatic announcement of the possible threat to the Golden Gate bridge in
San Francisco and other bridges in his states, he assured himself front-page
attention on newspapers across the country.

However, the warning about the suspension bridges transpired to be similar to
many others sent by the FBI to states around the country in the past few weeks.
The bureau has not been able to corroborate the bridge warning.

In its note, sent to eight western states late on Wednesday, the FBI asked for
new vigilance at suspension bridges. (In his press conference, Mr Davis
identified one bridge that might be targeted that was not a suspension bridge.
Aides said he was just speculating.) The FBI told the governors: "Reportedly,
unspecified groups are targeting suspension bridges on the West Coast. Six
incidents are to take place during rush hour beginning Friday, 2 November, and
continuing through 7 November, 2001."

Mr Davis, moreover, was ignoring a footnote to the FBI warning that said clearly
that "this communication should not be furnished to the media or other agencies
outside law enforcement".

Among those enraged that Mr Davis took it into his own hands to go public with
the information was Alameda's County Sheriff, Charles Plummer, who is Northern
California's liaison to state emergency officials. He said he did not believe
the threat was credible.

"After (Mr Davis) had his press conference, I went ballistic," Sheriff Plummer
said. "Now I have people scared, for what? For nothing. I wish the governor
would govern and leave us alone."

Tom Ridge, the Secretary for Homeland Security, said there was no "universal
blueprint" for deciding whether to release terrorism information.

Federal authorities "thought it was important enough to relate to the Governor,
and the Governor thought it was important enough to relate to his citizens," he
said. "There are times when I believe both the credibility and the scope and
nature of the threats require and provide a basis for our speaking to the
public."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            November 4, 2001, Sunday

SECURITY: OVER THERE THEY'RE PANICKING ABOUT TERROR ATTACKS. OVER HERE WE
HAVEN'T EVEN STARTED ...

BYLINE: Geoffrey Lean, Severin Carrell, And Andrew Gumbel In Washington
Clockwise from top: the Forth rail bridge, Waterloo, Canary Wharf,; Sellafield
and a sorting office ANDY PARADISE; SIMON BARBER; JOHN FURLONG;; COLIN McPHERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 748 words


In America each day brings a new anthrax scare or warning of imminent attacks.
Here we have quietly issued postal workers with rubber gloves. The US is accused
of over-reacting. But are we doing enough to protect ourselves?.
  Confusion is growing, frustration is building, and tempers are flaring as the
United States struggles to come to grips with what President Bush and other
senior politicians like to call "a new kind of war".

The question that increasingly troubles emergency service co-ordinators is: will
Britain fare any better if al-Qa'ida strikes here? Whitehall is moving, albeit
slowly, to put preventative measures in place.

In both countries, a kind of endemic cluelessness is emerging as officials
struggle to face up to the new challenges that confront them on the home front.
The wave of solidarity that rose up in the immediate aftermath of 11 September
is increasingly giving way to bickering and disagreement over how to manage the
crisis.

One month after the first anthrax death in the United States, officials there
admit they still have no idea who is responsible for sending out the lethal
envelopes, or even whether the source is international or home- grown. Late last
week, Robert Mueller, the director of the FBI, was forced to admit that his
agency had got precisely nowhere.

Almost eight weeks after the calamitous events of 11 September, US prosecutors
have yet to charge a single person with involvement in the attacks, or uncover
any specific future plot against American targets.

Warnings of new threats are proving nebulous and attracting widespread
criticism, as public officials from John Ashcroft, the Attorney General, to
Governor Gray Davis of California are accused of fomenting panic with little
discernible benefit to public safety.

Californian officials admitted late last week that Governor Davis was firing off
names at random when he gave his warning about specific threats to four bridges
in the state, including the Golden Gate in San Francisco.

In New York on Friday, firefighters furious with the city for restricting their
shifts at the World Trade Centre site on health and safety grounds actually came
to blows with police officers. They also demanded the resignation of Mayor Rudy
Giuliani, the man who not so long ago was seen as a guardian angel figure who
could do no wrong.

In Britain, the Royal Mail has secretly started issuing gloves to partially
protect its 140,000 delivery and sorting office staff from anthrax, memos leaked
to The Independent on Sunday reveal. The gloves were first made available last
Thursday to staff at the four international sorting offices that receive mail
from the US - at Heathrow, Mount Pleasant in London, Manchester and Glasgow.

Consignia, owner of the Royal Mail, said the move was designed to reassure its
staff who were afraid of the potential risks of handling contaminated mail.

The Communication Workers Union has protested that the measure is half- hearted
because it purports only to protect its staff from cutaneous anthrax, and not
the much deadlier inhalation anthrax caught from airborne spores. But the
company has dismissed the protests and refuse to issue gas masks.

Meanwhile, ministers have only begun seriously to consider imposing no- fly
zones around all of Britain's nuclear power stations after they were told on
Friday that there had been three flights by journalists over reactors in the
previous 24 hours.

Their obsession with secrecy seemed to be reaching parts untouched by repeated
warnings of the danger of an aircraft hitting the plants, by British Energy,
which generates most of Britain's nuclear power.

The firm has been pressing the Government to ban flights near reactors for more
than two years, following the crash of a Tornado fighter a mile from its plant
at Torness in Scotland. It stepped up its pleas after 11 September, but these
continued to be ignored by the Department of Trade and Industry.

Experts say that a jumbo jet crashing into a nuclear power station could make it
melt down, emitting huge amounts of radioactivity that could cause tens of
thousands of cancers and contaminate tens of thousands of square miles for
generations.

An attack on Sellafield - where vast quantities of nuclear waste are stored -
could be far worse, causing a catastrophe 100 times greater than the Chernobyl
disaster, and killing two million people from cancer, according to authoritative
estimates.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                November 4, 2001

Martin tells of jail attack terror after court victory;
Farmer who killed burglar fears prisoners whose appeals failed will take revenge
on him

BYLINE: Fiona Barton

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 541 words


NORFOLK farmer Tony Martin, who last week was cleared of murdering a teenage
burglar, has talked for the first time of his fears for his future.

The 55-year-old bachelor, who had his life sentence reduced to five years for
the manslaughter of Fred Barras, is said to be delighted that he is no longer
branded a murderer. But he admits that he is worried about the reaction of other
inmates and the life that awaits him outside prison.

A close friend who spoke to Martin in prison after the Appeal Court decision,
said: 'Tony is in good spirits because he cannot now be called a murderer or a
liar.

I cannot tell you how important that is to him. He would have stayed in prison
for 100 years in order to clear his name. But he has been moved from a lifers'
prison and is a bit worried about mixing with petty criminals because there is a
lot of resentment.

He is concerned that others whose appeals have been turned down will try to get
at him.' Martin, who shot 16-year-old Barras and a second burglar, Brendon
Fearon, when they broke into his isolated farmhouse, is currently being held at
the 150-year-old Category B prison HMP Pentonville in north London. It is likely
he will be moved to a lower category jail before he is considered for parole in
a year's time.

His eventual release is also troubling him. His friend, who prefers not to be
named, said: 'One day he will be a free man and go back to his farm. It is
strange. He had the opportunity to visit the farm before he was sentenced when
he was on bail, but he wouldn't go. He said it would be too upsetting.

'When he comes out of prison he will go back there, but whether he will live
there again, I just do not know. For now, he just wants to be released and to be
a free man.' She added: 'I think the result is beginning to sink in. He feels
that we have got over one hurdle and he can now see light at the end of the
tunnel.' But Martin's time behind bars has had an unexpected benefit. He lived a
very reclusive life, but has now been forced to be part of a wider community.

The farmer, who has become a cause celebre in the debate over the rights of
property owners to defend themselves and their possessions, is waiting to see if
a new legal challenge to his conviction can go before the House of Lords.

But last week, his lawyer, James Saunders, was forced to petition the Director
General of the Prison Service, Martin Narey, to gain access to his client.

With only 14 days to prepare their next submissions, Mr Saunders found himself
unable to see or speak to Martin. Numerous calls and faxes asking for an urgent
appointment to see him have gone unanswered Clearly exasperated, Mr Saunders
said: 'The right to see one's lawyer is a right enshrined in the European
Convention on Human Rights, but not as far as Pentonville is concerned.

'I have phoned and faxed the prison asking to see Tony Martin but there has been
no response. I have only got 14 days to prepare submissions and I have not
managed to speak to Tony once.' A spokeswoman for the Prison Service said:
'Space for legal visits is limited. Spaces are booked in advance and the prison
is at full capacity 1,200 prisoners. They may have to wait a week for a visit.'


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CLEARED: BUT TONY MARTIN IS STILL AFRAID

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                November 4, 2001

Crisis in brief: Bush brands anthrax attacks 'second wave of terrorism' as he
tries to reassure public

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 137 words


Calling the recent anthrax cases 'a second wave of terrorist attacks', President
George W. Bush praised Americans for their calm and vowed to share all credible
information. He devoted his entire weekly radio address to the issue. He said
there was no precedent for the biological attack and praised health officials
for acting quickly to distribute antibiotics to those who might have been
exposed and swiftly testing post offices and other sites for anthrax spores.

But while White House spokesman Ari Fleischer sought to assure Americans their
mail was safe, Postmaster-General John Potter said 'there are no guarantees' and
urged Americans to wash their hands after handling it. FBI Director Robert
Mueller said on Friday investigators still had no idea who was responsible for
the anthrax attacks.


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                November 4, 2001

THOUSANDS of Eurostar passengers are at risk of terrorist attacks inside the
Channel Tunnel because of appalling loopholes in security.

BYLINE: Cotterill Rob (Sentinel)

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 22 words


LIVE bacterial spores which mimic anthrax will be deliberately released on
postal workers to see how quickly the weapon spreads.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                November 4, 2001

BRITAIN'S 40,000 part-time soldiers will be given a new role in protecting key
targets from terrorist attack by Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network.

BYLINE: Cotterill Rob (Sentinel)

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 22 words


BRITAIN'S fourth largest mobile phone operator, One2One, is planning an overhaul
of its business amid fears of mass redundancies.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                November 4, 2001

MP attacks rush on anti-terrorism Bill BY Bob Podmore Parliamentary reporter
ATTACK: MP Mark Fisher has criticized anti-terrorist laws

BYLINE: Tideswell Martin (Sentinel)

SECTION: NEWS; POLITICS; NationalGov'ment; Pg. 13-NEWS

LENGTH: 427 words


CONTROVERSIAL anti-terrorist laws which allow suspects to be imprisoned without
trial were attacked by Stoke-on-Trent Central MP Mark Fisher.  He claimed the
legislation was being rushed through too quickly without proper scrutiny and
neither the House of Commons nor the country would be well served.

The emergency anti-terrorism measures were backed by a huge majority despite
criticism from all sides during a lengthy debate.

Home Secretary David Blunkett faced searching attacks from his own side and the
Opposition benches as he defended strict new curbs brought forward after the
September 11 attacks on America.

Ministers have allowed just three days to rush the Bill through all its Commons
stages.

Mr Blunkett denied there was too little time to consider what he described as a
"rational, reasonable and proportionate" response to the September 11 outrage.

But Mr Fisher said although it was possible to accept action was needed he
remained "very unhappy" with some features.

He insisted: "Last weekend, looking around our constituencies, did MPs see the
life of this nation being threatened?  "We saw people flocking to see early
showings of Harry Potter and others doing Christmas shopping. We also saw trains
trying to run on time - the life of this nation is not at risk." The MP said he
was perturbed at the speed with which the legislation was moving through
Parliament and claimed that when Parliament passed legislation at speed it was
seldom good.

He added: "I fear the roots of much of the Bill lie in the need to be seen to be
doing something in the face of horrific dangers and anxieties. That is a very
bad basis for legislation." The huge 124-clause Bill includes measures to detain
suspected terrorists, tighten airport security, freeze suspected terrorists'
funds and create a new offence of incitement to religious hatred.

Mr Fisher, a former minister, added: "When this House acts quickly, it seldom
acts wisely." Today Staffordshire Moorlands MP Charlotte Atkins said the issues
surrounding the anti-terrorism bill were "very serious" but the measures to
tackle terrorists were necessary in the present climate.

She said: "I support the measures and I think they are very important in the
circumstances. The actions are a big step but justified.

"Everyone in the debate was aware of the civil liberties implications and
clauses have to be renewed to help protect those liberties. In the end there was
an overwhelming majority of MP's in favour of the act, which goes to show its
necessity."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                November 4, 2001

Fisher attacks rush for anti-terror laws BY Bob Podmore Parliamentary reporter
ATTACK: MP Mark Fisher has criticized anti-terrorist laws

BYLINE: Tideswell Martin (Sentinel)

SECTION: NEWS; POLITICS; NationalGov'ment; Pg. 13-NEWS

LENGTH: 429 words


CONTROVERSIAL anti-terrorist laws which allow suspects to be imprisoned without
trial were attacked by Stoke-on-Trent Central MP Mark Fisher.  He claimed the
legislation was being rushed through too quickly without proper scrutiny and
neither the House of Commons nor the country would be well served.

The emergency anti-terrorism measures were backed by a huge majority despite
criticism from all sides during a lengthy debate.

Home Secretary David Blunkett faced searching attacks from his own side and the
Opposition benches as he defended strict new curbs brought forward after the
September 11 attacks on America.

Ministers have allowed just three days to rush the Bill through all its Commons
stages.

Mr Blunkett denied there was too little time to consider what he described as a
"rational, reasonable and proportionate" response to the September 11 outrage.

But Mr Fisher said although it was possible to accept action was needed he
remained "very unhappy" with some features.

He insisted: "Last weekend, looking around our constituencies, did MPs see the
life of this nation being threatened?  "We saw people flocking to see early
showings of Harry Potter and others doing Christmas shopping. We also saw trains
trying to run on time - the life of this nation is not at risk." The MP said he
was perturbed at the speed with which the legislation was moving through
Parliament and claimed that when Parliament passed legislation at speed it was
seldom good.

He added: "I fear the roots of much of the Bill lie in the need to be seen to be
doing something in the face of horrific dangers and anxieties. That is a very
bad basis for legislation." The huge 124-clause Bill includes measures to detain
suspected terrorists, tighten airport security, freeze suspected terrorists'
funds and create a new offence of incitement to religious hatred.

Mr Fisher, a former minister, added: "When this House acts quickly, it seldom
acts wisely." Today Staffordshire Moorlands MP Charlotte Atkins said the issues
surrounding the anti-terrorism bill were "very serious" but the measures to
tackle terrorists were necessary in the present climate. She said: "I support
the measures and I think they are very important in the circumstances. The
actions are a big step but justified.

"Everyone in the debate was aware of the civil liberties implications and
clauses have to be renewed to help protect those liberties. In the end there was
an overwhelming majority of MP's in favour of the act, which goes to show its
necessity." Comment: Page 6

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           November 04, 2001, Sunday

Israeli terror target prepares for new attack Residents of a West Bank town are
under siege in their homes after reports of a suicide bomber in their midst.
Philip Jacobson reports from Hadera

BYLINE: By Philip Jacobson

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 785 words

THE TOWN of Hadera, which after Jerusalem has suffered more bombings and
drive-by shootings than anywhere in Israel, has become a place of closed doors
and shuttered windows following reports that a suicide bomber has penetrated a
security cordon.

Israeli military intelligence warned Hadera last week that a would-be killer was
poised to strike - only days after four women were shot dead in daylight in the
main street.

Most of the attacks have been the work of Palestinians from the "triangle of
terror" in the West Bank, bounded by Jenin, Tulkarm and Kalkilya - all hotbeds
of Islamic militancy. They are close to Hadera, which lies in the narrow
"waistline" of Israel, about 25 miles north of Tel Aviv.

The town's residents, many of whom have been wounded in attacks, are feeling the
strain. In the busy central market, where the poorest Russian and Ethiopian
immigrants do their shopping, fear gripped the crowd one day last week when a
car backfired.

An elderly woman dropped her shopping and clutched at the arm of a passer-by; a
mother snatched her baby from its pram and rushed behind a building. Only when a
police van appeared carrying armed officers was there an almost tangible release
of tension.

"The 80,000 Jews here live every day with the knowledge that they are a soft
target for the terrorists, whose bases are on our doorstep," said the mayor,
Israel Sadan. "There are too many back roads and unmarked tracks for our
security forces to close off, so we have to rely on good intelligence-gathering
to provide advance warning."

There was no such warning last Sunday, however, when a two-man team from the
Islamic Jihad organisation, riding in a stolen vehicle bearing Israeli number
plates, raked the centre of town with bullets. Four women waiting at a bus stop
outside the library on Hanessi Street were gunned down. One of the undercover
police squads that constantly roam Hadera quickly arrived and shot both gunmen
dead.

"It could be said that we were lucky because they didn't get a chance to use the
extra ammunition they were carrying," said Mr Sadan. "For me, though, I think of
these ordinary women who left home one morning and never came back - simply
because they were in the wrong place at the wrong time."

One of them, Ayala Levy, 39, worked at a kindergarten. The joys of her life were
her two daughters, aged four and five, which she had conceived after a decade of
trying.

"She and her husband were so happy, looking forward so much to moving into a new
house," said her sister Anat. "Ayala felt that we should respect the Arabs, but
always be on our guard with them. All she really wanted was a quiet life."

The youngest of the victims was Smadar Levy, 23, whose ambition was to study
medicine and who loved dancing. She and her new boyfriend, a policeman, were
thinking about marriage. "They were like a pair of turtle doves," said a
relative. "She had so many plans for the future."

Another keen young dancer, Vered Yarimi, 16, was among a dozen people wounded.
Her mother carried her bloodstained shoes to the hospital, where the schoolgirl
kept asking her: "Will I ever walk again?"

As a former commander of the Border Guard unit, mayor Sadan is familiar with the
problems of security along the "seam" separating Israel from territory under the
control of Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority.

Back in 1995, he suggested to the then prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin, that it
might become necessary to construct a permanent defence line - "high fences,
electronic surveillance, watchtowers" - along the entire 220-mile frontier. The
government regarded the idea as too expensive.

Earlier this month, the Israeli army mounted new incursions into Palestinian
territory, positioning tanks around Jenin, Tulkarm and other trouble spots in an
attempt to block terrorist access routes to vulnerable towns such as Hadera. Yet
that did not prevent the slaughter on Hanessi Street, nor a drive-by shooting a
few hours earlier that killed a soldier in a nearby kibbutz.

"We know for sure that these attacks involved members of the Palestinian
security police - the very same forces that are supposed to be clamping down on
terrorist activity," said Mr Sadan. "They could do it if they wanted to, but
instead Arafat prefers to conduct himself like a gangster."

After the latest warning of a suicide bomber on the loose, residents of Hadera
were urged by police loudspeakers to get children off the streets and to stay in
their homes.

"The terrorists want us to know that they will hit Hadera at every opportunity,"
said a businessman hurrying to be with his family. "But although the town has
suffered a lot, here we have something of the frontier spirit."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           November 04, 2001, Sunday

Beijing produces videos glorifying terrorist attacks on 'arrogant' US

BYLINE: By Damien McElroy

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 539 words

THE CHINESE state-run propaganda machine is cashing in on the terror attacks in
New York and Washington, producing books, films and video games glorifying the
strikes as a humbling blow against an arrogant nation, writes Damien McElroy.

Video discs filled with lurid images along with dramatic opera music and even
the theme from Jaws have flooded the nation's markets in the wake of the
attacks. Disc after disc bear the imprimatur of the Communist Party-controlled
media. The most popular DVDs have been produced by the Xinhua information
agency, Beijing Television and China Central Television.

Communist Party officials say President Jiang Zemin has obsessively watched and
re-watched pictures of the aircraft crashing into the World Trade Centre. In the
immediate aftermath of the attacks, workers at Beijing Television worked
round-the-clock to produce a documentary they called Attack America. Scenes from
Hollywood films have been spliced between shots of the events of September 11,
including footage from the 1998 remake of Godzilla, in which a monster destroys
New York buildings.

As rescue workers pick through the rubble of the twin towers, the commentator
proclaims that the city had reaped the consequences of decades of American
bullying of weaker nations. "This is the America the whole world has wanted to
see," he said. "Blood debts have been repaid in blood. America has bombed other
countries and used its hegemony to deny the natural rights of others without
paying the price. Who until now has dared to avenge the hurts inflicted by
unaccountable Americans."

Officials at Beijing Television defended the video as an educational film that
will meet market demand. A producer said: "There's this need for more
information on world terrorism in the market, so we've got to meet it."

At the country's most respected bookstore, Xinhua Book Shop on Beijing's busiest
shopping street, Wanfujing, crowds jockeyed around a table to buy discs.
According to staff, thousands of copies of the video have been sold in the past
month.

"Before people were interested in the movies but this is more compelling," the
shop assistant said. "What happened in New York could have happened in a movie
but this is real life. It's better."

The many shops that stock pirated DVDs compiled in China and Hong Kong report
that their most popular products are similar productions that use video graphics
to show the United States suffering other damaging attacks on its tallest
buildings and military installations.

On the unofficial films the commentary is even more callous: "Look at the panic
in their faces as they wipe off the dust and crawl out of their strong buildings
- now just a heap of rubble. We will never fear these people again, they have
been shown to be soft-bellied paper tigers."

Elsewhere music shops are selling out of a bootleg version of the summer's top
pop hit. The amended song implies that America deserves to suffer for its
disregard for the point of view of countries weaker than itself. The refrain
says: "We guys are all Americans, our government is used to bullying people. We
guys always have our hands on too much, this time our own people got hurt."
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            November 5, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: US PREPARES FOR ATTACK BY SMALLPOX

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 196 words


The US Government has started emergency preparations for a possible terrorist
smallpox attack, it was revealed yesterday.

Doctors are being trained to recognise the disease and crack teams of experts
have been vaccinated, ready to rush to any part of the country and deal with an
outbreak.

The move follows growing panic about bioterrorism in the US after the recent
anthrax attacks which have killed four people.

The Centres for the Disease Control and Prevention has immunised about 140
members of epidemiological teams against smallpox, it was reported.

The disease centres will this week start training their staff and state and
local health workers about how to deal with the disease.

CDCP director Dr James Hughes said: 'Our concerns are not to be limited to
anthrax.'

Officals are also worried about possible attacks involving other diseases,
including botulism, plague and tularemia.

But smallpox is especially feared because it is extremely contagious and has a
high death rate.

The disease was eradicated worldwide 21 years ago, and millions of Americans
under the age of 30 are at risk because the US stopped vaccinations in 1972.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            November 5, 2001, Monday

BRUM CAR BOMB: OPENING THE OLD SCARS ...;
 ATTACK BRINGS BACK SPECTRE OF TERROR

BYLINE: Mark Langford BIRMINGHAM'S BIGGEST HORROR: The wreckage in the Mulberry
Bush after the Birmingham pub bombings of 1974 in which 21 people died and 162
were injured

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 353 words


FOR the people of Birmingham the spectre of terrorist bombs returning to the
city centre re-opens the scars of Britain's worst ever mainland terrorist
atrocity.

Twenty-one people died and 162 were injured in the attacks within minutes of
each other in the Tavern in the Town and Mulberry Bush pubs on November 21,
1974.

A warning had been given but was too late and there was not enough time for
police to clear the area, leading to devastating consequences.

Three hours after the bombs went off, five men were arrested at Heysham,
Lancashire, after leaving the Irish boat train from Birmingham. A sixth man was
later arrested in Birmingham.

Two days after the bombing, the Provisional IRA said none of the six was in the
IRA, but on November 24, Patrick Hill, Hugh Callaghan, John Walker, Richard
McIlkenny, Gerard Hunter and Billy Power were charged with murder.

During their trial at Lancaster Crown Court the six men said their confessions
were tortured out of them, but forensic evidence helped to convict them and in
August 1975 all were sentenced to life imprisonment.

Protested innocence

The Birmingham Six continued to protest their innocence and were freed by the
Court of Appeal in 1991 on scientific grounds.

Pub bombings had become the new terror for Britons in 1974, with five people
killed and 35 injured in two bars in Guildford, Surrey, and two more dead and 27
injured after a pub bombing in Woolwich, south-east London, a month later

Eight days after the Birmingham attack the Prevention of Terrorism Act was
introduced, the government response to the pub bombings which outlawed
membership, support and assistance for the IRA or the Irish National Liberation
Army.

Although the IRA initially denied any involvement in the 1974 Birmingham
attacks, it later admitted it had carried them out.

In 1995, vice president of Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness visited Birmingham and
spoke at a public meeting on his first visit to the city since the 1974
bombings.

He told the audience then that the pub bombings were a mistake and a source of
'sorrow and regret'.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            November 5, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: US HELICOPTERS ATTACK TALIBAN;
 GUNSHIPS TARGET THE MILITARY FORCES DUG IN AROUND KABUL

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 427 words


AMERICAN helicopter gunships attacked Taliban military positions near the Afghan
capital Kabul today, while artillery and heavy machine gun fire reverberated
from Taliban posts in the hills surrounding the city.

United States jets dropped bombs in several locations - around Kabul and the
frontline to the north - in the Taliban's southern stronghold of Kandahar and
near the contested city of Mazar-e-Sharif in the north, the Afghan Islamic Press
reported.

The agency, which is aligned with the Taliban, reported helicopter assaults on
Taliban installations and residential areas north of Kabul.

Two loud explosions were heard on the outskirts of the city at around 5am.

The Taliban-controlled Bakhtar News Agency claimed bombs killed 10 people and
injured 15 others in a village south of Mazar-e-Sharif. Five people died and
seven were wounded in a raid near Kandahar, it said. The reports could not be
independently confirmed.

The Pentagon has repeatedly dismissed the Taliban's claims of widespread
civilian casualties as lies.

On Sunday, an attack by anti-Taliban forces outside Mazar-e-Sharif was reported
to be faltering only hours after it was launched, raising questions about the
ability of the opposition to exploit US airstrikes without the assistance of
American ground troops.

US military planners are concerned that opposition forces, which have promised a
major offensive, will get bogged down with the onset of winter in the weeks
ahead. Bad weather will soon make roads impassable, obstructing the resupply of
frontline troops.

US Defence Secretary Donald H Rumsfeld, on a tour of frontline states in the war
against terrorism, sought to dispel fears that the air campaign, now in its
fifth week, was failing to crack the Taliban's grip on Afghanistan.

Functioning

On a stopover in Pakistan on Sunday, he said the Taliban were no longer
'functioning as a government' and were 'not making major military moves'.

Rumsfeld met Pakistani President General Pervez Musharraf, a key ally in the
anti-terrorism campaign, and was in India today for talks with Defence Minister
George Fernandes.

Mr Rumsfeld today said that the military operation in Afghanistan was becoming
more effective every day and would not take years to complete.

'We are engaged in a military exercise of self-defence,' he said at a joint news
conference with India's Defence Minister George Fernandes.

'Do I think the operation in Afghanistan will take years? No I don't,' he said.
'We will take the least possible time.'

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 05, 2001, Monday

Tourism officials in terror attack row

BYLINE: By Auslan Cramb Scottish Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 08

LENGTH: 277 words

TOURISM officials and ministers have apologised for using images of the
terrorist attack on New York in a marketing document suggesting that Scotland
should be promoted as "a safe destination".

The internal document was unveiled by VisitScotland, formerly the Scottish
Tourist Board, at an industry briefing attended by Scottish Executive ministers.

The material, part of a pounds 3 million government marketing initiative,
included a colour photograph of a passenger jet about to hit the World Trade
Centre.

Under the heading "Opportunities", the document suggested the promotion of
"holidays close to home" and "safe destinations".

The suggestion that Scotland could benefit from exploiting the "general fear of
flying" prompted comparisons with the behaviour of Jo Moore, the civil servant
who suggested September 11 was a good day to "bury" bad news.

Annabel Goldie, Scottish Tory deputy leader, said the document was "utterly
tasteless" and Kenny MacAskill, the Scottish National Party's shadow enterprise
minister, called it "crass and insensitive".

It was also condemned by British relatives of those who died in the attacks on
September 11.

The Rev David Smith, from Cleveden, near Bath, who lost a member of his family
on the 101st floor of one of the towers, said: "In this country there are 250
families who are in bereavement and I would appeal for more sensitivity. This
can only add to the pain of grieving families to see these pictures again."

A spokesman for the Scottish Executive said: "We in no way wish to minimise the
extent of the tragedy and we are sorry if this has caused offence."
[PS]News: [ES]

War on terrorism:

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                November 5, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: Terror attacks hit CIA base

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 83 words



A SECRET office of the CIA was destroyed in the terrorist attacks on the World
Trade Center, seriously disrupting intelligence operations.

The undercover station was in 7 World Trade Center, a smaller New York office
tower that fell several hours after the collapse of the twin towers on 11
September, a US government official said today.

After the attack, a special CIA team moved in swiftly to scour the rubble for
secret documents and intelligence reports stored at the office.


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                November 5, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: Blair: Defeat of terrorists will help save British jobs

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 507 words


THE WAR against terrorism must be won to help protect British jobs, businesses
and our way of life, Tony Blair declared today.

The Prime Minister used a speech to the CBI conference to claim that a victory
against Osama bin Laden and the Taliban was also a victory for economic
prosperity.

He told his business audience that there was a huge need to "restore stability"
in international relations and that diplomacy and national security had a vital
role to play in ensuring future growth.

He said: "Winning the battle against international terrorism is to win for the
economy too. Jobs, living standards, businesses and trade need us to beat this
terrorist menace. Each step towards our goal is a step towards reassurance for
our own way of life and our ability to protect it." His comments serve to
underline his stance that the best way to combat terrorism domestically is for
people to get on with their lives as normally as possible, particularly by
continuing to spend in the High Street.

However, his words also suggested he and his senior ministers were only too
aware of the threat to the economy - already facing a downturn - that the
continuing battle against terrorism poses. However, he went out of his way to
hammer home the message already

put forward strongly by Chancellor Gordon Brown that the "fundamentals" of the
British economy are stronger than they have been for a generation.

In a wide-ranging speech he also tackled the euro, claiming government policy on
whether to join the single currency had not changed "one iota".

His neutral-sounding comments followed last night's speech by the Chancellor in
which he stressed that a " considered and cautious" approach would be taken in
the run-up to a decision on holding a referendum.

That was taken as an effort to apply the brake after Mr Blair's party conference
address in September in which he appeared keen to act as a cheerleader for the
currency, claiming that ministers would show the "courage" to take the argument
in favour of joining to the public.

Today the Prime Minister claimed: "Despite whatever you read - warming up or
cooling down - the policy has not altered an iota. In principle we are in
favour. In practice the economic tests have to be met."

If the five key tests were passed, Mr Blair added: "We will make the case to the
British people."

Mr Blair also used today's speech to repeat his support for increased
involvement by private companies in the provision of public services, despite
strong opposition from the trade unions. He said public-private partnerships
such as the one on the London Underground are crucial to secure the investment
needed to improve services. He defended the actions of Trade Secretary Stephen
Byers in cutting the funding to Railtrack, saying that it was essential to
create a new structure.

The CBI has set an example to the business community by bringing 800 delegates
to its annual conference, the same number as last year despite the gloomier
economic climate.


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                November 5, 2001

Apache gunships attack Taliban
 TERROR: New wave of assaults

BYLINE: HERALD REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.11

LENGTH: 991 words


AMERICAN helicopter gunships attacked Taliban military positions near the Afghan
capital Kabul today, according to a report, while artillery and heavy
machine-gun fire reverberated from Taliban posts in the hills surrounding the
city.

US jets dropped bombs in several locations - around Kabul and the front line to
the north - in the Taliban's southern stronghold of Kandahar and near the
contested city of Mazar-e-Sharif in the north, the Afghan Islamic Press
reported.

The agency, which is aligned with the Taliban, reported helicopter assaults on
Taliban installations and residential areas north of Kabul.

Two loud explosions were heard on the outskirts of the city at around 5am.

The Taliban-controlled Bakhtar News Agency claimed bombs killed 10 people and
injured 15 others in a village south of Mazar-e-Sharif. Five people died and
seven were wounded in a raid near Kandahar, it said.

The reports could not be independently confirmed.

The Pentagon has repeatedly dismissed the Taliban's claims of widespread
civilian casualties as lies.

On Sunday, an attack by anti-Taliban forces outside Mazar-e-Sharif was reported
to be faltering only hours after it was launched, raising questions about the
ability of the opposition to exploit US airstrikes without the assistance of
American ground troops.

US military planners are concerned that opposition forces, which have promised a
major offensive, will get bogged down with the onset of winter in the weeks
ahead. Bad weather will soon make roads impassable, obstructing the resupply of
front-line troops.

Meanwhile, Royal Marines have not been ruled out of taking part in the first
significant ground offensive of the war in Afghanistan, according to a Home
Office Official.

But she said there had been no commitment of marines from Taunton-based 40
Commando, which contains elements of HQ 3 Commando Brigade based at Stonehouse
Barracks and 29 Commando Royal Artillery based at the Citadel, to a reported
operation to establish a 'humanitarian bridgehead' to bring winter relief to
hundreds of thousands of refugees.

She said: "It's just another piece of speculation. It's another thing we could
do, but we have not said yes or no."

It had been reported that Royal Marines and British special forces were expected
to join American troops in securing a corridor from neighbouring Uzbekistan
through enemy positions in northern Afghanistan.

The aim is to establish a forward base for the distribution of food, medicine
and clothing which could not be safely dropped from the air.

It has been reported that members of the Royal Marines Mountain Leaders section
- the successor to the Mountain and Arctic Warfare Cadre - would be likely to
head any higher-altitude reconnaissance in such an operation.

Today, more US ground troops were deployed in Afghanistan as America claimed the
Taliban had ceased to function as an effective government.

The chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Richard Myers, said they
had managed to get "a couple more" teams into the country to help the rebel
Northern Alliance and guide US bombing raids.

Mr Myers said the US-led coalition was prepared to keep on supplying the
alliance throughout the Afghan winter.

"The more teams we get on the ground, the more effectively we'll bring air power
to bear on the Taliban lines," he told NBC television.

In recent days, attempts to get additional special forces teams into the country
have failed because helicopters have been unable to cope with the freezing rain
in the mountains.

US officials last night rejected Pakistan's call to stop the strikes on
Afghanistan during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said that while the Taliban was still able
to wield power in "enclaves" where its military forces were concentrated, its
overall control of Afghanistan had gone.

"The Taliban is not really functioning as a government as such," he told
reporters after talks in Islamabad with the Pakistani leader, General Pervez
Musharraf.

Mr Rumsfeld's upbeat assessment of the effects of the four-week bombardment by
US warplanes came as Tony Blair yesterday hosted a mini-summit of key European
leaders in Downing Street to discuss progress in the campaign.

French President Jacques Chirac and Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, Germany's
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and Prime Ministers Jose Maria Aznar of Spain, Wim
Kok of Holland, Silvio Berlusconi of Italy and Guy Vershofstadt of Belgium -
also the current holder of the EU presidency - gathered at Number 10 for talks.

Mr Blair's official spokesman said the meeting had enabled the main European
military contributors to the coalition to "swap notes".

A Number 10 spokesman described the discussions as "very useful", with "absolute
solidarity" around the military, diplomatic and humanitarian strategy being
pursued by the coalition and the need to revive the Middle East peace process.

nThousands of runners yesterday completed an emotionally-charged New York City
Marathon, the city's biggest event since the September 11 attacks.

To cheers from the crowd, 30,000 athletes set off across the city's Verrazano
Bridge, which in previous years gave a spectacular view of the World Trade
Centre twin towers in lower Manhattan.

Today most looked straight ahead as they took their first steps in the race,
under the slogan "United we run" which was dedicated to the victims of the
terror attacks.

First to finish the gruelling 26-mile, 385-yard course was Ethiopian Tesfaye
Jifar, who set a new record of two hours, seven minutes and 43 seconds.

Britain's Jon Brown, who finished fifth, said it was a race for the people of
New York.

"It's a very emotional day," said the Bridgend -born runner, who now lives in
Vancouver.

"It's a race for the people. It belongs to the city."

AIR ASSAULT: Apache helicopter gunships (above) have attacked Taliban lines.
Left: the New York marathon

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 5, 2001

TOUR CHIEFS ACCUSED OF CASHING IN ON TERROR ATTACKS; ROW OVER 'CRASS' MEMO

BYLINE: BY PAUL GILBRIDE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 402 words


TOURISM officials were yesterday forced to apologise for using images of
hijacked airliners crashing into the twin towers of the World Trade Centre to
cash-in on people's fear of holidaying abroad.

An internal document produced by VisitScotland and shown at an industry briefing
carried pictures of the passenger jets flying into the buildings on September 11
beside the heading "Opportunities".

Relatives of victims condemned the gaffe which was labelled 'crass and
insensitive" and the Scottish Executive was forced to issue an apology on behalf
of the publicly-funded tourism board.

The Rev David Smith, a relative of one of the victims of the attack on the twin
towers, Richard Cudina, said he was "appalled" by the document:

"This can only add to the pain of grieving families to see these pictures again,
" he said.

The effects of September 11 have already led to an immediate surge in
cancellations and lost bookings from North America. VisitScotland officials
believe that heightened fear of flying could lead more Britons, including Scots,
to holiday in Scotland next year instead of travelling abroad.

But the 18-page document, shown to tourism industry leaders last week as part of
a GBP 3million marketing drive, shows the shocking images of the New York
atrocities to highlight the possible benefits of "safe destinations" closer to
home.

The latest controversy follows the outrage over the cynical email that was sent
to colleagues by spin doctor Jo Moore, an advisor to Transport Secretary Stephen
Byers, just an hour after the tragedies in New York.

The message advising on media management said September 11 was "a very good day
to get out anything we want to bury".

Yesterday opposition parties condemned the latest gaffe. Scottish Tory deputy
leader Annabel Goldie, said it was "utterly tasteless, " while shadow enterprise
minister Kenny MacAskill of the SNP described it as "crass and insensitive".

He said: "VisitScotland has a responsibility to promote Scotland's interests,
but to do so in this way is just disgraceful."

A Scottish Executive spokeswoman issued a statement on behalf of VisitScotland,
stating: "We are fully aware of the tragic consequences of the events of
September 11 which have changed the world in which we operate.

"We in no way wish to minimise the extent of the tragedy and we are sorry if
this has caused offence."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            November 5, 2001, Monday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: GROUND WAR - OPPOSITION 'ATTACKING TALIBAN
STRONGHOLD'

BYLINE: Justin Huggler In Dasht-i-qaleh General Dostum is 'up to something', his
allies say

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 546 words


THE STRATEGIC city of Mazar-i-Sharif was under major attack yesterday,
Afghanistan's Northern Alliance opposition claimed as American jets bombed
Taliban positions on front lines around the country.

But despite plenty of talk of opposition offensives on Mazar and north of the
capital, Kabul, no hard evidence has emerged. Reports over the weekend that the
Northern Alliance had advanced to within a few miles of Mazar were countered by
others saying the Taliban had recaptured all the opposition's gains.

Northern Alliance forces attacking Mazar are surrounded by Taliban forces, and
can only be supplied by air. None of the reports of fighting around the city can
be confirmed.

American and British ground forces were also reported to be preparing to attack
Mazar. The US is eager to get its hands on the main city of the north because it
is a potential airbase and has a good paved road - a precious rarity in
Afghanistan - north to Uzbekistan.

The official line is that the road would provide a corridor for bringing in
humanitarian aid. But with savage weather conditions hampering American
helicopter operations in Afghanistan, the US could do with a land route for
military purposes too.

Poor weather was blamed by officials in Washington for the crash of a special
forces helicopter and the loss of an unmanned spy plane involved in the rescue
of a sick special forces soldier on Friday night. US forces plucked the soldier
to safety in a second attempt on Saturday, they said. Four crew members were
injured in the helicopter crash and also had to be rescued while F14 Tomcats
from an aircraft carrier had to be sent to destroy the damaged helicopter
because it contained sensitive material.

Distrust is simmering within the Northern Alliance. One alliance commander asked
why General Abdul Rashid Dostum, an ethnic Uzbek warlord, hadn't taken Mazar
already. "He is up to something," the commander warned; General Dostum has
changed sides in the past, and is only loosely allied to the Northern Alliance.

Ashraf Nadeem, a Northern Alliance spokesman, said three groups of opposition
forces, led by General Dostum, Atta Mohammed and Mohammed Muhaqik, had begun a
joint offensive on Mazar after American bombing raids softened Taliban forces
defending the city. Earlier attempts to advance on Mazar apparently went wrong
because General Dostum and the other two warlords were barely on speaking terms
until they met to plan the new offensive last weekend.

Northern Alliance leaders said a big offensive north of Kabul would begin within
days. Opposition tanks and infantry conducted exercises along the Kabul front
ahead of a possible offensive.

The Northern Alliance said jets struck the front line 50km (30 miles) north of
Kabul, and the northeast town of Taloqan, which the opposition lost to the
Taliban last year.

But its commanders complain that while the bombing has significantly weakened
their enemy's military installations, the Taliban remain heavily manned - which,
presumably, is why America has switched to carpet bombing, which hits people and
installations indiscriminately.

Alliance commanders say that the Taliban simply move back a few miles from front
lines bombed by the Americans, and set up new lines.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            November 5, 2001, Monday

CBI URGES HALF-POINT RATE CUT AFTER TERROR ATTACKS 'BODY BLOW'

BYLINE: Michael Harrison And Philip Thornton In Birmingham Digby Jones, left,
the director general of the CBI with the business association's president, Sir
Iain Vallance Haydn West

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 631 words


BUSINESS LEADERS last night piled on the pressure for a half-point cut in
interest rates this week despite evidence that only one in 10 companies expect
to be seriously affected by the terror attacks on the US.

A survey of 250 top executives published by the CBI on the eve of its annual
conference in Birmingham showed that while nearly two-thirds of companies said
the events of 11 September had damaged business prospects, only 11 per cent felt
they were now "much worse".

Digby Jones, director general of the CBI, denied that calling for a half-point
cut was an over-reaction which would merely serve to help talk the economy into
recession. He said 11 September had been a "body blow" to business and argued
that a decisive move now would be better than waiting to see how the economy
fared over the winter.

"If the Bank of England doesn't cut by half a point now then I don't know when
it will. Confidence has taken a marked knock though by no means has it
collapsed. Firms are clearly worried that the global economic slowdown now
underway will be longer and deeper than it otherwise would have been.'

Mr Jones predicted a rise in the number of businesses going bust but he said he
was "cautiously optimistic" that the UK would escape recession. The CBI still
expects the economy to grow by 2 per cent next year although it does not expect
to see an upturn until the autumn.

The survey, carried out between 12 and 23 October by Mori, showed that a third
of companies expect 11 September to hit orders and profits, while more than a
quarter have cut investment.

But companies expect the impact to be relatively short-lived with almost a half
predicting they will have recovered in a year's time and only 10 per cent
anticipating the effects will last for more than two years. Mr Jones said one of
the most worrying aspects of the survey was the warning from many companies that
investment plans had been put on hold. "Firms are clearly bracing themselves for
a rough ride over the next 12 months," he added.

The CBI is calling for a package of tax breaks from the Chancellor Gordon Brown
in this month's Pre-Budget report to encourage research and development
expenditure and training and help out the aviation industry. The employers'
organisation said Mr Brown should also stand ready to introduce an emergency
series of tax measures in the spring if the outlook for business and the economy
worsened but it was not specific about what the package should include.

Mr Brown told the CBI last night that he understood people's worries about their
jobs and held out hope of assistance in the Budget. "In the Pre-Budget Report we
will do more to recognise the vital contribution of modern manufacturing to
exports, innovation and our great regions."

He reiterated that no country could "insulate" itself from the global slowdown
but said Britain was in a better position to withstand the downturn than in the
past. "Despite the difficulties and pressures we now face, with interest rates
cut six times since the start of 2001 and fiscal policy supporting growth this
year, I am cautiously optimistic," he said. The Chancellor added that would not
"relax the fiscal disciplines" despite the pressure on the public purse from the
war on terrorism. "I have told my Cabinet colleagues and I now repeat publicly
that this is the time for more discipline," he said.

t The UK is set to avoid recession in 2002, despite the economic slowdown
triggered by recent international events - unlike the US, Japan and parts of
continental Europe - according to a report from BDO, an accountancy firm. The
study said recent interest rate cuts from the Bank of England, and the prospect
of more to come, "is keeping the threat of hard times at arm's length".

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:11:36

