



Download Request: Select Items: 1500-1617
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:17:52
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                     November 19, 2013 Tuesday 2:51 PM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY HAGUE CONDEMNS BEIRUT TERRORIST ATTACK

LENGTH: 135 words


LONDON, Nov. 19 -- The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills issued the
following press release:

The Foreign Secretary William Hague sends condolences to the families of killed
and injured.

The Foreign Secretary said:

I strongly condemn the shocking terrorist attack on the Iranian embassy in
southern Beirut today that has led to such tragic loss of life. I send my
condolences to the families of those killed and injured. The UK is strongly
committed to supporting stability in Lebanon and seeing those responsible for
this attack brought to justice.

Our Embassy in Beirut remains at a high state of vigilance. A consular team
stands ready to assist British nationals." For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 20, 2013 Wednesday

Egypt's Al-Wafd Party condemns "terrorist" attack on army soldiers

LENGTH: 83 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 20 November: Al-Wafd Party condemned the terrorist attack that targeted a
vehicle carrying army soldiers in the northern Sinai city of al-Arish early on
Wednesday [20 November].

The party asserted that the people-backed Egyptian army is facing a war against
terrorist elements in Sinai, adding that Egypt will remain safe and stable
despite the attempts of intimidating its people.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1331gmt 20 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 20, 2013 Wednesday

Russian court sends four to jail over terror attack plot

LENGTH: 146 words


The Moscow City Court has sentenced four members of the nationalist People's
National Party to lengthy prison terms for plotting a "terror attack" at a
Moscow club, Tabula Rasa, where a gathering of anti-fascists was expected to
take place on 14 December 2010, privately-owned news agency Interfax reported on
20 November.

Yevgeniy Krasnov, Maksim Kroshin, Aleksandr Lisitsyn and Vadim Fakhrutdinov
received 12, 11, 10 and 8.5 years in prison. None of them pleaded guilty.

The four were detained in November 2010. Police then confiscated banned
literature, explosive substances and an explosive device.

"Before the terror attack, members of the group planned to test the power of the
charge by blowing up a Karl Marx monument with a similar device in a Moscow
Region town," a spokesman for the Interior Ministry said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1328 gmt 20 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 20, 2013 Wednesday

Egypt Mufti condemns "terrorist" attack in North Sinai - state news agency

LENGTH: 125 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 20 Nov: Egypt's Grand Mufti Dr Shawki Allam has strongly condemned the
terrorist attack in Sinai, which left 10 soldiers killed and 35 wounded when a
car bomb targeted a military convoy Wednesday morning west of the North Sinai
town of Shaykh Zuwayyid.

In a statement Wednesday [20 November], Allam affirmed that Islam rejects all
forms of violence and is totally against those who terrorize people and destroy
the country.

He, meanwhile, urged all Egyptians to stand united in the face of terrorism and
riot acts.

He further extended his heartfelt condolences to the families of the martyrs and
wished the injured a speedy recovery.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1026gmt 20 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                          November 20, 2013 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Iraq hangs terror attack prisoners

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 61 words


BAGHDAD: Iraq has hanged 12 prisoners who had been convicted of
terrorism-related charges. A Justice Ministry official said all of those
executed on Sunday were found guilty of carrying out "terrorist" attacks but
gave no further details of the offences. Iraq has executed 144 people so far
this year, compared with 129 in 2012 amid criticism by human rights groups.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                          November 20, 2013 Wednesday

Ban, Security Council deplore terrorist attacks near Iranian embassy in Beirut

LENGTH: 236 words


November 19, 2013

Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and the United Nations Security Council have both
strongly condemned the terrorist attacks near the Iranian embassy in the
Lebanese capital, Beirut, today which killed at least 23 civilians and injured
over 100 others.



"The Secretary-General calls on all in Lebanon to recognize that such appalling
and indiscriminate acts of violence target all in Lebanon," said a statement
issued by his spokesperson.

"He urges all Lebanese parties to act with restraint and to support the
institutions of the state, and particularly the security forces, as they seek to
prevent further acts of terrorism."

Mr. Ban and the Security Council both extended their condolences to the families
of those killed in the attack, which occurred in the Bir Hassan neighbourhood,
as well as to the Governments of Lebanon and of Iran.

"The Secretary-General hopes that those responsible for this attack will be
brought to justice expeditiously. He reiterates the determination of the
international community to support Lebanon's security and stability," his
spokesperson said.

In a statement read out to the press, the Council too underlined the need to
bring the perpetrators of these "heinous acts" to justice.

"Members of the Security Council appealed to all Lebanese people to preserve
national unity in the face of attempts to undermine the country's stability...,"
the 15-member body added.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 22, 2013 Friday

Turkish president comments on possible terror attacks, debate over prep schools

LENGTH: 305 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia) website

[Unattributed report: "Prep schools debate shouldn't cause offence: Gul"]

Turkish President Abdullah Gul says debate over prep schools (dershane) should
not cause offence and sorrow

ORDU (AA) -Turkish President Abdullah Gul stated the debate over turning prep
schools or "dershane" into private schools should be held in a way that will not
cause offence and sorrow, during his visit in northern province of Ordu.

Replying reporters' questions at the office of provincial governor, Gul made
statements about the ongoing debate over the goverment's move to shut down prep
schools that assist students for high school examinations and national exams
that select university candidates.

Noting that there could be discussions during the law making process, the
president said, "What is important is that the discussions should not cause
offence and sorrow. Everybody should put forward their opinions."

-Terror

Asked whether he received intelligence information about some rumours saying
terror organizations affiliated with Al-Qaeda and PKK would hold suicide attacks
in metropolises, Gul said security units of the state are always on the alert.

Gul also said an effort had been conducted to end terrorism and dominate
stability, brotherhood and peace in Turkey.

Saying terror attacks targeting civilians occurred in various parts of the world
and a similar attack was held in Beirut in previous days, the president said
Turkey was against all kind of radicalism and very attentive in this issue.

Whatever its name is, Turkey is against all kind of terrorist organization and
will not tolerate them, added the president, ending his speech.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency website, Ankara, in English
0000 gmt 22 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    November 23, 2013 Saturday 12:01 AM GMT

India is wide open to another terror attack, five years on from Mumbai, says
author

BYLINE: Robin Pagnamenta, Mumbai

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 636 words


India remains wide open to another terrorist attack five years after ten
Pakistani gunmen massacred 166 people in Mumbai, according to the co-author of a
new book which offers a devastating view of the handling of the tragedy.

Speaking before the fifth anniversary of the three-day attack which began on
November 26, 2008, Adrian Levy said India had failed to learn lessons from
either its failure to prepare properly for the attack or handle it once it
began.

"I think it could happen all over again," said Levy, who wrote The Siege with
Cathy Scott-Clark. "The police are still woefully under-equipped and there has
been no proper assessment of failure. Coastal protection is still totally
under-prepared." A fleet of seven coastal security speedboats purchased by
Mumbai police in 2009 to bolster security is lying unused, without enough fuel
or trained personnel.

A study earlier this year found 37 unguarded coastal landing points along
Mumbai's 73.km coastal strip.

A mobile vehicle explosives scanner bought for the city's bomb disposal squad
from a US company, American Science and Engineering, in 2009 for the equivalent
of £700,000 is also redundant due to lack of maintenance.

"There has been no proper assessment of failure," said Levy, adding that the
only official study of the handling of the crisis - a 64-page report conducted
by a two-man panel a few weeks afterwards - had been widely interpreted as a
whitewash by Indian officials unwilling to face up to failure.

He said coastal security remained "severely understaffed" in Mumbai and other
Indian cities, offering an easy loophole for terrorists to mount a similar
seaborne assault, using small vessels to deploy men and equipment to poorly
secured city centres.

In the Taj Hotel, where 33 people were killed, it would be easy to ignore the
fact that the incident had ever happened.

The hotel's plush marble rooms and corridors, which once ran red with blood and
were gutted by fire, were swiftly repaired.

While Levy lavishes praise on the hotel's brave staff - 12 of whom were killed
trying to save the lives of guests - he offers a crushing view of senior
management, who failed to heed repeated warnings of an imminent attack, and of
the chaotic and bungled response by Indian security forces.

"It was catastrophic," he said. "Since 2006 there had been a huge backwash of
intelligence, a drumbeat of warnings which mentioned Mumbai as a target, a
seaborne landing, detailed the weapons. All the targets had been identified,
including the Taj."

Levy claims that the management of the 105-year-old hotel, owned by the Tata
industrial group which also owns Britain's Jaguar Land Rover, ignored the
threat, brushing aside the findings of a police report conducted three months
earlier that warned of the dangers.

"In August, police conducted a security audit at the Taj and there was a 28-page
report which called for a complete overhaul," Levy said.

"It said it was an old building which was difficult to defend with no choke
points. It recommended snipers, new doors, security patrols within the
building."

Under pressure from police, the Taj briefly introduced some of the measures but
as soon as the officer who proposed them, Vishwas Nangre Patel, went on holiday
they were dismantled.

"The Taj believed the level of security was incompatible with the environs of a
luxury hotel," said Levy. "It was too invasive."

It was these failures, among others, that allowed just four Lashkar-e-Taiba
(LeT) terrorists to storm the hotel with almost no resistance. The botched
response was compounded by bickering within the security forces over who should
lead the effort to regain control.

Levy believes the lessons have still not been learned.

The Taj declined to comment last week, saying that the group had "moved on from
this incident and put it behind us".

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 24, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Unending misery of 'Bullet', the girl born amid Mumbai terrorist attack

BYLINE: Nicola Smith and Sayoni Sinha

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 561 words


FIVE years ago this week, Viju Lakshman Chavan cowered in a maternity ward,
trying to stay silent during the painful birth of her child as heavily armed
gunmen roamed the corridors of the hospital.

Viju, 33, is now the mother of a little girl named Tejaswini, whom she sees as a
miracle of life born amid the bloodshed of the terrorist attack that struck
Mumbai on November 26, 2008, in which 166 people died.

Tejaswini was named after a Bollywood film about a female police officer
fighting corruption. Hos-Hospital staff nicknamed her pital "Goli", which means
bullet, because of the dramatic circumstances of her birth. As the family get
ready to celebrate the little girl's birthday in their tiny second-floor room in
Mumbai's cramped Cuffe Parade slum, the terror of the night she was born is
still fresh in their minds.

Viju had been admitted to the Cama and Albless Hospital at 9pm, just as
terrorists from the banned Pakistani group Lashkar-e-Taiba began their attack.
Oblivious to the carnage outside, her husband, Shamu, had been sent by her
doctors to get medicine. He missed death by a matter of minutes.

"I heard gunshots but thought it was a post-cricketmatch celebration," he said.
"A few people then ran past me in a hysterical state. As I looked out of the
window, I saw the lift man and the watchman being gunned down."

The terrorists began to storm the hospital. With his son, Shashikant, then five,
clinging to him, Shamu ushered patients into an empty ward and barricaded the
door.

Viju was already being wheeled to the delivery room. "I was in such pain that I
didn't worry much about what was happening outside," she said.

Urged to remain silent by her terrified doctors, she gave birth to Goli at
10.55pm. For the next 15 hours she cradled her newborn child, while huddled in
the dark beneath a bed, until doctors were sure the hospital was safe.

Despite their joy at surviving the ordeal, their life has been a struggle.
Shamu, a casual labourer at the city's Sassoon docks, earns just £3 a day.

Initially, the little girl's celebrity status attracted promises of support from
local politicians, but the family's hopes have been dashed. "People came and
promised to help us, but nothing worked out. We want to send her to a good
school but how will we afford the fees?" said her mother.

Life has also been tough for Vinita Kamte, a lawyer and the widow of Ashok
Kamte, a senior police officer who attempted to capture the terrorists at the
hospital and was later killed.

"There are times where I really feel I've no one. My biggest support has gone,"
she said last week. "Whatever life is, a part of it has died with that person."

Kamte, like many victims, feels she has been denied justice, as the alleged
masterminds of the attack, who are believed to be in neighbouring Pakistan, have
not been convicted. Of the 10 militants who embarked on the killing spree, nine
were killed, and the lone survivor was hanged last year after a lengthy trial.
It is widely believed that they were only footsoldiers obeying the orders of
their terrorist masters.

Karambir Kang, the former general manager of Mumbai's Taj Mahal Palace, whose
wife and two young sons were among 31 killed in the five-star hotel, has moved
to America for a fresh start. "The only way I can honour the loved ones I've
lost is to continue living and walking with my head held high," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Viju with 'Goli', born during the Mumbai attacks, top

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                      The Argus (Newsquest Regional Press)

                            November 25, 2013 Monday

Rail passengers feared terror attack after train hit deer before catching fire

BYLINE: Ben Leo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 431 words


A deer was struck by a train before being electrocuted and bursting into flames
- leaving passengers fearing they were in a terrorist attack.

The animal was struck at the exit of the Balcombe Tunnel at around 7am
yesterday.

The deer was then electrocuted by the live rail and caught fire as the train
arrived at Gatwick Airport station.

Frightened passengers told how they fled the train in panic after hearing a loud
bang before their carriage filled with smoke.

The incident, involving the 6.40am First Capital Connect Service from Brighton
to London, caused delays to services until after 4pm yesterday.

Passenger John Ellis, 57, from Dubai, was travelling on the train to Gatwick on
a business trip.He said: "There was a loud bang from under the front carriage
where I was sitting.

"Sparks and fire then appeared outside the train and the carriage started to
fill with smoke.

"All the electrics failed and there was panic as people screamed, shouting at
each other to get out and fighting the smoke and darkness to evacuate the train.

"People tripped and fell during the panic. The platform was heaving with people.

"Most assumed it was a bomb explosion or terrorist attack.

"I could see the remains of the deer under the train as I escaped."

Eyewitnesses also said passengers fled the train without their luggage and had
to later pick up their belongings from a collection point.

Another commuter described waiting more than four hours to get to London from
Hassocks because of the delays.

He said: "Many folk missed flights while others were visiting family but had to
cancel their trips.

"There were delays, cancellations and confusion.

"I waited ages at Haywards Heath on the train, was slow to move to Three Bridges
and then everything completely stopped.

"There was supposed to be a replacement bus to Redhill but that had a queue of
200 people and no bus arrived."

A spokesman from Crawley Fire Station said crew were called to the incident at
just before 7am.

Network Rail, which helped remove the animal, said it wouldn't usually expect a
deer to "cause such damage."

A Network Rail spokesman said: "Unfortunately in this case there were also
engineering works on the line which were at a stage where they couldn't be
lifted which made working around the incident more difficult."

A spokesman from First Capital Connect said: "The animal's torso came in contact
with the third rail as it arrived at Gatwick Airport, causing a small
controllable fire which was soon dealt with by emergency services.

"Southbound services ran with 90 minute delays and bus replacement services were
in operation."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 25, 2013 Monday

Pakistan envoy to India says trial in Mumbai terror attack case being speeded up

LENGTH: 412 words


Text of report published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 25 Nov

New Delhi: Ahead of the fifth anniversary of the Mumbai terror attacks, Pakistan
has dismissed the suggestion that it was conducting a "sham trial" of the
accused and said the process is being speeded up.

"The fact is that the executive is doing, the prosecution is doing all that it
can. Now this trial is being speeded up. Let me tell you that," Pakistan's
outgoing high commissioner to India Salman Bashir said.

He made these remarks to a TV channel when told that the perception in India is
that a sham trial being stage in Islamabad.

He said that notwithstanding what people question, "the fact is the legal
system, the judicial system is more or less the same on both sides. Both sides
need to cooperate more to get this expedited."

Asked for his reaction over the fact that during the past five years, the judge
has been changed six times and court adjourns immediately after meeting, Mr
Bashir said it was "unfortunate" that the whole post-26/11 scenario has not been
quite objectively understood in India.

He also sought to dismiss the content in a new book The Siege, which not only
suggests that LeT leader Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, a key person allegedly under
trial and in jail, enjoys visits from his wife but gives evidence against Hafeez
Sayed's involvement in the terror attack.

"I don't think that is quite an accurate description... The narrative needs to
be checked," he said.

To a pointed question on whether Pakistan will act against the accused, he said,
"We like to be considered as a country governed by the rule of the law. If there
is something A, B or C has violated, he ought to be picked up."

Acknowledging that relations between both the countries have not improved much,
Mr Bashir said both India and Pakistan need to "leap over the difficulties" and
will have to look at the future as their destinies are linked to each other.

"We need to resume contacts, we need to resume the process of dialogue across
the board and then things will start improving," he said. Mr Bashir also
appeared to blame the media for the talks failing to take place.

He also dismissed suggestions that the (Pakistan) Army and forces opposed to
cordial relations with India were coming in the way of the Director General of
Military Operations (DGMOs) of both the sides failing to meet during the past
two months to ensure peace along the LoC.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 25 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 25, 2013 Monday

Former Pakistan spy chief circulates list of terrorists dead in drone attacks

LENGTH: 371 words


Text of report by Pakistan daily The News website on 25 November

A former chief of ISI, Lt Gen Javed Ashraf Qazi has circulated, on his email,
list of 37 victims of the US drone attacks, all of whom are either al-Qa'idah,
Taleban or other militant group leaders.

In sending the list to all, Gen Qazi said it was "A list of some Innocents, as
per the perception of Tehreek-i-Taleban Pakistan, Jamaat Islami, Jamiat Ulema al
Islam (all factions), Ahle Sunnat Wal Jamaat, Difa-i-Pakistan Council, Lashkar,
TIP and others."

The list includes: Taleban leader Baitullah Mehsud, TTP's chief Hakimullah
Mehsud, Taleban leader Maulvi Nazir, Deputy 'chief' of the TTP Waliur Rehman,
Senior al-Qa'idah 'commander Muhammad Ahmed Almansoor, Top al-Qa'idah leader and
'head' of HuJI, Ilyas Kashmiri, Commander Mullah Nazir TTP, Asmatullah Muaviya,
'commander' TTP Punjab, Taleban 'commander' Jalaluddin Haqqani's son Muhammad
Haqqani, Senior commander TTP Khwaz Wali Mehsud, Al-Qa'idah Leader , Zohaib
Al-Zahidi, Senior al-Qa'idah trainer, Abu Khabab Al Misri, al-Qa'idah leader
Haitham al-Yemeni, al-Qa'idah 3rd in command, Abu Hamza Rabia, al-Qa'idah Abu
Laith al-Libi, al-Qa'idah Abu Sulayman Al-Jazairi, al-Qa'idah Midhat Mursi,
Senior al-Qaeda leader Khalid Habib, al-Qaeda operative Mohammad Hasan Khalil
al-Hakim (alias Abu Jihad al-Masri), al-Qa'idah Abdullah Azam al-Saudi, Senior
al-Qa'idah leader Usama al-Kini, Senior al-Qa'idah leader Sheikh Ahmed Salim
Swedan, al-Qa'idah Faqir Mohammed's nephew Zahid, Senior al-Qa'idahg planner,
Saleh al-Somali and Zuhaib al Zahibi, commander of the Lashkar al-Zil.

Senior Taleban leader Haqqani ally Haji Omar Khan, al-Qa'idah leader Jamal Saeed
Abdul Rahim, Abdul Haq al-Turkistani, leader of the Turkistani Islamic Party
Bahadar Mansoor, head of Badar Mansoor group Rana Afzal, the man behind the FIA
HQ bombing in Lahore Mohammed Qari Zafar, the head of Lashkar-e-Jhangvi,
al-Qa'idah terrorist Hussein al-Yemeni (also called Sadam Al Hussein) Saeed
al-Masri, 3rd in command of Al-Qaeda, TTP commander, Qureshi; Saifullah Haqqani,
a military commander in Afghanistan Sheikh Fateh Al Misri, Al-Qaeda Extremist
commander Ibn Amin.

Source: The News Online, in English, Islamabad, 0315gmt, 25 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            November 25, 2013 Monday

5th anniversary of start of Mumbai terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 136 words


5th anniversary of the start of a three-day terrorist attack on Mumbai, in
India, when militants armed with grenades and assault rifles targeted six sites
across the city incl the five-star Taj Palace and Oberoi Hotels, the main CST
train station, and Leopolds cafe. Sieges at the hotels were finally brought to a
conclusion on 29 Nov 2008 with 10 militants identified, but only one of them -
Pakistani national Mohammad Ajmal Qasab - was captured alive. He was sentenced
to death in May 2010 and executed in November 2012 after the rejection of his
appeal for this to be commuted to life imprisonment. At least 166 civilians and
nine attackers were killed incl nationals from the U.S., Australia, Canada,
France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Singapore and Thailand

Event Start Date: 2013-11-26

Event End Date: 2013-11-26

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            November 25, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ROAD RAGE THUGS IN BASEBALL BAT ATTACK;
Terror chase in car ended in beating on roadside

BYLINE: EMMA DAVISON

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE, TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 63 words


TWO men were chased, attacked and beaten by road rage thugs armed with a
baseball bat.

The two victims were in a van cut up by a car in Leeds Road, Deighton.

The three thugs in the Renault Clio tried to goad the men into a confrontation
but they ignored them and drove off.

The thugs followed them for a mile and ATTACKED them when they stopped at
traffic lights.

? Full story - Page 5

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            November 25, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pensioners in attack terror;
NEWS IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 54 words


ECCLES Two pensioners were thrown to the floor by a robber who burst into their
homes.

A severely-disabled elderly man was pulled from his wheelchair at Kembell House
by a man who stole his wallet - just minutes after a 76-yearold woman was
attacked at College Croft. Anyone with information can call police on 0161 856
4519.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                              The Plymouth Herald

                            November 25, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Family left in terror by an arson attack on car

BYLINE: LISA CLARK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 340 words


A FAMILY was left cowering in terror when arsonists set their car on fire yards
from their front door.

Elizabeth Clapp told how her 12-year-old son's bedroom was lit up from the
flames, which was started in the early hours of Saturday mor ning.

She explained: "I woke up to a loud popping sound and I jumped out of bed. I
could see out at the front from my son's bedroom, it was lit up orange, all you
could see was this huge fire.

"We rang 999 and the fire service were here in no time but I think other people
in the estate had already phoned them.

"We were told not to come out the house but to stay in the kitchen at the back
of the house."

The car has been left completely burnt out while the Honicknowle house needs new
front room windows as they were charred and cracked from the flames.

Police and fire investigators have confirmed that the blaze was started
deliberately after evidence of an accelerant was found.

Elizabeth continued: "They say it was set from the back of the car.

"We just can't think of anyone who would have a reason to target us. We both
work and we come home and keep ourselves to ourselves.

"But it seems really random, we're not the first or last car in the estate."
Elizabeth, her husband Martin and their son George are now in a state of shock
following the ordeal.

Elizabeth continued: "I just can't put into words how I feel. I was sitting here
this morning with my car burnt out on the driveway, Sanctuary (Elizabeth's
housing association landlords) boarding up my windows and police making door to
door enquiries in the estate. It felt so surreal, like I could wake up.

"We have a long road ahead of us emotionally, if someone is capable of this,
what else are they capable of ?" The blaze happened in Chard Barton, Honicknowle
between 1am and 2am on Saturday morning.

Anyone with information is urged to phone 101 and quote crime reference
EL/13/4962.

family car (also pictured left) "We have a long road ahead of us emotionally, -
Elizabeth Clapp' if someone is capable of this, what else are they capable of ?"
'

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ Elizabeth Clapp pictured with son George and their burnt-out family
car (also pictured left)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PLH


                       Copyright 2013 The Plymouth Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            November 25, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Family cowered in terror during attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 79 words


A family were left cowering in terror when arsonists set their car on fire yards
from their front door. Elizabeth Clapp, of Chard Barton, Honicknowle , said her
12-year-old son's bedroom was lit up from the blaze, which was started in the
early hours of Saturday. Police and fire investigators have confirmed that the
fire was started deliberately after evidence of an accelerant was found. The car
was left completely burnt out, while the house needs new front room windows.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2013 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                           November 26, 2013 Tuesday

Picture of the Day: Anniversary of Mumbai terror attacks

BYLINE: Asian Image reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 65 words


Members of the 3Gaga Heads, a 3-member comedy group from Japan, rehearse at the
promenade outside the Taj Mahal Hotel, one of the sites of the Mumbai terror
attack, during the 5th anniversary of the attack in Mumbai, India.

The attack by Pakistani gunmen in India's financial capital on Nov. 26, 2008
killed 166 people and shattered relations between the nuclear-armed neighbors.
(AP/Kakade)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 26, 2013 Tuesday

UN Security Council condemns recent wave of "terrorist" attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 226 words


Text of report in English by Baghdad-based Iraqi Kurdish Shafaq News website on
26 November

(Shafaq News) - Tuesday, 26 November 2013 - UN Security Council condemned on
Tuesday the recent wave of terrorist attacks in Iraq , calling to refer the
perpetrators and those who stand behind the armed groups to justice .

The head of the UN Security Council for the current session, Liu Jie Yi, said in
a statement briefed by "Shafaq News", after a meeting on the situation in Iraq
that the council "stressed that" any terrorist act cannot reflect the peace path
towards democracy and reconstruction in Iraq."

He added that the attacks that have killed dozens of civilians and injured
hundreds more targeted "intentionally " places such as schools and places of
worship.

The council renewed its commitment on the security of Iraq and to recognize the
efforts of the Iraqi security forces, in which its elements are being targeted,
expressing strong support for the efforts of the Iraqi government to help the
security needs of the Iraqi people as a whole.

Military operations and casualties have increased dramatically in recent months,
according to estimates of international organizations; including the UN, as the
government failed to end them despite the military operations carried out
against the militants.

Source: Shafaq News website, Baghdad, in English 26 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 26, 2013 Tuesday

Turkey creates anti-terror squad to thwart attacks by banned leftist group

LENGTH: 370 words


Text of report by Turkish newspaper Star website on 25 November

[Report by Mustafa Turk: "The DHKP-C Has Asked Al-Asad for a Camp for Actions in
Turkey"]

Unable to continue its activities in Greece as in the past, the terrorist
organization DHKP-C [Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front] has begun
talks with the Damascus regime to settle in Syria. The organization has asked
Bashar al-Asad for a camp area. Even as negotiations with Al-Asad continue, the
DHKP-C is reportedly planning a dramatic action in Turkey from its base near
Syria's border with Turkey.

The DHKP-C reportedly took this decision because it was getting difficult to
bring munitions from Europe for actions in Turkey. The organization thinks that
it will not have any problems related to munitions in Syria and is reportedly
planning actions in Ankara and Istanbul. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan is
reportedly the top target for the organization. Police buildings and stations
are reportedly second-ranked targets.

Anti-terror Squad

Upon hearing that the terrorist organization plans to target the police and the
AKP [Justice and Development Party], the Directorate General of Security
mobilized and formed a special squad of 80 persons to protect the Prime
Minister. This team, which will work separately from the Prime Minister's
bodyguards, has taken strict measures around [the Prime Minister] to guard
against the possibility of sudden attacks. The 80 members of the team, which is
made up of counterterrorism police officers, take turns to guard the Prime
Ministry Building, the AKP headquarters building, and the Prime Minister's home
in Kecioren around the clock. The team collects intelligence to guard against
potential attacks and has reportedly taken measures to prevent attacks before
they occur. The team, whose members are drawn from counterterrorism squads,
includes heavily armed police officers as well as sharpshooters. Squads deployed
around the AKP building and Prime Minister Erdogan's home conduct checks and
prevent attacks before they occur. While some suspicious persons have been
subjected to identity checks, others have reportedly been detained and
questioned.

Source: Star website, Istanbul, in Turkish 25 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                           November 26, 2013 Tuesday

Northern Ireland Police chief warns of more terror attacks

BYLINE: Henry McDonald, Ireland correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 169 words


The chief constable of Northern Ireland has warned about a surge in republican
dissident terror attacks in the runup to Christmas. Matt Baggott was speaking
after a bomb partially exploded close to Belfast's main police station on
Sunday.

The head of the Police Service of Northern Ireland said: "There has been a surge
recently in dissident republican activity. We have seen letter bombs, under-car
booby traps, blast bombs, hijackings. These groupings are trying to bring
themselves to notice again."

But Baggott ruled out a "ring of steel" being erected in Belfast or any other
major towns, which during the Troubles involved numerous armed checkpoints.

Instead, extra police patrols would be deployed to counter the threat from the
new IRA and other republican organisations opposed to peace and power sharing,
he said. On Sunday night a hijacked car was driven to the Victoria shopping
centre in central Belfast. The bomb inside, packed with 60kg of explosives,
partially detonated at about 11.15pm. Henry McDonald

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     November 26, 2013 Tuesday 10:44 AM GMT

In pictures: Fifth anniversary of Mumbai terror attacks;
The victims of the attack were honoured at memorial services across the city

BYLINE: Iwona Karbowska, Neela Debnath

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 100 words


People across Mumbai, India have paused to pay tribute to the men and women
killed in a terrorist attack on the city back in 2008.

More than 160 people, including 26 foreign nationals, died in the three-day
attack in Mumbai on 26 November 2008 led by 10 gunmen, nine of whom were killed
by security forces. The only terrorist captured alive, Ajmal Kasab, was hanged
in a jail in Pune, India.

Wreaths of flowers have been left at memorials in the Indian city on the 5th
anniversary of the attack while friends, relatives and colleagues remember the
victims.

Click here or on 'view gallery' to see more images

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 26, 2013 Tuesday 12:35 PM GMT

Mumbai 26/11: five years on, city still feels scars of devastating terrorist
attack;
26/11 attack on Mumbai has left its mark on the city - not only with armoured
vehicles patrolling tourist hot spots - but also on the psyche of India's "city
of dreams"

BYLINE: By Barney Henderson and Amrita Kadam in Mumbai

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1150 words


Mumbai, India's City of Dreams, has always walked a fine line between hope and
despair. Time and again, the home of Bollywood has overcome tragedy, with recent
deadly bomb blasts, flooding and riots giving rise to the adage "The Sprit of
Mumbai".

This spirit - the resilience and very soul of India's commercial and
entertainment capital - was tested like never before five years ago on Tuesday,
when just 10 Pakistani terrorists turned the world's fourth largest city into a
war zone, holding major landmarks such as the Taj Mahal Hotel under siege for
three long days and nights and turning global counter-terrorism policy on its
head.

The 166 individuals killed and hundreds injured will be marked in Mumbai on
Tuesday and throughout the week at public and private memorial services - with
heightened security across the city.

The physical damage of the attack, that began on the night of November 26, 2008,
has long since been swept away. The bullet holes are plastered over - apart from
where they have been kept as a tourist gimmick - and the five star hotels were
quick to replace the shattered glass and throw open their doors again.

The lone surviving gunman, Ajmal Amir Kasab was hanged last Novemberand, in the
past year, bilateral relations between India and Pakistan have finally started
to improve.

However, the attacks have left a lasting impact on the face of Mumbai.

Futuristic armoured vehicles mounted with machine guns now patrol the wealthy
downtown heart of the city, with the iconic Gateway of India transformed from a
bustling tourist hive to a controlled fortress.

Hotel security, with airport-like scanners, car bomb checks for every vehicle
and armed guards, now resembles Islamabad or Kabul.

There are heavily-armed "Force One" units stationed across the city, ready to
respond quickly to any attack or threat.

During the 26/11 attacks, several police officers tried to combat the
AK47-wielding terrorists with their misfiring, wooden-framed, bolt-action Short
Magazine Lee-Enfield rifles - some of which were issued when Queen Victoria was
still Empress of India and had not been fired for decades. Others simply fled.

Police chiefs have since tried to rid the force of the caricature of overweight,
lazy, corrupt policemen, dozing on their cane lathis (sticks).

The force - humiliated and castigated for their total inability to handle five
separate teams of just two men - has finally been equipped with 21st century
weapons and officers receive better pay and training.

As part of the police reform plan, Dhanushyakodi Sivanandan, the Mumbai police
commissioner in the aftermath of the attacks, even announced that a training
programme was under way for the wives of officers, to teach them how to cook "a
proper diet for their husbands", to keep the force "fit and healthy". There are
now organised police yoga sessions to "relieve stress" and regular medical
check-ups.

Rakesh Maria, the head of the Anti Terrorist Squad for Maharashtra state who was
in charge of police operations on the night of 26/11, recently told The
Telegraph the force is now far better prepared to face any future attack, with a
"new mindset to improve mental toughness".

"We have a dedicated group of units, who are trained for such situations ... Now
the response is much faster and more terrorist-oriented. The equipment has come
in. The government did not spare any cost with the new top of the line
equipment," he said.

Maharashtra's home minister, R.R. Patil, insisted this week that Mumbai was safe
from any future such attacks. "The state and central government have jointly and
individually initiated many measures to prevent and ward off such terror threats
in the future, both from within and from the Arabian Sea route," he said.

ATS Chief Maria points out that "everyone has learnt a lesson at our expense,"
with the experience of 26/11 leading to a transformation in global
counter-terrorism strategies.

There have been several recent reports of "Mumbai-style" cells operating in
Europe and threatening the London Olympics. Last month, four men were arrested
in London for plotting a "Mumbai-style" attack on the city. The New York City
Police viewed 26/11 as "a major shift in traditional terrorist tactics".

With several parallels to 26/11, Islamist terrorists from the al-Qaeda-linked
al-Shabaab group took an upmarket shopping mall in Nairobi under siege for three
days in September, leaving 61 civilians dead.

This new type of terror tactic generally targets densely populated urban areas,
often landmark sites such as hotels, where a siege situation can be established
to create maximum media coverage - and casualties. Rather than a complicated
bomb attack, a small group of men armed with machine guns are sent in by
"handlers" in a third country with a battlefield mentality, targeting civilians.
It is a tactic that is very difficult to defend against.

Police and security services across the world have reacted to the threat, as
shown by the fact that plots are frequently being foiled.

However, in Mumbai, five years after the city's darkest hour, the psychological
scars of 26/11 have not healed. There remains a feeling of insecurity, fear and
an overriding sense that the city is vulnerable.

The "Spirit of Mumbai" still exists, but the old bravado has gone - replaced by
extra precautions taken and a day-to-day acceptance that the next attack is
around the corner. The police, armed forces and government are unable to guard
against it and the city was the victim of yet another terrorist attack in July
2011, when a string of bomb blasts left 26 people dead.

Suresh Khopade, a retired superintendent, states that people's continued lack of
faith in the police has led them increasingly to trust god with their
protection.

Kamal Singh, a witness of the attack on the Nariman House Jewish centre on
26/11, said his community was even considering arming themselves because, if an
attack happens again, "we have to learn to face it without the police".

Bhisham Mansukhani, a survivor of the Taj attack said: "It will take another
attack to evaluate the security measures. I know a lot of people who have left
the country because they felt vulnerable and if given a chance even I would want
to move to some other country where I can live safely."

One of the prime witnesses in the Kasab trial that gripped India, Devika
Rotawan, who was shot in the leg during the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminal Station
attack on 26/11 said: "I am fearless, but I know our government is not capable
of preventing further terror attacks."

Sunita Shah, who was at CST on 26/11, summed up how people have come to terms
with the fact that they will never have security: "Mumbai is attacked so often
that one just becomes numb to it. Not much seems to have changed after 26/11 -
just a few tanks here and there. The people certainly don't feel safer. We are
just waiting for the next tragedy."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday

Syria's Aleppo experiences drop in power supply following "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 116 words


Text of report by Mazen published in English by state-run Syrian news agency
SANA website

Aleppo - Terrorists on Wednesday [27 November] targeted the main towers which
feed electricity in Aleppo, causing electricity break off in the majority of
Aleppo neighbourhoods.

"The terrorists attack led to a drop in the electrical quantity which feed
Aleppo and an increase in the hours of rationing in different regions of the
city," Minister of Electricity Imad Khamis told SANA. He added that the
workshops and maintenance teams are working to mend the damages and restore the
electrical circuit to the city as soon as possible.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 2030 gmt 27 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                             Western Gazette series

                               November 28, 2013

Court told how attack victim was terrorised by ex in demand to see son

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 321  words


A Man who carried out a drunken assault on his former partner at her home in
Castle Cary has been ordered to carry out 80 hours' unpaid work.

Shane Norman Stone had been drinking heavily when he went to the victim's home
at midnight demanding to see his son and barged his way in.

When the terrified victim tried to phone for help he grabbed her phone and threw
it at a wall causing her to flinch in fear and bang her head.

He then pushed her on to a bed and when a witness intervened he ripped a child's
stairgate from its hinges and threw it across the floor in anger before punching
a wall.

Stone, 24, of Chappell Lane, South Barrow, pleaded guilty to assaulting Lucy
Sneesby by beating her during the incident on September 1 when he appeared
before Somerset Magistrates.

Sanchia Pereira, prosecuting, said on the night in question Stone phoned his ex
at 11.30pm and said he was on his way to her house and arrived under the
influence of alcohol.

She approached him, they argued in the street and when she went back home he
went to the property and pushed her back on to the stairs.

"They both went upstairs and Stone was slurring his words and bumping into the
walls and when she took out her phone to call a friend he grabbed it and it hit
a wall causing the battery to fall out," said Miss Pereira.

"She flinched and banged her head against a chair causing a bruise and he then
pushed her causing her to fall back onto the bed."

A witness had entered the premises and tried to calm the situation down but
Stone tore a child's stairgate from its hinges, threw it and punched the wall
before leaving.

When interviewed by police he said he was ten out of ten on a scale of
drunkenness. He said everything the complainant had said was true because she
was a good person.

Magistrates sentenced Stone to a 12-month community order with an order to carry
out 80 hours' unpaid work and ordered him to pay £85 costs and a £60 victim
surcharge.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 30


                    Copyright 2013 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 29, 2013 Friday

"Terrorists" blamed for mortar shell attack on Russian embassy in Damascus

LENGTH: 121 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus - A mortar shell fired by terrorists fell on the Russian embassy
chancery in Damascus.

A source at the embassy told SANA that a mortar shell fell on the embassy today,
causing slight material damage to the building without casualties among the
employees.

In a statement, Russian Foreign Ministry strongly condemned the attack,
expressing its dismay over firing shells by terrorists on the centre of
Damascus, including the Russian Embassy.

The Russian Ministry affirmed that these attacks are terrorist acts, calling for
punishing the perpetrators and their backers.

B. Mousa/ M. Ismael

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 28 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            November 29, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

You can all relax, Brody is back and taking centre stage;
TELEVISION He's the son of a viscount and fought in the Gulf War. The Brit
behind Homeland, Alexander Cary, tells Tim Walker about the best characters to
write and why you're not a terrorist until you attack

BYLINE: Tim Walker

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 64,65

LENGTH: 1154 words


HOMELAND may be taking flak on Twitter but Alexander Cary has survived worse.
Cary is an executive producer and one of the key writers of the award-winning US
drama, yet his first career was as an officer in the Scots Guards. The
50-year-old Londoner served in Northern Ireland in the Eighties and in Iraq
during the first Gulf War. On a show packed with UK acting talent, he lends a
British accent to the writers' room, while his military experience gives him a
unique perspective on the character of Nicholas Brody, the conflicted antihero
at the heart of Homeland.

Over morning coffee at his house in LA's leafy Larchmont neighbourhood, Cary
seems sanguine about the criticisms levelled at the show, now in its third year.
Whether the complaints regard pace, plausibility or the presence of Dana Brody,
their ferocity is due, in large part, to the high expectations set by its debut
series - which cleaned up at the 2012 Emmys.

"When we first aired we got unbelievable reviews, and we didn't quite believe it
was real," Cary says. "But last season we started to get more criticism, which
made us switch off from Twitter. We read a couple of blogs that we consider to
be intelligent and thoughtful - and they're often quite critical, as well. But
we don't subject ourselves to too many tweets. A lot of it is incredibly
mean-spirited to actors and characters on the show."

He won't be drawn on the plot twists to come, nor on which actors have signed up
for the next series, which was commissioned in October. But the final few
episodes of this run will feature Brody front and centre again, with the
narrative hurtling towards the fulfilment - or failure - of Saul's big plan for
Iran. Homeland has often held a mirror up to real events but the recent,
historic international deal on Iran's nuclear programme was nonetheless a
remarkable coincidence.

"In the first season we wrote about a terrorist hit on America and hoped we
weren't right," Cary recalls. "In the second, we wrote about whether or not
Israel would bomb Iran, and we were still hoping we weren't right. This third
season we discussed changing the dynamic between Iran and the West, and we
weren't even hoping either way, because we thought it just wasn't on the books."

Cary's father is the hereditary peer Lucius Cary, the 15th Viscount Falkland
(the Falkland Islands were named after the fifth), but the family's historic
seat in the West Country fell out of their hands long ago, and Alexander says
his own title, Master of Falkland, is little more than a source of ridicule for
his fellow Homeland writers. Born in Hammersmith, he grew up in the shadow of
the Chelsea football ground, where his next-door neighbours were the respected
screen actors André Morell and Joan Greenwood. By the age of 12, he already
wanted to be a film director. "I didn't really know what a director was," he
says, "just that it was the guy in charge."

At Westminster, the London public school, Cary showed little interest in formal
education. He was expelled before his A-levels and sent instead to Loretto, a
boarding school outside Edinburgh, where it was hoped he'd be instilled with
some discipline. He left with unremarkable grades and, following a stint as a
runner in a New York theatre, joined the Army on a whim. "I had a bet with a
friend who didn't think I could do it, but I loved it. Having been a total pain
in the neck about authority at school, I took a perverse enjoyment in being
given instructions and carrying them out."

After graduating from Sandhurst in 1985, he was posted to Northern Ireland,
where he found himself fascinated by the politics and people of the region at
the height of the Troubles. "Around every corner there was something dangerous,"
he says, "but also something that I found understandable and relatable. In many
ways, that informs me in writing Homeland." At 27, he was attached to a company
of US marines during Desert Storm. On the tarmac at RAF Brize Norton, as he
prepared to board a transport plane to Kuwait, he was promoted from captain to
acting major, "because they felt the rank would give me a little more weight
with the Americans".

Cary wasinvolved in combat, and witnessed the devastation on the road to Basra
known as "The Highway of Death", where US forces decimated the retreating Iraqi
army.

Not long after the war, he left the military and then the UK, bound for
Hollywood. Having decided writing was the fastest route to a film career, he
spent the next decade or so in development hell, trying to flog screenplays that
were never produced. Finally, a friend suggested he consider writing for the
small screen instead. "I never even watched television," he says. "I had stars
in my eyes about the movies. But I went out and bought The Sopranos on DVD and
started watching it, and thought 'Oh my God, this is great'. After that I
watched Six Feet Under, NYPD Blue and the rest, and very quickly decided that I
must do television."

He fired off five TV scripts in three months, and by 2009 he had a spot in the
writers' room for the first series of Lie to Me, a crime thriller starring
fellow Brit Tim Roth as a brilliant criminal psychologist. Early on, he says, "I
pitched a crazy idea for an episode and Tim's eyes lit up, because it was just
the type of story he wanted to make. I wrote it, he loved it and we developed a
fast friendship." In short order, Cary was promoted to show-runner.

The show's cast included actress Jennifer Marsala, now Cary's fiancée. The
couple are getting married in Somerset on New Year's Eve. Cary also has two sons
from previous relationships: Lucius, 18, and Sebastian, who is nine.

As Lie to Me came to the end of its three-series run in 2011, the pilot script
for Homeland happened to pass across his desk. "I thought, 'I should have
written this.' It was right in my wheelhouse. I had never met [Homeland
creators] Howard Gordon or Alex Gansa, but I had a very specific idea of Brody,
and whether he was a terrorist. It's simple: most married men are always looking
at other women, but that doesn't mean they're adulterers until they actually
commit adultery. Brody was brainwashed, but until he commits a terrorist act,
he's not a terrorist."

Cary was forceful in his pursuit of the gig and, fortunately, Gordon and Gansa
recognised his affinity with the material. His seventh episode as lead writer,
Good Night, will be broadcast on US television this weekend, and in the UK next
week. "I really like writing for Brody," he says. "But then, I like writing them
all. I've had a lot of fun writing David Estes [the late deputy director of the
CIA's Counterterrorism Center, played by David Harewood] and Peter Quinn.
Everybody likes writing Saul. I quite like writing Carrie's dad, actually. I'm
aware that people are irritated by the character, but I even like writing Dana."

'Everybody likes writing Saul. I quite like writing Carrie's dad, actually - and
I even like writing Dana ...'

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gone to the bad? Left, Nicholas Brody (Damian Lewis) and, above, his
troubled daughter Dana (Morgan Saylor). Below, good guys Saul Berenson (Mandy
Patinkin) and Carrie Mathison (Claire Danes)
KENT SMITH/SHOWTIME
Another gong: Alexander Cary picks up a Writers Guild award for Homeland in 2012

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            November 29, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Family's terror as firebomb thugs attack

BYLINE: MARTIN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 301 words


POLICE are hunting arsonists who petrol bombed a house in Dewsbury while the
family slept.

Arsonists smashed a living room window where a man was sleeping and hurled the
firebomb inside.

Detectives say it was fortunate no-one was Killed.

The ATTACKERs STRUCK at the house at Moorlands Avenue West at 2.30am yesterday.

The man, aged 60, is thought to have been WOKEN by the smashing glass.

He is believed to have grabbed the plastic container, suffering burns to his
hand. He was TAKEN to hospital and detained for treatment. The man was in the
house with his wife and grown-up children. The woman and children were asleep
upstairs at the time. Police declined to say how many young adults were in the
house. Detectives have appealed for witnesses or anyone who saw anything
suspicious to contact them.

Police said the front window was BROKEN and a plastic container with a "liquid
accelerant" was thrown inside. Fire damage was caused to the room. Firefighters
from Dewsbury TACKLED the blaze.

Specialist fire brigade investigators and police stayed at the scene yesterday.
Det Sgt Matt HawKer, of Dewsbury CID, said: "This was a serious incident in
which a family home has been ATTACKED, resulting in an injury to a man inside
the property.

"It is no exaggeration to say this arson attacK could easily have had
potentially fatal consequences. "Detectives have been WORKING closely with
specialist fire and forensic investigators at the scene and we are pursuing
lines of enquiry." He added: "It is important we locate those responsible as
soon as possible and I would asK any residents living nearby who saw suspicious
behaviour in Moorlands Avenue shortly before the attacK tooK place to contact
us." Anyone with information is ASKED to contact KirKlees CID on 101 or
Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ INQUIRY: Police outside the house in Moorlands Road West Picture: Ash
Milnes
¦ DAMAGE: The house in Moorlands Avenue West which was targeted by arsonists
(JH281113Afire-05)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 30, 2013 Saturday

Prosecutor views church arsons in Russia's Tatarstan as terror attacks

LENGTH: 272 words


Text of report by Gazprom-owned, editorially independent Russian radio station
Ekho Moskvy on 30 November

[Presenter] The Tatarstan prosecutor's office views arson attacks on churches in
the [predominantly Muslim] republic as acts of terrorism. In the near future,
the investigations bodies may launch [criminal] proceedings into those incidents
on charges of terrorism. Aleksey Golubev has more.

[Correspondent] Churches in Tatarstan burn one after another and no-one is any
doubt that these are not just random accidents, the republic's prosecutor Ildus
Nafikov has said. He has chaired an emergency meeting to discuss the situation
and said that he has sent a motion to the investigations bodies to have a
criminal case launched on charges of terrorism. Tatarstan's law-enforcement
bodies should give an adequate response to those who want to undermine stability
in the region, the prosecutor said.

Over the past six months, there have been seven incidents of vandalism targeting
Russian Orthodox churches. In the last two weeks alone, four churches have burnt
down. In mid-November, perpetrators tried to set fire to a new chapel in the
village of Sokolka. Several days later there were arson attacks on Russian
Orthodox churches in the towns of Chistopol and in the settlement of Lenino. And
late last Thursday [28 November] there were fires in old churches in the
villages of Alabay and Krechshenyye Kazyli.

[Presenter] Earlier, Russia's Muslim organizations have condemned arson attacks
on Russian Orthodox churches, describing them as dangerous acts of provocation.

Source: Ekho Moskvy radio, Moscow, in Russian 1200 gmt 30 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     November 30, 2013 Saturday 7:47 PM GMT

After the terrorist attacks: The gateway to India is open to the world;
Five years ago, attacks brought Mumbai global prominence for the wrong reasons.
Now, the city is looking ahead, says Chris Leadbeater

BYLINE: Chris Leadbeater

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1618 words


Signs that life has changed here are not difficult to discern. On the corner of
Strand Road, engulfed by the visitors who swirl around the Gateway of India, an
armoured car is idling by the kerb with as much discretion as a heavy military
vehicle can muster in an urban setting. Its message is, however, heeded by the
guards at the Taj Mahal Palace hotel. Every sleek 4x4 queuing for the drop-off
zone is perused with serious eyes and long-handled mirrors that probe below for
dark secrets. The doorman is no less thorough, peering at me carefully as he
takes my bag and feeds it to the X-ray machine.

This nervous double-checking is understandable. Five years ago Mumbai suffered
the atrocities that catapulted it onto news bulletins. On 26 November 2008, 10
locations across the city witnessed gunfire as terrorists from jihadi group
Lashkar-e-Taiba brought violence to Asia's most cosmopolitan metropolis. The
attack was tied to India's long-running feud with Pakistan over the border
region of Kashmir, but the results needed no clarification: 164 killed, more
than 300 injured and a bloody smear that has stained Mumbai ever since.

The jewel of the city's waterfront, the Taj Mahal Palace, was the site most
directly affected, the gunmen bursting through its ornate entrance and burrowing
in. It was 29 November before they were flushed out.

It is not hard to comprehend why Mumbai would be targeted in this manner. It is
India's most inhabited city, home to an official population of 18 million, and
an unofficial one of four million more. It is its brightest light, an enclave
(in those parts not defined by rank poverty) of wealth, business and culture on
the Arabian Sea. Its desirability has been engraved into history for six
centuries - by the Gujarat Sultanate which took control in 1407, and the
Portuguese Empire which staged a takeover in 1535, rechristening it "Bom Baia"
("Beautiful Bay"); via the British who extracted Bombay from Portugal's grasp in
1661 and clutched it until 1947. And it has been the centre-ground of the modern
India - whether as the launchpad for Mahatma Gandhi's Quit India Movement of
civil disobedience, which was born in the city in 1942 and spirited the country
to independence, or as the core of the Bollywood movie industry.

Panic on the streets is rarely a thing that fits neatly with tourism. But,
wandering the Colaba district, to the south of the centre, I am struggling with
the idea of Mumbai as dangerous - save perhaps for the mania of its traffic.

When I make it past security into the Taj Mahal Palace, all is refined.
Be-suited men talk briskly on the chairs in the lobby, young couples perch on
the comfy seats and there is an ingrained calm that cannot be too far removed
from the ambience that must have filled the place in 1903, when the Indian
industrialist Jamsetji Tata unveiled his grand project.

A small memorial recalls the 31 guests and staff who died here in 2008. But
beyond this, the hotel is keen to move on. And has. Just 21 days passed before
it reopened, partially at least, in an act of clenched-jawed defiance - though
some areas took up to two years to re-emerge, including its ground-floor bars
and eateries, which were destroyed. Half a decade on, you would not know. Its
Japanese restaurant Wasabi was ranked at number 20 on the San Pellegrino list of
Asia's top 50 restaurants last February. And its Harbour Bar is no less lauded -
a social hotspot where what occurred seems an implausible nightmare.

The comeback is completed by a snapshot in an adjacent glass cabinet - Barack
Obama smiling as he is welcomed during a state visit in 2010. Alongside, other
photos salute the hotel's magnetism: politicos George W Bush, Nicolas Sarkozy,
Hillary Clinton; actors Michael Douglas and Richard Gere; musicians - Jagger
grinning, Lennon pulling his saintly face next to Yoko. The Beatles link is
deep. Upstairs, the Ravi Shankar Suite is where the great sitarist shared his
skills with George Harrison in 1966.

The true star, though, is neither president nor pop idol, but the hotel's
architecture: the pool in its courtyard; the staircase that sweeps gloriously up
through the main hall, clinging to the walls in the way a velvet dress clings to
an actress on Oscars night. At day's end, I feel obliged to tiptoe up it. To
take the lift would seem a Philistinic act.

Elsewhere in the metropolis, there is a sense that, while Mumbai has not
forgotten the events of 2008, it does not wish to dwell on them. At Leopold Cafe
- a tourist favourite on the Colaba Causeway, where bullets flew - guards stand
silently by as visitors slurp banana lassis and beers.

There are further watchful uniformed figures at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus,
the central railway station, where the assault began during evening rush hour.
Entering this transport hub - a process akin to being carried along by a river
at high water, such is the number of people - brings home to me the
indiscriminate brutality of the attack. To open fire here is to aim at the very
heart of this city of crowds.

The station is a symbol of Mumbai's prowess, and not just in this dizzy surge of
workers, flowing in as conduits of a booming economy. Its archaic majesty is a
reminder of the British Raj. Built between 1878 and 1888, it existed as Victoria
Terminus until 1996, and seems lost in another century. Its ticket hall is as
much cathedral as noisy morass of queues - marble columns soaring to vaulted
ceiling, stained glass framing the booking windows.

It is not alone in casting backward glances. Traces of colonial times are
scattered across Mumbai. Some are mildly silly - the Gateway of India was
created in expensive tribute to George V's first footstep on Indian soil in
1911, but had been finished for only 23 years when British rule faded away. Some
are splendidly dramatic - near-neighbours the Municipal Corporation Building
(city hall) and the Bombay High Court still visually asserting Britain's
authority. Some are beautiful - the grassy enclave of the University of Mumbai,
where the 280ft Rajabai Clock Tower, concocted by Sir Gilbert Scott between 1869
and 1878, dreams of Oxford.

Yet to stare at Mumbai's past is to risk ignoring its present. Evolution is
everywhere - the shiny new terminal morphing at the airport, set to open next
year; the metro system which aims to reduce traffic congestion when its first
trains roll in 2021; the Rajiv Gandhi Sea Link, which, since 2009 has connected
the districts of Bandra and Worli across Mahim Bay - a four-mile bridge as
iconic as any in San Francisco or Istanbul.

Of course, this recipe is flavoured with the standard Indian contradiction: rich
and poor wedged together at uncomfortably close quarters. The financial chasm
yawns along the Western Express Highway, which cuts south from the airport past
slum "housing", before delivering its more select drivers into gilded Bandra,
where bedazzled fans pose for photos outside the home of Bollywood legend
Shahrukh Khan, and another fine hotel, the Taj Lands End, shimmers by the ocean.
In Mahalaxmi, meanwhile, men toil for meagre rupees at the giant outdoor laundry
of the Dhobi Ghat as chic apartments climb to prominence nearby.

This uneven dish is served at Chowpatty Beach. It is a Sunday afternoon as I
amble onto Mumbai's key curve of sand - the closing hours of the Diwali
holidays, and a day after India's best-loved sporting son, the cricketer Sachin
Tendulkar, has retired in triumph at the city's Wankhede Stadium. All India
seems to be here: families gathered to eat; brave souls paddling in the dirty
waves; hawkers selling spicy fare; little boys aping their hero with bat and
ball; old men dozing; street kids and the appallingly penniless, begging,
pleading.

It is an intoxicating, exhausting spectacle. The trick is to sample it for a
while, then slip away to somewhere less frenetic. Perhaps Kyani & Co, one of
Mumbai's few remaining Iranian cafés, where sali boti (mutton stew) is doled out
for 90 rupees (90p). Perhaps the National Gallery of Modern Art, one of a slew
of museums in the "art quarter" of Kala Ghoda, where paintings by Picasso are
shown alongside works by Vasudeo Gaitonde, India's noted 20th-century Abstract
artist.

Or perhaps Mani Bhavan. This three-storey property was Gandhi's Mumbai home
between 1917 and 1934. Now it is a museum, the spartan top-floor room preserved
behind glass. I am drawn to a series of his statements, reproduced in large
type. "Non-violence is the greatest virtue, cowardice the greatest vice.
Non-violence always suffers, cowardice always inflicts suffering." Such words
rang with truth in India's febrile Forties. Seventy years on, in a city whose
lustre has come at a price, they are no less pertinent.

Travel Essentials

Getting there

Virgin Atlantic (0844 209 7310; virgin-atlantic.com), BA (0844 493 0787;
ba.com), Jet Airways (0808 101 1199; jetair ways.com) and Air India (020 8745
1005; airindia.com) fly Heathrow-Mumbai non-stop.

Staying there

Taj Mahal Palace (00 91 22 6665 3366; tajhotels.com). Doubles from R15,969
(£160).

Taj Lands End, Bandra (00 91 22 6668 1234; tajhotels.com). Doubles from R11,272
(£113), room only.

Touring there

A three-night stay at the Taj Mahal Palace costs from £1,295pp, including BA
flights, transfers and B&B, with Cox & Kings (020 7873 5000; coxandkings.co.uk).

Visiting there

Mani Bhavan, 19 Laburnum Road, Gamdevi (00 91 22 2380 5864; gandhi-manib
havan.org; daily R$10/£1).

National Gallery of Modern Art, Mahatma Gandhi Road (00 91 22 2288 1969;
ngmaindia.gov.in; Tues-Sun; R$10/£1).

Eating there

Kyani & Co, 657 Jagannath Shankar Shet Road (00 91 22 2201 1492).

Leopold Café, Colaba Causeway (00 91 22 2282 8185; leopoldcafe.com).

More information

incredibleindia.org

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                            December 2, 2013 Monday

Mumbai terror attack victim in damages claim

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 382 words


A holidaymaker who was left paralysed after being caught up in the Mumbai terror
attack has launched a bid to have his compensation claim heard in the UK.

Will Pike, 33, is in a wheelchair after falling nearly 50 feet from his bedroom
window while trying to escape the extremists who attacked the Taj Mahal Palace
Hotel in November 2008.

The 33-year-old freelance filmmaker from north London alleges that the owners of
the hotel did little to provide security for residents despite several warnings
that an attack was imminent.

Mr Pike and his then girlfriend, Kelly Doyle - who is also bringing proceedings
- claim they saw limited security checks with only one metal detector and
cursory screening of guests.

They say they had not been given proper advice about emergency procedures and
evacuation routes and, when they heard doors being kicked in and shots fired,
had to break a window with furniture from their smoke-filled room and try to
reach the ground using bedding and curtains knotted together.

Mr Pike's lawyers, Leigh Day, have told London's High Court that the case should
be heard here, where Mr Pike lives and where The Indian Hotels Company Ltd,
which owns the hotel, has a substantial business presence.

His counsel, Philip Havers QC, said that Mr Pike issued his claim two years ago
after taking some time to come to terms with his grievous injuries, explore the
potential for a claim and instruct experts in the field of liability.

He told Mr Justice Stewart: "He did not choose to bring this claim lightly but
only after long, anxious and careful thought."

Before the three-day hearing, which will be taken up with evidence from law
experts, Mr Pike said: "I do not see why the British taxpayer should have to pay
for the lifelong care I need rather than those who I believe did not do enough
to guarantee my safety and the safety of all those caught up in this atrocity."

His solicitor, Russell Levy, said that to fight the case through the Indian
courts would be an "exercise in futility".

"Mr Pike's only real hope of seeing justice is in a UK court. The court in
Mumbai simply isn't geared up to deal with a claim of this kind.

"We estimate that it would take up to 25 years to pursue this claim through the
Indian courts rather than in England, where it will take about two years."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      December 2, 2013 Monday 8:02 AM GMT

Glasgow helicopter crash tragedy: Sisters tell how they feared Clutha pub had
been target of terror attack as they relive terrifying experience;
ANN FAULDS and Nancy Primrose, who escaped with head injuries, cuts and bruises,
told how they were trapped by bodies and rubble after the police helicopter
smashed through the pub roof.

BYLINE: By John Ferguson

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 690 words


TWO sisters who survived the Clutha disaster told yesterday how they feared it
was a terror attack when the police helicopter smashed through the roof.

Ann Faulds, 47, was convinced a bomb had gone off when the fallen chopper
obliterated the bar just feet from where she and Nancy Primrose, 54, were
standing chatting to friends.

And Ann revealed how she was trapped by bodies and rubble in the terrifying
aftermath of the crash.

The pair - who were out celebrating Nancy's recovery from a serious operation -
spoke to the Record after being discharged from hospital with head injuries,
cuts and bruises.

Despite their wounds, the sisters, like many survivors, were determined to
return to the scene of the tragedy.

They wiped away tears as they lay floral tributes to the Clutha dead.

Mum-of-one Ann said: "There was a loud crack, like an explosion, and then it was
as if a magician had waved a wand and the pub just disappeared.

"My sister and a couple of friends were literally blown away from me and I was
knocked down to the ground.

"When I looked up everything was destroyed, the bar was on top of us and my
whole throat and lungs were thick with debris, meaning I could barely breathe."

As Ann looked up from where she was crouching, she could see a large piece of
the helicopter wreckage, although she didn't realise what it was at the time.

She added: "It must have hit the bar inches from where we were standing.

"I could see bodies lying all around me in the debris. There were people covered
in blood and dust - it was horrific.

"I was convinced that it was a terror attack and that we had been bombed.

"Within minutes, bodies were being dragged out past me from hands coming in the
door.

"I was convinced that one of them would have been my sister and that she could
be dead.

"I was trapped in behind the bodies and rubble for seven or eight minutes.

"I could have tried to clamber over them by pushing rubble out of the way but I
knew the others were a lot worse off than me so I just waited."

Some of the walking wounded were in such a state of shock that they didn't even
try to get out.

Ann, of Glasgow's Springboig, said: "One of the eeriest things I have ever seen
was looking around and seeing three older women who had been sitting at a table
in the corner.

"They were covered in dust and blood but just sitting frozen as they had been
before the impact. At first I thought they were all dead but I asked if they
were OK and one nodded.

"I realised they were in a state of complete shock."

Her fears that her sister had been killed were put to rest when she heard shouts
from outside.

Health and safety officer Ann said: "I could hear Nancy screaming that her
sister was in the building. I shouted I was OK and managed to get out a few
minutes later.

"She was lying being treated by an off-duty nurse.

"Nancy was screaming that it had been a bomb and I remember the nurse saying it
was a helicopter. I thought that was a really odd thing to say and then I looked
up and saw one of the huge rotor blades sticking out of the roof and slowly
everything began to fall into place.

"It was complete carnage - something that you would just never expect to see
happening in Scotland to people who were just out enjoying themselves."

A policeman drove them to hospital in an ambulance so that paramedics could stay
at the scene. Ann was treated at the Victoria Infirmary for cuts and bruises
while Nancy needed 20 stitches to a head wound.

They were both discharged yesterday.

Mum-of-three Nancy, from Dennistoun, Glasgow, said: "I can't believe that I was
out celebrating after having a benign tumour removed from my spine and this
happens.

"I remember the crash and then everything went blank, the next thing I knew a
young lad was dragging me out the door. I was screaming that my sister was still
in there. It was like a nightmare."

Clutha regular Ann added: "I have never seen the place so busy as it was that
night.

"We had wanted to watch the band at the side of the bar where the stage is but
we couldn't get around for the crowd.

"At the side where the helicopter came down it was three-deep at the bar."

Survivor returns to scene of tragedy to pay respects

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      December 2, 2013 Monday 4:18 PM GMT

Backpack of terror: Man who attacked defenceless woman with arsenal of deadly
weapons is locked up for life;
Ahla Timofei slashed his female victim with a samurai sword and was only stopped
after hero cop Steve Brown tackled him to the floor

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 407 words


A man who attacked a defenceless woman using a samurai sword-              while
carrying a "backpack of terror" full of other deadly weapons- will spend the
rest of his life in a secure mental unit.

Ahla Timofei, 26, was found guilty of attempted murder and affray after
the terrifying attack on the streets of north London on Christmas Eve 2012.

Timofei did not attend court today after being deemed unfit, but a judge handed
down a hospital order meaning he will spend the rest of his life in secure care.

The court had heard how police were called to reports of a woman being attacked
in Holloway Road around at 12.40am on December 24 last year.

Witnesses had heard the victim's piercing screams after Timofei set upon the
22-year-old Italian with his sword as she walked down the street.

After leaving his victim with wounds to the face, legs and arms - including a
severed thumb - Timofei ran off, but a passerby relayed his movements to police
while his partner gave first aid to the seriously injured victim.

It was at this point that hero officer Sergeant Steve Brown confronted Timofei,
who was still brandishing his sword, and asked him to put the weapon down.

Timofei tried several times to injure Sgt Brown, but the courageous cop placed
himself inside the arc of the samurai sword, before forcing Timofei to the
ground and arresting him.

When officers opened up the defendant's rucksack, they found several samurai
type swords as well a numerous hunting knives, a crossbow and gas masks.

Sentencing Timofei at Woolwich Crown Court, Judge Topolski praised the actions
of the passersby who came to the victim's aid, and singled out Sgt Brown for his
bravery.

Detective Constable Jose Lagares, of Islington Police, described Timofei's
actions as a "vicious unprovoked stranger attack on a defenceless young woman"
who was simply returning home from work and looking forward to Christmas.

He said: "If it had not been for the bravery and quick thinking of the members
of public she could have been killed and Timofei evade arrest.

"The victim had to return back to Italy and continue seeking medical assistance
for her injuries.

"She has since returned to the UK to resume her studies and was present at court
to hear the jury deliver the guilty charge."

He added: "Thankfully, this type of incident is rare in London but the public
should be reassured that police officers are willing to put themselves in danger
to protect the public."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      December 3, 2013 Tuesday 6:06 PM GMT

Sherlock series 3: New plot details revealed before drama airs in January;
London is under threat from a huge terrorist attack in the first episode

BYLINE: Jess Denham

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 269 words


The announcement of when the first episode of Sherlock series 3 would air came
by way of a mysterious publicity stunt in London last week and now, producers
have released more information about the award-winning detective drama.

Benedict Cumberbatch and Martin Freeman will be returning as Sherlock and
sidekick John Watson for the eagerly-awaited new series in three 90-minute
films. "The Empty Hearse" will open, followed by "The Sign of Three" and "His
Last Vow" in a modern remake of Arthur Conan Doyle's classic created by Steven
Moffat and Mark Gatiss.

The first show will reach UK living rooms on New Year's Day, episode two will be
shown on Sunday 5 January and episode three on Sunday 12.

Over 10 million viewers have tuned in to watch Sherlock and Watson decipher
cryptic clues and outwit determined killers in action-packed adventures since
the drama first aired in summer 2010.

"The Empty Hearse" picks up two years after last series' finale "The Reichenbach
Fall" in which Sherlock 'died' after falling from a rooftop.

A BBC synopsis reads: "New horizons, romance and a comforting domestic future
beckon. But, with London under threat of a huge terrorist attack, Sherlock
Holmes is about to rise from the grave with all the theatricality that comes so
naturally to him.

"It's what his best friend wanted more than anything, but for John Watson it
might well be a case of 'be careful what you wish for'. If Sherlock thinks
everything will be just as he left it though, he's in for a very big
surprise..."

Rupert Graves, Una Stubbs, Amanda Abbington and Louise Brealey will also star in
the new Sherlock series.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                    December 4, 2013 Wednesday 12:22 PM GMT

Devices from London attacks in Met's museum of terrorism used to train police

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 405 words


An exhibition of terrorist bomb paraphernalia is being used to help train police
anti-terror investigators from around the world.

Scotland Yard has gathered exhibits from inquiries into attacks on London dating
back to the 19th century.

Items include a bomb timer used by the Fenians - the forerunners of the IRA - in
attacks in the 1880s, to a street sign showing blast damage from the huge IRA
truck bomb at Canary Wharf in 1996.

One of the original mortar rounds used in the IRA attack on Downing Street in
1991 is also on show. The round was made from a Guinness gas bottle canister
taken from an Irish pub. One round exploded in the garden, prompting John Major,
who was chairing a cabinet meeting on the Gulf War, famously to remark: "I think
we'd better start again somewhere else."

There are reconstructions of the liquid bombs with which terrorists planned to
murder thousands of people on 10 transatlantic aircraft in 2006.

The Evening Standard was given an exclusive tour of the exhibition, now in a
room in Scotland Yard. It was assembled by Scotland Yard's Bomb Data Centre,
part of the force's SO15 Counter Terrorism Command.

The team assembles fragments of bombs and gathers intelligence on explosive
devices used in terror attacks in the UK, as well as some used abroad.

They range from incendiary devices created by animal rights activists, to items
linked to the Angry Brigade, a small anarchist group based in Stoke Newington
that was behind a series of bomb attacks between 1970 and 1972.

Police have omitted items from the 7/7 bombings of 2005 out of sensitivity to
the families of victims. However, the exhibition includes a reconstruction of
one of the rucksack bombs used in the failed 21/7 attacks on the Underground and
a bus two weeks later.Commander Richard Walton, chief of SO15, said the exhibits
helped show the changing nature of the terror threat faced by the capital:
"People these days tend to think Islamic terrorism is all that there has ever
been, but these exhibits show that terrorism changes with different eras.

"We are currently living through a time of a potent threat from al Qaeda but
hopefully it will be defeated."

Other exhibits include a recording of an IRA phone warning about the Bishopsgate
truck bomb in 1993; the handwritten note from a senior Met officer handing
control of the Iranian Embassy siege to the SAS; and the launchplate for the IRA
mortar attack on Heathrow airport in 1994.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 5, 2013 Thursday

Somali regional authority condemns "terrorist" attack in port, blames militants

LENGTH: 162 words


The government of Somalia's semi-autonomous region of Puntland has condemned the
"terrorist" attack in the northeastern port city of Boosaaso which left at least
seven people (three soldiers and four civilians) dead and 37 others wounded.

A statement from the Puntland administration said the attack targeted local
security forces near a mosque in the commercially strategic port. "The terrorist
attacker intentionally exploded near a busy intersection at a densely-populated
marketplace area around 11:05 a.m. in the morning (local time)," the statement
read.

Although there was no immediate claim of responsibility, Puntland blamed the
attack on the militant Al-Shabab group, which it said is "committed to carrying
out acts of senseless violence, extremism and terrorism to achieve its evil
goal".

Al-Shabab fighters are believed to have set up a hideout in the Golis mountains
near Boosaaso, from where they attack Puntland forces.

Source: Garoweonline.com in English 5 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 5, 2013 Thursday

Arab League, Gulf Cooperation Council condemn Yemen "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 256 words


Text of report by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Riyadh, Dec. 05 (Saba) -The Arab League (AL) and the Gulf Cooperation Council
(GCC) on Thursday condemned the terrorist attack targeted the building of the
Defence Ministry's Hospital (al-Ordhi) in Sana'a.

The attack led to killing and wounding a number of military personnel.

In their statements issued today, the AL and GCC's General Secretariats
described the attack as a heinous cowardly crime, which is inconsistent with all
the religious and humanitarian values and principles.

They said that the attack aims to destabilize Yemen's stability and security and
to obstruct the political solution, expressing confidence that the perpetrators
of the attack will not go unpunished.

The AL and GCC underscored their position in support of Yemen's leadership,
government and people and of all measures taken to maintain the security and
stability of Yemen. They also extended condolences to the families of the
victims and wished the injured a speedy recovery.

Early today, a suicide bomber detonated his explosives-laden car at Defence
Ministry building of the al-Ordhi Hospital of the Defence Ministry's Complex,
according to an official at the Defence Ministry.

He added that a car carrying a number of armed men entered the building after
the explosion and exchanged fire with the soldiers, confirming that the
situation is under control and that the majority of the armed men were killed
within the complex.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in Arabic 1625 gmt 5 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 5, 2013 Thursday

Yemeni President Hadi orders probe into Defence Ministry "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 211 words


Text of report by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

["Yemeni President Pays Inspection Visit to the Defence Ministry Building at
Al-Urdi Complex"]

Yemeni President Abd-Rabbuh Mansur Hadi, commander in chief of the Armed Forces,
paid an inspection visit to the Defence Ministry building at the Al-Urdi complex
today.

During the visit, Hadi met with Chief of Staff Major General Ahmad Ali
al-Ashwal, Major General Muhammad Ali al-Qasimi, inspector general of the Armed
Forces, Major General Abd-al-Bari al-Shumayri, deputy chief of staff, Nasir
Abd-Rabbuh al-Tahiri, chief of the Operations Authority, and a number of
military commanders.

During his visit to the Operations and Control Room, President Hadi was briefed
on the repercussions and circumstances surrounding the terrorist attack carried
out against the Al-Urdi Hospital at the Defence Ministry complex.

President Abd-Rabbuh Mansur Hadi issued orders to form a committee immediately
composed of the chief of staff, deputy chief of staff, chief of the Operations
Authority, and chief of the Intelligence Authority to conduct an investigation
into the incident and submit a report including the results of the investigation
within 24 hours.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in Arabic  5 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                 Hampstead and Highgate Express (Ham and High)

                           December 5, 2013 Thursday

Sex attacker's reign of terror halted by glove

BYLINE: PR Script Managers

SECTION: ROF

LENGTH: 790 words


A discarded glove on Hampstead Heath held the key to ending one of north
London's most terrifying crime sprees, it was revealed this week.

A discarded glove on Hampstead Heath held the key to ending one of north
London's most terrifying crime sprees, it was revealed this week.



Camden's top detective said that officers realised they were dealing with one of
the nation's most wanted men, Lee Cyrus, only after finding a black woollen
glove during a search of the Heath.

Acting Det Supt Raffaele D'Orsi told of its significance as he described the
hunt for Cyrus after the 48-year-old was convicted on Tuesday of a string of
violent and sexual offences against women, carried out on or near Hampstead
Heath over six weeks last year.

Cyrus had fled an open prison in Lincolnshire in October last year, where he was
already serving a life sentence for beating a 92-year-old widow senseless.

Acting Det Supt D'Orsi said: "It was Camden officers who identified Cyrus and
linked him with these offences.

"We hunted him down and we found him and arrested him for such horrific and
absolutely unnecessary use of force against the ladies he targeted.

"We had started to get a series of indecent exposures on the Heath and after
great work from one of the local Camden officers, who found a glove on the
Heath, we were able to forensically link him to these terrible crimes.

"As a result of that, we formed Operation Bosque, a group of dedicated
detectives who were brought together to try to identify where he was staying."

The 48-year-old, formerly known as Ivan Leach, was found guilty on Tuesday of
five counts of exposure, wounding with intent, unlawful wounding, affray,
aggravated burglary, robbery and burglary.

He was cleared of a further count of exposure and attempted rape.

The glove was discovered as police combed the Heath following reports of a man
exposing himself in front of a female dog walker on Sunday, October 28, 2012.

He was finally snared exactly five weeks later on Sunday, December 2 last year,
minutes after leaping out and exposing himself to a 45-year-old woman walking
home alone.

Camden police had ploughed more and more resources into the hunt as his crimes
escalated into terrifying attacks on older women in Hampstead and Highgate.

Acting Det Ch Insp D'Orsi said: "I have never come across an individual with
such a premeditated, forensic and calculated approach to victimising females.

"London and the areas around London are a much safer place now he has been
convicted."

n See page 4 for full coverage of    the trial.

Camden's top detective said that officers realised they were dealing with one of
the nation's most wanted men, Lee Cyrus, only after finding a black woollen
glove during a search of the Heath.

Acting Det Supt Raffaele D'Orsi told of its significance as he described the
hunt for Cyrus after the 48-year-old was convicted on Tuesday of a string of
violent and sexual offences against women, carried out on or near Hampstead
Heath over six weeks last year.

Cyrus had fled an open prison in Lincolnshire in October last year, where he was
already serving a life sentence for beating a 92-year-old widow senseless.

Acting Det Supt D'Orsi said: "It was Camden officers who identified Cyrus and
linked him with these offences.

"We hunted him down and we found him and arrested him for such horrific and
absolutely unnecessary use of force against the ladies he targeted.

"We had started to get a series of indecent exposures on the Heath and after
great work from one of the local Camden officers, who found a glove on the
Heath, we were able to forensically link him to these terrible crimes.

"As a result of that, we formed Operation Bosque, a group of dedicated
detectives who were brought together to try to identify where he was staying."

The 48-year-old, formerly known as Ivan Leach, was found guilty on Tuesday of
five counts of exposure, wounding with intent, unlawful wounding, affray,
aggravated burglary, robbery and burglary.

He was cleared of a further count of exposure and attempted rape.

The glove was discovered as police combed the Heath following reports of a man
exposing himself in front of a female dog walker on Sunday, October 28, 2012.

He was finally snared exactly five weeks later on Sunday, December 2 last year,
minutes after leaping out and exposing himself to a 45-year-old woman walking
home alone. Camden police had ploughed more and more resources into the hunt as
his crimes escalated into terrifying attacks on older women in Hampstead and
Highgate.

Acting Det Ch Insp D'Orsi said: "I have never come across an individual with
such a premeditated, forensic and calculated approach to victimising females.

"London and the areas around London are a much safer place now he has been
convicted."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HHE


                      Copyright 2013 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                               Islington Gazette

                           December 5, 2013 Thursday

Survivors of terrorist attack seek payout

BYLINE: PR Script Managers

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 836 words


A man who survived the Mumbai terror attacks has taken his fight for
multimillion pound compensation to the High Court.

'A man who survived the Mumbai terror attacks has taken his fight for
multimillion pound compensation to the High Court.



Will Pike, 33, was enjoying a one-night stay at the luxury Tax Mahal Palace
Hotel with his girlfriend Kelly Doyle when heavily armed fanatics stormed the
building in November 2008.

The first sign of danger was when the couple heard noises "which sounded like
firecrackers" but, over the next few hours, the gunshots and explosions got
closer and closer and choking smoke curled into their locked room as the hotel
blazed.

Mr Pike managed to smash one of the double glazed windows with a writing desk â
¨before tying together sheets for a make-shift rope.

However, his desperate â ¨attempt at escape ended in tragedy as the rope parted
and he plunged 50ft to street level.

Mr Pike, who was living in Clare Lane, Islington, at the time of the attack,
suffered devastating spinal injuries, leaving him in a wheelchair for life,
whilst Miss Doyle, who was 32 at the time, was eventually rescued by the
emergency services.

He and his girlfriend are now battling for massive damages from the hotel's
owners, the Indian Hotels Company, on the grounds that the hotel's security was
seriously lax, despite warning signs of a terrorist threat.

Mr Pike said: "I do not see why the British taxpayer should have to pay for the
lifelong care I need rather than those who I believe did not do enough to
guarantee my safety and the safety of all those caught up in this atrocity."

The couple claim there was only one metal detector on the door and that, apart
from a few porters and doormen in traditional dress, there was almost no
security on hand to protect well-heeled guests. Body searches on visitors, they
say, were "very cursory".

Indian Hotels Company, which is part of the sprawling Tata industrial group with
an annual turnover â ¨approaching £100billion, agrees that there is "a serious
issue to be tried", but â ¨argues that India is the "convenient forum" for the
case to be heard.

However, Mr Pike's legal team say the company has a substantial business
presence in the UK and will be well able to defend itself before a UK judge.

The couple's solicitor, Russell Levy, said before the case: "We estimate that it
would take up to 25 years to pursue this claim through the Indian courts rather
than in England, where it will take about two years."

Miss Doyle is claiming damages for the mental trauma she suffered during the
attack and at seeing her boyfriend's near-fatal plunge.

The hearing continues.

Will Pike, 33, was enjoying a one-night stay at the luxury Tax Mahal Palace
Hotel with his girlfriend Kelly Doyle when heavily armed fanatics stormed the
building in November 2008.

The first sign of danger was when the couple heard noises "which sounded like
firecrackers" but, over the next few hours, the gunshots and explosions got
closer and closer and choking smoke curled into their locked room as the hotel
blazed.

Mr Pike managed to smash one of the double glazed windows with a writing desk â
¨before tying together sheets for a make-shift rope.

However, his desperate â ¨attempt at escape ended in tragedy as the rope parted
and he plunged 50ft to street level.

Mr Pike, who was living in Clare Lane, Islington, at the time of the attack,
suffered devastating spinal injuries, leaving him in a wheelchair for life,
whilst Miss Doyle, who was 32 at the time, was eventually rescued by the
emergency services.

He and his girlfriend are now battling for massive damages from the hotel's
owners, the Indian Hotels Company, on the grounds that the hotel's security was
seriously lax, despite warning signs of a terrorist threat.

Mr Pike said: "I do not see why the British taxpayer should have to pay for the
lifelong care I need rather than those who I believe did not do enough to
guarantee my safety and the safety of all those caught up in this atrocity."

The couple claim there was only one metal detector on the door and that, apart
from a few porters and doormen in traditional dress, there was almost no
security on hand to protect well-heeled guests. Body searches on visitors, they
say, were "very cursory".

Indian Hotels Company, which is part of the sprawling Tata industrial group with
an annual turnover â ¨approaching £100billion, agrees that there is "a serious
issue to be tried", but â ¨argues that India is the "convenient forum" for the
case to be heard.

However, Mr Pike's legal team say the company has a substantial business
presence in the UK and will be well able to defend itself before a UK judge.

The couple's solicitor Russell Levy, said before the case: "We estimate that it
would take up to 25 years to pursue this claim through the Indian courts rather
than in England, where it will take about two years."

Miss Doyle is claiming damages for the mental trauma she suffered during the
attack and at seeing her boyfriend's near-fatal plunge.

The hearing continues.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IGZ


                      Copyright 2013 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 6, 2013 Friday

Kenyan MPs blame police for Westgate mall terror attack

LENGTH: 457 words


Text of report by Alphonce Shiundu entitled "MPs blame police for Westgate Mall
terrorist attack" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The
Standard website on 6 December

A parliamentary committee has returned a scathing verdict on the police over
their handling of the intelligence reports ahead of the 21 September terrorist
attack in Nairobi's Westgate mall. The MPs from two House committees; defence
and foreign relations and administration and national security, said there was
"a general laxity and unresponsiveness" among the police, because, they did not
do much regarding the alert on threats that had been issued on 6 August, and on
2 September, this year. The committee also directed its attack to the country's
spies, as it wants to know if the intelligence provided was "accurate, timely
and specific".

This appears to be the MPs' way of appeasing the Inspector-General of Police
David Kimaiyo and the spy chief Michael Gichangi, who have been fighting and
accusing each other for the lapses that allowed the terrorists to kill 67 people
and maim 200 others during the attack. On the day the MPs approved an oppressive
bill to gag the media, the two committees now want a policy to "regulate media
content when streaming live from emergency situations". They argue that this
should be done to "manage" the "delivery of information and to make sure it does
not compromise national security."

"There's need to censure irresponsible journalism and reckless social media,"
the MPs noted in their report, which was tabled in the House by the national
security committee chairman Asman Kamama. In their report, the MPs also want tax
incentives and start-up capital for the businessmen at the mall whose premises
were looted. The committee has also recommended an ex-gratia payment to the
families of those who died or injured. The lawmakers have also proposed that the
school curriculum should be tweaked so that children are taught patriotism,
nationalism and service to the nation. The committee report also has a proposal
that the government should "fully investigate the lapses among the security
agencies", but it does not say how, or who should do the investigations other
than the amorphous word "government".

The MPs also failed to give a deadline to the investigations, and it does not
obligate "the government" to present the investigation report to the House. The
report does not present much insight on what happened. It says the security
officers looted Westgate, the coordination between the military and the elite
Recce Company of the General Service Unit was poor, and that there was a total
breakdown in the way the government handled issues of security.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 6 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 7, 2013 Saturday

China condemns terrorist attack on Yemen ministry

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website on 6 December

Beijing, 6 Dec (Saba) - China has condemned the deadly terrorist attack on the
Defence Ministry Complex that killed at least 52 people.

"China opposes terrorism in any form," Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said
at a regular press briefing on Friday [6 December].

Two suicide car bombers and 12 gunmen stormed the Yemeni Defence Ministry
Complex in the capital Sana'a, killing at least 52 people and wounding up to 167
others, the country's Supreme Security Committee said.

Yemen is at a crucial period of political transition, said Hong, voicing hope
that parties in the country could make joint efforts to realize national
stability and development at an early date.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in Arabic 1910 gmt 6 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 7, 2013 Saturday

UAE condemns terrorist attack on Yemen's Defence Ministry

LENGTH: 162 words


Text of report by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website on 7 December

Abu Dhabi, Dec 07 (Saba) - The United Arab Emirates strongly condemned Friday [6
December] the terrorist attack that targeted the Yemeni Ministry of Defence in
Sana'a on Thursday and claimed lives of scores of Yemenis.

In a press statement carried by the state news agency (WAM), UAE Foreign
Minister Shaykh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan said that "the UAE strongly
condemns this criminal act and reiterates its firm stance that rejects violence
in all forms and manifestations."

He added that the UAE denounces in the strongest terms possible "this terrorist,
coward and treacherous act, which contradicts all religious values and
humanitarian principles."

Shaykh Abdullah expressed the UAE's deep sympathy and sincere condolences to the
families of the victims, emphasizing solidarity with Yemen in its fight against
terrorism.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in Arabic 2210 gmt 6 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 7, 2013 Saturday

Probe reveals 12 "terrorists" carried out attack on Yemeni ministry

LENGTH: 377 words


Text of report by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Twelve terrorists, mostly Saudi nationals, carried out Thursday [5 December]
massive and coordinated attack on the Defence Ministry Complex that claimed the
lives of 56 people and injured over 215 others, a special Yemeni probe revealed
on Friday.

The probe, conducted by a special committee, pointed out that security forces
have identified the bodies of the attackers. It stated that the perpetrators
have stormed the complex through the gate of an attached hospital at 08:50 a.m.
Thursday.

Once they entered the complex, the attackers, some on foot and others were
driving Hilux pickup car, started shooting on every moving object to kill
guards, patients, doctors, nurses and others, it said.

It went on to say that the terrorists who were driving Hilux car, which was
laden with about 500 kilograms of the highly explosive material of TNT, managed
to go deep into the complex after killing the guards of the gate, but a metal
barrier barred them from reaching their main target, the Army chief of staff
premises.

The attackers, then, blew off the Hilux car nearly 20 meters away from the gate
of the hospital.

The powerful car bombing left scores of causalities and caused the huge damage
to several buildings and vehicles inside the complex. A number of the attackers
were also killed in the blast.

The probe added that the remaining number of terrorists divided in two separate
groups and moved in two different directions before they start opening fire
indiscriminately at everybody in the hospital, its laboratory and outpatient
clinics. They also set a blaze a number of vehicles.

It also disclosed that one of the two groups managed to reach a building near
the eastern gate and used it as shelter as well as springboard to attack special
forces that had arrived at the scene.

The anti-terrorist special forces backed by military police, presidential
guards, 314 Armoured Unit have managed to evacuate the complex, impose a siege
on the terrorist elements on both sides before attacking and finishing them off.

It concluded that special forces have completed cleared the complex of terrorist
elements at 4:30 a.m. Friday.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in Arabic 1605 gmt 7 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      December 8, 2013 Sunday 8:52 AM GMT

Doctor brother of Glasgow Airport bomb attacker suspected of terrorist
recruitment;
SABEEL Ahmed, whose brother Kafeel drove the burning jeep into the Glasgow
Airport terminal building, has been accused by detectives in India of recruiting
young people to a terrorist group.

BYLINE: By Derek Alexander

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 594 words


A DOCTOR whose brother launched a bomb attack on Glasgow airport is suspected of
recruiting youths for an Islamic terror group.

Ex-NHS doctor Sabeel Ahmed has been named by anti-terrorism detectives as being
behind a secret campaign to get youths to join Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba
(LeT).

Ahmed's brother Kafeel drove a burning Jeep Cherokee into the airport in June
2007 and later died in hospital after ­suffering 90 per cent burns.

Ahmed was then jailed for 18 months after he was convicted of withholding
­information about his brother's plans, before being freed and deported to
India.

Now India's National Investigation Agency (NIA), set up by its government to
combat terrorism, has named him in a legal document as a LeT member who recruits
jihadists.

Ahmed's been ­identified as a suspect nicknamed "Motu Doctor", accused number
21, in a chargesheet filed by the NIA into a LeT plot to recruits youths from
Bangalore, the Hyderabad, Hubli and Nanded areas.

The 32-year-old, who now lives in Saudi Arabia, has been accused of setting up
two meetings in the desert kingdom to discuss "jihadist activities" on Hindu
leaders.

His brother-in-law Dr Imran Ahmed has also been named as being involved and was
arrested in Bangalore on November 28.

LeT have been behind various terrorist acts in India, including an attack on
­Mumbai in 2008 when gunmen killed 166 people.

But yesterday, Ahmed denied he was the man named by Indian authorities.

He said: "The accusation is that police are fairly sure that a certain 'Motu
Doctor' is none other than me. Firstly, no one, and I emphasise, no one has ever
referred to me as 'Motu Doctor'.

"I emphatically state that I'm completely unaware of anything connected to the
Bangalore conspiracy case.

"I learnt about the existence of such a plot only when it appeared in the news
in the Indian media. I state with all the power at my disposal that I did not
know about any involvement of any of the accused ­persons named in the case.

"Dr Imran, who has been arrested on November 28, 2013, was married to my sister.
However, the marriage ended in a divorce within a few months. I was not in
contact with Dr Imran and our relationship has been strained after the divorce.
I'm given to understand that the ­allegation against me is that I have been part
of some meetings held in Riyadh and Dammam, where these plots were hatched.

"I deny having attended any such meetings in the two ­cities. I'm also given to
understand that I am accused of financing and giving logistical support to the
plot.

"I've never had any excess finances to distribute to people without having
knowledge of what is done with the money.

"I emphasise that I've never paid any money that could have been used to carry
out the alleged plot.

"I reiterate that the police have neither asked me any question nor have I been
­summoned at any point of time in this case."

Ahmed was jailed at the Old Bailey in 2008 after he admitted withholding
information abour his brother Kafeel's plan to drive a Jeep filled with gas
canisters into Glasgow airport's terminal building.

The court heard Indian-born Sabeel got a text from his brother half an hour
before the attack on June 29 telling him to read an email.

Two hours later, Ahmed read the message asking him to tell police Kafeel was
abroad in the hope it would delay the identification of his body. He then lied
to detectives for three days after the attack.

Kafeel died from his injuries but Ahmed Bilal Abdullah, also a doctor, was later
found guilty of conspiracy to commit murder and was sentenced to 32 years in
prison.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      December 8, 2013 Sunday 4:44 PM GMT

Blind woman's terror as guide dog brutally attacked and injured just yards from
home;
Black Labrador Gwen was working and in harness just yards from her home when
another dog attacked her by the throat

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 425 words


A blind woman was left terrified when her guide dog was brutally attacked and
injured by a loose dog.

Black Labrador Gwen was working and in harness just yards from her home when the
dog attacked her by the throat.

The attacker, believed to be a Staffordshire or terrier cross, clamped its jaws
around Gwen's throat.

Members of the public - including motorists - heard Gwen's owner Julie Rees
screaming for help and rushed to the dog's aid.

Mrs Rees said the attack only stopped when two men managed to free Gwen from the
jaws of the loose dog, described as a small, brown-and-white bitch.

Gwen suffered puncture wounds and bruising in the attack, which happened at
around 10am on Thursday in Fforestfach, Swansea.

"We had been delivering Christmas cards to friends and were on the pavement
walking home," Mrs Rees said.

"I always know if there's a dog around because Gwen's head goes up and her tail
wags. She's so friendly.

"But this dog did not even stop to sniff her - it just flew at her.

"I tried to shield her but it clamped down on her throat and would not let go.
Gwen was in harness and would not fight back."

One man held on to the dog, which was wearing a collar, until police arrived and
took the animal away.

Mrs Rees took Gwen to the vet, who cleaned her wounds and prescribed
antibiotics.

"The bite marks were not that deep but they were quite near her windpipe," said
Mrs Rees.

"It could have been a lot worse. I've got to bathe the wounds twice a day to
make sure they do not become infected.

"It is horrendous for any dog to be attacked, but Gwen is my eyes. I can't get
about without her."

Mrs Rees said both she and Gwen had been "badly shaken and unable to go out"
since the incident.

Guide Dogs Cymru, which is supporting Mrs Rees, has told her Gwen will need
assessment and retraining before working again.

Andrea Gordon, engagement manager for Guide Dogs Cymru said the charity has been
campaigning for a change in the law so an attack on a guide dog is treated as an
attack on the owner.

"We believe the proposed change in the law cannot come quickly enough for owners
who have to deal with the devastating consequences of attacks," she said.

"When a guide dog is attacked, someone with sight loss can completely lose their
means of getting out and about independently.

"The impact on their life is huge and this is why we have campaigned so hard to
get the law changed."

There are currently around 10 attacks on guide dogs in the UK each month, with
some leading to the animals having to take early retirement.

Training each guide dog costs £35,000.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 8, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Lockerbie remembers;
NEARLY 25 YEARS AFTER BRITAIN'S WORST TERROR ATTACK, SURVIVORS SPEAK OUT

BYLINE: Jason Allardyce

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 701 words


RELATIVES of those killed in the Lockerbie bombing and others who survived say
those who died would not want them to be bitter about Britain's worst terrorist
attack.

Speaking on the eve of the 25th anniversary, they said the bombing victims would
want them to live "joyfully" rather than give in to terrorism.

Others taking part in a new television documentary about the bombing of Pan Am
Flight 103, which exploded over Dumfriesshire, have told how the horror of the
atrocity, which claimed 270 lives, still lives with them daily.

As Scottish prosecutors continue to investigate the attack, following the death
last year of the convicted bomber Abdelbaset Ali al-Megrahi, some of those
touched by the tragedy have relived the events around December 21, 1988.

During the frantic rescue efforts as medical staff prepared to deal with
hundreds of casualties, specialists like RAF Mountain Rescue team leader David
Whalley began to arrive.

He realised quickly that the hospital was not going to be needed to treat
patients. "When I arrived at Lockerbie, all the way down you could see wreckage
on the road, the smell of fuel - aviation fuel - stank," he told the STV
documentary The Lockerbie Bombing.

"I'd never smelt it so heavy in the air, and the fires were just Dante's
Inferno, it was a horrific scene. And we went round and within five minutes we
knew we could do nothing. It was mayhem and, you know, without saying too much,
there were bodies everywhere, there were Christmas presents every-everywhere.",
everybody that we where, could see was dead."

For the victims' families, Christmas a few days afterwards was the time when the
impact of the bombing sunk in, according to Michelle Ciulla Lipkin, daughter of
businessman Frank Ciulla who died in the attack.

She said: "I remember Christmas Day just being the four of us and it was the
first time our house had been empty since it happened and realising that
everyone else was with their family and that this was really our loss, like even
if people care about us, we were going to need to deal with it. That was really
eye opening."

Lockerbie priest Fr (now canon) Patrick Keegans described the moment of impact
as he realised he had to get his elderly mother out of their house and away from
the flames. He lived at Sherwood Crescent, where the fuselage of the jet landed,
destroying three homes and claiming the lives of several residents. "The whole
house went dark and shook so much it was impossible to move. I thought, 'I'm
going to die here' and then everything went still. I opened the front door and
the street was gone. The whole street was on fire. There were fires in the
garden, rubble and debris everywhere."

Helen Fraser, a local schoolteacher who lived with her husband and two children
at 29 Sherwood Crescent, recalls how on December 21 she had been busy preparing
for Christmas.

Later that evening she heard an incredible noise like thunder shake the house
and a blinding white light flash through the windows. Grabbing her
chil-children, she said a prayer as she dren, feared they might die.

In the coming days, she took the courage to visit the site of the 30ft crater
gouged out of the crescent, laying a rose and shedding a tear for those who had
perished.

For many relatives of those killed in the attack, the release on compassionate
grounds of Megrahi, three years before his death, after being diagnosed with
terminal cancer has been a source of anger.

However, Keegans believes the victims would not want those who survived to be
bitter. "If those who have died were able to speak to us just now, what would
they say? 'Live your lives joyfully because that's how we want you to live your
lives.' Because in the back of my head, there was this thought, we're not going
to allow the terrorists to have our lives as well." Janine Boulanger, whose
21-year-old daughter Nicole was returning to the United States after six months
in Britain, agrees. "The world is full of hate and terror and I have decided
that I need to concentrate on the goodness that surrounds us and the beauty of
life because I don't think my daughter would want anything else," she said.

The Lockerbie Bombing is broadcast on December 17 at 9.30pm on STV and 11pm on
ITV

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Convicted bomber Megrahi, left; Fraser, right, lived on ill-fated
Sherwood Crescent
Parts of the Boeing 747 hit Sherwood Crescent in the Dumfriesshire town

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                            December 9, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

GUIDE DOG SAVAGED;
Blind owner's attack terror as she delivered Xmas cards

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3 words


Full story - page 5

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWP


                    Copyright 2013 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                            accringtonobserver.co.uk

                     December 10, 2013 Tuesday 9:54 AM GMT

Accrington couple's terror as they are attacked by two dogs Accrington couple's
terror as they are attacked by two dogs;
Rebecca McKenna and her partner Andrew Graham, of Station Road, Accrington, were
set upon by the animals while they were out walking their own dog on Pendle
Hill.

BYLINE: By Dan O'Donoghue

LENGTH: 353 words


A couple have spoken of their terror after they were attacked by two  dogs.

Rebecca McKenna and her partner Andrew Graham, of Station Road, Accrington, were
set upon by the animals while they were out walking their own dog on Pendle
Hill.

Andrew, 26, and Rebecca, 21, were walking chihuahua Bobby on Saturday, November
23 when the incident happened.

Rebecca said: "They came running out of nowhere towards us.

"Andy shouted to warn me and I picked up Bobby straight away as I didn't want
them to get him.

"One of the dogs started biting at my ankles.

"The other was pulling at me and then I fell to the floor. I rolled on my side
to pick up Bobby as he was my main concern.

"When I got back up me and Andy just huddled - I was paralysed with fear."

Telesales worker Rebecca said she was then dragged to the floor. She added: "The
dogs were savaging my legs and dragging me down a grass verge.

"I couldn't feel the pain at the time as I was just in shock, Andy was trying to
grab my hand but I was being dragged too fast.

"The next thing I remember seeing was a flashlight coming over the hill and it
was the dog owner.

"He managed to grab them off. I just told him to get his dogs under control."

The couple went to Accrington Victoria Hospital following the incident.

Andy said: "We both got to the hospital with many puncture wounds to our legs
along bruising and swelling.

"All I was worried about was the dogs going for Rebecca's face when she was on
the floor."

Police have launched an investigation into the incident.

Steve Wood, who was previously a dog warden in Hyndburn for 11 years and is now
a welfare officer at charity Hyndburn Stray Dogs In Need, explained how to act
in a dog attack.

He said: "It is bad what has happened in this case.

"The law is quite clear on this issue, all dogs in a public place must be kept
under control.

"If you come under attack you should stand perfectly still and cross your arms.

"I know that is quite intimidating when a dog is barking in front of you, but it
will soon see you are not a threat and leave you alone."

Pc Anita Whittle, from Lancashire Police, said an investigation was under way.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBAO


                      Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 10, 2013 Tuesday

Iranian frontier guards prevent "terrorist attack" in south-eastern province

LENGTH: 211 words


The deputy commander of the police frontier force of Iran's south-eastern
Sistan-Baluchestan Province, Commander Ahmad Gerovand, has said that a
"terrorist attack" against the 167th frontier regiment of the province was
prevented recently, Iranian Student News Agency (ISNA) reported on 10 December.

"The terrorists were identified while planning an explosion on the border. They
retreated, suffering damage after the armed skirmish with frontier guards,"
Commander Gerovand said.

Referring to the 26 October terrorist attack on a frontier base in Saravan, he
said: "Since this attack, two armed skirmishes have taken place on the border
line every night on average".

He said that 52 criminals had been killed in armed skirmishes with border guards
since the start of the year (21 March), and added: "Thirteen criminals have been
arrested during this period".

He also said that 60 tonnes of explosives and 2,000 arms had been seized on the
border line since March, which is 18 per cent more that during the same period
of the previous year.

On 26 October, an Iranian Sunni group called Jaishuladl (Jeysh al-Adl) or the
Army of Justice attacked a military post in Sistan-Baluchestan Province, killing
14 border guards.

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 0614gmt 10 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 10, 2013 Tuesday

Syrian minister says terrorist attacks on stations behind power rationing

LENGTH: 285 words


Text of report by H. Zain/ Ghossoun published in English by state-run Syrian
news agency SANA website

Damascus - Minister of Electricity Imad Khamis said that the direct reason for
the increase of the hours of electricity rationing is the armed terrorist
groups' systematic attack against the electricity station and the power
transmission lines.

In an interview with the Syrian TV Channel on Sunday [8 December], Khamis
confirmed that the ministry bears full responsibilities for conducting power to
all the citizens in Syria, confirming that the ministry is doing its best to
restore the service to 47 stations which have become out of service.

"The government bears all huge financial burdens due to the terrorist attacks,
which constitute a big challenge under the economic siege and sanctions imposed
on Syria," he stressed.

He added that the armed terrorist groups attacked four high-tension lines in
Aleppo electricity station causing that Aleppo fell in complete darkness.

He pointed out that the reality of electricity in Syria before the crisis
emulated the indicators of the developed countries as for generation,
transmission and distribution as the person consumption rate reached 2500
Kilowatt in 2010.

He added that despite the difficulties due to the terrorist attacks, the
ministry ensures the electricity power by 60 to 70 per cent of the citizens
need.

He asserted that the government spurs no efforts to meet the citizens' needs,
noting that the government signed 16 contracts on importing electricity
equipment from Iran in addition to signing cooperation agreements on power
exchange with most of the neighbouring countries.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 2150 gmt 9 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           December 10, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Qatada denies plotting terror attacks as trial in Jordan opens

BYLINE: Benedict Moore-Bridger

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 345 words


RADICAL preacher Abu Qatada today pleaded not guilty to terrorism charges at the
start of his trial in Jordan following his deportation from Britain. The cleric,
who is linked to al Qaeda, denied plotting terror attacks against Israelis,
Americans and other Westerners in Jordan in two foiled attempts in 1999 and
2000.

The trial comes after an eight-year British legal effort which saw him finally
deported to Jordan in July.

The Palestine-born preacher was convicted in his absence years ago, but under
Jordanian law the sentences were suspended on his return. He is now being
re-tried and is allowed to be present in the dock.

He was condemned to death in his absence in 1999 for conspiracy to carry out
terror attacks, including on the American school in Amman, but this was commuted
to life imprisonment with hard labour.

In 2000 he was also sentenced in absentia to 15 years in prison for plotting to
attack tourists and Western diplomats during millennium celebrations.

The retrial began today at Jordan's military State Security Court. Qatada
objected to the presence of a military judge in the three-judge tribunal as he
said it violated an agreement with Britain intended to guarantee him a fair
trial in his homeland.

It is believed the 53-year-old could face 15 years in prison if convicted.

Britain's expulsion of the cleric from his taxpayer-funded home came after Amman
and London ratified a treaty guaranteeing that evidence obtained through torture
would not be used in his retrial and that the proceedings would be transparent.

Qatada, a father of five whose real name is Omar Mahmud Mohammed Othman, then
gave up his human rights legal challenges and was flown to Jordan.

Since arriving in Jordan, he has been held in a high-security prison called
Muwaqqar in a remote desert area, but has continued to urge his followers to
take up jihad - interpreted by extemists as "holy war" - in Syria.

Qatada arrived in Britain on a forged passport in 1993 after fleeing a Jordanian
government crackdown on militants, but soon attracted the attention of the
security services.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Deported: Abu Qatada, who left Britain in July

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     December 10, 2013 Tuesday 5:47 PM GMT

Abu Qatada pleads not guilty to plotting two al-Qa'ida-style terror attacks;
The radical cleric accused the UK and Jordan of breaching his human rights

BYLINE: Jonathan Brown

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 838 words


Abu Qatada spent a decade fighting the British authorities' efforts to return
him to Jordan to face a life sentence with hard labour after being convicted in
his absence of terrorism offences.

It was a battle the radical preacher was to give up only in the wake of a
special treaty signed between the UK government and Hashemite Kingdom
guaranteeing his right to a fair and open retrial.

But on Tuesday in a packed courtroom in Amman Qatada said he had been "betrayed"
by the two countries.

The 53-year-old, sporting a long beard and clad in brown prison uniform, argued
that the presence of a military judge on the three-strong panel contravened the
terms of the deal for the hard-fought return to his native Jordan.

Pleading not guilty to plotting two al-Qa'ida-style terror attacks against
Western targets in Jordan in the late 1990s he accused the governments of
breaching the agreement and his human rights by allowing evidence to be used
that was allegedly gathered through torture.

Qatada, real name Omar Mohammad Othman, said the charges against him were
fabricated and refused to recognise the authority of the court.

The prosecution claims the preacher mentored jihadist cells in Jordan after
fleeing to Britain in 1993 with his wife and children. It is alleged he provided
spiritual and material support to a campaign of violence in the pro-Western
kingdom.

Addressing the court Qatada said: "I have been prevented from defending myself
for a long period, and God knows that I am innocent."

He added: "There has been a betrayal of the agreement under which I have come.
There is now a military judge - this is the first betrayal by you. I have come
to be tried by civilian judges."

The Foreign Office said it was looking into reports that the panel overseeing
the trial comprised one military and two civilian judges.

Under the terms of the treaty signed by Home Secretary Theresa May in March "a
returned person who is charged with an offence following his return shall
receive a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent,
independent and impartial tribunal established by law."

Whilst the lead judge in the Qatada case is a civilian, human rights groups have
repeatedly expressed concern over Jordan's use of state security courts in which
judges appointed by the prime minister hear cases considered to threaten the
country's internal or external security.

Campaigners say the panels - which comprise two military and a civilian judge -
have not been sufficiently restricted by constitutional amendments in 2011 to
make them meet international standards.

Although the security courts are meant to be reserved for terrorism and
espionage cases they are routinely deployed to try people involved in peaceful
protest or to target dissident Islamists, it is claimed.

Prosecutor Colonel Fawaz al-Atoum said Jordan's state security court law allowed
for military tribunals in cases of terrorism such as that involving Qatada. He
rejected the claim that evidence was gathered through the torture of defendants
at earlier trials.

Qatada is accused of conspiracy to carry out attacks on the American school in
Amman for which he was found guilty in absentia and sentenced to life
imprisonment with hard labour.

In a second case, which will be heard later this month, it is alleged he plotted
to kill tourists and diplomats in Jordan during millennium celebrations.

Qatada's lawyer Ghazi Thuneibat said his client had agreed to return after
assurances from the European Court of Human Rights that torture evidence would
not be used. "These (EU) court decisions overrule national laws," he argued.

Since his voluntary arrival in Jordan in July, Qatada has been on remand at the
high security Muwaqqar jail outside Amaan. It is home to 1,000 inmates many of
them accused of terrorism.

But although there have been claims of beatings at the prison, the preacher, who
spent nearly 10 years incarcerated in some of the UK's toughest jails, said he
had been well treated.

"It's better here than Britain. The treatment is good here. The British press
have not been fair to me and hurt me," he said before the start of Tuesday's
proceedings.

According to reports the cleric has resumed a leadership role in the
ultra-conservative Jordanian Salafist movement.

An edict allegedly written by him from his prison cell and published on the
internet reportedly encouraged jihadist fighters in Syria. Scores of combatants
have been arrested on Jordan's northern border seeking to join the overthrow of
President Bashar al-Assad.

Qatada's family has moved to the Jordanian capital where it raised $75,000 for
his release on bail. His lawyer abandoned his petition after it was turned down
by a security court.

Under the terms of his return the preacher's treatment is being monitored by
Adaleh Centre for Human Rights. Qatada has already claimed that his rights were
violated when has not been allowed to meet his lawyer in private in the run up
to the trial.

However, the Adaleh Centre said it was forbidden from discussing the case with
journalists.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 11, 2013 Wednesday

Jihad fighter threatens "terrorist" attack on Belgium in video message

LENGTH: 341 words


Text of report by Belgian leading privately-owned newspaper De Standaard
website, on 10 December

[Report by Kim De Raedt: "Brian De Mulder Threatens Bloody Attack on Belgium"]

Syrian fighter Brian De Mulder has again drawn attention to himself. The
19-year-old youth from Antwerp is currently in south Aleppo from where, Monday
[9 December], he posted a video on YouTube in which he threatens a bloody attack
on Belgium. The video has since been removed from YouTube as it violated its
policy on violence.

The video on Brian De Mulder's YouTube account contains a two-minute audio
fragment in which a "nasheed," a kind of musical Muslim poem, is sung in Dutch.
A man calls for weapons to be brought to Syria, speaking with the flat tones
distinctive of the Antwerp accent. He then goes on to threaten Defence Minister
Pieter De Crem (CD&V [Christian Democratic & Flemish] and Dutch politician Geert
Wilders. "O De Crem, O Wilders, tawagheet (traitors, ed) on their last legs,
watch out for a car bomb," he sings.

But the singer does not stop there. His message also contains a direct threat to
our country. "Bombs are falling, Atomium I hear a crashing, body parts
scattered," it continues hideously. As in similar videos the fighter also calls
for the introduction of the sharia. "O Muslims, the sharia is coming. Welcome to
Belgistan! The flags are raised, the swords are sharp," chants the singer.

Analysing the Video

The police anti-terrorism unit is taking the video very seriously. The audio
message has been sent to Antwerp where a risk analysis will be made. It is as
yet unclear whether or not the man in the audio fragment is De Mulder himself,
but there is every indication that it is. A video dating from October, in which
an armed man uses extremely inflammatory language speaking in the flat tones
distinctive of Antwerp, is also attributed to De Mulder.

De Mulder left for Syria in January after converting to Islam, most probably
after talking with former Sharia4Belgium leader Fouad Belkacem.

Source: De Standaard website in Dutch 10 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 13, 2013 Friday

Yemeni government declares state of "high alert" following "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 349 words


Text of report by Yemeni privately-owned news website Baraqish on 12 December

[Unattributed report: "The Interior Ministry declares state of high alert"]

The Yemeni Ministry of Interior has announced that all the security services in
the different governorates of Yemen are on high alert.

The ministry announced on the website of the Security Media Centre that it has
tightened the security measures in the security cordon areas of Amanat al-Asimah
[the governorate within Sanaa where government organizations and ministries are
located] and vital facilities, including the embassies and headquarters of the
diplomatic missions and the foreigners' residences in order to confront any
possible terrorist attacks. The ministry added that these measures have extended
to all the Yemeni governorates.

According to the Security Media Centre, these measures have been taken after the
ministry received confirmed information about a terrorist scheme that aims at
targeting vital buildings and government offices.

The interior ministry has expressed its ability to deal with different terrorist
threats. It also said that it will do its best to thwart any terrorist scheme
that targets the stability and security and aims to bring chaos in order to stir
fears among the society and compromise the supreme interests of Yemen.

It is worth mentioning that some of the oil companies in Yemen in addition to
the UN Office in Sanaa were closed on 12 December for fear of any possible
terrorist attacks.

A source at the UN office in Sanaa has told the News Yemen website that the
office is closed just as the Total Company and other oil companies.

A source at the German embassy in the Yemeni capital has said that the embassy
is open except for the public reception. In the meanwhile, the US, British, and
Chinese consulates were open today for the public. Sources at the embassies have
denied the reports which said that the Yemeni Ministry of Interior has requested
them to take precautionary measures following the reception of terrorist
attacks' warnings.

Source: Baraqish website, Sanaa, in Arabic 0000 gmt 12 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            December 13, 2013 Friday
                                   1 Edition

'Terror attack' fitness app

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 163 words


A COMPANY has devised a controversial way to encourage people to reach their
fitness goals - by simulating a terrorist attack at Inverness railway station.

The fitness app, which has been created with the NHS and funded by the
Department of Health, aims to help people walk 10,000 steps every day by
pretending they are on the run from terrorists.

The game, called The Walk, challenges its users to deliver a package from
Inverness, the scene of the fictional assault, to another destination in the UK
after a bomb explodes at the Scottish station.

Those using the app must walk in the real world to survive in the game and also
"save the world".

The game has 65 episodes containing intricate, fully-illustrated maps, 800
minutes of audio story and hundreds of collectible items to explore the world of
the story.

Health officials have said the app could help in the fight against obesity.

Its maker, Naomi Alderman, said: "The Walk is designed to be addictive, in the
best possible way."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 13, 2013 Friday 7:20 PM GMT

Sex attacker who terrorised vulnerable women while on the run for prison SMILES
as he is jailed for life

BYLINE: WILLIAM TURVILL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 872 words



     ·    Lee Cyrus, also known as Ivan Leach, previously handed life sentence
          for robbing 90-year-old women for £12
     ·    Sparked nationwide manhunt in October last year after walking out of
          HMP North Sea Camp in Boston, Lincolnshire
     ·    Targeted women in Boston before moving on to Hampstead Heath, London


A sex attacker who targeted vulnerable women during a campaign of violence while
he was on the run from prison smiled as he was jailed for life today.

Lee Cyrus, also known as Ivan Leach, was handed a life sentence in 2005 for
robbing a 90-year-old widow at her home in Preston, Lancashire, for just £12.

He sparked a nationwide manhunt in October last year after walking out of HMP
North Sea Camp in Boston, Lincolnshire.

Southwark Crown Court heard that he targeted women in Boston Cemetery and
Crematorium, then travelled to Hampstead Heath, North London, in search of
further victims.

During his crime spree last autumn, he held a woman at knife-point and was
carrying a blade when he smashed his way into an 81-year-old's home.

Cyrus also injured one woman in the face with a metal bar on her doorstep,
cutting her to the bone and leaving her with a 5cm scar.

In a victim impact statement, she told how she was 'haunted' by the vicious
attack.

Cyrus has spent most of his life in prison after receiving his first conviction
for burglary aged 15.

His 'dreadful' list of crimes include a savage attack on Kathlyn Jackson, 92,
who was left battered and bruised after he raided her home.

Cyrus was also jailed for 14 months for having sex with a 13-year-old girl after
giving her alcohol and pinning her down.

He also branded the teenager with several tattoos during her ordeal in 1999.

Cyrus was also jailed for six years in 2002 - but freed after two - for slashing
a couple with a screwdriver after an argument.

He has also carried out dozens of robberies and burglaries, mainly on elderly
women.

Cyrus repeatedly changed his appearance to evade detection.

But the fugitive was eventually snared after a policeman spotted him walking
along Highgate Hill, North London, in the early hours of December 2 last year.

Sentencing him to life with a minimum of 11 years, Judge Deborah Taylor said:
'You are clearly a manipulative man.

'The overwhelming picture is of you seeking out and preying on the vulnerability
of woman on and around Hampstead Heath.

'You targeted women of all ages in any circumstances where you could do so.

'This was a series of planned, sexual and acquisitive crimes for which you have
shown no remorse.

'The evidence [the victims] gave with fortitude and resolve was chilling.

'The terror of those you attacked was clear.

'There can be no doubt you are a dangerous man.

'You have a dreadful history of previous violent offending going back to 1980.'

Judge Taylor earlier said the level of supervision in the community on Cyrus was
of 'grave concern'.

He would have been handed a determinate sentence for 22 years had he not been
locked up for life.

Wearing a light blue T-shirt and glasses and sporting a full moustache, Cyrus
muttered inaudibly to himself and smiled as the sentence was passed.

He was already jailed for 45 days for absconding prison.

During his month-long trial at the court, he insisted police had simply 'got the
wrong man'.

But a jury found Cyrus guilty of five counts of exposure, wounding with intent,
unlawful wounding, affray, aggravated burglary, robbery and burglary.

Prior to his escape, Cyrus had been living in lodgings close to the open prison
being prepared for release in the community, and working in the nearby cemetery.

The only restriction on his liberty was a requirement that he sign himself in
and out when leaving, the court heard.

The sexual offender failed to return to the prison lodgings on October 9 before
boarding a London-bound coach on October 20.

Prosecutor Christopher Amis told the jury: 'For six weeks, Lee Cyrus, on a
number of occasions whilst armed with a knife and wearing a black balaclava,
stalked and terrorised female members of the public walking on and living in
Hampstead Heath.

'His offences consisted initially of indecently exposing himself to women while
walking on the Heath.

'They included the robbery of one woman, who had a knife held to her neck, the
knife-point aggravated burglary of an 81-year-old woman's home, and culminated
in an incident in which the defendant, waiting in the shadows late one night,
leapt out and exposed himself to a woman who was walking home alone.'

Cyrus has also been linked to a 'very serious' sexual attack in Tayside,
Scotland, since he absconded.

He is also believed to have targeted two school girls in Preston city centre on
October 17.

Cyrus is also said to be the prime suspect after a 23-year-old woman was raped
in her own home in Perth, Scotland, as she slept.

He is alleged to have then callously returned to steal her mattress and dump it,
in a bid to cover his tracks.

Anthony Waller, defending Cyrus, said he maintains his denials adding: 'He does
not accept the convictions that have been recorded against him in this matter.

Cyrus, of no fixed address, denied all the charges against him.

He was cleared of a further charge of exposure, which allegedly took place in
West Heath Road, Hampstead, on October 28, and attempted rape.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    December 14, 2013 Saturday 12:01 AM GMT

Tears of Jekyll & Hyde predator: 'Devout Christian' beast attacked six in reign
of terror

BYLINE: Brian Swanson

LENGTH: 662 words


A PREDATOR who posed as a devout Christian was last night facing life behind
bars for raping five women and assaulting a sixth in a string of abusive
relationships.

Jonathon Mallon, 32, broke down in tears when he was found guilty of a 14-year
reign of terror, with the judge calling him "cruel, callous and perverse".

The serial attacker was also warned that he faces a lifelong restriction order
when he returns to court in the New Year, meaning he may never be freed and
supervised for life if released.

The High Court in Glasgow heard Mallon was a Jekyll and Hyde character who was
charming and kind on the surface. However, he turned violent, controlling and
abusive after he had lured his victims into a relationship.

FREE NEWS UPDATES 24/7...FOLLOW THE SCOTTISH EXPRESS ON TWITTER

He raped one woman in a cinema toilet and another in a changing cubicle at a
busy swimming pool.

All his victims, now between 21 and 31, were vulnerable young women. Mallon, of
Glasgow, wept in the dock at the guilty verdict.

Temporary judge Bill Dunlop QC told him: "Well may you weep. I hope your tears
are for the women whose lives you have ruined.

"You have been convicted of a cruel, vicious and sometimes perverse course of
conduct."

Deferring sentence to March the judge ordered an assessment to be carried out
into the risk Mallon poses to others. He was also placed on the sex offenders
register.

Leaving the dock the thug shouted at one victim: "I hope you are f****** happy
now", prompting her to flee in tears.

Mallon, a keen churchgoer, met two of his victims at Queen's Park Baptist Church
in Glasgow, others at parties and one on a bus. One ex-girlfriend  told the
court how Mallon pestered her for sex and hit her when she refused.

He was charming and kind until he won each woman's confidence then his nasty
side would come out, she said.

She told the court how he pestered her for sex again when she became pregnant
after a miscarriage. When she said no he slapped her and accused her of teasing
him.

"He always said, 'You know what will happen if you don't let me," she said. "He
was always threatening to hit me. But it is easier to cover up rape than a black
eye.

"I was too scared to say anything.  I didn't want anyone to know what was going
on behind closed doors."

The woman added that, on one occasion, Mallon raped her in a cubicle at
Scotstoun Swimming Pool while families with children were nearby.

She told the court: "I said, 'You can't, not here'. He just told me to shut up.
Afterwards he said, 'Do you know what I've just done to you. I've raped you.' It
was gloating."

Another victim, who is 21, said he would demand sex two or three times a day and
added: "If I said I didn't want sex, he just didn't listen. I would try to push
him away, but he was just too strong. Afterwards he would say sorry."

A third victim has since died at the age of 25, the court was told. In
statements read out in court, she described Mallon as initially charming, but
his darker side soon emerged.

She said he raped her in the gents' toilet at the Odeon cinema in Glasgow, and
on another occasion forced her to have sex with a pensioner.

She told police: "I would describe my relationship with Jonathon as sick.

"I think he is scum and should be locked up with the key thrown away." Mallon
denied all the allegations against him and claimed that any sex was consensual.

He was asked why women would make up stories about him and stated: "I don't
know. I don't have an answer."

He was found guilty of raping five women and sexually abusing a sixth between
1999 and 2013.

Prosecutor Kath Harper told the court he had previous convictions for domestic
abuse, violence, carrying a knife and fireraising.

Outside court the police officer who led the investigation, DI Mark McGowan
said: "I am delighted, especially for these women.

"Hopefully we have given them justice.

"Mallon preyed on vulnerable victims, first luring them into a relationship and
then carrying out horrific acts on each and every one."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      December 15, 2013 Sunday 4:38 PM GMT

Midland doctor calls for new Lockerbie probe - 25 years after bomb horror;
Father of victim believes British and American governments are covering up truth
about 1988 terror attack

BYLINE: By Gary Young

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 338 words


A campaigning Midland doctor has repeated callsfor a new inquiry into Lockerbie
on the eve of the 25th anniversary of the bombing, which killed 270 people.

Former Bromsgrove GP Jim Swire lost daughter Flora, 23, when Pan Am flight 103
came down in the Scottish town on December 21, 1988.

The plane exploded above Lockerbie, in southern Scotland, killing all on board
and 11 people on the ground.

Many British families believe Libyan Abdelbaset al Megrahi, the only man
convicted of the terrorist atrocity, was innocent.He later died of cancer in his
home country after controversially being released early by the Scottish
government.

US relatives of victims have condemned their UK counterparts for buying into
'conspiracy theories'.

But Dr Swire said: "Our governments, British and American, keep on trying to get
us to believe something that's clearly not true.

"We now know beyond doubt that Megrahi was not involved in any way and there's
no evidence that Libya was ever involved.

"It's sad to me that the American relatives have not taken the time to look at
the evidence that has come out since the trial.

"I'm in a very difficult position because I don't like to disturb their closure,
but we relatives have the right to know why our loved ones were not protected
and who killed them.

"Eventually we will, because the British relatives will seek a full inquiry and
an appeal into why Megrahi was found guilty."

But mum Susan Cohen from New Jersey, who lost her daughter Theodora, rubbished
the claims and attacked those who supported al Megrahi and conspiracy theories.
"For them I have nothing but contempt and I don't trust them,'' she said.

"To my knowledge, none of the American families, no matter what our differences,
buy into these things."

On Saturday Dr Swire will speak at a memorial service at Westminster Abbey. A
service will also be held in Lockerbie and at the Arlington National Cemetery in
Virginia.

Reflecting on the 25 years that have passed, he said: "We live with the loss of
our loved ones every day of every year."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                      December 15, 2013 Sunday 9:27 AM GMT

Burglar once attacked by terrorist back in jail three days after getting out;
Serial raider Malcolm Cruddas, once burned with boiling chip fat by a terrorist
in prison, was back behind bars three days after getting out

BYLINE: By Rob Kennedy

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 491 words


A serial burglar once attacked in prison by a terrorist with boiling chip fat is
back behind bars.

Malcolm Cruddas only managed to go straight for three days after being released
from his last jail term for burglary.

He was caught trying to break into a Gateshead home, shed and car, in the early
hours.

Realising he was caught on camera at his victim's home, Cruddas is then seen
smashing the CCTV camera.

Cruddas was serving 10 years for robbery when Omar Khyam - on a life sentence
for planning fertiliser bomb atrocities in shopping centres and nightclubs -
poured boiling chip fat over his head at top-security Frankland Prison near
Durham in 2008.

He was given morphine and needed skin grafts while armed police kept a 24-hour
guard during his two weeks of treatment at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary.

Now the 38-year-old, already recalled back to prison for breaching his licence
from the last offence, has been jailed for 16 months.

Cruddas, who has 73 previous convictions, was jailed in September last year for
two years for burglary.

He was released in June this year, and three days later was mooching around
trying to break entry to a house on Southend Terrace, Gateshead, around 3am.

Julian Smith, prosecuting at Newcastle Crown Court, said: "The footage shows a
man walking up the drive next to the house and he stops and tries the door of a
Fiat Punto on the neighbour's drive.

"He then went in the garden, opened the shed door and the kitchen door.

"He came back and looked up at the camera.

"Understanding dawns, he realises he is being recorded and covers up, belatedly.

"He has a think what to do then strikes the camera a number of times with a
piece of metal."

Police had been alerted and Cruddas, formerly of Strathmore Road, Rowlands Gill,
Gateshead, was arrested as he made off.

He pleaded guilty to attempted burglary, damaging property and interfering with
a motor vehicle.

Jailing him for 16 months, Judge John Evans told him: "You have an absolutely
deplorable record and had it not been for the fact this is an attempted
burglary, rather than a burglary, you know you would have faced a minimum
sentence of three years."

Peter Walsh, defending, said: "It was not the most determined effort to gain
entry, once he realised it was locked he left it there.

"He comes from a good background but he started taking drugs from the age of 15
and his mother couldn't cope.

"He does have potential."

In the burglary he was sentenced for last year, a 65-year-old victim came back
to find Cruddas still inside the house at Leam Lane, Gateshead.

He could hear noises from another room, shouted a warning and heard the intruder
running to escape empty-handed down a back lane.

Police caught Cruddas only 15 minutes later, still sweating and edgy, at
Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary.

In 2010 he was inside again after ransacking the Gateshead home of a young
couple.

They had caught him cramming a suitcase with £3,000 worth of their possessions.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 15, 2013 Sunday 7:00 AM GMT

Lockerbie bombing: 25 years on;
The devastating terrorist attack on a Pan Am jumbo jet in the skies above the
Scottish town in 1988 is retold in a moving new documentary, The Lockerbie
Bombing, made by one of the first journalists to arrive on the scene

BYLINE: By Alan Clements

SECTION: CULTURE

LENGTH: 686 words


People often say that you cannot sober up instantly. I believe that's not true
if the shot of adrenalin is powerful enough.

I received such a jolt on Wednesday December 21, 1988, and have been reliving
those memories in recent months during the making of a documentary, The
Lockerbie Bombing .

It was a cold, crisp evening that December, and Kirsty Wark - my then girlfriend
and now wife - and I had just arrived back in the office after a very convivial
Christmas lunch with our colleagues on BBC Scotland's political programme Left,
Right and Centre. I worked on it as a political researcher, while Kirsty
presented it on Friday nights.

We had arrived back at the office just after 7pm and were collecting our stuff
to head off for our first Christmas together when word came through of an
explosion in the Scottish Borders .

The then BBC Scotland controller, John McCormick, bundled us into his car and
told his driver to get us to Lockerbie as quickly as possible. We were asked to
get ready to cover the story for the following morning's Breakfast Time
programme. We arrived around 9pm, after persuading the police to let us through
the cordon.

The sight that greeted us was quite extraordinary. The skies lit up over
Lockerbie had not prepared us for the fires still burning in the streets. Plane
debris was strewn everywhere, steel mangled into in remarkable shapes.

But oddly, my memories are dominated by two other senses. The first was smell.
The overpowering, sickly, almost sweet smell of aviation fuel hung everywhere.
The second was the remarkable sense of stillness. Some fires still crackled but
there were no sirens, and no screaming.

We both worked through the night, arranging for members of the emergency
services and public to appear live on television the next morning. People were
deeply shocked, of course, but there was a quiet steadiness about how they went
about their work.

My documentary about the 25th anniversary of the Lockerbie bombing contains
plenty of deeply sad archive material - not least the news footage that shows
the NHS workers who had rushed to the hospital to volunteer their services, and
the dawning and terrible realisation that there were no survivors to treat.

Though it will be hard for a younger generation to believe, we did not have
mobile phones in 1988. Today, we can upload and share pictures on Facebook and
Instagram in seconds. In Lockerbie, the public phonebox nearest the main crash
site and those at hotel receptions had queues not of people longing to inform
loved ones they were safe, but of journalists chronicling the disaster to their
newsrooms.

The morning after the disaster, we went live at 6am. But it was only as the dawn
rose during the programme that the full devastation wrought by Pan Am flight 103
falling from the skies was revealed. With the sun up, the most poignant images
for me were the personal belongings of the doomed passengers: ruptured suitcases
with wrapped Christmas presents, Bibles beside the bodies of believers. After 48
hours on duty, we headed home for a very sombre Christmas.

My abiding thought on Lockerbie, reinforced by making this documentary, is the
importance of cherishing life. News cameras in the United States, where Flight
103 had been heading, caught Nicole Boulanger, whose young daughter was on the
plane, collapsing in grief at news of its fate and writhing uncontrollably on
the terminal floor of JFK airport, calling out for "my baby". Her recollection
of setting an empty place at the Christmas table four days later is
heart-rendingly sad.

I only truly appreciate her loss now I have children of my own. The death of a
child is surely a life sentence without parole.

Amid all the conspiracy theories and relentless speculation that followed the
Lockerbie bombing, the stories of the people at the heart of the tragedy have
tended to get lost. I can only hope our documentary does them justice.

Alan Clements is director of content for STV and executive producer of 'The
Lockerbie Bombing', which will be shown on Tuesday 17th December on ITV, 11pm
(STV, 9.30pm)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 15, 2013 Sunday 7:00 AM GMT

New documentary on Lockerbie Bombing revealed;
The Lockerbie Bombing tells the story of the devastating terrorist attack on a
Pan Am jumbo jet in the skies above the Scottish town 25 years ago, and is made
by one of the first journalists to arrive on the scene

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 133 words


25 years since the Pan Am Boeing 747 was blown up, a new documentary meets the
families of the victims and those on scene in the aftermath of the attacks, in
which 259 passengers and 11 local people died .

The Lockerbie Bombing is produced by Alan Clements, who with his then
girlfriend, and now wife, Kirsty Wark, was despatched by the BBC to the small
Scottish town as news of the disaster began to break.

"We both worked through the night, arranging for members of the emergency
services and public to appear live on television the next morning. People were
deeply shocked, of course, but there was a quiet steadiness about how they went
about their work," he writes in The Telegraph today.

The programme is broadcast on STV at 9.30pm on Tuesday 17th December and 11pm on
ITV on the same night.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 16, 2013 Monday

Iran FM says terror attack in Iraq targets both nations

LENGTH: 244 words


Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad-Javad Zarif has said that the recent terrorist
attack in Iraq that killed 15 Iranians was an evil act targeting both nations,
the IRNA news agency reported on 16 December.

"This terrorist attack targets both nations, as well as all peoples and
countries of the region and it doubles the need for cooperation and
collaboration among regional countries to combat the evil phenomenon of
terrorism," Zarif said at a meeting in Tehran with Ibrahim al-Ja'fari, the
visiting head of the Iraqi National Alliance.

At the meeting Zarif thanked "the Iraqi government's stance on the issue and
Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri Al-Maliki for following up the incident," IRNA
reported.

He also emphasised "Iran' strategic approach in supporting Iraq's unity and
integrity and the comprehensive development of relations with this country".

For his part, IRNA said that Ibrahim al-Ja'fari "emphasised Iran's growing
influence in the fields of regional and international developments" and quoted
him as saying: "No one can ignore Iran's position as a strong and active country
in the fields of regional and international developments in resolving issues and
crisis."

[BBCM note] On 13 December, 17 employees and experts of the oil and gas sector -
15 of them Iranian - were killed in a terrorist attack on Iraq's oil pipeline in
Diyala province, some75 kilometres northeast of Baghdad.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 1215gmt 16 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 16, 2013 Monday

Top Iran MP says relations with Iraq not effected by "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News
Agency website

Tehran: A senior Iranian lawmaker condemned the Friday [13 December]] terrorist
attack on Iranian gas technicians in Iraq's Diyala province, and underlined that
such acts can no way weaken the firm will of the two nations to expand their
bilateral relations in all spheres. "By conducting terrorist operations, Takfiri
groups cannot affect relations between Iran and Iraq," Vice-Chairman of the
Iranian Parliament's National Security and Foreign Policy Committee Mansur
Haqiqatpur said Monday [16 December].

He emphasized that Takfiri groups should know such acts of terrorism will never
have a negative impact on Tehran-Baghdad ties.

On Friday, masked gunmen shot dead 22 people near the village of Balad Ruz,
situated 90 kilometres (55 miles) Northeast of Baghdad.

The victims were working on a pipeline projected to carry natural gas from Iran
to its Western neighbour, when they came under attack.

After the attack, Iran announced that such acts cannot impede implementation of
the project.

Managing Director of Iran's Gas Engineering and Development Company Alireza
Qaribi said that the attack is under investigation, and noted that an Iranian
private sector contractor is in charge of building the gas pipeline.

He further added that Iran is resolved to continue implementing the gas pipeline
which will carry Iran's natural gas to Iraq.

The project will connect Iraq's gas network and Naft Shahr energy reserves in
Western Iran.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1425 gmt 16 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     December 17, 2013 Tuesday 4:14 PM GMT

Tributes paid to hero 7/7 bombings police officer after he died in Bermuda from
an infection;
John Hall was awarded a Police Commendation for his hard work and dedication
following the 2005 terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 350 words


A police officer who was awarded a commendation for his work after the 7/7
London bombings has died suddenly in Bermuda.

John Hall, aged 55 and originally from Clayton, Manchester, died from an
infection.

He was based at the nearby Mill Street station before transferring to the
military police.

John and his wife Bernadette travelled all over the world with the military,
living in Hong Kong, Germany, and Northern Ireland.

She said: "We had a wonderful time, everywhere we lived and he worked so hard.
When I think of all the scumbags he's put away over the years, I'm very proud of
him."

John and Bernadette met in 1977 in Clayton and married in 1979.

In 1994 John left the military service, joining the Hertfordshire police as a
crime officer and settling near Hemel Hempstead.

It was while working with them he attended the scene of the 7/7 bombings in
2005, recovering and identifying the bodies.

He was awarded a Police Commendation for his hard work and dedication.

After that, John worked for various police forces until two years ago when he
decided to take a role as a crime scene investigation officer in Bermuda.

He returned to Manchester at the beginning of November to see family and
friends.

Shortly after returning to Bermuda John became ill with peritonitis and died on
November 28.

Bernadette received a message saying John had passed away while she was at the
airport, catching a flight out to stay with him.

Chief inspector Nick Pedro of the Bermuda police force told the Bermuda Sun:
"John worked in Bermuda for just over two years and in that time he was involved
in processing a number of crime scenes. His work was very important in several
high profile trials.

"This news is very sad for all his colleagues in the police force. John was a
thoroughly nice chap, he was very generous and always friendly."

He also leaves behind a brother Robert. A memorial service will be held for John
this Friday at 11:30am at Willibrord's R/C Church Clayton, prior to committal at
Dukinfield Crematorium.

Bernadette added: "I'm so proud of him when I think of how much he has done in
his number of years."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 18, 2013 Wednesday

Turkey condemns terror attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 158 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia) website

[Unattributed report: "Turkey condemns terror attacks in Iraq"]

ANKARA (AA) - Turkey strongly condemned the terror attacks held in Iraq on
Monday.

A statement released by Turkish Foreign Ministry said Turkey has learnt with a
great sadness that more than 100 people were killed and over 200 others wounded
during the terror attacks held in Iraq's various provinces.

The statement said Turkey vehemently condemned the atrocious terror attacks
which targeted to harm unity of Iraqi people by creating clashes among ethnic,
religious and sectarian groups in the country.

Turkey wished God's mercy upon those who lost their lives, conveyed its
condolences to the families of the victims and wished speedy recovery for the
wounded, added the statement.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency website, Ankara, in English
1705 gmt 17 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    December 19, 2013 Thursday 11:33 PM GMT

'Concrete plummeted from the ceiling': Kenyan businessman who escaped Apollo
Theatre collapse, and was at Nairobi mall terror attack, describes the scene
inside

BYLINE: KIERAN CORCORAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 973 words



     ·    Khalil Anjarwalla, a Kenyan businessman, was watching The Curious
          Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time with his pregnant girlfriend and
          her parents
     ·    He described how chunks of masonry fell from above
     ·    Mr Anjarwalla said the noises made him think to 'duck for cover' as he
          remembered being close to the Nairobi mall attacks in September


A theatre-goer who escaped a West End theatre with his family after its roof
collapsed has spoken of the terrifying scenes inside, and also revealed that he
was caught up in recent terror attacks on a Kenyan Mall.

Khalil Anjarwalla was at the Apollo Theatre on Shaftesbury Avenue in central
London when chunks of masonry began falling on the audience.

He was in the upper circle of the theatre watching The Curious Incident of the
Dog in the Night-Time with his his heavily pregnant wife and her parents.

He managed to escape from the theatre safely after 'kilos of concrete plummeted
from the ceiling'.

Mr Anjarwallasaid that his memories of being just outside the building, which
was attacked by armed men from militant Somali group Al-Shabaab, killing many,
led him to fear the worst.

In that incident shoppers were forced to cower in fear as the masked men took
over the mall, until they were forced out by the Kenyan military.

He said: 'I was in the upper circle with my family when, about 45 minutes in,
people started shouting and screaming.

'We thought it was part of the play. But the ceiling was crumbling. Within an
instant the whole roof seemed to come down.

'We saw a lot of people completely covered in dust - I could hardly breathe.

'We had to get out, calmly. I remember thinking the cloud, the dust - it
reminded me of those scenes from 9/11 in the aftermath of the building
collapsing.'

The 29-year-old, who is from Nairobi in Kenya, said: 'I was very close to the
Westgate Mall which was the scene of the recent terror attack, so my first
thought was instantly to check whether we should be ducking for safety.

'We then realised it was a structural issue and tried to get out.'

Mr Anjarwalla, who was visiting his in-laws with his English wife, Aliya, said:
'The actors just seemed to run from the stage. They had obviously seen what had
happened.

'We initially thought it was part of the show. Thankfully we are all OK. My wife
is seven months pregnant but she is OK.

We feel very blessed. He said some people seemed to be 'cut quite badly'.

Police have said that seven people were seriously injured and that there were 81
walking wounded following the incident which happened at around 8.15pm today.

Eyewitnesses have described the 'chaos and panic' as a theatre 'began to crumble
down' around them, leaving scores of people injured.

Eyewitnesses described how masonry from the Grade II-listed Apollo theatre in
London's West End plummeted into the stalls below, striking members of the
packed audience and filling the theatre with clouds of thick dust.

A capacity audience of more than 700 people was inside the theatre, in
Shaftesbury Avenue, which was 45 minutes into the National Theatre's performance
of The Curious Incident Of The Dog In The Night-time when members of the
audience started screaming as it appeared parts of the ceiling caved in.

Police said a London bus was used to take the casualties to hospital, while
members of the public were asked to avoid the area.

Emergency services were called to the scene shortly after 8.15pm, as
eyewitnesses reported many theatre-goers crying and trying to make contact with
family members as some were initially thought to be trapped inside the building.

Jess Bowie, content editor of The House magazine, tweeted: 'Was just seeing "The
Curious Incident" in the West End when the roof of the Apollo Theatre caved in.
Absolutely petrifying.

'Don't know if anyone is trapped in there but people outside are covered in dust
and some in blood. Utterly horrible.'

Andrew Howard-Smith, 68, said: 'I saw the edge of the balcony come down, that's
what I saw. We were on the balcony below.

'In the production you had to hold on to the rail and lean over to see what was
going on, and we were doing the same.

'Everybody must have got hold of the brass rail and just pushed it over, and
then the edge came off. That was the only bit that came off, just the edge. It
wasn't the whole of the balcony, just the front 2ft.'

Libby Grundy, 65, said: 'There was a bang, and then a huge cloud of dust. At
first I thought it was a special effect.

'I heard somebody on the stage say "Oh bloody hell", because they must have seen
it.

'And then people realised it must be some sort of emergency and people started
getting up. People didn't panic. People were quite shaky when they got out.

'There wasn't any screaming. People were scared, but they weren't screaming.

'I feel quite shaky now.'

Sean Walsh, who was visiting the show with his girlfriend, said they were
sitting in the balcony when they first spotted a group of people below them
shouting to leave the theatre immediately.

Mr Walsh, 41, from north London, said: 'We were right up in the gods and a
couple in the group below just said "Go!"

'We thought they were just leaving because maybe they were bored, and my
girlfriend thought maybe they had seen a mouse.

'But then the whole of the ceiling just came down.'

He said people in the balcony filed out of the theatre calmly, but added: 'It
was difficult - you could hardly see the seat in front of you, due to the dust.'

Dee Kearney said: 'We were three or four seats from the stage when an actor
turned around and said 'Watch out!' We initially thought it was part of the
play.

'Then what we felt was debris falling on us, a loud bang, and then all of a
sudden there was a coat of dust that came on us.

She added: "It was a thick cloud of dust, so you couldn't actually tell what was
happening. You knew it was coming from above but you didn't know what was
actually happening.'

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      December 20, 2013 Friday 1:36 PM GMT

Lockerbie bombing 25th anniversary: Memorial services to be held in Scotland and
abroad to remember 270 victims of terrorist attack;
POLITICIANS, officials and victims' families will unite in Scotland and abroad
to remember those killed in Lockerbie bombing on December 21 1988.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 878 words


MEMORIAL events will be held at home and abroad to mark the 25th anniversary of
the Lockerbie bombing.

Senior politicians, officials, families and communities will come together
tomorrow to remember the 270 people killed in the terrorist atrocity.

Services will take place in Lockerbie itself and in London, while the UK
Government is sending Scotland Office minister David Mundell to a memorial
ceremony in the US where most of the victims were from.

Speaking on the eve of the anniversary, law officers for Scotland said their
thoughts and prayers are with the victims' families and all those whose lives
were touched by the tragic events.

Speaking on behalf of the Scottish prosecution service, Lord Advocate Frank
Mulholland and Solicitor General Lesley Thomson said: "Saturday is a time to
remember those who lost their lives on December 21 1988 and the impact it had on
so many lives then and since that tragic night.

"On behalf of the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service, our message is
simple: Always remembered, never forgotten; forever in our hearts."

The Lord Advocate will join Mr Mundell at the memorial service at Arlington
National Cemetery, Washington DC.

A cairn of red sandstone, one brick for every life lost, stands at the cemetery
in Virginia. The blocks came from Corsehill Quarry in Annan, Dumfriesshire.

Ms Thomson will attend the wreath-laying and memorial service at Dryfesdale
Cemetery, alongside Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond and Lord Wallace,
Advocate General for Scotland.

Scotland's Justice Secretary Kenny MacAskill will attend the evening service at
Dryfesdale church.

Mr Salmond said: "The bombing of Pan Am flight 103 is a memory that remains
sharp for anyone who was living in Scotland at the time. It remains the worst
terrorist attack ever perpetrated in Scotland. In the atrocity, 243 passengers,
16 crew and 11 on the ground were murdered.

"On this 25-year anniversary, and as the country prepares once more to relive
the harrowing events of that terrible night, it is important that we remember
that the pain and suffering of the families and friends of those who died has
endured since that winter night in 1988.

"As the community of Lockerbie marks the milestone, memorial events will be held
in Westminster Abbey, Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia and at Syracuse
University - which lost 35 students in the bombing.

"But, inevitably, a focus of the day will be on the memorial in Lockerbie and it
is there that I will pay my respects and condolences on behalf of the people of
Scotland."

A service will be held at Westminster Abbey at the same time as commemorations
in the US, attended by Scottish Secretary Alistair Carmichael and Scotland's
Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon.

The Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, the Right
Reverend Lorna Hood, will take part in the service at Westminster Abbey.

"It is difficult to believe that 25 years have passed since that awful night
when so many innocent lives were lost and a town in Scotland would be forever
associated with one of the worst terrorist attacks in recent history," she said.

"I remember so clearly the devastation of the town and the grief and sorrow of
relatives who journeyed across the Atlantic to see the spot where their loved
ones died.

"For weeks after, rescue workers, police, members of the forces and civilians
worked tirelessly to recover as much evidence as possible from the wreckage and,
to this day, live with difficult memories of that time.

"I know that for many there are unanswered questions and a continuing search for
truth, but this is a time to remember the 270 innocent lives cut short and the
families here in Scotland and the USA living with that loss."

Pan Am flight 103 was on its way from London to New York when it exploded above
Lockerbie, in southern Scotland, on the evening of December 21 1988, killing
everyone on board and 11 people on the ground.

Speaking in the House of Commons earlier this week, Mr Mundell told MPs: "It
remains the single largest loss of life ever in the United Kingdom when 270
people perished that fateful evening and I am sure that the thoughts and prayers
of the whole House will be with the community and those who lost friends and
family that evening.

"Much focus over the last 25 years has been on the perpetrators, but the
victims, their friends, their families and the community of Lockerbie deserve
our respect and admiration for the formidable way with which they have coped
with 25 years of unprecedented global attention."

Only one man, Abdelbaset al-Megrahi, was convicted of the bombing. He was found
guilty in January 2001 and given a life sentence. He was diagnosed with prostate
cancer in 2008, leading to a pivotal decision to free him under compassionate
release rules.

Mr MacAskill took that decision on August 20 the following year, sparking a row
among politicians on both sides of the Atlantic.

Megrahi died in Tripoli, Libya, in May last year.

Despite the guilty verdict and Megrahi's decision to drop a subsequent appeal
against conviction, politicians, campaigners and families of victims are still
dealing with the impact, with some of the British relatives considering another
appeal against his conviction when they meet with lawyers in the new year.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            December 20, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mumbai terror attack victim wins ruling

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 72 words


A holidaymaker who was left paralysed after being caught up in the Mumbai terror
attack has won a High Court battle for the right to have his compensation claim
heard in the UK. Will Pike, 33, is in a wheelchair after falling nearly 50 feet
from his bedroom window while trying to escape the extremists who attacked the
Taj Mahal Palace Hotel in November 2008. Residents had to try to reach the
ground using knotted bedding and curtains.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2013 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     December 21, 2013 Saturday 2:29 PM GMT

Lockerbie bombing: British, American and Libyan governments vow to co-operate to
find out who was responsible for 1988 atrocity;
THE agreement was revealed on the 25th anniversary of the terrorist attack which
claimed 270 lives.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 308 words


THE UK, US and Libyan governments will co-operate to reveal "the full facts" of
the Lockerbie bombing which claimed 270 lives.

In a joint statement released on the 25th anniversary of the tragedy, the three
administrations also expressed condolences to the families of the victims.

The statement says: "On the 25th anniversary of the bombing of Pan American
flight 103 over Lockerbie on 21 December 1988, the governments of Libya, the
United Kingdom and United States of America reiterate their deepest condolences
to the families of the victims of this terrible crime.

"We want all those responsible for this most brutal act of terrorism brought to
justice, and to understand why it was committed.

"We are committed to co-operate fully in order to reveal the full facts of the
case."

Scotland's top law officer Lord Advocate Frank Mulholland announced this week
that Libya has appointed two prosecutors to work on the investigation into the
bombing.

The joint statement continues: "We will all provide full support to the
investigation team to enable them to complete their inquiries successfully.

"We are striving to further deepen our co-operation and welcome the visit by UK
and US investigators to Libya in the near future to discuss all aspects of that
co-operation, including sharing of information and documents and access to
witnesses."

Libyan Abdelbaset al-Megrahi was the only person convicted of the bombing. He
was released from jail by the Scottish Government on compassionate grounds after
being diagnosed with prostate cancer, and died last year protesting his
innocence.

Megrahi's family have said they plan to appeal against his conviction, while
some of the British relatives of Lockerbie victims said they are also
considering making another appeal.

Robert Mueller, the former head of the FBI, said he believes more people will be
charged.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 21, 2013 Saturday 3:00 PM GMT

Biker gang who brutally attacked tech exec and terrorized his family will have
charges reduced because victim 'has no facial disfigurement'

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 947 words



     ·    Off duty NYPD officer Wojciech Braszczok among 11 bikers formally
          charged in a 14-count indictment over the September 29 attack on Range
          Rover driver Alexian Lien
     ·    The 32-year-old was facing up to 25 years behind bars
     ·    Prosecutors are likely to now reduce the charges from first degree
          gang assault to attempted gang assault because the victim has
          recovered so well
     ·    They will now face up to 15 years each


The gang of 11 bikers charged with viciously attacking a dad in front of his
terrified wife and toddler in a road-rage incident are getting the charges
against them reduced - because the victim's wounds healed so well.

Ten of the bikers, including off-duty undercover NYPD Detective Woj­ciech
Brasz­czok, will likely have their first-degree gang assault and first-degree
assault raps lessened to attempted gang assault and attempted assault,
prosecutors announced Friday in Manhattan Supreme Court.

'The victim's facial wounds look to be healing in a way which does not
constitute facial disfigurement under the law,' said Manhattan Assistant
District Attorney Joshua Stein­glass.

The badly bruised and swollen SUV driver, Alexian Lien, suffered cuts to his
head and needed stitches, The New York Post reports.

Scroll down for video

The suspects could have faced up to 25 years on the top charge of gang assault,
but will will now face 15 years if convicted on the lesser charge.

The charges will formally be reduced after Lien's next medical checkup,
Steinglass told the court.

The change does not affect the remaining 11th biker charged, Christopher Cruz,
who was only hit with a rap for unlawful imprisonment in the second degree.

The biker gang was furious that Mr Lien had run over one of their compatriots
and sped after him seeking revenge on September 29.

Video from one of the bikers shows that the gang had boxed in Mr Lien - who was
out for a drive with his wife and their daughter to celebrate their wedding
anniversary.

The angry bikers, including undercover detective, caught up the Alexian on a
busy street and bashed out his window with their helmets.

When they were done beating him, some of the thugs tried to attack Rosalyn Lien
and her two-year-old daughter, who were cowering in the car, Steinglass said.

Cruz, who was rear-ended by Lien, was initially charged in misdemeanor court but
now faces felony level criminal mischief and up to four years in prison.

Allen Edwards, who told cops he was trying to stop the attack, was also included
in the indictment.

He 'was the voice of reason and was the most reasonable, courageous person
there, to stand up to these people who he's not friends with. He doesn't know
these bikers', his lawyer said.

Lien was chased up the West Side Highway and was pulled out of his car on W.
178th St. as his wife watched in horror with their young child in the back seat.

A YouTube video of the attack shows a rider fitting Braszczok's description in
the main group chasing Alexian Lien's Range Rover. At no point does he try to
stop the pursuit.

At around two minutes he surges from the back and positions himself to the left
of the vehicle.

His red bike - which looks like the one in Braszczok's online postings - is
later seen right behind the SUV boxing it in.

When Lien stops for the first time the man has moved to its driver's side and as
one biker tries to open the driver's door, he goes to get off his bike to
assist, but Lien speeds off.

Then he is seen again at the end when Lien is set upon during the second, final
confrontation.

The video shows the man believed to be Braszczok apparently pulling up alongside
the right of the Range Rover.

His lawyers in court on October 9 claimed that he never went within 12ft of the
vehicle but he is much closer than that as his bike comes to a halt by the rear
window.

Braszczok's defence also claimed in court that the window was already broken -
but in the video it is still intact when he reaches it.

The court was told that he took part in a 'brutal and brazen' attack and that
while other members of the bike gang hauled Lien out of his car and set upon
him, Braszczok continued to 'terrorize' his family.

The criminal complaint states that he punched the rear window of the Range
Rover, causing it to break.

He then allegedly kicked the passenger side whilst Lien's wife was sitting in
the front passenger seat and his two-year-old daughter was in the back.

The criminal complaint also alleges that at the time of the assault he was
wearing a black vest with the words 'Front Line Soldiers' and 'New Rochelle, NY'
on it.

His name, 'WOJTEK' was on the front too and he was riding a bright red Yamaha
bike.

The description from court appears to match him up in the YouTube video.

The police are said to have another video which shows him actually hitting the
windscreen.

Braszczok's lawyer John Arlia said that videos of the incident will exonerate
his client who he said was being targeted because he was a detective.

But despite the seriousness of the claims against him, a judge agreed with
Braszczok's lawyer that pictures of him in court should not be allowed.

Mr Arlia said that he was involved with the NYPD intelligence division which
deals with 'infiltrating various organizations' and 'to disclose his identity
would jeopardize his life, his families'.

For that reason MailOnline has obscured his identity.

The claims emerged on the day it was revealed that Braszczok worked undercover
in the Occupy Wall Street movement for two years.

Braszczok - who also told activists his real name was 'Al' - shaved his head
into a Mohawk and apparently pretended to be a biker bro to win the trust of
activists. He attended demonstrations and lived like the protestors.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     December 21, 2013 Saturday 6:21 PM GMT

Lockerbie bomber hunt steps up on 25th anniversary of the terrorist attack;
British and American investigators promise to finally bring Lockerbie bomber to
justice and sift new evidence from Libya

BYLINE: By Nigel Nelson

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 152 words


A deal to bring the Lockerbie bombers to justice was announced by Britain, the
US and Libya on the 25th anniversary of the atrocity that killed 270, reports
The Sunday People.

Detectives from the Met, Scotland and America will jointly sift Libyan evidence
in the New Year.

And Libya - chief suspect for blowing up the Heathrow-New York jet over the
Scottish town - will send prosecutors to Britain for talks on action.

A statement by the three nations said: "We want all those responsible for this
brutal terrorist act brought to justice. We are committed to cooperate fully to
reveal the full facts."

Libya has promised the new team access to all documents and witnesses. The
family of Libyan Abdelbaset al-Megrahi, now dead, are to appeal against his
conviction for the bombing.

Last week the Sunday People named Egyptian Moham­med Abu Talb as a new suspect.

Memorial services were held in Britain and the US yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     December 21, 2013 Saturday 6:56 AM GMT

Lockerbie Bombing 25th anniversary: David Cameron pays tribute to "fortitude and
resilience" of those affected by the atrocity;
His message comes as victims are to be remembered at memorials held on both
sides of the Atlantic today to mark the 25th anniversary of the terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 456 words


Prime Minister David Cameron has praised the "fortitude and resilience" of those
affected by the Lockerbie bombing.

His message comes as victims are to be remembered at memorials held on both
sides of the Atlantic today to mark the 25th anniversary of the terrorist
attack.

Cameron said: "To families, friends, neighbours, loved ones and all those caught
up in the painful process of recovery, let us say to them: our admiration for
you is unconditional; for the fortitude and resilience you have shown; for your
determination never to give up.

"You have shown that terrorist acts cannot crush the human spirit. That is why
terrorism will never prevail. And even in the darkest moments of grief, it is
possible to glimpse the flickering flame of hope."

Abdelbaset al-Megrahi is the only person to have been convicted of the 1988
bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over Scotland in which 270 people were killed.

The bombing, which took place half an hour into the aircraft's flight to New
York from London, remains the most deadly act of terrorism ever committed on
British soil.

Megrahi, who was released from jail by the Scottish government on compassionate
grounds after being diagnosed with prostate cancer, died last year protesting
his innocence.

Following the fall of dictator Colonel Gaddafi, British and US investigators
have been working to establish if there are other individuals in Libya who could
be brought to trial for their involvement in the attack.

Today, a wreath-laying and church service will be held in Lockerbie itself, a
large part of which was destroyed when the debris from the aircraft fell to the
ground.

A remembrance service is also due to be held at Westminster Abbey in London.

Across the Atlantic a ceremony will take place at the memorial cairn in
Arlington National Cemetery, near Washington DC, the BBC reports.

Speaking in a BBC documentary in the lead up to the 25th anniversary of the
bombing, former FBI director Mueller said he was confident that the ongoing
investigation would "produce results".

Mr Mueller, who finished a 12-year spell as FBI director in September, said: "We
have FBI agents who are working full-time to track down every lead as we have
since it occurred 25 years ago.

"My expectation is that continuously we will obtain additional information,
perhaps additional witnesses and that others will be charged with their
participation in this.

"We do not forget - and by that I mean the FBI, the Department of Justice, we do
not forget."

It comes as Scotland's Lord Advocate announced that Libya has appointed two
prosecutors to work on the investigation into the bombing.

Frank Mulholland said it was a "very welcome development" which he hoped "will
bear fruit and result in bringing others to justice".

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 22, 2013 Sunday

"Terrorist" attack on Syria's Damascus gas pipeline causes fire, blackout

LENGTH: 178 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Electricity returning gradually to southern area" - SANA headline]

Damascus, 21 December - A source at the Electricity Ministry said that electric
power is returning gradually to the southern area, and that it should return to
normal within the next few hours.

Earlier, Minister of Oil and Mineral Resources, Sulayman al-Abbas said the
ministry's workshops have managed to contain the fire caused by a terrorist
attack against the Arab gas pipeline feeding the power generating stations in
the southern region.

The Minister told SANA that workshops have managed to cordon off the affected
area of the pipeline in al-Baytariah area in Damascus countryside that feeds
Tishreen and Deir Ali power stations, which supplies the provinces of Damascus,
Daraa, Sweida and Quneitra with electricity.

The Arab gas pipeline came under a similar attack in October in the same area,
causing a blackout in Damascus and the southern region.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 21 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 23, 2013 Monday

Terrorists in Syria attack oil tank with mortar shells in Damascus countryside

LENGTH: 75 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus - Petroleum Minister on Monday [23 December] said that armed terrorist
groups targeted oil tanks with mortar shells in Adra in Damascus Countryside.

Minister Sulayman Abbas said that the terrorist attack caused fire to one of the
tanks, as thick smoke is ascending in the skyline of the targeted area.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1055 gmt 23 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            December 23, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Woman, 24, in attack terror;
In Brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 134 words


POLICE are appealing for witnesses after a woman was assaulted in Leamington at
the weekend.

At around 6.30am on Saturday, a 24-year-old woman was walking along the path
between Newbold Terrace East and the Newbold Comyn Leisure Centre when she was
grabbed from behind.

The woman, who was not injured, broke free and the man ran off. The offender is
described as white, in his late 20s or early 30s, about 5ft8ins and muscular.

He was wearing a dark sweatshirt and trousers, a bobble hat and had a scarf
across his face.

Officers will be carrying out patrols in the area, and want to hear from anyone
with information or who has seen anyone behaving suspiciously in the area at any
other time.

Anyone with information is asked to call Warwickshire Police on 101 and ask to
speak to DC Bal Gill in Leamington CID.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2013 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 24, 2013 Tuesday

Egypt premier labels Muslim Brotherhood "terrorist group" after Mansurah attack

LENGTH: 10 words


Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0143gmt 24 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 24, 2013 Tuesday

Israeli army predicts failure of peace talks, brace for "wave of terror attacks"

LENGTH: 536 words


[Report by Amir Rapaport and Itamar Fleishman: "IDF, Security Establishment
Getting Ready for Escalation in Palestinian Terror in April"]

Against the backdrop of the terror attack yesterday and the attempted terror
attack on Sunday [22 December] on a bus in central Bat Yam, there has also been
a rise in the number of terror attacks in Judea and Samaria and Jerusalem, in
parallel to the political negotiations being conducted between Israel and the
Palestinians. According to Shin-Bet [GSS] data, there has been a sharp rise in
attempts to attack Israelis, mainly by means of firebombs, since the resumption
of the negotiations at the end of July, and the number of terror attacks reached
a new record in November.

Senior security officials confirm that there has been a significant rise in the
volume of violence on the ground in the past number of months, which they
ascribe to internal anger within the Palestinian [National] Authority that is
fermenting, as well as to passive encouragement by the PNA for what it views as
"popular protests."

An Israeli military official said that the IDF "has not identified an
infrastructure that working to escalate violence. "The source added that at this
stage the security coordination with the Palestinian [National] Authority
continues, and that the troops on the ground "persevere with the efforts to foil
[attacks] everywhere, including in refugee camps, and they destroy any terrorist
infrastructure that we identify."

The number of terror attacks reached a record high in November, when the
Shin-Bet enumerated no fewer than 167 nationalist incidents, including the
terror attack in which the soldier Eden Attias was stabbed to death in the Afula
central bus station, and the stabbing of a female soldier who serves with Army
Radio near the station in Jaffa. The most troubling rise in terrorist incidents
was recorded in Jerusalem, in which 55 attempted terror attacks were recorded,
mainly by means of firebombs.

The year 2013 started off relatively calmly from a security standpoint. In
January the Shin-Bet enumerated 82 terror attacks. That number began to rise in
February, and peaked in April with 139 terror attacks, including the murder of
Yitzhar resident, Evyatar Borovsky, at Tapuah junction. Most of the incidents,
however, were recorded in the Gaza area, while Judea and Samaria remained
relatively quiet until July, at which point the Shin-Bet enumerated 82 terror
attacks.

That calm ended with the resumption of the negotiations. In August 99 terror
attacks were committed, and the numbers have continued to rise ever since. The
number of people killed in terror attacks also helps underscore the
deterioration in security.

The security establishment is bracing for another escalation in violence, which
is liable to erupt this spring, at which point it should become clearer whether
the political negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians are heading
towards resolution or impasse. The security establishment's assessment is that
the chances of an agreement are very low, and in the event that the talks should
fail, a wave of terror attacks of an unpredictable scale is liable to wash over
Israel.

Source: Ma'ariv, Tel Aviv, in Hebrew 24 Dec 13 p 4

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     December 24, 2013 Tuesday 5:55 AM GMT

Fourteen people killed and more than 100 injured in huge explosion in Egypt;
The country's Interim Prime Minister Hazem Beblawi called the attack "an act of
terrorism".

BYLINE: By Chris Richards

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 143 words


At least 14 people have been killed and more than 100 injured in a huge
explosion in Egypt.

The force of the blast, believed to have been caused by a car bomb, wrecked a
security building in the northern city of Mansoura.

The country's Interim Prime Minister Hazem Beblawi called the attack "an act of
terrorism".

No group has so far claimed responsibility for the blast.

Mr Beblawi told satellite channel ONTV: "The state will do its utmost to pursue
the criminals who executed, planned and supported that attack."

The Muslim Brotherhood - which supports ousted Egyptian president Mohammed Morsi
and has been banned by the interim authorities - condemned the bombing.

"Muslim Brotherhood considers this act as a direct attack on the unity of the
Egyptian people," it said in a statement.

The explosion shook the building at about 01:10 local time (23:10 GMT on
Monday).

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                    December 24, 2013 Tuesday 12:29 PM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN EGYPT

LENGTH: 111 words


LONDON, Dec. 24 -- The United Kingdom Foreign & Commonwealth Office issued the
following press release:

Foreign Secretary expresses concern following bomb attack in Egypt.

The Foreign Secretary William Hague said:

"I strongly condemn the terrorist attack on the police headquarters in Mansoura
during the night. My thoughts are with the families of those killed and wounded
and all those affected. The Egyptian people are determined to build a stable and
prosperous country for themselves and we stand with them at this difficult
time." For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 25, 2013 Wednesday

Bahraini premier condemns Egypt "terrorist attack", calls for Arab solidarity

LENGTH: 213 words


Text of report in English by Bahrain newspaper Gulf Daily News website on 25
December

[Unattributed report: "Premier calls For Arab solidarity"]

The premier yesterday stressed the need for more cooperation among Arab
countries to stave off threats to their stability and security.

He also highlighted the need for activating the role of the Arab League and
investing Arab capital in Arab countries.

His Royal Highness Prime Minister Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa condemned
the terrorist attack on Daqahliya police station in the Egyptian city of Al
Mansoura -stressing that terrorism is an inhuman and heinous act that is alien
to genuine Arab values.

This came as the Premier received at Gudaibiya Palace an Egyptian delegation
comprising politicians, intellectuals, writers, journalists and artists.

"The conspiracy against Egypt would fail as long as the Egyptian people remain
united and rally together to safeguard national security," he said.

He lauded Egypt's support for Bahrain and its championing of Arab and Islamic
causes at international gatherings. "Arab countries represent a real economic
and political force whenever they foster their rapprochement and devise
appropriate development plans," he added.

Source: Gulf Daily News website, Manama, in English 25 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 25, 2013 Wednesday

Iran condemns terrorist attack on church in Iraq

LENGTH: 303 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 25 December: Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman condemned the terrorist attack
on a Church in Baghdad which resulted in death and injury of several Christian
citizens on the Christmas Eve.

Marziyeh Afkham condemned the terrorist attack on Baghdad's Mary Yuhanna Church
on Wednesday [25 December].

"This terrorist act shows the necessity for collective and international
cooperation for confronting the evil phenomenon of terrorism and extremism," she
said.

Afkham said that attacking the church and the people attending the ceremonies
marking the birth anniversary of Jesus Christ is the alarm that the phenomenon
of terrorism will not be limited to the geographical and religious boundaries.

At least 24 people were killed in bomb attacks in Christian areas of Baghdad,
including a car bomb that exploded near a church after a Christmas service,
police and medics said.

A bomb in a parked car went off on Wednesday while worshippers were leaving a
church in the Al-Dawrah district of southern Baghdad after finishing prayers,
police sources said.

Most of the victims were Christian, they said. Scores of others were injured.

No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attacks.

The attacks come a day after Christians in Iraq celebrated their first Christmas
Eve midnight mass in Baghdad since 2003, taking advantage of intensive security
measures in the capital.

Festivities have been overshadowed in recent years as targeted attacks on the
Christian community forced thousands to flee a country where Christians once
numbered about 1.5 million.

A Christmas mass service in 2010 was cancelled after Christians received threats
by Al-Qa'idah in Iraq.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1830 gmt 25 Dec
13

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 25, 2013 Wednesday

Jordanian king condoles Egyptian president over victims of terrorist attack

LENGTH: 113 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

Petra News Agency) -Amman, Dec. 24 (Petra) - His Majesty King Abdullah II sent a
cable to Egyptian President Adly Mansour condoling him over the death and injury
of a number of innocent Egyptians in the terrorist and cowardly attack that
targeted the Daqahliya security directorate in Mansoura city.

In his cable King Abdullah, strongly condemned such criminal attacks and
stressed Jordan s commitment to stand by the Egypt in these difficult times to
confront all forms of terrorism.

His Majesty also wished the injured a speedy recovery.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 1235 gmt 24 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 26, 2013 Thursday

Iranian defence minister deplores terrorist attack on Iraqi counterpart

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News
Agency website

Tehran, 26 December: Iranian Defence Minister Brigadier-General Hoseyn Dehqan
condemned the Tuesday [24 December] terrorist attack on the convoy of his Iraqi
counterpart Sa'dun Al-Dulaymi which wounded two of his bodyguards. In the
message, Dehqan said he is pleased to hear the failure of the assassination
attempt against Dulaymi.

"I pray to God for the health of the Iraqi defence minister, success of the
Iraqi government and prosperity of the Iraqi nation," he said in his message on
Wednesday.

The Tuesday roadside bomb hit Dulaymi's convoy as it travelled between Fallujah
and Ramadi, "wounding two of his guards and damaging one of the vehicles,"
Iraq's Defence Ministry said on its website.

[Passage omitted: Background information on the attack]

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1025 gmt 26 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 26, 2013 Thursday 3:53 PM GMT

Egypt rounds up Brotherhood members as bomb hits Cairo bus;
Egypt on the brink as country sees Muslim Brotherhood outlawed as terrorists and
first bomb attack against civilians

BYLINE: By Richard Spencer Cairo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 634 words


Egypt's political and military crisis was threatening to spiral out of control
on Thursday after a government decision to declare the Muslim Brotherhood a
terrorist organisation was followed by the first bomb attack targeting ordinary
civilians on the country's mainland.

The explosion, which hit a public bus in the Nasr City district of north-east
Cairo, only caused five injuries but marked an important symbolic break with the
previous tactics of the largely Sinai-based terror groups responsible for
shootings and bombings across the country. They have largely targeted police and
the army.

There was no indication that it was a direct response to the long-awaited
cabinet decision announced on Wednesday night to designate Brotherhood members
as terrorists, threaten them with five years' jail and freeze the assets of the
group's numerous charitable fronts.

However, following the explosion on Christmas Eve which killed 16 people at a
police headquarters building in the Nile Delta city of Mansoura north of Cairo
it establishes another potential front in the militant war on the military-led
regime.

A second, pipe bomb was found at the scene and shown off to reporters by a
police general who said it had been primed to go off when police arrived at the
scene of the explosion, a standard method of attack used heavily by al-Qaeda in
Iraq.

Nasr City is home to a number of ministries and army and republican guard
barracks, and was the scene of a bomb attack in September which narrowly failed
to kill the interior minister, Mohammed Ibrahim. That attack was claimed by the
Sinai-based militant group Ansar Beit al-Maqdis, or Supporters of Jerusalem, as
was the Mansoura bombing.

Nevertheless, the government has accused the Brotherhood of being behind the
latter attack, using it as a pretext for the latest crackdown on the
organisation, a ban on which was never formally lifted even when Mohammed Morsi,
a member of its guidance council, was state president.

Since his removal by his defence minister, Gen. Abdulfattah Sisi, in July the
authorities have gradually blurred the line on the extent to which it was
responsible for terror attacks and as to what Brotherhood-linked activities were
illegal.

The cabinet's latest ban is potentially the most stringent ever enacted, making
membership alone or even possession of its "propaganda materials" punishable
with five years' jail. Leading a pro-Brotherhood demonstration could warrant a
life term in prison.

The newspaper of its previously legal political front, the Freedom and Justice
Party, was also shut down.

The Brotherhood keeps details of its membership secret, but one analyst who
follows the organisation said it was believed to be in the region of 300,000.

Most of the organisation's senior leaders have been rounded up and remanded to
jail pending a raft of prosecutions since Mr Morsi's overthrow. Another 16
members were arrested under the new terror designation in the province of
Sharqiya, neighbouring Mansoura and home to Mr Morsi, Thursday morning.

The Brotherhood's spokesmen insist it is a peaceful organisation and have
repeatedly denied the terror charges, specifically condemning the attack in
Mansoura within hours. "The putschists are a terrorist organisation," a
statement said. "The Brotherhood are peaceful patriots."

Gen Sisi made his first important comments since an upsurge of protests followed
the publication of a proposed new constitution and the issuing of a new law
banning demonstrations without prior approval.

"Do not worry or fear, the army will sacrifice for Egypt. We will eliminate
terrorism," he said at a military ceremony.

"Do not allow these terrorist actions to affect you. If you want freedom and
stability, which is not achieved easily, then you have to trust God and your
army and your police."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                            December 27, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Back from dead to foil London terror attack;
DON'T MISS

SECTION: NEW YEAR TV GUIDE;FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 412 words


SHERLOCK New Year's Day, 9pm, BBC1 NO offence to Doctor Who, Gangsta Granny or
even Mrs Brown, but for many viewers, the best present the BBC can give us this
festive season is a new episode of Sherlock.

Not only is it one of the most acclaimed dramas of the past few years, but some
of us have been getting a little tired of waiting to find out just how the
world's greatest sleuth managed to fake his own death. If you didn't see the
last episode of series two, aired way back in January 2012, it saw master
criminal Moriarty cooking up a fiendish plan to discredit the sleuth. Not
content with merely destroying his arch-rival's reputation, he then went one
step further, telling Sherlock that unless he committed suicide, everyone he
cared about (admittedly, not a very long list) would be killed.

The detective duly threw himself off the top of St Bartholomew's Hospital,
leaving sidekick Dr John Watson grief-stricken - yet the final shot revealed to
viewers that Sherlock was still alive.

In the two very long years that followed - it must be tough to get Martin
Freeman and Benedict Cumberbatch's schedules synchronised now that they're both
in demand for Hollywood blockbusters - fans have had plenty of time to come up
with their own theories. And now we're finally about to find out if any of them
were right.

As executive producer, writer and co-creator Steven Moffat says: "It's been a
long time since Sherlock Holmes jumped off that roof - it's time to reveal the
truth about what happened between him and the pavement."

At least he and the show's other mastermind, Mark Gatiss, should understand why
viewers have been so busy speculating about the mystery - they are both Sherlock
superfans too.

Speaking before the start of series two, Moffat said: "We are the biggest
Sherlock Holmes geeks in the world. This has become such an enormous
international hit, it's sort of preposterous, it's like our vanity project, it's
our hobby. And yet everybody has joined in!" So, be ready to be gripped again as
we catch up with Watson. As in real-life, two years have passed since the events
of The Reichenbach Fall, and he seems poised on the brink of domestic bliss,
even if he does still miss his eccentric former roommate.

But when London is threatened by a terrorist attack and Sherlock rises from the
grave, will Watson be left wishing his friend had just carried on playing dead?

"It's time to reveal the truth of what happened between him and the pavement."
STEVEN MOFFAT

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sherlock Holmes (Benedict Cumberbatch), and Dr John Watson (Martin
Freeman) are reunited to try to foil a terrorist attack on London.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DET


                     Copyright 2013 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 27, 2013 Friday 8:00 PM GMT

Horror as hundreds of teens terrorize Brooklyn mall in attack coordinated on
social media after insulting t-shirt sparks mass anger

BYLINE: RYAN GORMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 367 words



     ·    More than 400 teens swarmed the mall Thursday afternoon
     ·    They beat up shoppers and security guards, stole things and trashed
          stores and concourses
     ·    A game of 'knockout' may have broken out on the mall's top floor


Hundreds of teens terrorized a Brooklyn mall Thursday during an attack organized
on social media, forcing it to close its doors for hours during crucial day
after Christmas sales.

More than 400 teens swarmed Kings Plaza Mall, in Southern Brooklyn, trashing
stores, assaulting shoppers and stealing things after a t-shirt insulting a high
school student sparked anger among classmates.

A large group of teen girls reportedly fought each other over the incendiary
t-shirt and the violent 'knockout' game also broke out on the mall's top floor -
where one teen may have been carrying a gun, cops told the New York Post.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Teens used social media to organize the attack with the goal of putting the mall
'on tilt,' according to Facebook and Twitter posts cited by the Post.

The shirt showed a picture of the girl with a derogatory comment about her, the
New York Daily News reported.

Mall employees rushed to close their stores as chaos broke out all around them.

'I've been here seven years and I have never seen anything like this before -
I'm so scared. I know they will come back,' store clerk Abu Tabel, 31, told the
paper.

'I was begging them to stop. There were a lot of kids hundreds of kids...
[Security] would chase them out one door and they would come back in another
door,' he continued.

Larger stores, such as Macy's, quickly rolled down their gates to keep the
calamity outside, but small merchants weren't as able - forcing the mall to
close from 5pm to 7pm, sources told the Post.

One fight caught in front of Best Buy showed the bedlam and panic of many.

There was fighting, screaming and people running for cover.

Piles of people punching and kicking each other could be seen.

One scene showed a cop running after and tackling a teen before another officer
came to assist him.

Another scene showed a police officer dragging a screaming girl away from a
fight.

Police were shown standing guard of another girl injured in a separate melee.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 27, 2013 Friday 7:32 PM GMT

Horror as hundreds of teens terrorize Brooklyn mall in attack coordinated on
social media

BYLINE: RYAN GORMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 321 words



     ·    More than 400 teens swarmed the mall Thursday afternoon
     ·    They beat up shoppers and security guards, stole things and trashed
          stores and concourses
     ·    A game of 'knockout' may have broken out on the mall's top floor


Hundreds of teens terrorized a Brooklyn mall Thursday during an attack organized
on social media, forcing it to close its doors for hours during crucial day
after Christmas sales.

More than 400 teens swarmed Kings Plaza Mall, in Southern Brooklyn, trashing
stores, assaulting shoppers and stealing things.

The violent 'knockout' game also broke out on the mall's top floor - where one
teen may have been carrying a gun, cops told the New York Post.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Teens used social media to organize the attack with the goal of putting the mall
'on tilt,' according to Facebook and Twitter posts cited by the Post.

Mall employees rushed to close their stores as chaos broke out all around them.

'I've been here seven years and I have never seen anything like this before -
I'm so scared. I know they will come back,' store clerk Abu Tabel, 31, told the
paper.

'I was begging them to stop. There were a lot of kids hundreds of kids...
[Security] would chase them out one door and they would come back in another
door,' he continued.

Larger stores, such as Macy's, quickly rolled down their gates to keep the
calamity outside, but small merchants weren't as able - forcing the mall to
close from 5pm to 7pm, sources told the Post.

One fight caught in front of Best Buy showed the bedlam and panic of many.

There was fighting, screaming and people running for cover.

Piles of people punching and kicking each other could be seen.

One scene showed a cop running after and tackling a teen before another officer
came to assist him.

Another scene showed a police officer dragging a screaming girl away from a
fight.

Police were shown standing guard of another girl injured in a separate melee.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 27, 2013 Friday 1:43 AM GMT

Egypt rounds up Brotherhood members as bomb hits Cairo bus;
Egypt on the brink as country sees Muslim Brotherhood outlawed as terrorists and
first bomb attack against civilians

BYLINE: By Richard Spencer Cairo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 698 words


Egypt's political and military crisis was threatening to spiral out of control
on Thursday after a government decision to declare the Muslim Brotherhood a
terrorist organisation was followed by the first bomb attack targeting ordinary
civilians on the country's mainland.

The explosion, which hit a public bus in the Nasr City district of north-east
Cairo, only caused five injuries but marked an important symbolic break with the
previous tactics of the largely Sinai-based terror groups responsible for
shootings and bombings across the country. They have largely targeted police and
the army.

There was no indication that it was a direct response to the long-awaited
cabinet decision announced on Wednesday night to designate Brotherhood members
as terrorists, threaten them with five years' jail and freeze the assets of the
group's numerous charitable fronts.

However, following the explosion on Christmas Eve which killed 16 people at a
police headquarters building in the Nile Delta city of Mansoura north of Cairo
it establishes another potential front in the militant war on the military-led
regime.

A second, pipe bomb was found at the scene and shown off to reporters by a
police general who said it had been primed to go off when police arrived at the
scene of the explosion, a standard method of attack used heavily by al-Qaeda in
Iraq.

Nasr City is home to a number of ministries and army and republican guard
barracks, and was the scene of a bomb attack in September which narrowly failed
to kill the interior minister, Mohammed Ibrahim. That attack was claimed by the
Sinai-based militant group Ansar Beit al-Maqdis, or Supporters of Jerusalem, as
was the Mansoura bombing.

Nevertheless, the government has accused the Brotherhood of being behind the
latter attack, using it as a pretext for the latest crackdown on the
organisation, a ban on which was never formally lifted even when Mohammed Morsi,
a member of its guidance council, was state president.

Since his removal by his defence minister, Gen. Abdulfattah Sisi, in July the
authorities have gradually blurred the line on the extent to which it was
responsible for terror attacks and as to what Brotherhood-linked activities were
illegal.

The cabinet's latest ban is potentially the most stringent ever enacted, making
membership alone or even possession of its "propaganda materials" punishable
with five years' jail. Leading a pro-Brotherhood demonstration could warrant a
life term in prison.

The newspaper of its previously legal political front, the Freedom and Justice
Party, was also shut down.

The Brotherhood keeps details of its membership secret, but one analyst who
follows the organisation said it was believed to be in the region of 300,000.

Most of the organisation's senior leaders have been rounded up and remanded to
jail pending a raft of prosecutions since Mr Morsi's overthrow. Another 16
members were arrested under the new terror designation in the province of
Sharqiya, neighbouring Mansoura and home to Mr Morsi, Thursday morning.

The Brotherhood's spokesmen insist it is a peaceful organisation and have
repeatedly denied the terror charges, specifically condemning the attack in
Mansoura within hours. "The putschists are a terrorist organisation," a
statement said. "The Brotherhood are peaceful patriots."

Gen Sisi made his first important comments since an upsurge of protests followed
the publication of a proposed new constitution and the issuing of a new law
banning demonstrations without prior approval.

"Do not worry or fear, the army will sacrifice for Egypt. We will eliminate
terrorism," he said at a military ceremony.

"Do not allow these terrorist actions to affect you. If you want freedom and
stability, which is not achieved easily, then you have to trust God and your
army and your police."

Tensions spilled into the streets of Cairo late on Thursday, when student
supporters of the Brotherhood clashed with residents of an area where they were
demonstrating, the Interior Ministry said. Birdshot gunfire was exchanged and
one person died before police fired tear gas into the crowd to disperse
protesters, the ministry said in a statement that did not identify the person.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 28, 2013 Saturday

China takes safety measures against terror attacks ahead of festival

LENGTH: 426 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Beijing, 27 December - Chinese officials and police at all levels have been
asked to step up safety precautions in key regions and be on alert against
terrorist attacks and sabotage activities during New Year's Day and the Spring
Festival.

"All-out efforts should be made to ensure social stability and harmony," said a
circular issued Friday by the general offices of the Communist Party of China
(CPC) Central Committee and the State Council, China's cabinet.

"Related departments should handle 'letters and visits' (petitions) well and
solve problems that have aroused strong public complaints properly so as to
prevent mass incidents at their root," the circular said.

Meanwhile, officials at all levels have been asked to practice frugality.

Tea parties and evening galas should be further reduced and simplified, the
circular said.

Echoing previous anti-decadence and extravagance moves, officials are also
banned from using public funds for gift giving, expensive recreational or
body-building activities, New Year cards, fireworks, liquor, flower, food, trips
not related to official activities, and handing out unnecessary bonuses.

The central authorities also asked officials to stay clean by refraining from
accepting gifts, money, securities, pre-paid commercial cards, as well as
gambling.

In a separate circular issued Friday, the CPC disciplinary agency vowed to
seriously deal with violations and make cases public by naming violators.

In addition, the central authorities asked governments at various levels to help
needy people while maintaining market order during the festival season.

The central authorities asked local governments to step up the inspection of
pipelines transmitting petroleum and gas, as well as on fire-safety measures,
workplace safety, coal mining sectors, and fireworks factories.

Officials are encouraged to visit poverty-stricken areas and ensure timely
distribution of allowances to residents affected by natural disasters,
low-income families, the disabled, and the elderly who lack family support, the
circular said.

Authorities should enhance inspection targeting employers who default on
payments to migrant workers from rural areas, the circular said.

Efforts should also be made to stabilize consumer prices and ensure a stable
supply of power and daily necessities, it said.

Next year's Spring Festival, China's most important traditional festival, falls
on Jan. 31.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1339gmt 27 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 28, 2013 Saturday

Jordan condemns "terrorist" attack in Lebanon

LENGTH: 146 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

Jordan condemned the terrorist attack in Beirut Friday morning that left 7
people dead including former Lebanese minister Mohamad Shatah, and 70 others
wounded.

State Minister for Media Affairs and Communications Muhammad Mumani said that
such terrorist attacks that target Lebanon 's peace and security threaten
regional and international peace and security.

Mumani, who is also the government spokesperson, stressed Jordan 's stance which
rejects all forms of terrorism and violence no matter what their source and
motive are.

The minister voiced Jordan 's solidarity with Lebanon in confronting all threats
to its security and stability.

He also offered his condolences to the victims' families and wished the injured
a speedy recovery.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 1910 gmt 27 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 29, 2013 Sunday

Afghans concerned about rising terrorist attacks in capital - TV

LENGTH: 502 words


Text of report by Afghan Tolo News TV on 28 December

[Presenter] Weakness of intelligence and detective bodies has given a rise to
terrorist attacks in the country, particularly in the capital. Some members of
the internal security committee of the lower house of parliament say that the
security forces should take serious measures to contain terrorist attacks in the
country while the Kabul residents are concerned about increasing attacks in the
capital. Rafi Sediqi has more details.

[Correspondent] Kabul recently witnessed several attacks by armed opponents. The
attack near to the Kabul military airport, missile attacks on the US embassy
compound in Kabul and the attack on a foreign forces convoy near the custom
department took place this month, causing concern for the people. They call on
the security forces to take serious actions to ensure security in the country.

[Unidentified young man, talking to camera] We call on the security bodies to
take serious actions as the security situation has deteriorated of late.

[Second unidentified young man, talking to camera] The security situation is
worsening with every passing day and the government should take serious actions
as the election is around the corner.

[Third unidentified young man, talking to camera] Neighbouring countries do not
allow us to ensure security in our country. Our police indeed serve us and try
to ensure security for us.

[Correspondent] Some members of the internal security committee of the lower
house of parliament believe that insecurity is due to weakness of intelligence
and detective bodies.

[Latifa Zaki, member of internal security committee of the lower house of
parliament, captioned, talking to camera] The recent terrorist attacks such as
suicide bombings and explosions by the enemy is due to the weakness of our
intelligence and detective bodies as this is a guerrilla war rather than an
organized war to be dealt with by our security forces. Such attacks will take
place unless our detective and intelligence bodies take precise measures.

[Correspondent] The Interior Ministry says efforts are under way to improve the
security situation in the country, particularly in the capital.

[Sediq Sediqi, spokesman for Interior Ministry, captioned, talking to camera]
Incidents have not increased and the police arrested perpetrators of any
incidents and dealt with them. Our people should not be concerned and what we
expect from them is to cooperate with us.

[Correspondent] Insecurity is considered a serious concern for the people and
this concern is rising as the military mission by the foreign forces in the
country is coming to an end. Analysts believe that this concern stems from lack
of resources of the security forces such as heavy and modern weapons and air
support.

[Video shows an MP, local people, Interior Ministry spokesman talking to camera,
correspondent reporting from the Kabul city, people, archive footage of the
Afghan forces, the site of the blast]

Source: Tolo News, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 28 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 29, 2013 Sunday

UK issues warning of possible "terrorist attack" in Oman

LENGTH: 176 words


Text of report in English by Dubai newspaper Gulf News website on 28 December

[Unattributed report: "UK Issues Security Warning for Oman"]

Dubai: The UK issued a warning of a possible terrorist attack in Oman on
Thursday. "There is information of a threat in the Thumrayt area in Dhofar, in
the south of Oman and enhanced security measures are in place.

British nationals are advised to follow the security advice of local
authorities," the statement read. "You should maintain a high level of security
awareness and take care in public places and on the roads. Avoid large crowds
and demonstrations," it added. The statement said that attacks, although
unlikely, could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by expatriates
and foreign travellers. It added that terrorists continue to issue statements
threatening to carry out attacks in the Gulf region. These include references to
attacks on western interests, including residential compounds, military, oil,
transport and aviation interests.

Source: Gulf News website, Dubai, in English 28 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                                Bournemouth Echo

                            December 29, 2013 Sunday

Mum's car terror after men attack each other with baseball bat at traffic lights

BYLINE: Jenny Awford

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 285 words


A TERRIFIED mother protected her children when two men leapt into her car and
started to attack each other with a baseball bat.

Christa Harrison had stopped at the traffic lights at the junction of Poole Road
and Queen's Road with her three young children in the back when a man forced
open the car door.

Another man, armed with a baseball bat, then wrenched the door open and started
violently attacking the first man, placing the children at serious risk,
according to the mother-of-three.

Christa, 32, said: "One man came running towards the car with a bottle in his
hand, got into the car, lay across my three kids and then yelled at me to drive.

"I screamed at him to get out and then another man who was chasing after him
with a baseball bat also forced open the door and started violently hitting him.

"I was terrified and it was absolute chaos, but I tried to fight the two men off
and drag my kids out of the car."

The three children, four-year-old Carys, seven-year-old Emrys and 10-year-old
Bronwyn, escaped unhurt from the incident which took place around 5.50pm on
Monday December 23.

Police attended the incident and reported that there was an altercation between
four males at the junction and one tried to seek refuge in a stationary car at
the traffic lights.

A spokesperson for Dorset Police said: "The driver of the car and a member of
the public intervened and the males left the location. However, the incident was
distressing for the occupants of the car."

Ward councillor Barry Goldbart said: "I am absolutely shocked. It sounds like a
dreadful incident which frightened that family to death."

Witnesses or anyone with information should contact Dorset Police on 101 quoting
incident number 23-501.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                     December 29, 2013 Sunday 9:42 AM  EST

FCO MINISTER SHOCKED BY TERRORIST ATTACK IN VOLGOGRAD

LENGTH: 126 words


LONDON, Dec. 29 -- The United Kingdom Foreign & Commonwealth Office issued the
following press release:

Minister for Europe condemns terrorist attack on Russian train station

David Lidington, the Minister For Europe, has commented on the terrorist attack
on the train station in the Russian city of Volgograd which has killed and
injured a number of people.

Minister Lidington said:

"I was shocked to learn of the terrorist attack in Volgograd this morning, which
I condemn in the strongest possible terms. My sympathies go out to all those
affected by this appalling act, and particularly to those who have lost loved
ones." For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 30, 2013 Monday

Security in Moscow stepped up after two terror attacks in southern Russian city

LENGTH: 165 words


Security measures have been strengthened in Moscow in the wake of the two
terrorist attacks in the southern city of Volgograd on 29 and 30 December,
Russian privately-owned news agency Interfax reported on 30 December, quoting
the Moscow mayor's office.

"Today in connection with the events in Volgograd specific measures have been
taken to provide security, both in the Moscow city transport department and in
the services that are involved in preventing and eliminating emergency
situations," Mayorov told Interfax.

"Corresponding instructions have been given, and measures are being taken," he
added.

"Attention will be again drawn to the approach zones around public events venues
as well as routes of overland and underground vehicle access," Mayorov said.

"The set of events related to New Year and Christmas celebrations remains in
force. However, the task organization to provide security has been specified, "
he added. .

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0648 gmt 30 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 30, 2013 Monday

Egyptian foreign minister condemns "terror" attacks in Russia - news agency

LENGTH: 174 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 30 Dec: Foreign Minister Nabil Fahmi sent a message of condolences to the
Russian government and people on the two terror attacks that took place in
Volgograd city, said Foreign Ministry Spokesman Ambassador Badr Abd al-Ati on
Monday [30 December].

In his message, Fahmi asserted that Egypt condemned the two terrorist attacks,
noting that Egypt is currently waging a war on terrorism and knows well the
consequences of such heinous crimes on efforts of development and stability,
said the spokesman.

Fahmi also called for consolidating efforts of the international community in
face of such phenomenon which threatens international security and stability,
the spokesman added.

At least 15 people have been killed and more than 20 others hurt in a suspected
suicide bombing on a trolleybus in the Russian city of Volgograd.

The blast comes a day after 17 people died in another suicide attack at the
central station in the city.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0955gmt 30 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 30, 2013 Monday

(Corr) Russian regional leaders made answerable for failing to prevent terror
attacks

LENGTH: 492 words


(Removing garbled characters and question marks. A corrected version of the item
follows:)

Text of report by privately-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 30 December: The National Antiterrorist Committee (NAC) has made
amendments to the list of priority measures aimed at strengthening security
throughout the Russian Federation in connection with the terrorist attacks in
Volgograd and Pyatigorsk, the NAC Information Centre has told Interfax.

On Monday [30 December], Security Council Secretary Nikolay Patrushev chaired an
emergency meeting of the NAC that discussed the urgent measures being taken in
connection with the terrorist acts committed in Pyatigorsk and Volgograd.

"It has been determined that every head of a constituent part of the Russian
Federation and a municipality, the heads of the territorial security and
internal affairs bodies, representatives of the [Russian] Investigations
Committee, the Emergencies Ministry and the Ministry of Health are to be
personally responsible for the timeliness of the measures being taken within
their scope of authority in accordance with the existing legislation," the NAC
stressed.

In accordance with instructions issued by Russian President Vladimir Putin, the
NAC made the necessary amendments to the list of urgent measures aimed at
strengthening security throughout the country.

The priority tasks to be carried out directly in the zone of activities aimed at
minimizing and localizing the consequences of terrorist acts include thorough
operational control of the situation, the readiness of the deployed forces and
means to identify terrorist threats and prevent terrorist crimes.

The NAC set specific objectives for the antiterrorist commissions and
operational headquarters in constituent parts of the Russian Federation.

The relevant services have been ordered to take additional measures to ensure
public order, strengthen the system of inspection of transport operations,
detect explosive and other suspicious items, prevent attacks on citizens at
socio-political, cultural and sporting events.

At the emergency meeting of the NAC it was determined that ensuring coordination
of all government agencies, law-enforcement and security agencies, as well as
public organizations and citizens to prevent terrorist threat was the necessary
foundation for the implementation of the tasks set by the Russian president.

The meeting was attended by the heads of law-enforcement and security
structures, executive officials of the Presidential Administration and the staff
of the Russian Federation Security Council.

The chairman of the NAC, FSB [Federal Security Service] Director Aleksandr
Bortnikov, who has arrived in Volgograd, chaired a joint meeting of the [local]
antiterrorist commission and the operational headquarters, defined additional
measures to ensure public safety and to find the perpetrators of the terrorist
acts.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1448 gmt 30 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      December 30, 2013 Monday 2:32 PM GMT

DR Congo repels 'terror' attacks

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 504 words


Assailants armed with machetes and automatic weapons attacked the state
television station, the airport and the main military base in the Democratic
Republic of Congo's capital Kinshasa in what appeared to be a coup attempt,
before being repelled by the country's military, officials and witnesses said.

Government spokesman Lambert Mende confirmed the attack, saying around 40 people
were killed in the exchange of fire, including 16 at the military base, 16 at
the airport and eight at the TV station. Another six were captured, he said.

"These are terrorists, you can't call them anything else," Mr Mende said.

Most residents of this sprawling African capital first realised the attack was
under way while watching a morning talk show on Radio Television Nationale
Congolaise, the state broadcaster.

The presenter of Le Panier, or The Breadbasket, show was in mid-sentence when
the intruders burst in. They had time to identify themselves as being devotees
of a local prophet before the signal on state TV was cut, said Pascal Amisi, the
deputy chief of staff of DR Congo's minister of communication. Between 7am and
8am local time, gunmen also attacked the international airport and the military
camp in the capital housing the country's senior army leaders, he said.

"They attacked three different targets at the same time," said Mr Amisi. "We
don't know for sure who they are but the group that attacked the TV station said
they were representing Prophet Mukungubila," he said, naming Gideon Mukungubila,
an evangelical Christian leader in Congo, who has built up a following and who
broadcasts messages on local TV and radio. "Around 30 men attacked the TV
station while the Le Panier show was in progress. They came in with knives and
said they had a political message to share, before the signal was yanked."

At the state TV station, an employee who was inside the building when the attack
began described a scene of confusion and terror.

"There were around 30 armed men who burst into the headquarters of the
television station. They started firing, and we hid," said the employee. He said
that before they were chased out, they had time to scream out, "Gideon
Mukungubila has come to liberate (DR) Congo from the slavery imposed on us by
Rwanda."

With a population of nearly 66 million, DR Congo spans a territory as large as
Western Europe. It has twice gone to war with its smaller neighbour to the east,
Rwanda, which as recently as this year was accused of propping up a rebel group,
ensconced in DR Congo's eastern forest.

President Joseph Kabila, who is himself from the east and is derided by his
opponents as being "Rwandan", came to power in 2001, after the assassination of
his father, warlord Laurent Kabila. The elder Kabila marched his rebel army into
Kinshasa in 1997, grabbing power in a coup. The nation has remained among the
poorest in the world under both Kabila and his father who ruled before him.
Elections in 2011 gave the younger Kabila a second term, but the vote was widely
criticised as fraudulent.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 30, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

16 killed as suicide bomb rips through Russian city train station;
Putin tightens security for Winter Olympics after new terrorist attack in
Volgograd

BYLINE: Roland Oliphant

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 695 words


A SUICIDE bomber killed at least 16 people at a Russian train station yesterday
in the country's worst terrorist attack for nearly three years, prompting
President Vladimir Putin to order a tightening of security at transport hubs
ahead of the Sochi Winter Olympics.

At least 40 others were injured when the attacker detonated an explosive device
at the entrance to the main railway station in the southern city of Volgograd at
12.45pm local time.

There was confusion about the identity of the attacker last night, after
security services told the news agency Interfax that the bomber "was a man who
carried explosives into the station in a rucksack" at 12.15pm local time, and
who had since been identified.

However, Russia's top investigative body had earlier said that the attacker was
a woman who detonated a device when a policeman challenged her at a metal
detector at the station's entrance.

The bomb, said to be equivalent to 22lb of TNT, blew the building's heavy metal
gates off their hinges and caused carnage in the queue of passengers waiting to
enter the building.

"According to preliminary information the attack was carried out by a female
suicide bomber who, on approaching the line of metal detectors saw police
officers around her, lost her nerve and detonated an explosive device including
incendiary elements," Vladimir Markin, a spokesman for Russia's Investigative
Committee, said in a statement.

Mr Putin ordered the country's emergency services to be ready to fly survivors
to Moscow clinics if necessary. The Volgograd region has declared three days of
official mourning from New Year's Day.

The attack - the worst in Russia outside the restive North Caucasus since a
suicide bomber killed 37 people at Moscow's Domodedovo airport in Jan 2011 -
comes six weeks before the Winter Olympics open in Sochi. It has refocused
attention on terrorists who have pledged to do their utmost to disrupt the
Games.

It was the second suicide bombing in three months to strike Volgograd, a major
transport hub some 400miles north of both the North Caucasus and the Black Sea
resort of Sochi.

While no group had claimed responsibility last night, the bombing bears the
hallmarks of the Islamist insurgency based in the North Caucasus republics,
whose previous high-profile attacks include the Domodedovo blast and a double
suicide bombing on the Moscow metro in 2010.

Russian forces have struggled to quell the rebellion in the North Caucasus since
Mr Putin, then Boris Yeltsin's last prime minister, launched a second war
against Chechen separatists in 1999.

While Russian forces crushed resistance within Chechnya through a combination of
overwhelming force and bribery, the separatist guerrilla movement has mutated
into a hardline Islamist uprising and migrated to neighbouring republics,
particularly Dagestan.

In October, a Dagestani woman, Naida Asiyalova, blew herself up on a bus in
Volgograd, killing at least six and injuring 36. Russian security forces said
that her husband, Dmitry Sokolov, had planned that attack, and killed him during
a house siege in Dagestan in November.

Security experts suggested the two suicide bombings might be part of a larger
campaign. "It is the second attack on Volgograd with no apparent reason, and it
now looks like part of something bigger," said Andrei Soldatov, an expert who
runs the agentura.ru website.

"It looks like a diversion - a very effective tactic to get the FSB thinking
about how to protect Volgograd and the transport system before you attack
somewhere else."

Some have speculated that targeting Volgograd - within striking distance of the
Caucasus - is a sign that terrorists are wary of the heightened security around
Sochi. But Mr Soldatov said an attack on the Games was still possible.

In a video message released on Islamist websites in July, Doku Umarov, the
self-styled leader of the North Caucasus Emirate, called on his followers to
attack the Sochi Olympics.

Mr Putin has ordered the FSB, the main successor agency to the KGB, to impose
unprecedented security measures in Sochi.

'It is the second attack on Volgograd with no apparent reason, and it now looks
like part of something bigger'

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The explosion, caught on video, lights up the front of the train
station, top, and police and paramedics work near victims' bodies
REUTERS/SERGEI KARPOV; REUTERS TV

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            December 30, 2013 Monday

Terrorist Attack and Assassination of Mohamad Chatah

LENGTH: 280 words


December 27, 2013

John Kerry, Secretary of State Washington, DC - On behalf of President Obama and
the United States, I condemn in the strongest possible terms today's abhorrent
terrorist attack and assassination of former Lebanese Cabinet Minister Mohamad
Chatah in Beirut.



This is a terrible loss for Lebanon, the Lebanese people and for the United
States.

I had the privilege of spending many hours with Chatah during my visits to
Beirut as a United States Senator, and I know he was a voice of reason,
responsibility and moderation. His presence will be missed, but his vision for a
united Lebanon, free from sectarian violence and destabilizing interference,
will continue to guide our efforts.

Indeed, his tragic end reminds all of us just why his vision remains so
imperative.

The Obama Administration supports Lebanon as its leaders work to bring those
responsible for this heinous and cowardly attack to justice under the rule of
law.

Such actions cannot be allowed to take place with impunity.

This is why we fully support the work of the Special Tribunal for Lebanon and
its efforts to find and hold accountable those responsible for these
reprehensible and destabilizing acts.

These acts only reinforce the strength and resolve of our commitment to support
legitimate, unifying security forces in Lebanon, such as the Lebanese Armed
Forces.

It also shows the importance of all parties adhering to the Taif and Baabda
agreements and UN Security Council Resolutions 1559 and 1701, and fulfilling
their commitments to all of those principles, so that Lebanon maintains its
sovereignty and stability.

We stand with the Lebanese people at this time and will continue to do so.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            December 30, 2013 Monday

Ban and Security Council strongly condemn terrorist attack at Russian train
station

LENGTH: 250 words


December 29, 2013

Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and the Security Council strongly condemned the
terrorist attack that occurred at the central train station of the Russian city
of Volgograd today causing numerous deaths and injuries.



Media reports say 16 people were killed and some 40 injured in the suicide
attack, which occurred around 12:45 p.m. local time at the train station.

"The Secretary-General calls for the perpetrators of this heinous act to be
brought to justice. He stands in solidarity with the Russian Federation in the
face of terrorism," Mr. Ban's spokesperson said in a statement .

The 15 members of the Security Council, in a statement issued to the press,
extended their condolences to the families of the victims and expressed their
sympathy to all those injured in this "heinous" act, and to the Russian people
and Government.

"The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms
and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by
whomsoever committed," said the statement.

They also underlined the need to bring perpetrators, organizers, financiers and
sponsors of the attack to justice, and urged all States, in accordance with
their obligations under international law and relevant Security Council
resolutions, to cooperate actively with all relevant authorities in this regard.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 30, 2013 Monday 9:54 AM GMT

At least 14 killed in SECOND terror attack in Russian city of Volgograd in 24
hours - just six weeks before Winter Olympics

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 360 words



     ·    22 others injured, including one-year-old baby in Russian city of
          Volgograd
     ·    Officials believe suicide bomber was behind the terrorist attack
     ·    Deadly blast comes a day after an attack killed at least 17 people in
          the main railway station


At least 14 people have been killed and 22 injured in an explosion on a packed
trolleybus in Russia's Volgograd city.

Russia's Investigative Committee spokesman Vladimir Markin said a suicide bomber
was behind this morning's terrorist attack.

The deadly blast comes a day after a suicide bombing killed at least 17 people
in the southern city's main railway station. Investigators believe the blasts
may be connected.

Scroll down for videos

According to the National Antiterrorist Committee, the bomb may have been
planted in the central part of the trolleybus rather than brought in by a
suicide bomber.

Images from the scene showed the gutted remains of the blue-and-white
trolleybus, its roof blown off and partially reduced to its metal frame.

The blast appears to have occurred at the back of the bus.

The Emergencies Ministry said it is preparing a new flight from Moscow to
Volgograd with medical equipment and personnel.

Authorities say a one-year-old baby is among the 22 injured.

'They (the victims) have burns, multiple traumas, blast-injuries.

If needed, they will be airlifted to Moscow,' Regional Health Minister Veronika
Skvortsova told Rossiya24 TV.

RT.comreports the bus was near one of the city markets when the explosion
happened, shattering the windows of nearby homes.

Authorities have cordoned off the site and are diverting traffic.

'I woke up because of an enormous blast I heard. I heard the glass shattering in
the first two stories of the building,' Alina Averyasova, an eyewitness, told
RT.com.

'I looked out of the window, it was still dark, and I saw a bus that was ripped
by a blast and people were running away from it screaming.'

The shocking news  comes a day after a suicide bomber targeted the city's
railway station.

The blasts have raised safety concerns in the region 40 days before Russia is to
hold the Winter Olympics in the Black Sea resort city of Sochi.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 30, 2013 Monday 6:40 AM GMT

At least 10 killed in second terror attack in Russian city of Volgograd ahead of
Winter Olympics

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 286 words



     ·    At least 10 people killed and 22 injured, including a one-year-old
          baby, in Russian city of Volgograd
     ·    Officials believe suicide bomber was behind the attack
     ·    Deadly blast comes a day after an attack killed at least 17 people in
          the main railway station


At least 10 people have been killed and 22 injured in an explosion on a packed
trolleybus in Russia's Volgograd city.

The deadly blast comes a day after an attack killed at least 17 people in the
main railway station of the southern Russian city.

Russia's Investigative Committee spokesman Vladimir Markin said a suicide bomber
was behind Monday morning's explosion.

Scroll down for video

According to the National Antiterrorist Committee, the bomb may have been
planted in the central part of the trolleybus rather than brought in by a
suicide bomber.

Images from the scene showed a burned out bus partially reduced to its metal
frame.

The Emergencies Ministry said it is preparing a new flight from Moscow to
Volgograd with medical equipment and personnel.

Authorities say a one-year-old baby is among the 22 injured.

'They (the victims) have burns, multiple traumas, blast-injuries. If needed,
they will be airlifted to Moscow,' Regional Health Minister Veronika Skvortsova
told Rossiya24 TV.

RT.comreports the bus was near one of the city markets when the explosion
happened, shattering the windows of nearby buildings.

Authorities have cordoned off the site and are diverting traffic.

The shocking news  comes a day after a suicide bomber targeted the city's
railway station.

The blasts have raised safety concerns in the region 40 days before Russia is to
hold the Winter Olympics in the Black Sea resort city of Sochi.

More to come.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            December 30, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Fears of Olympic terror attack as suicide bomber hits packed station;
Chechen militants are suspected of blast that killed 16 in southern city of
Volgograd. Helen Womack reports

BYLINE: Helen Womack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30,31

LENGTH: 1336 words


President Putin ordered tighter security at airports and railway stations
yesterday as a suicide attack in the southern city of Volgograd raised fears of
a Chechen wave of terror in the run-up to the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi.

At least 16 people were killed and 38 injured when a bomber, witnesses described
as a woman, detonated explosives outside the metal detectors at Volgograd
railway station.

Footage from a security camera opposite the station showed a bright orange flash
at the moment of the explosion, which blew out dozens of windows and left piles
of debris. State television showed ambulances lining up on the forecourt and
motionless bodies on the ground.

"It was a very powerful blast," Valentina Petrichenko, a shopkeeper at the
station, told the Vesti-24 TV channel. "Some people started running and others
were thrown back by the wave of the blast. It was very scary."

The station was packed as passengers hurried to get home in time for new year,
the main winter holiday in Russia. The bomber detonated explosives when a police
sergeant became suspicious and moved forward to check IDs. The officer was
killed by the blast, and several other policemen were wounded. Officials said
the bomb, packed with shrapnel, had the explosive equivalent of over 7kg (16lb)
of TNT. "People were lying on the ground, screaming and calling for help," a
witness, Alexander Koblyakov, told Rossiya-24 TV. "I helped carry out a police
officer whose head and face were covered in blood. He couldn't speak."

Another witness, Roman Lobachev, who survived the explosion with minor injuries,
said that he was putting his bags on a belt for screening when he heard the
sound of an explosion. "I heard a bang and felt as if something hit me on the
head," he said.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility. However, Doku Umarov, a Chechen
warlord, urged militants in a video posted online in July to use "maximum force"
to prevent President Putin staging the Olympics.

The attack, just over two months after a female suicide bomber killed six people
on a bus in the same city, raised questions about the effectiveness of security
measures which the Kremlin routinely orders to be increased after bombings. It
will heighten concerns about the Russian Government's ability to safeguard the
2014 Winter Olympics in the Black Sea resort of Sochi. The Games, which open 40
days from now, are a prestige project for President Putin, who wants to show how
far Russia has come since the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.

Although small terrorist attacks are routine in the Caucasus, the authorities
will be rattled by a bombing in Russia's heartland, in a city of more than one
million people. The attack in Volgograd - formerly Stalingrad - is the deadliest
since a bombing at Domodedovo airport in Moscow claimed 37 lives nearly two
years ago.

"We can expect more such attacks," said Alexei Filatov, deputy head of the
veterans' association of the elite Alfa anti-terrorism unit. "The threat is
greatest now because it is when terrorists can make the biggest impression," he
added. "The security measures were beefed up long ago around Sochi, so
terrorists will strike instead in these nearby cities like Volgograd."

Mr Filatov said that the widespread practice of placing metal detectors at the
entrance of airports and stations risked causing more casualties. "We are
creating this danger ourselves by allowing a place for a crowd to gather," he
said.

The Mayor of Volgograd, Irina Guseva, said emotions were high in the city
because a child was among the dead and several other children had been injured.
"But we will not allow panic to grip this city," she said.

There were conflicting reports about the identity of the bomber. Witnesses and
early reports spoke of a woman, but the Chechen suspect initially named issued a
denial on Facebook, and further analysis of security video footage suggested
that the attack had been carried out by a man.

President Putin was immediately informed of the blast, which analysts fear might
mark the start of a terror campaign across Russia. "We will all feel nervous
about using the metro now," said one Muscovite on hearing the news from
Volgograd.

Mr Putin promised compensation for victims' families and mercy flights to the
best hospitals in the capital for the gravely injured. The Interior Ministry
promised stricter checks on passengers at stations and airports.

In Chechnya and Dagestan, as well as the Caucasian migrant communities of Moscow
and other big cities, there will be fears now of police reprisals.

President Putin, who earlier this month issued an amnesty to political prisoners
to improve the mood before the Games, staked his personal reputation by lobbying
for Sochi as an Olympic venue. With lavish budget spending, Sochi will be the
most expensive Winter Games.

The International Olympics Committee expressed its condolences over the bombing,
but said it was confident of Russia's security preparation for the Games.

"At the Olympics, security is the responsibility of the local authorities, and
we have no doubt that the Russian authorities will be up to the task," it said
in a statement.

Black widows wreak a bloody vengeance Analysis Helen Womack Holding the Winter
Games in Sochi was always going to be a risk. Not only does the resort have a
subtropical climate and little snow, but it is right next to Abkhazia, claimed
by Georgia, and close to Russia's troubled North Caucasus region.

Security in Sochi itself will be unprecedented when the Games open on February
7, but, as the bombing in Volgograd showed, there is considerable scope for
Islamic militants to attack other targets on the fringes of the sporting action.

Doku Umarov, the Chechen warlord who is thought to have sent the suicide bomber
to Volgograd, has vowed that his fighters will do their utmost to derail the
Games, which he has called "satanic dances on the bones of our ancestors". His
declared aim is to set up an Islamic caliphate across the North Caucasus, and he
is the latest of a long line of rebels seeking to break away from Russian, going
back to the 19th centur y.

After two wars with Chechnya, President Putin might have thought he had solved
the problem with the appointment of a local strongman, Ramzan Kadyrov. Russia
has spent a fortune on the restoration of Chechnya, making parts of the capital,
Grozny, look like a Caucasian Dubai. But it is a moot point whether President
Putin controls Mr Kadyrov, or Mr Kadyrov controls Mr Putin.

The insurgence has spread to other parts of the Caucasus, particularly Dagestan,
former home of the Boston Marathon bombers, Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.
There, attacks on police and officials are an almost daily occurrence. The
rebels, particularly the "black widows" - the wives and sisters of slain
fighters - say their attacks are vengeance for the killing of their people.

Umarov is operating in the tradition of Shamil Basayev, the Chechen leader
responsible for the Beslan school hostage crisis in 2004. He died in an
explosion in 2006 for which Russia's security service, the FSB, took credit.

Over the years, the North Caucasus has produced some stories of extraordinary
viciousness, for example the case of four telephone engineers, three from the UK
and one from New Zealand, who were decapitated in Chechnya in 1998 and had their
severed heads displayed on a tablecloth by the roadside.

Despite the façade that Russia is a happy federation, the war and the cruelty
haven't gone away and President Putin knows this.

Indeed, one explanation for his stubborn support for the regime of President
Assad is that he fears Caucasians fighting alongside the rebels in Syria may
become further radicalised and bring their war experience back to Russia.

To protect Sochi from attacks, the Government has created a 60 mile security
zone along the Black Sea coast and up to 25 miles inland. Troops will patrol the
mountains at the resort, drones will keep watch over Olympic facilities and
speedboats guard the coast. Cars from outside will be banned.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A series of CCTV images captures the moment when the bomber struck at
Volgograd railway station at lunchtime yesterday
Russian authorities fear that the blast at the station could be the start of a
terror campaign to coincide with the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi, which open
in 40 days
EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 31, 2013 Tuesday

Danish intelligence service warns Olympic delegation of possible terror attacks

LENGTH: 450 words


Text of report in English by website of Danish English-language newspaper The
Copenhagen Post on 30 December

[Report by Justin Cremer: "Olympic Delegation Warned About Additional Terror
Attacks"]

Danish athletes on edge following two attacks in 24 hours

After the second deadly attacks in less than 24 hours rocked the Russian city of
Volgograd, the domestic intelligence agency PET [Danish Security and
Intelligence Service] is warning the Danish Olympic delegation about the threat
of terror attacks during the Sochi 2014 Games.

The Winter Olympics will start on February 7 and be held some 700 kilometres
southwest of the terror attacks.

The first attack in Volgograd came Sunday [29 December] in the form of a suicide
bomber at the city's main railway station. That blast killed at least 17 people.
This morning [30 December], a separate bomb attack struck a trolleybus during
morning rush-hour traffic. The death toll stands at 14.

Danish Delegation Warned by PET

The attacks raise serious concerns about safety at the Sochi Games. The head of
Denmark's Olympic delegation, Morten Schram Rodtwitt, told public broadcaster DR
this morning that the delegation has been advised by PET that further attacks
could occur.

"We have been made aware of the tensions in the Caucasus region and PET has told
us that it is not unlikely that that more episodes will occur similar to those
in Volgograd, but that they are likely to occur outside of Sochi," Rodtwitt
said.

According to Reuters, Islamic insurgents in the the North Caucasus have urged
the use of "maximum force" to prevent the Sochi Games from moving forward.

Despite the two horrific attacks, Rodtwitt said they would not affect Denmark's
participation in the Olympics.

"There is a large security build-up for the Games," he told Dr "It will make the
Olympic Village and the surrounding area one of the safest places to be."

More Attacks Feared

According to security experts, extremists are likely to take advantage of the
added police presence in Sochi to carry out more attacks in other parts of
Russia.

"The threat is greatest now because it is when terrorists can make the biggest
impression," Alexei Filatov, a spokesperson for the veterans' association of the
elite Alfa anti-terrorism unit, told Reuters. "The security measures were beefed
up long ago around Sochi, so terrorists will strike instead in these nearby
cities like Volgograd."

An official told Reuters that some 600 police officers were redeployed from
Volgograd to Sochi.

Denmark has qualified two curling teams for the Sochi 2014 Games and has speed
skaters and ski jumpers who are still competing for a spot in the Olympics.

Source: Copenhagen Post website in English 0000 gmt 30 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 31, 2013 Tuesday

China police names "terrorists" over Xinjiang attack

LENGTH: 212 words


Text of article by reporters Cao Zhiheng, Zhao Ge, and Bai Zhiqiang headlined
"'30 Dec' violent terrorist attack in Shache County, Xinjiang solved" in Chinese
by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News Agency) Asia-Pacific
Service

An initial police investigation has found that the "30 December" incident in
Shache County, Kashgar Prefecture, Xinjiang was an organized, premeditated
violent terrorist attack.

The police found that nine violent terrorists led by Wusiman Balati and
Abuduaini Abudukadi held successive gatherings starting in August of this year,
watching violent terrorist videos on numerous occasions. They proclaimed
religious extremist thought, and formed a violent terrorist group. This group
raised funds, made explosive devices, carried out test explosions, and planned
to carry out violent terrorist activities. At around 0630 on 30 December,
members of this group threw explosive devices in an attack on the county Public
Security Bureau.

Police obtained a group of implements including 25 explosive devices and nine
self-made chopping knives at the scene.

During the course of handling the incident, no public security police were
injured or killed. Local social order is normal.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in Chinese 1617gmt 30 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 31, 2013 Tuesday

Russian MPs criticize special services over Volgograd terror attack

LENGTH: 919 words


Text of report by the website of pro-government Russian newspaper Izvestiya on
30 December

[Report by Dmitriy Runkevich: "Deputies Call for the Return of Volunteer
Militamen and the Death Penalty for Terrorists. In the Opinion of the People's
Elected Representatives, Security Measures Must Be Reinforced Urgently"]

The terrorist act in Volgograd has once again demonstrated the vulnerability of
strategic facilities such as train stations and airports. In the opinion of
State Duma deputies and experts, after October's explosion in a bus in Volgograd
the security organs should have stepped up security measures in the city, but
failed to do so.

Boris Reznik, a member of the State Duma Committee for Security and Countering
Corruption, told Izvestiya that in the near future deputies will hold
consultations with the siloviki in which the question of introducing checks of
the work of the special services will be discussed.

"Yet again our special services have operated ineffectively. They love to talk
about how many terrorist acts they have managed to prevent, but they never want
to talk on the topic of the terrorist acts that they have allowed through.
Especially seeing that the female suicide bomber's explosion occurred in a train
terminal, in a highly controlled zone," Boris Reznik said. "We will discuss
together with the siloviki in our committee in the State Duma the issue of
introducing simulated provocations. It is necessary that the special services
arrange provocations themselves, checking how closely their colleagues are
monitoring security and are capable of ensuring citizens' safety."

In the deputy's words, the train terminal is a highly controlled zone, and
agents should expose potential terrorists already on the approach paths to the
building.

In the opinion of Valeriy Rashkin, first deputy chairman of the State Duma
Committee for Nationalities Affairs, the explosion in Volgograd is a signal that
it is necessary to adopt urgent measures on the plane of security.

"When the explosion occurred, I was one kilometre from the station. It is with
great grief that I reflect that insufficient measures are being adopted by the
authorities even in venues on a federal scale. This tragic signal has
demonstrated that it is necessary to adopt tougher and more efficient measures,"
Rashkin believes. "It is necessary to convene the Security Council urgently and
to adopt decisive measures. In contemporary conditions no city will be prepared
for such a succession of terrorist acts. It is necessary to adopt strong-arm
measures, preventive measures, expeditiously. A mass turnout of volunteer
militiamen is needed. And then - [discussion must turn to] the strategic
questions concerning the settlement of interethnic conflicts, draft laws on the
development of interethnic culture, and the restriction of entry."

However, Vasiliy Vereshchak, a member of the veterans association of the Alfa
antiterrorism unit, believes that it is too early to accuse the special services
of unprofessionalism.

"We cannot say right now whether the regional FSB [Federal Security Service]
directorate allowed this terrorist act through negligence, or whether there were
150 attempts that they prevented, but the terrorists' 151st attempt succeeded.
But the services must in any case endeavour to do the maximum to save people,
especially seeing that train stations and anything connected with transport is
supposed to be under special control," Vereshchak says.

Frants Klintsevich, a member of the State Duma Defence Committee, agrees with
him.

"It is too early at the moment to blame anyone for this terrorist act. But we do
need to resolve a whole spectrum of problems. Twenty years ago our army stores
were simply looted, and the amount of uncontrolled explosive in the country is
more than sufficient for further acts of sabotage," the United Russia deputy
notes. "It is necessary to look for ways of increasing citizens' security
together with the special services."

In the opinion of deputies, it is essential to intensify work on legislative
measures against terrorists.

"The draft laws that have already been adopted against terrorists have not yet
managed to begin working," Dmitriy Gorovtsov, a State Duma deputy from Just
Russia, believes.

"The FSB has not managed to organize a clear system. We are forced to confront a
foreign threat. It is not only internal Russian terrorist groups that are
operating here - they are actively supported by foreign structures. At the
beginning of the work of next year's session we will return to this question and
elaborate a new urgent package of measures. It is necessary to go further on the
question of the relatives of terrorists and the accomplices who provide the
terrorists with both food and information," Gorovtsov stated.

In the words of Deputy Aleksandr Kurdyumov, it is necessary to return to the
subject of repealing the moratorium on the death penalty for terrorists.

"The LDPR [Liberal Democratic Party of Russia] faction has always advocated the
introduction of the death penalty against the organizers of terrorist acts. It
is not possible to monitor each and every person. Especially seeing that
terrorists dress in inconspicuous clothes and walk about in the crowd,"
Kurdyumov notes. "The organizers must know that inevitable capital punishment
awaits them for terrorist acts. After the New Year, we are ready to introduce a
draft law on repealing the moratorium on the death penalty for terrorists."

Source: Izvestiya website, Moscow, in Russian 30 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 31, 2013 Tuesday

India spy agency warns of attacks by Pakistani terror outfit

LENGTH: 363 words


Text of report published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 31
December

New Delhi: The Pakistan-based Laskhar-e-Tayyaba (LeT) is planning to carry out
fresh terror strikes in the country, the Intelligence Bureau has warned states
and Union Territories. In a latest advisory, the Central agency has warned that
the LeT is planning an attack which could involve multiple teams at more than
one location in the country. The outfit may use its maritime capability in the
course of such an attack. It is suggested that top Laskhar commander Sajid Mir,
who was one of the masterminds of the 26/11 attack, has been involved in this
planning.

The Multi Agency Centre (MAC), which shared the input with all states and UTs
last week, has said no information is so far available on the timing of the
attack or the targets but asked all law enforcement agencies to maintain high
alert and gather possible leads.

The fresh terror warning has come as a matter of concern for the intelligence
agencies, who believe Sajid Mir is roaming freely in Pakistan, visiting Karachi
regularly, and running the terror machinery of the LeT with the help of
Pakistan's ISI.

According to sources, special attention is being paid by the terror outfit to
ensure that none of the attackers is caught in the operation, as was the case
during the Mumbai terror attacks of 2008.

The Indian intelligence brass is aware that till the time Sajid Mir is roaming
freely in Pakistan, the LeT will make sustained efforts to carry out another
spectacular strike in the country. Pakistan has denied outright the presence of
Sajid Mir and even questioned his identity.

But, according to information gathered by Indian intelligence agencies from top
arrested LeT operatives Abu Jundal and the Pakistan-American LeT operative David
Headley, Mir is operating as the international commander of the LeT who has
direct links with the ISI to execute its terror designs on foreign soil.

Mir, a close aide of LeT founder Hafiz Saeed, is learnt to have spread its
network in different countries and is overseeing terror financing and logistical
support to the terror outfit.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 31 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 31, 2013 Tuesday

SCO anti-terror body condemns terror attacks in Russia

LENGTH: 144 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Tashkent, 31 December: The executive committee of the Regional Anti-Terrorist
Structure of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (RATS SCO) has condemned the
terrorist attacks in Volgograd and expressed condolences to the relatives of the
victims, as well as to all Russian people.

"The executive committee of the RATS SCO adheres to the position that terror
acts should not be justified, irrespective of the motives behind them. It will
also step up the coordination between the anti-terror structures of the SCO
member states to fight the 'three evils' - terrorism, separatism and extremism,"
says a statement by the RATS SCO press service.

[Passage omitted: background on the SCO; the RATS is based in the Uzbek capital
of Tashkent]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0527 gmt 31 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 31, 2013 Tuesday

South Africa "strongly" condemns terrorist attack in Russia 30 December

LENGTH: 190 words


Text of report by website of South African Department of International Relations
on 30 December

[Press Statement Issued by the South African Department of International
Relations and Cooperation, Pretoria, 30 December: "South Africa condemns
terrorist attack in Russia"]

The South African government condemns very strongly the terrorist attack which
took place today, 30 December 2013, in Russia. The attack claimed the lives of
no fewer than 14 people and left others injured.

South Africa stands firmly with the international community in condemning all
forms and manner of terrorism, including this morning's attack in Russia. We
believe that terrorism in any form and from whichever quarter cannot be
condoned.

The South African government sends it deepest condolences to the government and
the people of the Russian Federation, particularly the families of the deceased
and wish the injured speedy recoveries.

South Africa and Russia maintain strong relations at the bilateral and
multilateral levels, and cooperation between the two countries is growing.

Source: Department of International Relations website, Pretoria, in English 30
Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           December 31, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Terror' attack;
World briefs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 37 words


GREECE: The home of Germany's ambassador to Athens was sprayed with gunfire in a
suspected terrorist attack that prompted both governments to declare it would
not strain ties between bailed-out Greece and its leading lender.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           December 31, 2013 Tuesday

Security Council 'outraged' as second terrorist attack in 24 hours strikes
Russian city

LENGTH: 466 words


December 30, 2013

Members of the United Nations Security Council said they are "outraged" by
today's terrorist attack targeting a bus in Volgograd, Russia, that caused
numerous deaths and injuries -- the second suicide bombing in the city within a
24-hour period.



The 15 members of the Council, in a statement issued to the press, condemned the
bus attack "in the strongest terms" and extended their condolences to the
families of the victims.

Media reports say at least 14 people were killed in today's bombing, which comes
on the heels of yesterday's attack at the central train station in Volgograd
that reportedly killed 16 people and wounded 40 others.

Yesterday's attack was also condemned by the Council as well as UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who called for the perpetrators to be brought to
justice.

"These abhorrent and abominable attacks deliberately targeted places of mass
gathering, in particular public transportation," said the Council, which
reaffirmed that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless
of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed.

"The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of this reprehensible act of terrorism to
justice, and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with all relevant authorities in this regard."

Later in the day, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon spoke by telephone with
President Vladimir Putin and expressed his deepest condolences to the families
of the victims of the attacks in Volgograd, as well as to the Russian people.

"The Secretary-General stressed the importance of strong international
cooperation to fight terrorism and he noted that the perpetrators must be
brought to justice," said a statement issued by Mr. Ban's spokesperson in New
York.

Further to the statement, President Putin expressed his gratitude to the
Secretary-General for his personal condolences, which were greatly appreciated
by the Russian people.

Mr. Putin noted that the international community must work together in the fight
against terrorism and commended the UN for its important role in coordinating
efforts to fight organized crime and terrorism. He assured Mr. Ban the Russia
would work within the bounds of international law to bring the perpetrators to
justice.

"The Secretary-General and President Putin also discussed various developments
related to Syria," said the statement, which added that President Putin
confirmed Russia's strong support for the international conference on Syria, to
take place in Switzerland in January, and for the second humanitarian pledging
conference for Syria, to be held in Kuwait on 15 January.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 31, 2013 Tuesday 7:21 PM GMT

Special Forces veterans demand new investigation into Benghazi terror attack
that killed US ambassador to Libya

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, U.S. POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


A political action committee that speaks for Special Forces veterans sent a
letter to Congress on Monday demanding a new investigation into the September
11, 2002 terror attack that took the life of US Ambassador to Libya Chris
Stevens and three other Americans.

The letter  from Special Operations Speaks, signed by 700 military special
operations veterans, urges support for House Resolution 36, a measure introduced
by Virginia Republican Rep. Frank Wolf.

Wolf's resolution calls for the appointment of a House Special Committee to
determine what happened at the US Consulate in Benghazi and what information has
been withheld from the American public.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

The Benghazi attack was carried out by Libyan rebels armed with rocket propelled
grenades and mortar launchers. It resulted in the closure of CIA operations
there.

Special Operations Speaks received attention in 2011 for criticizing leaks of
information related to the military operation that killed al Qaeda leader Osama
bin Laden, Fox News reported. The group claimed those leaks came form inside the
Obama White House.

'It appears that many of the facts and details surrounding the terrorist attack
which resulted in four American deaths and an undetermined number of American
casualties have not yet been ascertained by previous hearings and inquiries,'
the letter for Congress says of the Benghazi attack.

'Additional information is now slowly surfacing in the media, which makes a
comprehensive bipartisan inquiry an imperative. Many questions have not been
answered thus far.'

[IMG 6428703 noborder /]  [IMG 6428694 noborder /]

A columnist in Forbesreported recently that Rep. Wolf has learned that 'as many
as seven Americans have been or are currently being treated' at the Walter Reed
National Military Medical Center in Washington, D.C.

Rep. Wolf cited two independent confidential sources for his information,
columnist Richard Miniter wrote. The survivors are said to include at least 30
Americans.

South Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham has said the survivors have been
'told to be quiet' by Obama administration officials.

Miniter is the author of Mastermind, a best-selling biography of Khalid Sheikh
Mohammed, the al Qaeda leader credited with leading the planning of the 9/11
attacks that destroyed the twin World Trade Center towers in New York City.

'Congress must show some leadership and provide answers to the public as to what
actually occurred in Benghazi,' the Special Operations Speaks letter continued.
'Americans have a right to demand a full accounting on this issue.'

More than 60 members of Congress are co-sponsors of Wolf's resolution.

A documentary film titled Benghazi 911 is slated for release in the fall of
2013. In includes interviews with members of Congress and the military.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 118 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 31, 2013 Tuesday 5:23 PM GMT

Athletes voice their security fears over Sochi Olympics after two terror attacks
hit Russia

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1108 words



     ·    Two bombs exploded in Volgograd killing more than 30 people, just 300
          miles from Sochi
     ·    The Winter Olympics begin in fewer than six weeks
     ·    Many athletes have expressed concerns about security
     ·    Others say Sochi is likely to be the safest place in the world during
          the Olympics
     ·    Russia has spent a record $51 million on the Games


The suicide bombings in Russia serve as a chilling reminder of what the Winter
Olympics represent to terrorists: A high-profile target with more than 2,500
athletes, some of them world-famous, waving the flags of nearly 90 nations.

So, while many Olympic leaders offered reassurance on the day after two bombings
400 miles from Sochi killed at least 31 people, some of those getting ready to
compete in the Games spoke of a different reality. They know their security is
never sure thing.

'I am concerned,' said U.S. speedskater Jilleanne Rookard. 'I'm scared their
security may be involved. I don't know if I necessarily trust their security
forces. But they don't want a national embarrassment, either. I use that thought
to relieve some of my worry. I'm sure they want to save their image and their
pride.'

Scroll down for video

Indeed, the Russians vow the athletes will be safe, even though they will be
competing in a city 300 miles away from the roots of an Islamist insurgency that
has triggered security concerns for the Games, which start February 7, fewer
than six weeks away.

The country has spent a record $51 billion preparing for its first Winter Games
and has promised to make the Games 'the safest in Olympic history.'

Olympic chief Alexander Zhukov said the bombings didn't spark a need for
additional security measures because 'everything necessary already has been
done.'

Swedish hockey player Johan Franzen of the Red Wings sees things a little
differently.

'I'm sure after this, the security will be higher than they intended from the
start,' he said.

U.S. two-time gold medalist Scott Wescott told USA Today that if he qualifies
for snowboard cross he doesn't think he'll attend the opening ceremony.

'It definitely concerns me,' Wescott said Monday. 'I don't want to be
pessimistic about it. ... I think you're watching events start to happen. It's a
country that's had massive amounts of internal strife that has manifested itself
into actual combat. We're not far away from where a lot of that has gone on in
their country. It's definitely a concern.'

The threat of terrorism at the Olympics has been in the forefront since 1972,
when members of a Palestinian terrorist group invaded the Olympic village and
killed 11 Israeli athletes.

Security rose to a new level at the 2002 Salt Lake City Games, which came only
five months after the September 11 attacks. Improvements in technology, along
with ever-present threats of terrorism, have turned security into a top priority
for any country hoping to host the Olympics.

Among the security measures Russia has put in place for this year's games is a
requirement that all ticket-holders obtain and wear 'spectator passes' while
attending events. To get a spectator pass, fans have to provide passport and
contact information to authorities.

On Monday, IOC president Thomas Bach wrote a condolence letter to Russian
President Vladimir Putin in which he expressed 'our confidence in the Russian
authorities to deliver safe and secure games in Sochi.'

Meanwhile, a number of Olympic leaders and federations signaled their confidence
in the host country.

'When we come to Sochi, it will be impossible for the terrorists to do
anything,' Norwegian IOC member Gerhard Heiberg said. 'The village will be
sealed off from the outside world. Security has been our priority No. 1 ever
since Sochi got the games.'

The U.S. Olympic Committee works closely with the State Department on its
security arrangements. A White House spokeswoman said the United States would
welcome 'closer cooperation' with Russia on security preparations for the Games.

Australia's Foreign Minister Julie Bishop has said the country may impose a
travel ban to the country.

'These terror attacks are shocking and a reminder of the ongoing battle to
confront extremism in all its forms worldwide,' Bishop told the Australian.

'We don't want to lightly prevent our athletes participating in any event for
which they have trained for years, but their safety and the safety of their
families and other spectators is of the utmost concern.'

Australian athletes seem undeterred by the potential danger.

Olympic aerial skiing champion Lydia Lassila said she was 'not concerned' about
her safety in Sochi. 'We all put a lot of faith in security at any Olympics and
I'm confident Russia is using all measures to ensure security is sound,' Lassila
said.

Aerial skier David Morris told the Australian that he was 'more scared of
falling off the scaffolding in Beijing last week (a World Cup event was held in
Beijing's Bird Nest stadium) than I am of an incident at the Games.'

U.S. figure skater Ross Miner, who won silver in Vancouver, is well aware of the
vulnerability of major sporting events. The theme of the New England native's
long program is 'Boston Strong,' about the city's resilience after the marathon
bombings last spring.

Miner recalled the 2011 world championships in Moscow as 'by far the most
intense security I've ever had at a competition,' with skaters going through
metal detectors to enter the venue.

U.S. speedskaters, however, have different memories of Moscow. They arrived for
a 2011 World Cup event the same day a suicide bomber killed 35 people in an
attack on the city's Domodedovo Airport.

'It's terrible we have to live in fear, but that's just kind of how it is,'
two-time gold and silver medalist Shani Davis said.

Since the widespread use of metal detectors was introduced to the Olympics in
2002, every subsequent Olympics has brought its own set of challenges and
responses.

At the Beijing Olympics in 2008, Chinese authorities introduced identity checks
for opening and closing ceremonies.

In London last year, there were no identity checks, but combat jets patrolled
the city, and surface-to-air missiles were set up on rooftops.

Russia's security effort is greater than those of either of those countries,
said Matthew Clements, an analyst at Jane's, in a recent interview with The
Associated Press.

Three-time Olympic ski jumping champion Thomas Morgenstern of Austria said he
remembers seeing sharp shooters roaming the woods in Sochi during a World Cup
event last year.

'Of course you're having thoughts about it. But when we are at the Olympic
Games, that will be one of the safest places for sure,' Morgenstern said. 'I
think they are in control.'

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           December 31, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

DR Congo repels 'terror'' attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 89 words


Assailants armed with machetes and automatic weapons attacked the state
television station, the airport and the main military base in the Democratic
Republic of Congo's capital Kinshasa in what appeared to be a coup attempt,
before being repelled by the country's military, officials and witnesses said.
Government spokesman Lambert Mende confirmed the attack, saying around 40 people
were killed in the exchange of fire, including 16 at the military base, 16 at
the airport and eight at the TV station. Another six were captured, he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2013 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 1, 2014 Wednesday

Syrian Speaker condemns terrorist attacks in Egypt, Lebanon

LENGTH: 982 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

1 January , 2014  (SANA) -Damascus, (SANA)-The People's Assembly condemned the
terrorist bombings which took place in Egypt, Iraq, Lebanon, and in Russia,
affirming that Syria will continue to combat terrorism.

This came during the Assembly's last session of the 5th ordinary session of the
1st legislative term held on Tuesday in presence of Prime Minister Wael al-Halqi
and government's members.

Speaker of the People's Assembly, Muhammad Jihad al-Laham, said that terrorism
targeting Syria is expanding and beginning to affect Egypt, Tunisia, Lebanon,
Iraq and most recently the Russian city of Volgograd, which confirms Syria's
warning about the need to confront terrorism.

He affirmed that the terrorist war hatched against Syria has failed, and despite
all the destruction, murder and abduction committed by terrorism, the Syrian
people continue to live their lives and the state's establishments continue to
carry out their duties.

Al-Laham asserted that Syria will go to the international conference on Syria
"Geneva 2" to propose Syrian solutions without foreign interference, calling on
all Syrians to resort to dialogue and political action to resolve disputes and
express themselves.

He also called on the countries supporting the so-called "opposition abroad" to
return to their senses and realize that there can be no solution in Syria except
through dialogue, saying that these countries are working day and night to
increase chaos and exacerbate the situation in Syria by arming terrorists.

The Speaker concluded by saluting the martyrs of Syria, the injured, and those
who lost loved ones and family members, stressing that Syria's victory is
imminent.

For his part, Prime Minister al-Halqi said that the government is committed to
confronting the war waged on Syria and reduce its effects as much as possible,
noting that the government is facing big challenges due to the crisis in Syria,
the continued economic sanctions imposed on it, and the systematic sabotage acts
perpetrated by the armed terrorist groups.

He said that the government's efforts concentrated on emergency procedures to
face the repercussions of the crisis, mainly providing the citizens' basic
requirements, supporting the stability of the Syrian currency, supporting the
Syrian Army, and providing relief aid.

Al-Halqi affirmed that Syria will continue to fulfil its obligations as per the
Chemical Weapons Convention and is committed to preparing for Geneva 2 and
cooperating with its friends to thwart all attempts of accusing it that it does
not embrace political solutions.

Concerning the health sector, al-Halqi pointed out the Health Ministry launched
six vaccination campaigns against polio as prevent this disease from returning
to Syria after it was eradicated in 1995.

He added that the ministry is providing all health services and it is importing
its needs from the friendly countries, noting that 21 medical factories went out
of service out of 70 factories because of the terrorist attacks.

The Prime Minister said that the most important challenges facing the government
was providing the requirements for 4 million students and maintaining 17,000
schools to provide the educational requirements.

He added that 70 per cent to 72 per cent of the students went to school in 2013
while the percentage of the teaching cadres who went to work reached 95 per
cent.

The issue of humanitarian relief and the affected people was the priority of the
government as it allocated 884 government centres for over 182,000 citizens,
while the makeshift centres of the civil society were enough for 5 million
citizens, al-Halqi added.

The Prime Minister pointed out to the agreement signed between the Syrian oil
company and Russian Soyuzneftegaz company to start excavation in the Syrian
coastand regional waters.

He added that the Ministry of Economy and External Trade is importing the
necessary goods as to decrease prices, noting that the government managed to
keep the Syrian pound exchange rate stable.

Al-Halqi hailed the glorious achievements of the Syrian Arab army which had the
greatest role along with the Syrian success of the Syrian diplomacy in making
the Syrians assured about the Syrian currency.

Concerning the agricultural sector, al-Halqi pointed out that the percentage of
wheat corps reached 798,000 hectares; that is, 46 per cent of the areas planned
for season 2013/2014 and 9009 hectares of barley with a percentage of 62 per
cent and an increase of 15 per cent compared to the previous year.

On the industrial sector, al-Halqi said that the armed terrorist groups and
their supporters have attacked the industrial sector being the essential factor
for the national economy, noting that the industrial sector is gradually
overcoming as the government started activating the production process of the
micro projects.

Al-Halqi hailed the efforts exerted by the Syrian parliamentary delegation
during the Asian Parliamentary Assembly's session in Islamabad and its active
role in drafting the final statement and assembling the international
parliamentary efforts to confront terrorism and extremism.

He said that his visit last month to Tehran had political and security
implications regarding coordination for holding Geneva 2 conference, adding that
his visit resulted in reaching an agreement to combat global terrorism and
religious extremism practiced by the armed terrorist groups.

The Prime Minister stressed that the Syrian government delegation is going to
Geneva 2 if it was held on 22 January shouldering the aspirations of the Syrian
people and the recommendations of President Bashar al-Assad to shape the future
of Syria, adding that those who think that the Syrian delegation is going to
Geneva 2 to hand over power to the others are deluded.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 1 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 118 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 1, 2014 Wednesday

Serbian minister sends condolences to Russian president over terrorist attack

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report in English by Serbian pro-western Belgrade-based Radio B92
website, on 31 December

B92 Politics) -BELGRADE - Serbian Foreign Minister Ivan Mrkic has sent a
telegram of condolence to Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov following the
second terrorist attack in Russia.

Ivan Mrkic (Tanjug) "It is with disbelief that we have received the news about
the death of innocent citizens in a repeated, mindless, criminal act in
Volgograd," the Serbian Foreign Ministry on Tuesday quoted the message.

"I wish to assure you that the Russian Federation and its citizens have our
unreserved support in the fight against terrorism," reads Mrkic's telegram.

Two terrorist attacks shook Volgograd within 24 hours on Sunday and Monday.

The number of casualties increased to 33 after one wounded person passed away in
the hospital on Monday evening, Russian officials stated on Tuesday.

Source: Radio B92 text website, Belgrade, in English 0000 gmt 31 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1500-1617
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:17:52

